NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE
OF HENRY D. GAMBLE

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, §
.0117(a) of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon an affidavit of tender of
surrender of license executed by Henry D. Gamble on August 18, 2000, and filed in the
offices of the North Carolina State Bar on August 18,2000.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Henry D. Gamble's conduct of
misappropriating client funds is grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84­
28(b)(2) in that Henry D. Gamble violated Rules 8.4(b) and (c) of the North Carolina
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon Motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the
following Order:
1. The tender of surrender of license of Henry D. Gamble is hereby accepted.
2. Henry D. Gamble is hereby is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North
Carolina.
3. Henry D. Gamble shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, ~ .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules and shall surrender
his license and pamanent membership card to the Secretary onhe North Carolina State
Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against Henry D. Gamble.
Done and ordered this 20th day of October, 2000.

C ssie H. Thigpen, Jr., PI'
The N.C. State Bar

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE NORTH CAROLINA
STATE BAR COUNCIL
OOBCSjQ
AFFIDAVIT OF TENDER

I, Henry D. Gamble, being duly sworn, depose and say:

1.
I, Henry D. Gamble, hereby tender my license and desire to resign from The
North Carolina State Bar. This resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, is not the result
of coercion or duress, and I am fully aware of the implications of submitting this resignation.
2.
I acknowledge that the Office of Counsel has given me adequate opportunity to
seek the advice of an attorney concerning the implications of submitting this resignation.
3.
I understand that the State Bar Council will consider this affidavit of surrender
at its meeting on October 20, 2000, and I waive any further notice.
4.
I am aware of a pending investigation or other proceedings regarding allegations
that I misappropriated in excess of $30,000 of client and fiduciary funds entrusted to me and
allegations that I grossly neglected my responsibilities to preserve funds in a fiduciary
capacity, to reconcile my trust account quarterly and to keep records and account for client and
fiduciary funds. I acknowledge that I have been given adequate opportunity by the State Bar
Office of Counsel to explain the discrepancies in my trust account and to produce
documentation and records to contradict the allegations that I have misappropriated client and
fiduciary funds. I have not been able to do so.
S.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the grievance is predicated are

true.
6.
I am submitting this resignation because I know that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them.
Further affiant sayeth not.
This

IF

day of August, 2000

Henry

My Commission expires:

. Gamble

