NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IIG0516

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Frederick J. Owens,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 20,2011 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. C.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee fowld probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
J. C. filed a grievance against you with the 5 th Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee.
You were notified by the local grievance committee in a letter dated May 19,2011 to provide a
written response within fifteen days to Ms. C.'s grievance. Mr. John L. Coble, the local
grievance committee investigator, did not receive a response from you by the deadline. On June
7,2011, Mr. Coble called your office and left a message on your answering machine asking that

you call him. You returned Mr. Coble's call on June 8. At that time, you told Mr. Coble that
you would have a response to him the next day, June 9. On June 13, Respondent received a one
page letter from you.
Mr. Coble had questions after he read your response, as you did not provide any
supporting documentation. Mr. Coble called you and asked for additional information by leaving
a message with your office assistant. You called Mr. Coble but he was unavailable and you left a
voice message for him. Mr. Coble returned your call but had to leave you a message. You did
not return Mr. Coble's last call. On hme 20, Mr. Coble faxed and mailed you a written request
for additional information. As of June 29,2011, Mr. Coble had not received a response from
you.
As a result of your failure to provide a full and fair disclosure of all the facts and
circumstances relating to the allegations in the grievance, the grievance was returned to the State
Bar with no recommendation of a disposition. By letter dated July 22, 20 11, our office had to
ask you to respond to questions relative to Ms. C's grievance.
Your failure to cooperate with the local grievance committee's investigation of this
grievance by providing a full and fair disclosure of the facts and circumstances pertaining to the
alleged misconduct violated Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. You are reminded
that ours is a self-regulated profession and members of the bar must adhere to the rules relative to
the investigation of grievances.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

/7

day Of_L/!....!...-....::G-:::::....-.:...._ _ _ ,2011.

<...-...,._~

----f/.'/'---

Ro~ald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGBllr

~

&_..
-=---.,.

..< : . e _ _ _ = _ .

