NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09GG0647

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Lisa A. Page,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 22, 2009 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The mles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issnes this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Gail Maire is licensed in South Carolina. Ms. Matre is not licensed to practice law in
North Carolina. Ms. Maire organized a South Carolina law firm under the name "Maire Law
Finn."

You signed an interstate law firm registration fonn with the North Carolina State Bar as
the North Carolina member of the Matre Law Finn and indicated to the Bar that you handled the
North Carolina business of that finn. However, the operating agreement that you signed with the
Matre Law Finn LLC provided that you had only a .1 % ownership interest, you were not entitled
to any profits ofthe Matre Law Finn LLC, and you had no voting rights or authority over the
LLC's business practices.
After receiving the interstate law finn registration, Ms. Matre advertised her ability to
provide legal services in North Carolina on her website, matrelawfinn.com. She was the only
attorney identified as being able to provide legal services in North Carolina on that website. Ms.
Matre's website included headings such as "Matre Law Finn Specializing in Charlotte Real
Estate" and "Local Real Estate Specialty."
You allowed Ms. Matre to hold herself out as being able to provide legal services in
North Carolina and to misrepresent that she specialized in real estate law in this state. The
Grievance Committee found that you aided Ms. Matre in the unauthorized practice oflaw in
violation of Rule 5.5(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and tlmt you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$IOO.OO are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the \ \ ~ day of

JRF/lr

\\k bo"",L

, 2009

