STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

JAMES H. PARDUE, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, Joshua W. Willey, Jr., and Michael
S. Edwards. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Deanna S. Brocker represented defendant, James H. Pardue. Defendant waives a formal
hearing in the above referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of
fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order. The parties consent to the
discipline imposed by this order. Defendant knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives his
right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the
findings by consenting to entry ofthis order.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (,'State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General
Statutes, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, James H. Pardue ("Pardue" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on 22 August 1981 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the
State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

NCSB v. Pardue
Page 1 of9

3.
During the relevant periods referred to herein, Pardue was engaged in the
practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Cary, Wake
County, North Carolina.
4.
Pardue's law practice from 2005 through 2008 consisted almost entirely of
real estate closing transactions.
5.
Pardue closed an average of 500 real estate transactions per year from
2005 through 2008.
6.
Pardue maintained a general attorney trust account with SunTrust bank,
account number ending 1283 (hereinafter "trust account").
7.
8.
account.

Pardue maintained the trust account for his real estate practice.
On 10 July 2008, Pardue was the subject of a random audit of his trust

9.
The random audit showed deficiencies in Pardue's management of his
trust account.
10.
The random audit also showed that Pardue held less money in his trust
account than he was required to hold for clients.
11.
The shortage in Pardue's trust account was caused by clerical errors and
Pardue's failure to stop payment on two checks before issuing duplicate checks.
12.
Pardue had failed to reimburse the trust account for the shortage in his
trust account until after the random audit when he deposited $6,022.90 into the trust
account on 29 September 2008 and $9,927.07 into the trust account on 31 October 2008.
13.
As a result ofthe deficiencies found during the random audit, the State Bar
conducted an investigative audit of Pardue's trust account for the period 1 January 2006
through 31 October 2008.
14.
The random and investigative audits of Pardue's trust account showed the
following deficiencies.
15.
Pardue failed to reconcile the individual client ledger balances for the trust
account with the general ledger and adjusted bank statement balances for the trust
account at least quarterly.
16.

Pardue failed to always identify the source of deposits on deposit slips.

17.
The dates of deposits as shown on the client ledger did not always
reconcile with the date of deposit as shown on the bank statement.

NCSB v. Pardue
Page 2 of9

18.
Pardue failed to provide accountings at least annually to clients for whom
he held funds in trust for more than twelve months.
19.
The investigative audit showed the following additional deficiencies in
Pardue's handling of entrusted funds.
20.
On 22 occasions, Pardue disbursed legal fees to himself from the trust
account on the account of clients for whom he had not yet deposited fimds into the trust
account.
21.
Pardue made the deposits into the trust account for each of these
transactions one to three days after disbursing funds to himself.
22.
In I3 other instances, Pardue disbursed funds on behalf of clients for
whom Pardue had not yet deposited funds into the trust account.
23.
In most of these instances, Pardue deposited funds into the trust account
one to two days after the disbursements.
24.
five months.

In one instance, Pardue failed to deposit funds into the trust account for

25.
On 9 occasions, Pardue disbursed funds to himself and third parties on
behalf of clients for whom Pardue had not yet deposited funds into the trust account.
26.
In most instances, Pardue made the deposits for these disbursements one
to three days after the disbursements.
27.
In one instance Pardue made the deposit five days after making the
disbursement.
28.
In another instance, Pardue made the deposit eight days after the
disbursement.
29.
Pardue used other clients' entrusted funds to cover the above described
disbursements Pardue made for clients whose funds he had not yet deposited into the trust
account.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, James H. Pardue, and over the subject matter.

NCSB v. Pardue
Page 3 of9

2.
Defendant's conduct as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)

By failing to promptly reimburse the trust account for shortages that were
created in the account by clerical errors and his failure to stop payment on
two checks before issuing duplicate checks, Pardue failed to maintain
entrusted property in accordance with the rules in violation of Rule 1.152(a) and used entrusted property for the personal benefit of persons other
than the legal or beneficial owners of that property in violation of Rule
1.1S-2(j);

(b)

By failing to reconcile the total of all individual client ledger balances for
the trust account with the total general ledger and adjusted bank statement
balances for the trust account at least quarterly, Pardue failed to perform
the requisite quarterly reconciliations of his general trust account in
violation of Rule US-3(d);

(c)

By failing to always identify the source of deposits and failing to
accurately record the correct date of deposit on deposit slips, Pardue
failed to maintain the minimum records required for general trust accounts
in violation of Rule US-3(b);

(d)

By failing to provide each client with a written accounting of his or her
trust account balance at least annually, Pardue failed to provide written
accountings of the receipt and disbursement of all trust funds to clients in
violation of Rule US-3(e); and

(e)

By disbursing funds from the trust account to himself and others on behalf
of clients for whom Pardue had not yet deposited funds into the trust
account, Pardue failed to maintain entrusted property in accordance with
the rules in violation of Rule US-2(a) and used entrusted property for the
personal benefit of persons other than the legal or beneficial owners ofthat
property in violation of Rule 1.15-20).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
In 1990 Pardue received a private reprimand for failing to take appropriate
action after a conflict of interest arose between a limited partner and the general partner
concerning the disbursement of net sales proceeds.

NCSB v. Pardue
Page 4 of9

2.
Pardue began conducting three-way reconciliations of his trust account
quarterly, and sometimes monthly, after he received the results of the procedural audit.
In the beginning, the three-way reconciliations that Pardue conducted
3.
revealed that Pardue had disbursed for some clients more funds from the trust account
than he deposited in trust on their behalf.

4.
Pardue promptly reimbursed the trust account for the excess
disbursements described in the foregoing paragraph.
In 2013, although Pardue did not make any disbursements prior to making
5.
the deposit, he still disbursed entrusted funds by checks that were dated before the
deposit.

6.
Pardue cooperated with the State Bar's investigation into his handling of
entrusted client funds.
Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the
Additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .0114(w)(I), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar, and concludes that the
following factors that warrant suspension or disbarment are present:
(a) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
of the profession.
2. The Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .0114(w)(2), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar, and concludes that no
factors that warrant disbarment are present.
3. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .0114(w)(3), the Rules and Regulations ofthe State Bar, and concludes that the
following are applicable in this matter:
(a) Prior disciplinary offense in North Carolina;
(b) Remoteness of prior disciplinary offense;
(c) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(d) Multiple offenses;
NeSB v. Pardue
Page 50f9

(e) Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

(f) Defendant's remorse;
(g) Good character and reputation; and
(h) Defendant has been licensed to practice law for approximately thirty-three
years.
4. Defendant caused potential significant harm to his clients by failing to
properly manage their entrusted funds.
5. The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including: censure,
reprimand and admonition, and finds that discipline less than suspension would not
adequately protect the public from Defendant's future misconduct because (i) ofthe
gravity of potential significant harm to clients, and (ii) a period of reporting pursuant to a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant's proper handling of entrusted funds.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline,
and on the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant, James H. Pardue, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for
one year, effective 30 days from service ofthis order upon Pardue.
2. Defendant shall pay, within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and
costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative fees and costs of this
proceeding.
3. The one year suspension is stayed for a period of eighteen months as long as
Defendant complies with the following conditions:
(a) Pardue pays the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary ofthe :-;tate Bar within 30 days of service of the
statement of fees and costs upon him.
(b) Pardue shall provide to the State Bar's Office of Counsel monthly the
written report of the three-way reconciliation of all attorney trust accounts
to which he has access using the reconciliation method described in the
State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook, rev. 05/2011, pages 34 - 43.
In addition to the three-way reconciliation report, Pardue shall provide (i)
client ledgers for each client whose funds are held in the trust account( s)
during the month covered by the submitted report, (ii) ledger for any
personal funds Pardue maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit

NCSB v. Pardue
Page 6 of9

card fees, (iii) the generalledger(s) for each trust account to which Pardue
has access, and (iv) the following bank documentation for the month
covered by the submitted report: the bank statement, canceled checks and
deposit slips or other bank documentation that identifies the source of all
deposits into the account for eac~ trust account to which Pardue has
access.
(c) Pardue shall provide any other records requested by the Office of Counsel
within ten days of the request.
(d) Within six months ofthe effective date ofthis order, Pardue shall
complete the trust account contin)ling legal education (CLE) course taught
by State Bar Trust Accounting Compliance Counsel Peter Bolac (usually
titled "Trust Accounting Rules" tir "Trust Accounting Rules: Avoid the
Pitfalls.") This CLE requiremen~ is in addition to the CLE requirements
set out in 27 RC.A.C. 1D § .1518.
(e) Pardue shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business and home addresses. Pardue shall notifY the State Bar of
any change of address within ten days of such change. His current
business address must be a street 'address, not a post office box or drawer.
(f) Pardue shall respond to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in
the communication, whichever is sooner.
(g) Pardue shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition of which he receives notice after the
effective date of this order.
(h) Pardue shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and CLE
requirements.
(i) Pardue shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States or of any state or local government.
4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order ofthe DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end eighteen months from
the effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to § .o1l4(x) ofthe North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC
retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. Ifa
motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the
stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would
otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of
NCSB v. Pardue

Page 7 of9

the suspension and activate the one year suspension in whole or in part if it fmds that any
of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and
Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until
resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
5. If Pardue fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out above
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay ofthe suspension may be lifted in accordance
with 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .01l4(x).
6. If the stay of the suspension is lifted lind the suspension is activated for any
reason, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order imposing such
conditions as it deems proper for the reinstatement of Pardue's license at the end of the
suspension. Additionally, Pardue must establish the following by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence prior to being reinstated to the practice of law after any period of
active suspension:
(a) Pardue submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary of
the State Bar within thirty days of the date the order lifting the stay and/or
activating the suspension of his law license;
(b) Pardue complied with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following entry of the order
lifting the stay andlor activating the suspension of his law license;
(c) Pardue timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against him
in this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon him
by the Secretary of the State Bar;
(d) That within 15 days of the effective date ofthe order activating the
suspension Pardue provided the State Bar with an address and telephone
number at which clients seeking return of files can communicate with
Pardue and obtain such files;
(e) That Pardue promptly provided client files to all clients who made a
request for return oftheir files;

(I) Pardue has kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business and home street addresses (not post office box or drawer
addresses) and notified the State Bar of any change in address within ten
days of such change;
(g) Pardue has responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner;

NCSB v. Pardue
Page 8 of9

(h) At the time of his petition for rei1)slatement, Pardue is current in payment
of all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments, and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to
collect from him, including all judicial district dues and assessments;

(i) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Pardue's
completion of mandatory CLE hours in reporting of such hours or in
payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

G) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Pardue has completed within
the six months that immediately preceded his petition for reinstatement the
trust account CLE course taught 9Y NC State Bar Trust Accounting
Compliance Counsel Peter Bolacl (usually titled "Trust Accounting Rules"
or "Trust Accounting Rules: Avo,id the Pitfalls"); and
(k) Pardue has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States, or the laws of any state or local government during his
suspension.
7. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofthis matter
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0 114(x) until all conditions ofthe stay of suspension are
satisfied.
. iHgned ~hair with the consent ofthe other Hearing Panel members this
theU!'aayof
A!)~ ,~
('()

;;<OI6 Q

u~.c~~
S>o" ...l1c:?.:;e..,+/ss ,
Chair

Disciplinary Hearing Panel
WE CONSENT:

~lI:fo.~
amesIiPardue

Defendant

rfJ

NCSB v. Pardue
Page 9 of9

