·,

-<,\\i~WiD1i,?;;",

(~

NORTH CAROLlN':::'
0)

.d

0

c""'.

~;:'}
BEFORE THE
J:);'.?/7oJlISC?ljLlNARY HEARING COMMISSION
11••
OF THE
iV/tn.
~ TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
...
@
05 DHC 32
IJ."

1..12'0

WAKE COUNTY <:0

':;
oS'
p

';;;,r

~

..q04-LA~J~~

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)

v.

)

ERIC J. PARHAM, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)

ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

This matter was considered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair, Charles M. Davis,
and H. Dale Almond. Margaret Cloutier represented plaintiff. Defendant was not
present at the hearing and was not represented by counsel. Defendant was
properly served with a copy of the complaint and the summons on August 30,
2005. Defendant's default was entered by the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar on September 21,2005.
Based on the pleadings and the evidence presented, the Hearing
Committee hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Eric J, Parham (hereinafter "Parham" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on September 13, 1991 and is, and was
at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Durham, Durham County, North Carolina.

4. In November 2003 the Council of the North Carolina State Bar entered
an order suspending Defendant's license to practice law for failing to pay
mandatory membership dues to the State Bar for the year 2003 and for failing to
complete the minimum mandatory continuing legal education requirements.
5. In August 2002 Defendant began to represent Tammi Yancey for a
personal injury claim.
6. After Defendant's license to practice law was suspended as set forth in
paragraph 4 above, Defendant did not withdraw from representation in Yancey's
case.
7. In April 2004 Defendant settled Yancey's claim for $12,000.00 after
consulting Yancey.
8. On or about May 18, 2004 Defendant signed, or caused to be signed,
Yancey's name in endorsement on the settlement check and deposited the check
into Defendant's trust account. Yancey did not know Defendant received the
check and did not authorize Defendant or anyone else to endorse the check on
her behalf.
9. Defendant's conduct in signing, or causing to be signed, Yancey's
name in endorsement on the settlement check and negotiating the check
constitute the crimes of forging an endorsement and uttering a forged instrument.
10. On May 19, 2004 Defendant issued trust account check number 3410
made payable to himself in the amount of $4,000.00 for his fees in Yancey's
case. Defendant did not immediately write a check to Yancey for the balance of
the funds due Yancey and did not notify Yancey that he had received a fee in her
case or that he was holding funds on her behalf.
11. On or about July 28, 2004 Yancey tried to telephone Defendant to
determine the status of her case. Yancey reached a recording indicating
Defendant's office phone was disconnected. Yancey then went to Defendant's
office and found the door locked and the office closed.
12. Yancey consulted another attorney who discovered that Yancey's
settlement check had already been issued by the insurance company. Yancey's
attorney contacted Defendant, and on August 3, 2004 Defendant issued trust
account check number 3431 made payable to Yancey in the amount of
$7,958.61.
13. On August 23, 2004 Yancey filed a petition for resolution of disputed
fee with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.CAC. 1D §.0700.
Yancey's fee dispute petition was designated file number 04FD0567.

2

14. By letter dated October 15, 2004, after two unsuccessful attempts to
notify Defendant, Luella C. Crane of the North Carolina State Bar Client
Assistance Program notified Defendant of Yancey's petition by sending
Defendant a copy of the petition. Defendant received Crane's October 15, 2004
letter by certified mail on October 18, 2004. Defendant failed to respond to
Crane's October 15, 2004 letter.
15. By letter dated November 5,2004 Crane reminded Defendant that his
response to Yancey's petition had not been received and directed him to respond
within ten days of receipt of Crane's letter. Crane's November 5, 2004 letter,
sent to Defendant by certified mail, was returned to the State Bar by the U.S.
Postal Service, having been unclaimed by Defendant.
16. Defendant failed to respond to Yancey's fee dispute petition. On
November 29,2004, after receiving no response to Yancey's fee petition, Crane
closed the fee dispute file and referred Defendant's file to the disciplinary
department of the State Bar where a grievance file was opened and assigned file
number 04G 1442.
17. On December 9,2004 Henry Babb, Chair of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, sent a Letter of Notice to Defendant
relating to Defendant's failure to participate in the State Bar's Fee Dispute
Program in Yancey's case. Defendant received the December 9, 2004 Letter of
Notice by certified mail on December 10, 2004. Defendant failed to respond to
the December 9, 2004 Letter of Notice.
18. In or about April 2001 Steven Hill engaged Defendant to represent
him in connection with a personal injury claim arising from an automobile
accident in which Hill was involved in March 2001. After Defendant's license to
practice law was suspended in November 2003, Defendant did not withdraw from
representation in Hill's case and did not tell Hill that Defendant's license to
practice law was suspended by the North Carolina State Bar.
19. On March 19, 2004, after Defendant's license to practice law was
suspended, Defendant filed a lawsuit on Hill's behalf in Durham County Superior
Court.
20. After filing the lawsuit on Hill's behalf, Defendant did not return calls
placed by Hill to Defendant's office or cell phone numbers and did not otherwise
communicate with Hill, forcing Hill to engage the services of another attorney to
maintain the lawsuit on his behalf.
21. On July 2, 2004 John B. McMillan, then Chair of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, sent a Letter of Notice to Defendant
relating to Defendant's conduct in Hill's case. Defendant received the July 2,

3

·,

2004 Letter of Notice by certified mail on July 9, 2004. On July 30, 2004 counsel
sent a follow-up letter to Defendant reminding Defendant of his obligation to
respond to the Letter of Notice he received on July 9, 2004.
22. Defendant failed to respond to the July 2, 2004 Letter of Notice.
23. In or about February 2000 Elaine Deloatch was involved in an
automobile accident. Shortly thereafter, Deloatch hired Defendant to represent
her in a personal injury claim. Defendant kept in contact with Deloatch about her
case until June 2002 when he sent her a copy of the settlement package to be
submitted to the insurance company. Thereafter, Defendant failed to retum
many of Deloatch's phone calls or otherwise communicate with Deloatch about
the progress of her case.
24. Defendant did not settle Deloatch's case with the insurance company
and did not file a lawsuit before Deloatch's claim was barred by the statute of
limitations.
25. On August 11,2004 John B. McMillan, then Chair of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, sent a Letter of Notice to Defendant
relating to Defendant's conduct in Deloatch's case. That letter was retumed by
the U.S. Postal Service to the State Bar marked as unclaimed by Defendant.
Defendant was personally served with the August 11, 2004 Letter of Notice on
September 28, 2004.
26. Defendant failed to respond to the August 11, 2004 Letter of Notice.
27. On or about July 19, 1999 Hilder Graves was involved in an
automobile accident. Shortly thereafter, Graves hired Defendant to represent her
in a claim for personal injury. Defendant did not communicate with Graves about
the progress of her case and failed to retum Graves' phone calls.
28. Defendant filed a lawsuit on Graves' behalf on July 18, 2002.
Defendant did not obtain service of process on the defendant in the action before
the expiration of the original summons and failed to properly extend the
summons or cause a proper alias and pluries summons to be issued before the
expiration of the statute of limitations. As a result, the lawsuit filed on Graves'
behalf was dismissed with prejudice by the court. Defendant did not inform
Graves that her lawsuit had been dismissed.
29. On July 2, 2004 John B. McMillan, then Chair of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, sent a Letter of Notice to Defendant
relating to Defendant's conduct in Graves' case. Defendant received the July 2,
2004 Letter of Notice by certified mail on July 9, 2004. On July 30, 2004 counsel
sent a follow-up letter to Defendant reminding Defendant of his obligation to
respond to the Letter of Notice he received on July 9, 2004.

4

30. Defendant failed to respond to the July 2, 2004 Letter of Notice.
31. In or about December 1999 Brenda Ochoa engaged Defendant to
represent her in a medical malpractice claim. Defendant initially kept in contact
with Ochoa about her case, but by 2001 Defendant failed to return Ochoa's many
phone calls and did not otherwise communicate with Ochoa about the progress
of her case.
32. Defendant failed to provide services of any substantive value to
Ochoa relating to her case.
33. On December 7, 2004 Henry Babb, Chair of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, sent a Letter of Notice to Defendant
relating to Defendant's conduct in Ochoa's case. Defendant received the
December 7,2004 Letter of Notice by certified mail on December 8,2004. On
January 7, 2005 Counsel sent a follow-up letter to Defendant reminding
Defendant of his obligation to respond to the Letter of Notice he received on
December 8, 2004.
34. Defendant failed to respond to the December 7,2004 Letter of Notice.
35. On February 2, 2005 a subpoena was properly issued instructing
Defendant to appear at the State Bar Building on March 2, 2005 at 11 :00 a.m.
Defendant received the subpoena by certified mail on February 9, 2005.
Defendant failed to appear on March 2, 2005 as instructed by the subpoena.
36. On or about July 30, 1997 Jacqueline Harris was involved in an
automobile accident. Shortly thereafter, Harris hired Defendant to represent her
in a claim for personal injury.
37. Defendant filed a lawsuit on Harris' behalf on July 27,2000.
Defendant did not obtain service of process on the defendant in the action before
the expiration of the original summons and failed to properly extend the
summons or cause a proper alias and pluries summons to be issued before the
expiration of the statute of limitations. As a result, Harris' claim was barred by
the statute of limitations.
38. In March 2003 Defendant attempted to personally pay Harris for the
value of her personal injury claim by offering to pay her $8,000.00 over a period
of months. Defendant presented Harris with a release for her signature
purporting to release Defendant from any and all claims Harris might have
against Defendant. Defendant did not advise Harris in writing to seek the advice
of another attorney regarding the release.

5

·,

39. On August 11, 2004 John B. McMillan, then Chair of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, sent a Letter of Notice to Defendant
relating to Defendant's conduct in Harris' case. The Letter of Notice, sent
certified mail, was returned to the State Bar marked "Unclaimed" by the U.S.
Postal Service.
40. It appears that 20 checks were written from Defendant's trust account
between May 19, 2004 when he wrote a check to himself for an improper fee in
Ms Yancey's case and August 3, 2004 when he wrote a check to Ms Yancey for
the proceeds of her claim.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated one or more of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as
follows:
a. by continuing to represent Yancey and Hill after his license to practice
law was suspended, Defendant represented clients when such representation
would result in violation of North Carolina General Statutes §84-4 or the Rules of
Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 1.16(a)(1);
b. by failing to inform Yancey and Hill that Defendant's license to practice
law was suspended Defendant failed to explain matters to the extent reasonably
necessary to permit his client to make informed decisions regarding the
representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
c. by settling Yancey's personal injury claim and by filing a lawsuit on
Hill's behalf after his license to practice law was suspended, Defendant engaged
in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(a) and held himself out
as an attorney licensed to practice of law in North Carolina when he knew or
should have known that his license had been suspended in violation of Rule
5.5(b)(2);
d. by failing to notify Yancey of the funds received on her behalf,
Defendant failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of her
case in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly notify his client of the

6

·,
receipt of entrusted property belonging in whole or in part to the client in violation
of Rule 1.15-2(1);
e. by signing or causing Yancey's name to be signed in endorsement of
the settlement check without Yancey's authorization and then negotiating the
check, Defendant committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c);
f. by failing to immediately write a check to Yancey for the balance of the
funds due Yancey or to a third party on her behalf, Defendant failed to promptly
payor deliver to his client or to third persons at the direction of his client
entrusted property belonging to the client to which the client is currently entitled
in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);
g. by writing himself a check in the amount of $4,000 as a fee from Ms
Yancey's settlement proceeds, Defendant paid himself a fee he was not entitled
to because his license to practice law was suspend,ed in violation of Rule 1.5;
h. by failing to timely respond to the State Bar's notice of petition for fee
dispute resolution in Yancey's case, Defendant failed to participate in good faith
with the fee dispute resolution process of the North Carolina State Bar in violation
of Rule 1.5(f);
i. by failing to retum calls placed by Hill, Deloatch, Graves, and Ochoa or
otherwise communicate with them, and by failing to inform Graves of the
dismissal of her lawsuit, Defendant failed to keep his clients reasonably informed
about the status of their cases in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);
j. by failing to settle Deloatch's claim with the insurance company or file
suit before the expiration of the statute of limitations and by failing to provide
services of any substantive value to Ochoa relating to her case, Defendant did
not act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing clients in
violation of Rule 1.3;

k. by failing to properly issue an alias and pluries summons to prevent the
expiration of the statute of limitations in the cases of Graves and Ochoa,
Defendant did not act with the required knowledge, skill, thoroughness and
preparation reasonably necessary for the representation in violation of Rule 1.1;

I. by failing to appear pursuant to a properly issued subpoena relating to
the Ochoa grievance, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand
for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b) and
engaged in contempt in violation of North Carolina General Statutes §84-28(b);

7

m. by attempting to obtain a release of all claims Harris might have
against Defendant in connection with his representation of her without advising
her in writing to seek the advice of an independent attorney, Defendant entered
into a business transaction with a client in violation of Rule 1.8(a);
n. by failing to timely respond to the State Bar's Letters of Notice
regarding Yancey, Hill, Deloatch, Graves and Harris, Defendant knowingly failed
to respond to lawful demands for information from a disciplinary authority in
violation of Rule 8.1 (b); and
o. by ignoring the November 2003 order of suspension, continuing to
write checks from his trust account after his suspension, and failing to cooperate
with the State Bar in these proceedings, Defendant has demonstrated that the
public would be put at risk if this order were to become effective 30 days from the
date of service upon him.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
Hearing Committee also enters the following
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a) a pattern of misconduct;
(b) multiple offenses involving multiple clients;
(c) vulnerability of the victims who were uninformed of the legal process
and relied on Defendant to protect their interests;
(d) substantial experience in the practice of law;
(e) bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by intentionally
failing to comply with the rules of the disciplinary agency;
(f) refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of his conduct;
(g) dishonest or selfish motive; and
(h) prior disciplinary offenses in that Defendant received an Admonition in
April 2002.
2. The Hearing Committee found no mitigating factors.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. Defendant's conduct has caused, and had the potential to cause,
significant harm to his clients identified in this order. If not for Ms Yancey's
persistance, it is doubtful Defendant would have provided Ms Yancey's funds to
her. Ms Deloatch, Ms Graves and Ms Harris lost their rights to pursue recovery
for their damages as provided by law. Defendant's conduct or misconduct has
harmed the standing of the legal professional by undermining his clients' trust
and confidence in lawyers and the legal system.

8

·,

5. Defendant's failure to participate in the mandatory fee dispute
resolution process and his failure to respond to the letters of notice from the
Chair of the Grievance Committee substanitally interfered with the Bar's ability to
regulate attorneys and undermined the privilege of attorneys in this state to
remain self-regulating.
6. The Hearing Committee has carefully considered all of the different
forms of discipline available to it and finds and concludes that under the
circumstances of this case discipline short of disbarment would not be
appropriate. Defendant's misconduct occurred while he was suspended from the
practice of law demonstrating that suspension by this Committee will be
inadequate to protect the public. Further, Defendant's dishonesty in handling Ms
Yancey's case and endorsing the check without her authorization were deliberate
acts, not the result of mistake, and therefore appear to be the product of a
personality flaw that is not readily changeable. Defendant's conduct in failing to
protect his clients' claims from being barred by the statute of limitations in such
numerous instances indicates Defendant lacks the required knowledge and skill
to practice law. Defendant offered no plausible evisJence or assurances that
such misconduct would not be repeated if he were permitted to retain his law
license. The protection of the public requires that Defendant be disbarred and
that he not resume the practice of law until he demonstrates that he understands
the Rules of Professional Conduct, will abide by them, and that he has reformed.
Finally, entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses which Defendant committed and
would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar of this state.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
Findings Regarding Discipline, all found by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence, and upon consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Eric J. Parham is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in the
State of North Carolina effective immediately.
2. Defendant shall surrender his law license and bar membership card
within 30 days after service of this order upon him.
3. Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary of the State Bar, including the costs associated with the deposition
scheduled for September 26, 2005, within 90 days of service of the statement of
costs upon him.

9

4. Defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.CAC. 1B §.0124 of
the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules
5. Prior to filing a petition for reinstatement of his law license, Defendant
shall demonstrate that he has a) reimbursed Ms Yancey the sum of $4,000 in
improper fees he received in her case, and b) reimbursed any of the clients cited
in this order for unreimbursed medical or other out-of-pocket expenses
associated with the cases for which Defendant undertook to represent them and
for which each client has provided appropriate documentation to the North
Carolina State Bar.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of
the other members of the Hearing Committee, this !IJ 4Yday of tJJ, ~ ,

2005.

~E.cU~'~
HEARING COMMITTEE

10

