STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
v.
JULIE A. PARKER, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
("DHC") composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members Fred W. DeVore III and Tyler B.
Monis, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I, Subchapter B, §
.OI15(i). Plaintiff was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant, Julie A. Parker, was
represented by Alan M. Schneider. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this Consent Order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the findings of fact and consents to
the conclusions of law and ently of the order of discipline. Defendant freely and voluntarily
waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this Consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:

Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Julie A. Parker, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
August 1987 and is, and was at all times refened to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods refened to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Mocksville, Davie County, North Carolina.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Julie A. Parker, 17 DHC 21
Consent Order
Page 1 of9

4.
At all times referenced in the complaint, Defendant and her husband, Michael
Parker, ("the Parkers") practiced law as Parker and Parker Attorneys at Law, a partnership ("the
partnership").
5.
At all times referenced in the complaint, the Parkers had one or more employees
who provided services for the benefit of the partnership.
6.
When they paid wages to their employees, the Parkers were required by the
Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") to withhold funds from their employees' paychecks to pay the
employees' social security, Medicare, and federal income taxes ("employment taxes").
7.
As a partner in the law firm, Defendant was required to collect, truthfully account
for, and timely pay over to the IRS employment taxes for employees of the partnership.
8.
The Parkers were required pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code to remit
withheld funds to the IRS on a monthly or quarterly basis.
9.
From the time the funds were withheld until the time they were paid to the IRS,
the Parkers had a fiduciary duty to hold funds withheld from employees' paychecks in trust for
the benefit of the United States Department of the Treasmy.
10.
The Parkers withheld funds from employees for employment taxes and failed to
remit those funds to the IRS within the time required by law during the following time frames:
(a) First quarter of2011;
(b) Second quarter of 20 11;
(c) Fourth quarter of 20 11;
(d) First quarter of2012;
(e) Second quarter of2012;
(f) Third quarter of2012; and
(g) Fourth quarter of2012
11.
The Parkers knew they had a legal duty to remit the funds they withheld to the
IRS within the times specified in the Internal Revenue Code.
12.
During the applicable quarters, the partnership filed Form 941s that did not
truthfully reflect the monthly employment tax deposits to the IRS.
13.
On or about October 16,2012, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
employment taxes, penalties, and interest in the amount of:
(a) $101.28 for the tax period ending March 31, 2010 (first quarter of2010);
(b) $843.21 for the tax period ending March 31, 2011 (first quarter of2011); and
(c) $338.61 for the tax period ending June 30, 2011 (second quarter of2011).

The North Carolina State Bar v. Julie A. Parker, 17 DHC 21
Consent Order
Page 2 of9

14.
On or about January 8, 2013, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
employment taxes, penalties, and interest in the amount of:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

$2,015.67 for the tax period ending December 31, 2010 (fourth quarter of2010);
$4,833.35 for the tax period ending December 31, 2011 (fourth quarter of2011);
$3,904.55 for the tax period ending March 31,2012 (first quarter of2012); and
$997.02 for the tax period ending June 30, 2012 (second quarter of2012).

15.
On or about January 28,2013, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
employment taxes, penalties, and interest, in the amount of $6,987.84 for the tax period ending
September 30, 2012 (third quarter of2012).
On or about Apri116, 2013, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
16.
employment taxes, penalties, and interest in the amount of $3,222.09 for the tax period ending
December 31,2012 (fourth quarter of 20 12).
17.
The Parkers were also required pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code to report
and pay Federal Unemployment Tax Act ("FUTA") taxes to the federal government for the
employees of the partnership.
18.
As a partner in the law firm, Defendant was required to report and pay FUTA
taxes to the federal government for the employees of the paIinership.
19.
On or about August 21, 2013, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
FUTA taxes in the amount of$761.22 for the tax period ending December 31,2010.

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:

Conclusions of Law
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows: By
failing to truthfully account for and timely remit to the IRS the employment taxes owed to the
IRS, Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c).
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:

Additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Julie A. Parker, 17 DHC 21
Consent Order
Page 3 of9

1.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 19 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
On or about October 16,2011, the partnership remitted to the IRS $3,031.08 for
the 151 quarter of 20 11, $2,120.24 for the 2nd quarter of 2011, and $2,612.33 for the 3rd quarter of
2011.
3.
On November 7,2012, the partnership remitted to the IRS $3,495 for the 2nd and
3rd quarters of2012.
4.
In the ensuing years, through the efforts of the partnership and the IRS, the
partnership's employment tax obligations to the IRS were satisfied, and at present, the
partnership has no indebtedness to the IRS for employment taxes.
5.
Defendant and Michael Parker still have a significant indebtedness to the IRS for
personal income tax.
6.
Defendant's failure to truthfully account for and timely remit employment taxes
to the IRS created the foreseeable potential harm of misleading the Department of the Treasury
in its administration of the Internal Revenue Code regarding the partnership's compliance with
the law.
7.
Defendant's failure to timely remit employment taxes withheld from employees
of the patinership demonstrates a disregard for the laws of this state and country and for civic
duty, brings the legal profession into disrepute, and undermines public confidence in lawyers.
8.
since 1987.
9.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice of law, having been licensed
Defendant has no prior discipline.

10.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional Findings
of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In doing so, the Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B .0116(f)(1) and concludes that the following factors are present:
(a) intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Julie A. Parker, 17 DHC 21
Consent Order
Page 4 of9

(b) circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
(c) negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession;
(d) negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration ofjustice~ and
(e) acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerate.d in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B .0116(f)(2) and concludes that although Defendant engaged in acts of
misrepresentation and failure to truthfully account for and timely pay over employment taxes,
suspension is warranted, but disbarment is not necessary to protect the pUblic.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code. 1B .0116(f)(3) and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

1.

absence of prior disciplinary offenses in this state or any other jurisdiction;
dishonest or selfish motive;
a pattern of misconduct;
cooperative attitude toward the DHC proceedings;
degree of experience in the practice of law; and
imposition of other penalties or sanctions in that Defendant's delinquent tax
liabilities resulted in penalties and interest.
Defendant should be taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order of Discipline

1.
The license of Defendant, Julie A. Parker, is hereby suspended for five years,
effective thirty days from the date of service of this order upon her.
2.
Defendant shall submit her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than thiliy days following the effective date of this Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0128
of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. As provided in Rule .0128(d),
Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within ten
days of the effective date of this Order, certifying that she has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
If Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0128,
Defendant shall reimburse the State Bar for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding
down Defendant's practice. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility
fees, rent payments, moving expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage or other
The North Carolina State Bar v. Julie A. Parker, 17 DHC 21
Consent Order
Page 5 of9

mailing expenses, and compensation paid to a trustee and/or a trustee's assistant for time and
travel associated with the trusteeship. The State Bar shall send an invoice of wind down
expenses to Defendant at Defendant's last known address of record with the North Carolina State
Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until she has reimbursed the State Bar for
all wind down expenses incurred.
5.
Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary, including the costs of all depositions and transcriptions of depositions
taken in this case, within thirty days of service of the statement of costs and administrative fees
upon him.
6.
Within thirty days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Defendant to obtain such files. Defendant shall promptly return all files to
clients upon request.
7.
Defendant shall file all state and federal tax returns on a timely basis and shall
timely pay all amounts owed for those tax years to the taxing authorities.
8.
After eighteen months of active suspension, Defendant may apply for a stay of the
remaining period of the suspension upon filing a motion in the cause as provided in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B §.0118(c) and demonstrating by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that, in
addition to complying with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B §.0129(b), the Defendant has complied with the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised
of her current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change. Such addresses must be street addresses,
not a post office box or post office drawer;

(b)

Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days
of Defendant's receipt of the communication or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and has participated in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition which was pending
during the period of suspension;

(c)

That at the time of her petition for stay, Defendant is current in payment of all
Membership dues, fees, and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments
and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from her,
and including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

(d)

That at the time of her petition for stay, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in reporting
such hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;
The North Carolina State Bar v. Julie A. Parker, 17 DHC 21
Consent Order
Page 60f9

(e)

That during the active suspension that preceded the motion for stay, Defendant
has completed two hours of CLE regarding trust accounting and at least one of the
two hours shall be a course taught by the Trust Account Compliance Counsel for
the North Carolina State Bar;

(f)

That Defendant is current on all her tax law obligations to all taxing authorities,
including but not limited to, satisfying all tax liens that have or may be filed, and
being current on filing and payment requirements for all tax obligations;

(g)

Defendant has executed any written waivers and releases necessary to authorize
the Office of Counsel to confer with the IRS or the N. C. Department of Revenue
for the purpose of determining whether Defendant has cooperated and complied
with all requirements of this Order;

(h)

Defendant has provided to the Office of Counsel copies of all correspondence,
including summaries of oral communications, sent to or received by her or her
representative from any taxing authority during the period of active suspension;

(i)

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local govemment during her suspension;

U)

Defendant properly wound down her law practice and complied with the
requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0128; and

(k)

Defendant has paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as reflected on the
statement of costs served upon Defendant by the Secretary of the State Bar within
thirty days of service of that statement upon Defendant.

9.
If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay of her suspension, the applicable
suspension of Defendant's law license shall be stayed as long as that Defendant complies and
continues to comply with the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees, assessments and
costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or
surcharges that the State Bar is authorized to collect from Defendant, including all
judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

(b)

That there is no deficit in Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE hours, in
reporting of such hours, or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at
CLE programs;

(c)

Defendant files all state and federal tax retums on a timely basis during each year
of the stay and timely pays all amounts owed for those tax years to the taxing
authorities. Defendant shall provide written proof of filing and payment to the
Office of Counsel within ten days of filing each retum or request for extension
and within ten days of each payment;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Julie A. Parker, 17 DHC 21
Consent Order
Page 7 of9

(d)

Defendant executes any written waivers and releases necessary to authorize the
Office of Counsel to confer with the IRS or the North Carolina Department of
Revenue for the purpose of determining if Defendant has cooperated and
complied with all requirements of this Order and does not revoke such waivers or
releases during the period of stay;

(e)

Defendant provides to the Office of Counsel copies of all correspondence,
including a summary of oral communications, sent to or received by her or her
representative from any taxing authority within ten days of receipt;

(f)

Defendant does not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local govemment during her suspension;

(g)

Defendant keeps the State Bar Membership Department advised of her current
business address. Defendant shall notify the State Bar of any change of address
within ten days of such change. Her current business address must be a street
address, not a post office box or drawer;

(h)

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attomey Client Assistance Program, within thirty days
of receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner;

(i)

Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition which is pending during any stay of the suspension.

10.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions of the stay of
suspension provided in paragraphs 9 (a) - (i) above, the stay of suspension may be lifted in
accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B.0118(a).
11.
If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay of her suspension, Defendant's
obligations goveming the stay under this Order end after the applicable period of the stay
provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance
with the conditions of the stay of the suspension as provided in Rule .0118(a) of the North
Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules.
12.
lfDefendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of her law license or if some
part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter revoked, that Defendant must comply with the
conditions set out in paragraphs 8(a) - (k) above and the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B
.0129 before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law. Defendant must also show that
she has fully paid all accmed indebtedness assessed for prior tax years to the IRS and/or N.C.
Department of Revenue and is CUlTent in is obligations to file and pay all federal and state tax of
any kind. Defendant must demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence her compliance
with the provisions of this paragraph before being reinstated to the practice of law.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Julie A. Parker, 17 DHC 21
Consent Order
Page 8 of9

13.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0118(a) throughout the period of the suspension, any stay
thereof.

r

e Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the

day of

,2018.

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

Mary D. .nstead, Deputy Counsel
Attorney for the North Carolina State Bar

Attorney for Defendant

Defendant

The North Carolina State Bar v. Julie A. Parker, 17 DHC 21
Consent Order
Page 9 of9

