BEFORE THE
RY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
17 DHC 20

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
v.
MICHAEL J. PARKER, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
("DHC") composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members Fred W. DeVore III and Tyler B.
Morris, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §
.011S(i). Plaintiff was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant, Michael J. Parker, was
represented by Dudley A. Witt. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings
of fact and conclusions of law recited in this Consent Order and to the discipline imposed.
Defendant has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the findings of fact and consents to the
conclusions of law and entry of the order of discipline. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives
any and all right to appeal the entty of this Consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws ofNOlih Carolina and is the proper patiy to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, Michael J. Parker, was admitted to the NOlih Carolina State Bar in
August 1987 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Mocksville, Davie County, North Carolina.
The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J. Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 1 of14

4.
At all times referenced in the first claim for relief of the complaint, Defendant
and his wife, Julie Parker, ("the Parkers") practiced law as Parker and Parker Attorneys at Law, a
partnership ("the partnership").
5.
At all times referenced in the first claim for relief of the complaint, the Parkers
had one or more employees who provided services for the benefit of the partnership.
6.
When they paid wages to their employees, the Parkers were required by the
Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") to withhold funds from their employees' paychecks to pay the
employees' social security, Medicare, and federal income taxes ("employment taxes").

7.
As a partner in the law firm, Defendant was required to collect, truthfully account
for, and timely pay over to the IRS employment taxes for employees of the partnership.
8.
The Parkers were required pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code to remit
withheld funds to the IRS on a monthly or qumierly basis.
9.
From the time the funds were withheld until the time they were paid to the IRS,
the Parkers had a fiduciary duty to hold funds withheld from employees' paychecks in trust for
the benefit of the United States Department of the TreasUlY.
10.
The Parkers withheld funds from employees for employment taxes and failed to
remit those funds to the IRS within the time required by law during the following time frames:
(a) First quarter of2011;
(b) Second quarter of 20 11 ;
(c) Fourth quarter of2011;
(d) First qumier of2012;
(e) Second quarter of2012;
(f) Third quarter of2012; and
(g) Fourth quarter of2012
11.
The Parkers Imew they had a legal duty to remit the funds they withheld to the
IRS within the times specified in the Internal Revenue Code.
12.
During the applicable quarters, the partnership filed Form 941s that did not
truthfully reflect the monthly employment tax deposits to the IRS.

13.
On or about October 16,2012, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
employment taxes, penalties, and interest in the amount of:
(a) $101.28 for the tax period ending March 31, 2010 (first quarter of2010);
(b) $843.21 for the tax period ending March 31, 2011 (first quarter of2011); and
(c) $338.61 for the tax period ending June 30, 2011 (second quarter of2011).

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 2 of14

14.
On or about January 8, 2013, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
employment taxes, penalties, and interest in the amount of:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

$2,015.67 for the tax period ending December 31,2010 (fourth quarter of2010);
$4,833.35 for the tax period ending December 31, 2011 (foUlih quarter of2011);
$3,904.55 for the tax period ending March 31, 2012 (first quarter of2012); and
$997.02 for the tax period ending June 30, 2012 (second quarter of2012).

15.
On or about January 28, 2013, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
employment taxes, penalties, and interest, in the amount of $6,987.84 for the tax period ending
September 30, 2012 (third quarter of2012).
16.
On or about April 16, 2013, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
employment taxes, penalties, and interest in the amount of $3,222.09 for the tax period ending
December 31, 2012 (fourth quarter of2012).
17.
The Parkers were also required pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code to repoli
and pay Federal Unemployment Tax Act ("FUTA") taxes to the federal government for the
employees of the partnership.
18.
As a partner in the law firm, Defendant was required to report and pay FUTA
taxes to the federal government for the employees of the partnership.
19.
On or about August 21,2013, the IRS filed a tax lien against the partnership for
FUTA taxes in the amount of$761.22 for the tax period ending December 31,2010.

Drennen-Barney Funds
20.
Defendant represented Charlie H. Barney, Jr. ("Barney") in a civil lawsuit against
Michael and Jill Drennen ("the Drennens").
21.
In accordance with a settlement agreement, the Drennens purchased land from
Barney secured by a note and deed of trust executed by the Drennens for the benefit of Barney.
22.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Drennens were to make monthly payments
to Barney.
Defendant agreed to receive the payments from the Drennens and remit the funds
23.
to Barney.
24.
During the course of this arrangement, with the exception of one payment made
by check, all of the payments the Drennens made to Defendant were cash payments.
25.
The funds paid to Defendant for the benefit of Barney were entrusted funds.
26.

Barney picked up only one cash payment of $200.00 from Defendant's office.

27.
Defendant did not deposit into his trust account the $200.00 cash payment that
Barney picked up from his office.
The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J. Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 3 of14

28.
Defendant did not maintain a ledger showing the receipts from the Drennens and
the disbursements to Barney.
29.
In 2013, Barney and the Drennens requested an accounting of funds paid to and
disbursed by Defendant.
30.

Defendant initially refused to provide an accounting of the funds.

31.
Eventually, Defendant provided Barney with a chart showing receipts and
disbursements between January 2007 and Apri12010, but did not provide Barney with a
complete accounting of all funds received by Defendant or all funds disbursed to Barney.
32.
Defendant provided the Drennens with a list of payments he had received from
November 2006 to June 2013 which totaled $13,095.00.
33.
A comparison of Defendant's chart showing payments received from the
Drennens with checks drawn on Parker's trust accounts showing disbursements to Barney, shows
that Defendant deposited into his trust account $1,086.00 more from the Drennens than he
disbursed to Barney.
Administrative Suspension
On August 20,2014, the State Bar issued Notice to Defendant to Show Cause
34.
("Notice") within thirty days of service why his license to practice law should not be suspended
for failure to pay outstanding 2014 membership fees in the amount of $555.00 and failure to
timely certify his IOLTA status for 2014.
35.
The State Bar sent the Notice to Defendant by certified mail at his address of
record with the State Bar's Membership Department.
36.

The Notice was delivered on August 22,2014.

37.

Defendant did not respond to the Notice within thirty days of service.

On or about November 18,2014, the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar
38.
entered an Order of Administrative Suspension ("Order") suspending Defendant's law license.
39.
The Order provided that Defendant's license would be suspended thirty days after
service ofthe Order. The Order further provided that if Defendant complied with the conditions
of the Order within thirty days after service of the order, his license would not be suspended.
40.
The State Bar sent the Order to Defendant by certified mail at his address of
record with the State Bar's Membership Department.
41.

The Order was delivered on November 20,2014.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 4 of14

42.
In a letter dated December 23,2014 and mailed to Defendant at his address of
record with the State Bar's Membership Department, the State Bar notified Defendant that
December 22,2014 was the effective date of the suspension of his law license.
43.
The notification letter also informed Defendant that he had thirty days from the
effective date to wind down existing matters, but that he was prohibited from accepting new
legal fees or engagements as a lawyer.
44.
On Januaty 5, 2015, Jeny Lagle ("Lagle") went to Defendant's office seeking
legal counsel concerning his financial situation.
45.

Specifically, Lagle sought legal counsel about the impending foreclosure on his

home.
47.
On January 5, 2015, Defendant gave Lagle legal advice concerning the
foreclosure. Defendant did not tell Lagle when he spoke with him on January 5, 2015 that his
license was administratively suspended.
48.
Defendant did not tell Lagle when he spoke with him on January 5, 2015 that his
wife, attorney Julie Parker, and not Defendant, would be representing him.
False statement to State Bar
49.
On December 4,2014, Defendant was appointed to represent Leah Chunn
("Chunn") on criminal offenses for which Chunn was arrested on December 3, 2014 for willful
failure to appear, Davie County file nos. 14 CR 51466-51547.
50.
Chunn's parents, (the Clements), paid a professional bail bondsman to bond
Chunn out of jail on the charges referred to in paragraph 49 above and on December 5, 2014
Chunn was released from custody.
51.
Chunn was charged with additional criminal offenses on January 6, 2015, Davie
County file nos. 15 CR 50028, 15 CR 50029, 15 CR 50034, and 15 CR 50035.
52.
On January 7, 2015, the Clements went to Defendant's office to inquire about a
new matter concerning posting a property bond for their daughter, who was in jail.
On January 9, 2015, the Clements went to Defendant's office and Defendant's
53.
paralegal provided them with a deed of trust which stated that it was prepared by Defendant, a
promissory note, and a title opinion which bore Defendant's name but was not signed by him.
54.
The Clements provided the documents to the Davie County Clerk of Court in an
effort to get their daughter out of jail.
55.
Because the deed of trust and title opinion bore Defendant's name, the Clerk, who
was aware that Defendant's law license was suspended, notified the State Bar.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 5 of14

56.

The State Bar opened grievance file no. 15G0014, and sent Defendant a Letter of

Notice.
57.
In his signed response to the Letter of Notice, Defendant falsely asserted that his
only involvement in the property bond for the Clements was that he had performed a title search
for the Clements on December 10,2014, during his previous representation of Chunn.
58.
Defendant's law license was not in a state of suspension on December 10,2014,
the date on which he claimed to have performed the title search.
59.
There was no need for Defendant to perform a title search for the Clements on
December 10,2014 since Chunn had been released from custody on December 5, 2014 on the
charges on which Defendant represented her.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing to truthfully account for and timely remit to the IRS the employment taxes
owed to the IRS, Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
(b) By failing to maintain a ledger containing a record of receipts and disbursements and
showing the current balance of funds held in the trust account for Barney, Defendant
violated Rule 1.15-3(b)(5) and failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing
a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
(c) By failing to disburse to Barney funds to which he was entitled, Defendant failed to
promptly payor deliver to the client entrusted property belonging to the client and to
which the client was currently entitled in violation of Rule 1.15-2(n) 1;
(d) By failing to deposit cash received from the Drennens for the benefit of Barney into
his trust account, Defendant failed to properly maintain entrusted funds in violation of
Rule 1.15-2(a) and failed to deposit trust funds into his trust account in violation of
Rule 1.15-2(b);
(e) By giving Lagle legal advice at a time when his law license was administratively
suspended, Defendant engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of
1 Previously codified as Rule 1.15-2(m)

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 6 of14

Rule 5.5(a) and accepted representation when the representation would result in a
violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 1.16(a);
(f) By failing to inform Lagle that his law license was suspended and that he could not
represent him, Defendant made a false or misleading communication about his
services in violation of Rule 7.1(a)(1) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and
(g) By falsely informing the State Bar that he had performed the title search in December
2014, Defendant knowingly made a false statement of material fact in connection
with a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.I(a).

Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following;

Additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
1.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 59 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
On or about October 16, 2011, the partnership remitted to the IRS $3,031.08 for
the 1st quarter of2011, $2,120.24 for the 2nd quarter of2011, and $2,612.33 for the 3rd quarter of
2011.
3.
On November 7, 2012, the partnership remitted to the IRS $3,495 for the 2nd and
3 quarters of2012.
rd

4.
In the ensuing years, through the efforts of the partnership and the IRS, the
pminership's employment tax obligations to the IRS were satisfied, and at present, the
partnership has no indebtedness to the IRS for employment taxes.
5.
Defendant and Julie Parker still have a significant indebtedness to the IRS for
personal income tax.
6.
Defendant's failure to truthfully account for and timely remit employment taxes
to the IRS created the foreseeable potential harm of misleading the Department of the Treasury
in its administration of the Internal Revenue Code regarding the partnership's compliance with
the law.
7.
Defendant's failure to timely remit employment taxes withheld from employees
of the partnership demonstrates a disregard for the laws of this state and country and for civic
duty, brings the legal profession into disrepute, and undelmines public confidence in lawyers.
8.
Keeping accurate client ledgers and following sound accounting practices are vital
to ensure proper trust account maintenance and protection of entrusted funds. Defendant's failure

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael 1. Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 7 of14

to properly account for entrusted funds for an extended period of time demonstrates Defendant's
intent to commit acts in which the potential harm is foreseeable.
9.
Defendant's conduct placed entrusted funds at risk and had the potential to cause
significant harm to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows his
disregard for his duties as an attorney.
10.
Defendant's inattention to the Barney-Drennen matter resulted in the failure to
provide Barney all funds maintained in the trust account for Barney.
11.
Defendant elevated his interest over his clients' interests by failing to properly
account for the funds he was receiving for Barney and by providing legal advice while his
license was administratively suspended.
12.
Defendant impaired Barney's ability to achieve the goal of the representation by
failing to properly account for and disburse the funds he received on Barney's behalf.
13.
Defendant impaired his clients' ability to achieve the goals of the representation
by failing to inform them that he was administratively suspended from the practice of law and
thus unable to provide legal representation.
14.
Although Defendant was not entirely cooperative during the grievance process, he
did cooperate with the State Bar throughout the DHC disciplinary process.
15.
since 1987.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice of law, having been licensed

16.
The legal profession is entrusted with the privilege of self-regulation. The Bar's
system of self-regulation relies upon attorneys providing full and fair disclosures of the pertinent
facts.
17.
By falsely informing the State Bar that he had performed the title search in
December 2014, Defendant created the risk that the State Bar would be misled which posed
potential harm to the State Bar's system of self-regulation, the profession, and the administration
of justice.
18.
The privilege oflicensure to practice law is accompanied by the fundamental
requirement that an attorney practice law solely within the bounds of licensure. By giving Lagle
legal advice at a time when he was administratively suspended, Defendant caused significant
potential harm to his client and to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the pUblic. Such
erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect
for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal profession is a building block for public
trust in the entire legal system.
19.
Defendant has prior professional discipline. In 2009, Defendant was censured in
grievance file 0800186 for violating Rule 8A( c) by making misrepresentations in a loan closing;
Rule l.15-2U) for improperly distributing closing funds; and Rule 8A(a) for his actions in
preparing closing documents and advising the closing agent.
The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael 1. Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 8 of14

20.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional Findings
of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of discipline
available to it. In doing so, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B .0116(t)(1) and concludes that the following factors are present:
(a) intent of the defendant to cause the resulting hann or potential hann;
(b) intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential hann is
foreseeable;
(c) circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
(d) elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of the client;
(e) negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession;
(t) negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
(g) impainnent of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation;
(h) effect of defendant's conduct on third parties; and
(i) acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B .0116(t)(2) and concludes that although Defendant engaged in acts of
misrepresentation and failure to truthfully account for and timely pay over employment taxes,
suspension is warranted, but disbannent is not necessary to protect the public.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code. 1B .0116(t)(3) and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(t)
(g)

prior disciplinary offenses in this state or any other jurisdiction;
dishonest or selfish motive;
indifference to making restitution;
a pattern of misconduct;
multiple offenses;
cooperative attitude toward the DHC proceedings;
submission of false evidence, false statements, or other deceptive practices during
the disciplinaty process;
(h) refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct;
(i) vulnerability of victim;
U) degree of experience in the practice of law; and
The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 9 of14

(k) imposition of other penalties or sanctions in that Defendant's delinquent tax
liabilities resulted in penalties and interest.
1.

Defendant should be taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

Order of Discipline

1.
The license of Defendant, Michael J. Parker, is hereby suspended for five years,
effective thirty days from the date of service of this order upon him.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretaty of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following the effective date of this Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0128
of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. As provided in Rule .0128(d),
Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within ten
days of the effective date of this Order, certifying that he has complied with the wind down rule.
If Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0128,
4.
Defendant shall reimburse the State Bar for all expenses incuned by the State Bar in winding
down Defendant's practice. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility
fees, rent payments, moving expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage or other
mailing expenses, and compensation paid to a trustee and/or a trustee's assistant for time and
travel associated with the trusteeship. The State Bar shall send an invoice of wind down
expenses to Defendant at Defendant's last known address of record with the NOlih Carolina State
Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he has reimbursed the State Bar for
all wind down expenses incuned.
5.
Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary, including the costs of all depositions and transcriptions of depositions
taken in this case, within thirty days of service of the statement of costs and administrative fees
upon him.
6.
Within thirty days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Defendant to obtain such files. Defendant shall promptly return all files to
clients upon request.
7.
Defendant shall file all state and federal tax returns on a timely basis and shall
timely pay all amounts owed for those tax years to the taxing authorities.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 10 of14

8.
After two and one-half years of active suspension, Defendant may apply for a stay
of the remaining period of the suspension upon filing a motion in the cause as provided in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB §.0118(c) and demonstrating by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
that, in addition to complying with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB §.0129(b), the Defendant has complied with the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised
of his current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change. Such addresses must be street addresses,
not a post office box or post office drawer;

(b)

Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thilty days
of Defendant's receipt of the communication or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and has pmticipated in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition which was pending
during the period of suspension;

(c)

That at the time of his petition for stay, Defendant is current in payment of all
Membership dues, fees, and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments
and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from him,
and including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

(d)

That at the time of his petition for stay, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in repOlting
such hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;

(e)

That during the active suspension that preceded the motion for stay, Defendant
has completed two hours of CLE regarding trust accounting and at least one of the
two hours shall be a course taught by the Trust Account Compliance Counsel for
the North Carolina State Bar;

(f)

That Defendant is current on all his tax law obligations to all taxing authorities,
including but not limited to, satisfying all tax liens that have or may be filed, and
being current on filing and payment requirements for all tax obligations,'

(g)

Defendant has executed any written waivers and releases necessary to authorize
the Office of Counsel to confer with the IRS or the N. C. Department of Revenue
for the purpose of determining whether Defendant has cooperated and complied
with all requirements of this Order;

(h)

Defendant has provided to the Office of Counsel copies of all correspondence,
including summaries of oral communications, sent to or received by him or his
representative from any taxing authority during the period of active suspension;
The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 11 of14

(i)

That within 30 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant has reimbursed
Charlie Barney in the amount of$I,086.00;

U)

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during his suspension;

(k)

Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0128; and

(1)

Defendant has paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as reflected on the
statement of costs served upon Defendant by the Secretary of the State Bar within
thirty days of service of that statement upon Defendant.

9.
If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay of his suspension, the applicable
suspension of Defendant's law license shall be stayed as long as that Defendant complies and
continues to comply with the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees, assessments and
costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or
surcharges that the State Bar is authorized to collect from Defendant, including all
judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

(b)

That there is no deficit in Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE hours, in
reporting of such hours, or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at
CLE programs;

(c)

Defendant files all state and federal tax returns on a timely basis during each year
of the stay and timely pays all amounts owed for those tax years to the taxing
authorities. Defendant shall provide written proof of filing and payment to the
Office of Counsel within ten days of filing each return or request for extension
and within ten days of each payment;

(d)

Defendant executes any written waivers and releases necessary to authorize the
Office of Counsel to confer with the IRS or the North Carolina Department of
Revenue for the purpose of determining if Defendant has cooperated and
complied with all requirements of this Order and does not revoke such waivers or
releases during the period of stay;

(e)

Defendant provides to the Office of Counsel copies of all correspondence,
including a summary of oral communications, sent to or received by him or his
representative from any taxing authority within ten days of receipt;

(f)

Defendant does not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during his suspension;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael 1. Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 12 of14

(g)

Defendant keeps the State Bar Membership Department advised of his CUlTent
business address. Defendant shall notify the State Bar of any change of address
within ten days of such change. His CUlTent business address must be a street
address, not a post office box or drawer;

(h)

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days
of receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner; and

(i)

Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition which is pending during any stay of the suspension.

10.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions of the stay of
suspension provided in paragraphs 9 (a) - (i) above, the stay of suspension may be lifted in
accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.Oll8(a).
11.
If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay of his suspension, Defendant's
obligations governing the stay under this Order end after the applicable period of the stay
provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance
with the conditions of the stay of the suspension as provided in Rule .0118(a) of the North
Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules.
12.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of his law license or if some
part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter revo~ed, that Defendant must comply with the
conditions set out in paragraphs 8(a) - (1) above and the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB
.0129 before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law. Defendant must also show that
he has fully paid all accrued indebtedness assessed for prior tax years to the IRS and/or N.C.
Department of Revenue and is CUlTent in his obligations to file and pay all federal and state tax of
any kind. Defendant must demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence his compliance
with the provisions of this paragraph before being reinstated to the practice of law.
13.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0118(a) throughout the period of the suspension, any stay
thereof.

F

the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the

day of

,2018.

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
DisciplinalY Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:
Th e North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 13 of 14

'i'\A~

A

Ai

o. W~~+uJ

~ad, Deputy Counsel

Attorney for the North Carolina State Bar

~-------Defendant

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael J. Parker, 17 DHC 20
Consent Order
Page 14 of14

