NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13G0290

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Cheri C. Patrick,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRlMAND

On October 24,2013 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by N. K
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplimuy Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
.reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fOlm of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
,

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chaiIman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented W. K in a protracted domestic action against N. K. N. K sued you and
W. K. relative to a series oflis pendens that you filed on N. K.'s properties. You claim that you
told W. K. that you could not represent her in N.K.'s lawsuit because of a possible conflict of
interest.

You prepared pleadings to file on your behalf in N. K.'s lawsuit. You sent W.K. the
same pleadings that you had prepared for yourself. You knew when you sent those pleadings to
Ms. K. that she was not represented by counsel, as she told you she could not afford a lawyer.
You also lmewor should have lmown that W. K. would sign the same pleadings that you
prepared for yourself, and that she would sign them in a "pro se" capacity. The Grievance
Committee found that despite your conflict of interest, you ghost-wrote the pleadings for W. K.
You also forwarded W. K.'s pleadings, which you authored, to N.K.'s attorney. W.K.'s reliance
upon your counsel is exemplified when you missed the date to file an answer in W.K. 's lawsuit,
W.K. also missed the filing deadline. Your and W.K.'s interests in this lawsuit were not aligned
and you should not have advised her or prepared pleadings for her to file in the action. Your
conduct violated Rule 1.7(a)(2) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

l ;).:'\'1.. day of

;J€)\} €.M. e,e.jL

John M. Ilverstem, Chan
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

,2013.

