1) 0 76'

•
M.4 YZ01J.

9J>

~
~

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA <;.:>

~

FILED DHc:i

BEFORE THE
DIS~ NARY HEARING COMMISSION
~~
OF THE
rc'Z2lZ~l'il\ NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12 DHC 30

-B>c'

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

TINA PATRICK-BROADWAY, Attorney
Defendant

This matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, Barbara B. Weyher, and Joseph Barlow Herget.
Carmen H. Bannon represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Tina PatrickBroadway, was represented by Dudley A. Witt. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this
matter. The patties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in
this consent order. The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to
the entry of this order, Defendant knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives her right to appeal
this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings. Based on the
foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Tina Patrick-Broadway, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar
in 1994 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Patrick-Broadway was actively
engaged in the practice of law in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, NOith Carolina.
4.
Patrick-Broadway was properly served with process and received due notice of
the hearing in this matter.
5.
In connection with her law practice, Patrick-Broadway maintained a trust account
at First Citizens Bank (account number ending 9258).
6.

For this trust account, Patrick-Broadway did not maintain:

(a) legible front and back images of cancelled trust account checks;
(b) complete records listing the source and date of all deposits into the account; or
(c) accurate ledgers reflecting all receipts and disbursements of entrusted funds for
each of her clients.
7.
Patrick-Broadway relied on a non-lawyer assistant, Rene Hensley, to oversee the
trust account, maintain client ledgers, and perform trust account reconciliations. PatrickBroadway did not review cancelled trust account checks or employ any other system designed
to verify the accuracy of the reconcHiations performed by Hensley.
8.
In September 2007, Patrick-Broadway was the closing lawyer for Shirley
Braddy's purchase of a home. Patrick-Broadway collected funds at closing for the 2007 taxes
on the property, but did not pay the funds to the county tax collector.
In March 2009, after Braddy determined that her 2007 property taxes had not
9.
been paid, she contacted Patrick-Broadway to request a refund of the amount she had collected
for taxes. In the course of researching Braddy's request, Patrick-Broadway conferred with
Hensley, who stated that the trust account check to the tax collector had cleared.
10.
Upon further review, Patrick-Broadway determined that the check to the tax
collector for Braddy's property taxes had not cleared the trust account. Despite the fact that
Hensley had supplied her with inaccurate information concerning the payment of Braddy's
taxes, Patrick-Broadway took no additional steps to determine why Hensley falsely stated that
Braddy's taxes had been paid nor did she make additional efforts to oversee Hensley's
management of the trust account.
II.
Hensley was employed by Patrick-Broadway through November 2009. When
Hensley was terminated, all paper copies and digital backups of trust account reconciliations
previously performed by Hensley went missing.
12.
Patrick-Broadway did not examine the trust account at the time Hensley was fired
to ensure that her clients' money had been safeguarded. Patrick-Broadway did not reconcile her
trust account monthly or quarterly after she fired Hensley.
13.
In October 2010, in the course of responding to a grievance filed by Braddy with
the State Bar, Patrick-Broadway discovered that Hensley had embezzled from the trust account.
Patrick-Broadway estimated that Hensley embezzled $14,000.00, but the State Bar's
examination of checks drawn on the trust account reflected that the amount was at least
$19,300.00.
14.
Despite efforts by Patrick-Broadway and the State Bar allowing PatrickBroadway more than one year to reconcile the account, Patrick-Broadway failed to produce
quarterly reconciliations that completely and accurately identified the client balances in her trust
account at First Citizens Bank. Patrick-Broadway contends that she was unable to reconcile the
account due to the loss of records noted in paragraph II, above.

2

IS.
When Patrick-Broadway discovered Hensley's embezzlement, she stopped
depositing entrusted funds into the existing trust account at First Citizens. In December 20 10,
she opened a new account (account number ending 7058) at SunTrust Bank (hereafter "the new
trust account").
16.
Patrick-Broadway again delegated management of the new trust account to a nonlawyer assistant and failed to employ a system designed to verify that the non-lawyer assistant
was properly maintaining and documenting entrusted funds.
17.
Neither Patrick-Broadway nor her employees reconciled the new trust account
from the time it was opened in December 20 I 0 through December 20 II, when the State Bar
requested documentation showing that the new trust account was being properly reconciled.
18.
When Patrick-Broadway reconciled the new trust account for the first time in
December 2011, she discovered that:
(a) $1,332.00 in cash received for a May 2011 closing had not been deposited into the
new trust account and could not be located. Patrick-Broadway's non-Iawyel'
assistants had aCcess to the cash, but they disclaimed any knowledge of why it
wasn't deposited into the trust account. Upon discovering that the $1,332.00 was
missing, Patrick -Broadway immediately deposited personal funds to replenish
the deficit.
(b) On six occasions throughout 2011, the bank deducted funds from the new trust
account to cover the cost of checks. There were insufficient funds in the account
belonging to Patrick-Broadway to cover these deductions, which totaled more
than $1,500.00.
(c) Several checks related to August 2011 closings had been temporarily misplaced
and were not deposited into the new trust account until months later.
19.
On 21 December 20 I I, the Wake County Superior Court entered a consent order
of preliminary injunction which, among other things, required Patrick-Broadway to "provide the
State Bar within 90 days with identification of all funds held in trust in any trust account,"
including client ledgers and contact information for each client with money in the account.
Patrick-Broadway did not comply with this provision of the order.
20.
In December 20 II, Patrick-Broadway issued trust account checks paying title
insurance premiums for over one hundred real estate closings. She had collected the funds to
pay these premiums from her clients at closing.
21.
Seventy-three of the closings had occurred more than two years prior to PatrickBroadway's payment of the title premium; some occurred as far back as 2004. For these
closings, the title insurance commitment period lapsed long ·before Patrick-Broadway issued
payment of the premium to the title company.
22.
The title insurance premiums were due before the end of the commitment period.
The insurers were not obligated to issue title insurance after the commitment period lapsed. By
3

failing to pay the premiums on a timely basis, Patrick-Broadway placed her clients at risk of not
obtaining title insurance coverage.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Tina Patrick-Broadway, and over the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(I) and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8428(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By failing to maintain legible images of cancelled checks, individual client
ledgers, or sufficiently detailed deposit records, Patrick-Broadway violated Rule
J.IS-3(b);
(b) By failing to perform monthly and quarterly reconciliations of her trust accounts,
Patrick-Broadway violated Rule 1.IS-3(d);
(c) By failing to make reasonable efforts to ensure that her non-lawyer assistants'
management of her trust accounts was compatible with the Rules of Professional
Conduct, Patrick-Broadway violated Rule S.3(b);
(d) By failing to timely pay Braddy's property taxes, Patrick-Broadway failed to
promptly pay entrusted funds to a third party in violation of Rule l.lS-2(m);
(e) By failing to completely identify all client funds in her trust accounts and provide
this information to the State Bar as requested by the Bar and ordered by the court,
Patrick-Broadway failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b) and knowingly disobeyed an
obligation under the rules of a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.4(c); and
(I) By failing to timely pay title insurance premiums and obtain title policies for at
least seventy-three of her real estate clients, Patrick-Broadway failed to promptly
pay entrusted funds to a third palty in violation of Rule 1.lS-3(m) and fai led to act
with reasonable diligence on behalf of her clients in violation of Rule 1.3.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of the
palties, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

4

I.
Patrick-Broadway's failure to properly supervise her staff and failure to ensure
client funds were being properly protected caused actual significant harm in that it enabled her
staff (0 embezzle clien( funds as described above.

2.
In August 201 I, while the State Bar's investigation of the trust account
mismanagement described in paragraphs 5- 14 above was ongoing, Patrick-Broadway
erroneously transferred $212,647.05 out of her trust account. Patrick-Broadway intended to
transfer this amount from one trust account to another, but inadvertently transferred it into her
operating account. Patrick-Broadway left these entrusted funds in her operating account and on
several occasions the balance in the account dropped slightly below $212,647.05. Although
Patrick-Broadway failed to safeguard these funds, there is no evidence that she intentionally
converted entrusted funds to her own benefit. This conduct, however, is an additional example of
Patrick-Broadway's ongoing pattern offailing to adequately safeguard client funds.
On several occasions in September and October. 20 II, while the State Bar's
3.
investigation of the trust account mismanagement described in paragraphs 5- 14 was ongoing,
Patrick-Broadway's staff deposited entrusted funds into the operating account rather than the
trust account. This is further evidence that--even after she was on notice regarding the actual
harm caused by failure to closely monitor her employees' handling of entrusted funds-Patrick
Broadway still did not implement effective staff training and oversight.
4.
A lawyer's mismanagement of entrusted funds erodes the confidence clients place
in attorneys who handle their affairs. As a result, such conduct harms (he profession as a whole.
5.
Patrick-Broadway's failure to pay Braddy's property taxes caused significant
actual harm to Braddy, in that it resulted in a shortage in Braddy's mortgage escrow account and
consequent increase in Braddy's minimum monthly payments to her mortgage lender.
6.
Patrick-Broadway's failure (0 timely obtain title insurance policies caused a risk
of significant harm to her clients, in that the title insurance companies were not obligated to issue
the policies after the six-month commitment period expired.
7.
Although Patrick-Broadway's failure to properly identify, account for, and
maintain entrusted funds created a foreseeable risk of harm to the clients whose money she held
in trust, Patrick-Broadway's mismanagement of her trust account does not reflect dishonest or
selfish intent.
8.
Patrick-Broadway deposited significant personal funds into her trust account in an
effort to protect client funds when she realized there was a deficit in the trust account.
9.
Although Patrick-Broadway did not completely identify the client funds in her
First Citizens trust account and did not reconcile the account, she made some efforts to identify
the entrusted funds therein.
10.

Patrick-Broadway has no prior disciplinary record.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

5

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
I.
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension and disbarment.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .0 114(w) and determined the following factors are applicable:
(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the potential harm was foreseeable;
(b) Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation;
(c) Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
(d) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(e) Timely good faith efforts to rectify the consequences of misconduct;
(f) A pattern of misconduct and mUltiple offenses; and

(g) Experience in the practice of law.
3.
A censure, I'eprimand, or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of
the significant harm andlor potential harm to clients and the profession caused by Defendant's
conduct.
4.
Although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to warrant more discipline than a
censure, it does not warrant an active suspension of her license.

5.
Patrick-Broadway's failure to supervise her non-attorney assistant and failure to
protect client funds posed a significant threat of harm to her clients and, if repeated, poses
significant potential harm to future clients and the reputation of the profession.
In order to protect the public, it is necessary to enter an order of discipline with a
6.
significant suspension of Patrick-Broadway's law license that is stayed only as long as PatrickBroadway complies with reasonable conditions.

7.
The public will be adequately pl'otected by suspension of Defendant's license,
stayed for a period of time with conditions imposcd upon Defendant to ensure protection of the
public and continued compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct. Among other things,
she must demonstrate that she is properly maintaining and accounting for any funds received by
her in trust or in a fiduciary eapacity.
8.
A stayed suspension of Defendant's law license is warranted insofar as entry of an
order imposing less severe discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
misconduct and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.
6

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The law license of Defendant, Tina Patrick-Broadway, is hereby suspended for
four years. The suspension shall be stayed fOI' a period of three years as long as Defendant
complies with the conditions identified in paragraph 2, below. If Defendant complies with the
conditions of paragraph 2 below for the three year period of the stayed suspension, she will have
completed her obligations under this Consent Order of Discipline and will be allowed to practice
law unrestricted by the terms of this Order.

2.
The suspension of Defendant's law license shall be stayed as long as Defendant
complies and continues to comply with the following conditions:
(a) Patrick-Broadway, at her own expense, will have any and all accounts into which
she has deposited client funds (hereinafter "trust accounts") audited by a Certified
Public Accountant within 90 days of service of this order. (These audits are
referred to herein as "the CPA's initial audits").

i.

The CPA's initial audits must identify the beneficial owners of the funds
currently in Defendant's trust accounts and establish whether the balances
in the accounts are sufficient to cover all client funds defendant should be
holding in trust.

ii.

Patrick-Broadway will provide the CPA's initial audit reports to the State
Bar within ten days of receipt.

iii.

Patrick-Broadway will remedy any deficiencies identified in the CPA's
initial audits and will bring her trust accounts into compliance with the
Rules of Professional Conduct within 30 days of reccipt of the audit
reports. Patrick-Broadway will submit proof of any remedial action to the
State Bar and to the CPA no later than 30 days after receipt of the CPA's
repOlts. Said remediation shall include replenishing any deficit in the
accounts and properly disbursing entrusted funds as described in
paragraphs 2(b) and (c), below.

iv.

If remedial action was required, the CPA will provide to the Office of
Counsel a final audit report certifying that Patrick-Broadway's trust
accounts al'e in compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct no
later than 30 days after receipt of the remedial information from PatrickBroadway.

(b) Within 30 days after receipt of the CPA's initial audit reports, Patrick-Broadway
shall disburse all funds in her existing trust accounts to the beneficial owners of
7

--------------------------------

the funds, or to third parties as directed by the beneficial owners. If there are
funds in the accounts for which the beneficial owner(s) cannot be identified,
Patrick-Broadway shall identify, maintain, and account fOl' those unidentified
funds until the beneficial owners are determined or until the funds are deemed
abandoned, at which point Patrick-Broadway shall escheat the funds.
(c) If the CPA's initial audits determine that the balance in any of Defendant's trust
accounts is less than the total amount of funds she should have in trust for clients,
Defendant shall be personally responsible for replenishing the deficits in the trust
accounts. Defendant must deposit funds to remedy any identified shOlifalls in the
trust accounts within 30 days after receipt of the CPA's report.
(d) After the initial audit of existing accounts, Defendant shall have a CPA audit her
trust account on a quarterly basis to ensure Defendant's compliance with the
Rules of Professional Conduct. In conjunction with the quarterly audits:
i.

The CPA must report qumterly to the Office of Counsel concerning the
compliance of Defendant's trust account(s) with the Rules of Professional
Conduct, with a copy of the report(s) sent simultaneously to Defendant.
The CPA's reports are due no later than 30 days after the end of each
quarter (first quarter's report due April 30, second quarter's report due
July 30, third qUalter's report due October 30, and fOUl1h qualier's report
due January 30);

11.

If any of the CPA's quarterly reports referenced in paragraph (d)(i) above
note any irregularities or deficiencies, Defendant shall take all remedial
action necessary to bring the trust account(s) into compliance with the
Rules of Professional Conduct and shall provide proof of the remedial
action and compliance to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar and to the
CPA within 30 days ofthedate of the CPA's report;

iii.

If any of the CPA's quarterly reports referenced in paragraph (d)(i) above
note any irregularities or deficiencies in Defendant's h~ndling of entrusted
funds, the CPA shall provide a subsequent repolt regarding whether
Defendant's remedial actions were sufficient and whether Defendant's
account(s) has been brought into compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The CPA shall provide this repOlt regarding
remedial measures to the Office of Counsel within 30 days of Defendant's
provision of proof of remedial action.

(e) All CPA evaluations, reports, and services referred to herein will be completed
and submitted at Defendant's sole expense.
(t) It is Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and timely

submits the reports as required herein. Failure of the CPA to submit any report
required by this Order shall be grollnds to lift the stay and activate the sllspension;

8

(g) Defendant shall arrange for an active member in good standing of the North
Carolina State Bar who has been approved by the Office of Counsel and practices
in the county of her practice to serve as her practice monitor, Within 30 days
after she is served with this order, Defendant must supply the Office of Counsel
with a letter from the approved monitoring attorney confirming his or hel'
agreement to: (a) meet with Patrick.Broadway monthly to I'eview Patrick·
Broadway's cases; (b) provide supervision to ensure that Patrick-Broadway
timely and completely handles client matters; and (c) provide written quarterly
reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel on the following dates as they
occur during the duration of the stay of the suspension: January 30, April 30, July
30, and October 3D, Patrick-Broadway will be responsible for the cost, if any,
chal'ged by the monitor fOl' this supervision,
(h) Defendant shall successfully complete three hours of continuing legal education
in the area of trust account management within the first year after the effective
date of this order, Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion
of the CLE courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the courses,
This is in addition to the standard annual CLE requirements;
(i) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States 01' of any state or local government dlll'ing her suspension;

OJ

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Departmel]t
advised of her CUI'l'ent business and home addresses and shall notify the Bar of
any change in address within ten days of such change;

(k) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thilty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which she receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;
(I) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State Bar
that is sent to her; and
(m)Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements,
3,
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
provided in paragraph 2(a) - (m) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in §
,01 14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules,
4,
If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is
activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law, Defendant
must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that she has compiled with e~ch of the
following conditions:
9

(a) Defendant satisfied the initial audit, replenishment, and disbursement conditions
set forth in paragraphs 2(a), (b), and (c), above.
(b) Defendant completed three hours of trust accounting CLE and arranged for a
practice monitor as set forth in paragraphs 2(e) and (h), above.
(c) Defendant submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order lifting the
stay and/or activating the suspension of her law license;
(d) Defendant complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. I B § .0124 following the
order lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension of her law license;
(e) Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Depmtment advised of
her current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change;
(f) Defendant responded to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications tl'om the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which she received notice after the effective date of
this Order;
(g) Defendant promptly accepted all certified mail sent to her by the State Bar;
(h) That at the time of her petition for stay, Defendant is current in payment of all
Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments
and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from her, as
well as all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;
(i) That at the time of her petition for stay, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory CLE hours, in reporting of such hours, 01' in payment of
any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

OJ

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct,or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during her suspension;

(k) Defendant has paid the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon her by the Secretary of the State
Bar; and
(I) Defendant has complied with any othel' conditions deemed necessary for
reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel pursuant to the order lifting the stay
of the suspension of Defendant's law license.

10

5.
Any order of the Administrative Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
placing Patrick-Broadway in inactive status for any reason shall toll the running of the
suspension, the period of the stay of the suspension, and Patrick-Broadway's obligation to
comply with the terms of the stay of the suspension under this order. Upon Patrick-Broadway's
reinstatement to active status by the Administrative Committee, the tolling of the running of the
suspension and the stay of the suspension under this order shall be lifted. at which time PatrickBroadway's obligation to comply with the conditions of the stay of the suspension in this order
will resume.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules
throughout the period of the stayed suspension.
7.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary, which Defendant shall pay within thirty days of service of the notice of costs
upon Defendant.
8.

This Order shall be effective on the date it is served upon Defendant.

Signed by the undersignefl Chair with the knowledge and consent of the other members
of the Hearing Panel, this is the~ay of ~I, 2013.

0'1

W
lexander, Chair
Hearing Panel

(

/

.'

,/

~H.~" .. ~
Carmen H. Bannon
Allorney for Plaintiff

II

