NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14G0880

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
S. Wayne Patterson,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 22,2015, the Grievance Committee ofthe N01ih Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. H. The grievance was assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs investigation of this
matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the N 01ih Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinmy action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the N01ih
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You wrote a letter dated September 4, 2014 to a business' representative who was
represented by Attorney J. H. You indicated that you represented a pmiy who had a charge
pending in the U. S. Equal Employment Opp01iunity Commission (EEOC). In your letter to Mr.
H.'s client, you stated that you represented your client in an action for damages and other relief

under federal statutes administered by the EEOC. An "action" connotes a lawsuit and no lawsuit
can be filed until the EEOC has completed its investigation and issued the charging party a rightto-sue letter. As of the date of your letter, the EEOC had not issued a right-to-sue letter. You
fmiher indicated in your letter that you represented your client in an action for monetary damages
and equitable relief and that you wanted to resolve the matter "in order to avoid trouble and
expense of litigation ... " The Grievance Committee found that you were holding yourself out as
being able to practice law in North Carolina when you are not licensed in North Carolina, in
violation of Rule 5.5(a)(b)(2). The Grievance Committee also found that your letter, in violation
of Rule 8.4(c) was misleading because the EEOC had not issued a right-to-sue letter to Mr. H.'s
client and thus there was no pending action for damages at the time you wrote Mr. H.'s client.
You identify your "practice" on your letterhead as "Patterson & Associates, P. C." The
name of your "practice" is misleading and violates Rule 7.1 (a)(l) as you do not have associates.
In issuing this reprimand, the Grievance Committee noted that the State Bar's Authorized
Practice Committee cautioned you on two occasions about the very same conduct that was the
subject of this grievance. The Authorized Practice Committee advised you in a November 3,
2009 letter of caution that you may not hold yourself out in any manner that "states or implies
that you are a licensed North Carolina attorney or may practice law generally in Nmih Carolina."
You are hereby reprimanded by the Nmih Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee tmsts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the Nmih Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

qt'\_

day of

f-12.-brtta..r :_

John . Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

'2015.

