NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G0649

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
JEFFREY D. PATTON,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 17, 2019 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. The grievance was
assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs
investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In your role as counsel for K. Moch, you pursued frivolous claims in an Orange County
lawsuit in violation of Rule 3.1, pursued a claim in the Orange County lawsuit with no basis in
fact that was not frivolous and that misrepresented facts in violation of Rule 3.1, 3.3(a)(1), and
8.4( c), filed a frivolous designation of action as a mandatory complex business case in violation
of Rule 3.1, and filed an amended complaint for the improper purpose of delaying the hearing on
the opposing party's motion to dismiss the complaint in violation of Rule 8.4(d).

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your profess ional
misco nduct. The Gri evance Committee trusts that you will heed thi s reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be bcneficial to you, and that you will never aga in allow yo urself
to depart from adherence to the hi gh ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 201 0 by the Council of the NOl1h Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigati ve costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
•

-#

Done and ordered, this th e

8 · daYOf7~

,20 19.

itTu-d2{J~A

A. Todd Brown, Sr. , Chair
Grievance Commi ttee
ATBll b

