,'). \~ \Sv16 /149 I

'\1",)

~

~

Ci)

WAKE COUNTY

/.?d
~
OCTZOf2! ~
.A
?

'~

~~::.... FILeD DH~;:

NORTH CAROLINA .. . .

BEFORE THE
LINAR Y HEARING COMMISSION
\Y'
OF THE
1£'\'l"'1~ NORTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
u
12 DHC 33
J)I '

<£)

,,<p
CI'
"-f.l

)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
)

)

JANICE P. PAUL, ATTORNEY
Defendant

ORDER
Of DISCIPLINE

)
)
)
)

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, Joshua W. Willey, Jr., Hnd Patti
Hcad pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OlI4 or tile Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Janice P. Paul, was represented by James B. Maxwell.
Plaintiff waS represented by Deputy Counsel Margaret Cloutier. Defendant has agreed to
waive a formal hearing in this malter and both parties stipulate and consent to the
findings of facl and conclusions of law recited in ibis order and to the discipline imposed.
Defendant stipulates that she waives any right to appeal this consent order or challenge in
any way tllC sufficiency of the findings by consenting to lhe entry of this order.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel tinds by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina lmd the Rules and Regulations of the NorUl Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. Defendant, Janice P. Paul (hereinafter "Paul" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 24, 1985 und is, and waS at all times refelTed to
herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regullitions, and Rules of Professional Conduct ortlle North Carolina State Bar and Ole
laws of tile State of North Carolina.

------------------------~.-... -

3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina and was employed as an Assistant District Attorney in
the oftice of the District Attorney for Durluun County, North Carolina.
4. Defendant was assigned to prosecute the criminal charges against Luis Escobar
in Siale v. Escobar. Durham COI(I)ly Superior Colt!'1 file nus. 07 CRS 55834-35. Escobar
was charged with First Degree Sex Offense of a Child, Sexual Offense by a Person in
Parental Role, and Indecent Liberties With a Child.
5. The alleged victim in Escobar's cases was the young daughter of Terrinni
Wasson. Escobar was Wasson's boyfriend but not the father of the child.
6. During the investigation of the allegations against Escobar in July 2007,
Wasson lold investigators that she did not believe the alleged sexual abuse of her
daughter had occurred.
7. Escobar's trial began on August 17,2009. After the conclusion of the State's
evidence on Friday morning, August 21, the presiding judge dismissed the charges of
First Degree Sex Offense of a Child and Sexual Offense by a Person in Parental Role.
The trial then recessed for the lunch break.
8. The father of the child had primary custody of her but Wasson had a visitation
with the child scheduled for the inuninent weekend. Wasson was entitled to this
visitation pursuant to a court order on custody. During the lunch break in the trial,
Defendant learned of Wasson's impending visitation.
9. Defendant instructed a police investigator to take out warrants against Wasson
for Aiding and Abetting First Degree Sex Offense of a Child, Accessory After the Fact of
First Degree Sex Offense with a Child, and Aiding and Abetting Tndecent Liberties WiUl
a Child.
10. Defendant made it clear to the investigator that the warrants should be sought
promptly and that Wasson should be arrested that day.
II. The investigator obtained the warrants and arrested Wasson as she left the
courtroom On Friday afternoon.
12. Given the facts known to Defendant on August 21,2009, Defendant should
have known that established law precluded the charges against Wasson of Aiding and
Abetting First Degree Sex Offense ofa Child or Aiding and Abetting Indecent Liberties
With a Child.
13. After the judge dismissed the charges of First Degree Sex Offense against
Escobar on August 21,2009, established law precluded the charges against Wasson of
Accessory Afler the Fucl of First Degree Sex Offense With a Child.

2

14. Defendant should have known that established law precluded charges against
Wasson for Accessory After the Fact of First Degree Sex Offense With a Child on
August 21, 2009.
15. Defendant sought the charges against Wasson for the purpose of preventing
Wasson's imminent weekend visitation with the child.
16. On Friday afternoon after learning ofWusson's arrest, the presidingjudge
ordered that Wasson's bond be unsecured. On Monday morning after review of the
circlmlstanccs leading to Wasson being charged, the presiding judge dismissed the
charges against Wasson.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearhlg panel enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
I. All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Delendant, Janice P. Paul, and
the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2. Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Profcssi ann I Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:
u. by instructing law enforcement to seek wa.lTants for charges against Wasson
that were precluded by established law, Defendant prosecuted charges that she should
have known were not supported by probable cause in violation of Rule 3.8(a) and/or
attempted to do so through thc acts oranother in violation of Rule 8.4(a);
b. by instructing law enforcement to seek warrants for charges against Wasson
that were precludcd by establisbed law, Defendant brought a proceeding that had no basis
in law in violation of Rule 3.1 and/or attempted to do so through the acts of another in
violation of Rule 8.4(a); and
c. by instructing law enforcement to seele watTants for charges against Wassail
that were precluded by established law for the purpose of prevcnting court ordered
visitution, Defendantllsed means that had no substantial purpose other than to embarrass,
delay or burden a third person in violation of Rule 4.4(a) and engaged in conduct that is
prejudicial to the administration orjustice in violation of Rule SA(d).
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel also finds by clcar,
cogent and convincing evidence the following

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

3

1. The presumptive bond amounts for the serious felonies with which Wasson
was cbarged are in the hundreds of thousands of dollars making it unlikely that Wasson
would have quickly been released from detention. Defendant's misconduct, without
intervention of the trial court on Friday afternoon, would have likely resulted in Wasson
spending time in jail and potentially expending funds on bond and/or legal fees to contest
the charges.
2. Defendant maintains that her actions were motivated by her desire to protect
the young victim from possible physical or emotional abuse from her mother as a result
of having come into court and testifying against Escobar.
3. Defendant bad dedicated ber professional career to working for the benefit of
abused children. Defendant is not currently employed as n prosecutor and the likelihood
that this conduct would be repeated is minimal.
4. Defendant has no prior discipline issued in this or nny other jurisdiction.
5. Defendant submitted several letters from attorneys with whom she has
practiced that demonstrate she enjoyed a good reputation among her peers.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional FindingR
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The hearing panel has considered all of tile factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
lB §.O 114{w){3) of the Rules and Regulations oftbe North Carolina State Bar and finds
the following faclors are applicable in this matter:
a. The absence of any prior disciplinary offenses committed by Defendant in this
stme or any other jurisdiction;
b. Defendant committed mUltiple offenses;
c. Defendant lacked a dishonest or seltish motive;
d. Defendant enjoyed a good reputation among her peers; and
e. Defendant's substantial experience in lhe practice of law.
2. The hearing panel has also considered all of the factors enumeruted in 27
N.C.A.C. J B §.O J 14(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOrth Carolina Stale Bar
and finds lhe following factors arc applicable in this matter:

4

a. The intent of Defendant to commit acts whcre the harm or potential harm was
foreseeable;
b. The negative impact of Defendant's actions on the client's - that is, the State
ofNOl'th Carolina - and the public's perception of the profession;
c. The negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
and
d. The effect of Defendant's conduct on a third party, Ms. Wasson.
3. The hearing panel has considered the faclors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.O 114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOrtll Carolina State Bar and finds that

none of the factors are established by the evidence in this case. The paJ1el therefore does
not consider disbannent to be necessary to protect the ptlblic in this case.

4. District attol1leys and their duly appointed assistants represent the State
through their public offices and are critical to maintai.ning the public trust and confidence
in our judicial system. The courts, the general public, criminal defendants, victims and
witnesses all expect and are entitled to have district attomeys who adhere to the highest
ethical standards.
5. It is imperative to the proper administration of justice that prosecutors maintain
objectivily and exercise their powers cautiollsly. Even lhe best of intentions is
insufficient to justify causing a person to be arrested on charges unsupported by law.
6. The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different [0I1l1S oi'
discipline available to it. An admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be sufficient
discipline because of the gravity orlhe hann or potential harm Defendant's conduct
caused lo the public, the administration oi'jllstice, and the legal profession.

7. The panel finds that discipline short of suspension would not adequately
protect the public, the legal profession or the administration of justice for the following
reasons:

a. The faclors under Rule .OJ 14(w)(I) that are established by the evidence in this
case are of a nature that Sllpport imposition of a suspension as the appropriate discipline;
and
b. Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge
the seriousness oflile offenses Defendant committed and would send the wrong message
to attorneys aJ1d to the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of
this state.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, ConcJusioES of Law, and findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel en leI'S the following

5

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of Defendant Janice
P. Paul is hereby suspended for one year [rom the dale this Order of Discipline is served
upon her.

2. The period of suspension is stayed for one year as long as Defendant complies
and continues to comply with the following conditions:
u. Defendant shan not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions oflhe
Rules of Professional Conduct during the period oftJ,e stayed suspension;
b. Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for infonnation by the earlier
of the deadline stated in the communication or within 30 days, as required by Rule 8.l(b)
orthe Rules of Professional Conduct;
c. Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and Continuing
Legal Educ.ation requirements: and
d. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised orher current home and business street (not P.O. Box) addresses and telephone
numbers.
3. If the stay granted herein is revoked or tile suspension of Defendant's license
is activated for uny reason, before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law,
Defendant must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence lhal she has complied
with each orlhe following conditions:
a. Submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar within thirty uays after the date orlhe order lining the stay and/or
activating the suspension of her law license;
b. Complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules on a timely basis fallowing the order lifting the stay
andlor activating tJ,e suspension of her law license;
c. Paid all due and owing membership fees, Client Security Fund assessments
and costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar and complied with all continuing legal
education requirements imposed by the State Bar; and
d. Complied with the conditions set forth in Paragraph 2(a) through (d) above.
4. Defendant is tuxed with the administrative rees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary which shall be paid within ninety days o[service oftJ,e notice
of costs lIpon Defendam_

6

l2

Signed by the undersigned Chair of thc
consent of the other panel members, this the

ing panel,WkWll knowledge and
day of UC
, 2012.

Sha~lcxa6r, Cl::;j

Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO:

/Vv\[tlQf 01 !.i

,t

n( o/Ld'u/t

Murguret Cl~utier, Diputy Counsel
Altorne), for Plaintiff

a4Ad<~.-L

~ P. Paul, Defendant

runes B. Maxwell, Attorney for Defendant

7

