BEfORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14 DHC 25

Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
PETER A. PAUL, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MAITER was heard on December 11 and 12, 2014 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair, and members
Shirley L. Fulton and Christopher R. Bruffey. Jennifer A. POlter represented Plaintiff, the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Peter A. Paul, was present and ,represented by Douglas J.
Brocker and K. Brooke Ottesen.
Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated fact~, and the evidence admitted at the hearing,
the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
- -----

-------

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of N 011h Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statntes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Peter A. Paul ("Paul"), was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar
in 1989 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in
North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Paul was engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Cashiers,
Jackson County, North Carolina.
4.
Paul was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set, and the
matter came before the hearing panel with due notice to all parties
5.

Paul maintained an attorney trust account located at United Community Bank.

6.
Paul maintained balances for clients for more than one year but did not provide
arumal accountings to those clients, including but not limited to the clients identified by Paul's
client file numbers 05-006-16, 05-308-01-B, 05-292-03, and 06-247-12.
7.
In 2008, Paul received a refund of $15.00 from the Register of Deeds for the
client in file number 06-247-12. Paul deposited the $15.00 in his tmst accolmt for the client.
8.
Client funds from that client's closing in 06-247-12 were used to pay the costs
due to the Register of Deeds, and the refund of $15.00 belonged to the client.
9.
Paul drafted a check to the client in 06-247-12 dated on or about May 28,2008 to
rCf"l111d the $15.00 to the client, but then voided the check.
10.
Paul leept the client's $15.00 in his tmst account until January 2012, when he
transferred it to his firm operating account.
II.
Paul stated on the client ledger for 06-247-12 that this disbursement of $15.00 to
himself in Januaty 2012 was for "recording fees paid in advance."
.
12.
Paul did not pay recording fees for 06-247-12 fi·om his operating or personal
funds, however, and was not due the $15.00 as reimbursement for recording fees in client file 06247-12.
13.
Paul paid recording fees in related matters on behalf of the client in file 06-247-12
from his operating account, which cost advances the client never fully reimbursed prior to
January 2012. The client also owed Panl attorney's fees that were never fully paid. The
.. ----amount~·ofuill"eimbursed advanced costs and unpaid·fees·exceeded the$I-5~QO-f'aul-transfel"fed.
14.
There was no agreement from the client in file 06-247-12 that Paul could disburse
the $15.00 to himself in January 2012, to pay outstanding fees or costs or for any other purpose.
15.
In 2008, Paul disbursed funds from a loan for the clients in file 05-006-16. Paul
was unable to obtain a specific payoff for a prior loan on the same property prior to the closing
date. As a result, Paul estimated the payoff and retained funds to payoff the prior loan for the
clients. After obtaining the payoff amount, Paul disbursed funds to payoff the prior loan but
$2,606.03 remained of the clients' loan proceeds after the payoff.
16.
Paul kept the $2,606.03 in his trust account until January 2012, when he
transferred it to his firm operating account.
17.
At the time of the transfer, the clients owed Paul amounts of, unreimbursed
advanced costs and unpaid fees exceeding the $2,606.03 Paul transfened.
18.
There was no agreement from the clients in file 05-006-16 that Paul could
disburse the $2,606.03 to himself in January 2012, to pay the outstanding fees or cos(s or for any
other purpose.

2

19.
On November 29, 2012, Paul was served with a letter of notice from the North
Carolina State Bar concerning his handling of and accounting for funds for the clients in file 05006-16.
20.
On December 3, 2012, at Paul's direction, $2,606.03 was transferred from his
opcrating account into his trust accOlmt for file 05-006:16.
21.
On December 4, 2012, Paul submitted a written statement to the State Bar asking
that the grievance be dismissed along with a supporting affidavit from client V.I-I. in file 05-00616 stating her satisfaction with Paul's representation and that she had no grievance against Paul.
22.
On 01' about December 10, 2012, Paul issued a eheck from thc trust account for
$2,606.03 to client V.H. in 05-006-16.
23.
On January 15,2013, Paul produced nust account records pursuant to the request
of the State Bar.

24.
006-16.

In the records produced on January 15, 2013, Paul produced a client ledger for 05-

25.
The client ledger did not show the disbursement of the $2,606.03 to Paul in
January 2012 or the redeposit on December 3,2012.
26.
The client ledger created the misapprehension that the balance of $2,606.03
remained in Paul's trust account from 2008 through Decemher 10, 2012 whcn it was disbursed to
client V.H.
27.
Paul had this inaccurate client ledger for 05-006-16 created, shortly after
receiving the grievance, by instructing his bookkeeper to not show on the ledger the intctim
disbursement to Paul and the subsequent deposit from Paul.
28.
Before providing the ledger for 05-006-16 to the State Bar, Paul instructed his
bookkeeper to fix the ledger so that it was accurate.
29.
The bookkeeper notified Paul that she >,ould not undo what she had done and was
not comfortablc with making further additions and del~tions in the rccords.
30.
Paul providcd the inaccurate ledger to the State Bar without any explanation or
notes concerning the changes that had been made to the ledger or the items missing from the
ledger.
31.
At the time Paul provided the ledger to the State Bar, however, he also produced
accurate bank statements and trust account reconciliations documents. Paul was aware the
records contained details revealing all ofthe disbursements and deposits of the $2,606.03. From
these documents produced by Paul on January 15,2013, the State Bar was able to trace what had
occurred with the $2,606.03.

3

32.
When the State Bar asked Paul about the disbursement of the $2,606.03 from and
the deposit back into his trust account noted above, Paul admitted the transfers and also disclosed
his instructions to create the inacclI\'atc ledger shortly after receiving the grievance.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
1.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Peter A. Paul, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set fOlih in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Pro1essional Conduct as follows:
a.

By holding limds in his trust account for clients for more than one year but failing
to provide annual accountings to those clients of those funds, Paul failed to provide
annual accountings to clients in violation of Rule 1.15-3(e);

b.

By providing an inaccurate client ledger in 05-006-16 to the State Bar without
accompanying explanation or notation, Paul failed to disclose facts necessary to
coneel a misapprehension he knew would arise in violation of Rule 8 .1 (b);

c.

By disbursing to himself $2,606.03 of client funds in his trust account for the client
in file 05-006-16 without the client's knowledge or authorization, Defendant failed
to maintain entfllstedfunds in trust in.violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and disbursed
funds improperly to himself and for his benefit in violation of Rule 1.15-20); and

d.

By disbursing to himself $15.00 of client funds in his trust account for the client in
file 06-247-12 without the client's knowledge or authorization, Defendant failed to
maintain entrusted funds in trust in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and disbursed funds
improperly to himself and for his benefit in violation of Rule 1.15-20).

3.
Although no violation of Rule 8.1(b) was alleged in the State Bar's complaint
against Defendant, the hearing panel found it was tried by implied consent, established by the
evidence, and warranted under the State Bar's prayer for relief for such other and further relief as
is appropriate. Defendant stated he did not object to the hearing panel's consideration of Rule
8.1(b) or the finding of a violation of Rule 8.1 (b).
4.
The hearing panel found that the allegations of violations of Rules 8.l(a), 8.4(b),
and 8.4(0) and of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84.28(b)(3) were not established by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence.

4

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing Panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 30 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
The legal profession has the privilege of being self-regulating. An integral part of
self-regulation is the forthright participation and disclosure by members of the Bar.
3.
Defendant's creation of an inaccurate lcdger and provision of lhe ledger to lhe
State Bar without explanation created the risk that the State Bar would be misled about the
disbursements of entrusted funds in that client's matter.
4.
Defendant provided the inaccurate ledger to client Mr. H without explanation
notifying Mr. H of all deposits and disbursements of those funds.
5.
Defendant was upset when he received the grievance and, in that state of mind,
Defendant instrncted his bookkeeper to delete the January 20 J2 disbursement to him from the
05-006-16 ledger. After Defendant had a chance to cahn down and contemplate the matter,
Defendant told his bookkeeper to tlx the ledger.
6.
Although Defendant did not provide any explanations or notations disclosing the
inaccuracy of the ledger when he first provided the documents, Defendant aclmowledged the
transfers and that he had created and provided the inaccurate ledger when the State Bar
subsequently asked about the transfers and the inaccurate ledger.
7.
trnthfulness.

Defendant has established a reputation for good character, veracity, and

8.
Defendant has a prior reprimand. The reprimand is from 2004 and concerns
conduct unrelated to that which is at issue in this case.
9.
Defendant has instituted a new system for providing annual accountings of .
entlUsted funds to ensure future compliance with this requirement.
10.

Defendant has indicated remorse.

11.
Defendant has been licensed since 1989. With his degree of experience,
Defendant should have known better than to engage in these acts that have led to the discipline
imposed in this order.

5

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGAIWING DISCIPLINE
1,
Thc Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N,C,A,C. IB
§ ,01 14(w)(1), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar, and concludes the
following factors are applicable:
27 N,C,A,C, 1B § .0114(w)(I)
a,

Factor (E), Negative impact of Defendant', actions on client', or public',
perception of the profession;

b,

Factor (F), Negative impact of Defendant's actions the administration of justice;
and

27 N.C.A.C, 1B § .0114(w)(2)
a,

Factor (B), Impnlsive acts of fabrication without timely remcdialefforts,

27 N,C.A.C, 1B § ,01 14(w)(3)
a,

Factor (A), History of prior disciplinary offenses, to wit: the 2004 rcprimand;

b,

Factor (B), Remoteness of prior offenses;

c,

Factor (C), Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;

d.

Factor (G), Multiple offenses;

e,

Factor (N), Submission of false evidence, false statements, or other deceptive
practices during the disciplinal'Y process, to wit: submission of the inaccurate
ledger without contemporaneous adequate explanation;

f

Factor (P), Remorse;

g.

Factor (Q), Good character and reputation;

h,

Factor (S), Substantial degree of experience in the practice of law,

2.
Although the Hearing Panel determined one of the factors under 27 N.C.A.C 1B
§,0114(w)(2) to be present, the Hearing Panel concluded that disbarment was not wan'anted in
light of all of the circumstances of the case.

6

3.
Defendant's creation of an inaccurate ledger and provision of the ledger to the
State Bar without explanation created the risk that the State Bar would be misled about the
disbursements of entrusted funds in that client's matter and constituted potential significant harm
to the legal profession and the administration of justice.
4.
Defendant's provision of the inaccurate client ledger to the client, Mr. H, created
the risk that the client would be misled about the disbursements of entrusted funds in that client's
matter and constituted potential significant harm to the client.
5.
Proper maintenance and managemcnt of entrusted funds is a cornerstone of the
public's trust in thc legal profession. Failing to communicate with clients regarding the status of
funds held fur over a year and failing tu properly disburse entrusted funds viulates the public's
trust and negatively impacts the public's perception of the profession. Defendant's failure to
provide annual acconntings and failure to propcrly disburse funds constituted potential
significant harm to the clients and the legal profession.
6.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the disciplinary options available to it and
determined that imposition of a suspension is appropriate, and that the suspension should bc
stayed.
7.
The Hearing Panel considered all lesser sanctions and concluded that discipline
short of suspension would not adequately protect the public. Imposition of a lesser disciplinc
would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and would send
the wrong message to members of the Bar and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this State.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant, Peter A. Paul, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for one
year, effective 30 days from service of this Order upon Defendant. This suspension is stayed
immediately, as set forth in, and subject to the terms of, paragraph 3 below.
2.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding, including
the costs of all depositions, as assessed by the Secretary of the NOlth Carolina State Bar.
Defendant must pay the costs within 120 days of service upon him of the statement of costs by
the Secretary.
3.
The one-year suspension is stayed for a period of one year as long as Defendant
complies, and continnes to comply during the period ofthe stay, with the following conditions:
a.

Defendant pays all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within 120 days after service of the statement of costs on him;
7

b.

Dcfcndant completes 12 hours of continuing legal education in addition to the
hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter D, Section
.1518. These 12 hours shall consist of instruction in trust account management,
law office management, and billing practices. These additional hours must be
completed prior to the expiration orthe one-year stayed sllspension period;

c.

Defcndant shall ensure that thc 12 additional CLE hours are reported to the State
Bar Continuing Legal Educatiou department and are included on his State Bar
CLEreport;

d.

Defendant shall provide documentation of completion of the 12 additional CLE
hours to the Office of Counsel 30 days prior to the expiration of (he one-year
stayed suspension period;

e.

Defendant shall not violatc any state or federal laws or any provisions of the
Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the stayed suspension;

f.

Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for information as requircd by
Rule 8.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by the earlier of the deadline
stated in the communication 01' within 30 days of receipt;

g.

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements; and

h.

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership depmtment
advised of his current home mId business sh'eet (not P.O. Box) addresses and
telephone numbers.

4.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out in this
Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided
in § .0 I 14 (x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
5.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DBC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end one year from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions ofthe stay of the suspension. Pursuant to § .0114(x) ofthe North
Cm'olina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DBC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the
stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the
stay of the suspension would otherwise havc terminated, the DBC retains the jurisdiction and
ability to lift the slay of the suspension and activate the one year suspension in whole or in part if
it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and
Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue uutill'esolution
of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.

8

6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the DHC may enter an Order imposing such conditions as it deems necessary for the
reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension, FUlihermore, Defendant must
have complied with each of the following conditions precedent to reinstatement before he can be
reinstated to tile active practice of law:
a.

Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date of the order activating his
suspension;

b.

Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules on a
timely basis;

c.

Paid any outstanding disciplinary administrative fees and costs; and

d.

Within 15 days of the effective date of order activating the suspension Defendant
shall have provided the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which
clients seeking return of files could communicate with Defendant and obtain such'
tiles, and Defendant shall have promptly returned all tiles to clients upon request.

7. The Disciplinary Hearing ConIDlission will retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant
to 27 N.C. Admin, Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § ,01 14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension,

day of

~~~A1by the Chair,2015.
with the consent of the other Hearing Panel m

ers, this the

alter E. Brock, J1'.
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel

9

do!.-

