NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
10G0802

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

101m 1. Pavey, lr.
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On luly 14,2011 the Grievance Committee of the NOlih Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infomlation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue Em admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written foml of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In about your third year of practicing law, you were the closing attorney for 13
construction loans made by SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. You represented the borrowers and
SunTrust in those transactions. Your HUD-l Settlement Statements inaccurately reflected that
you had received certain ftmds from the borrowers for the closings when in fact those funds had
been provided by the developer. You had neglected to eheck the souree of those funds at the

time ofthe closing in violation of Rule 1.1 and 1.3, however, and were unaware of the source of
the funds at the time of the closings. The inaccurate HUD-l Settlement Statements failed to
convey accurate infonnation about the receipt and disbursement of funds to the lender in
violation of Rule 1.4(b). Eventually, these loans went into default and SunTrust foreclosed. You
represented the borrowers against StmTrust, thereby engaging in a conflict of interest in violation
of Rule 1.9(a). You failed to appreciate the conflict at the time, but now recognize and
acknowledge the conflict. The Grievance Committee found that it was your inexperience in the
practice of law, rather than any intent to mislead the lender, that resulted in the above described
conduct and rule violations. Accordingly, the Grievance Committee found it appropriate to issue
a reprimand to you.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for yow' professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

S- day of --~T

' 2011.

~?cQ~~~
Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGBllr

