NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

In re: David R. Payne, Attorney

CONSENT ORDER
OF INTERIM SUSPENSION

THIS MA TIER came before the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DHC) pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code I B.0119(b) by consent of the patties.
Upon consent of the parties and good cause shown, the undersigned hereby makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. David R. Payne was licensed to practice law in North Carolina on August 20, 1993 and is
and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law, subject to the rules, regulations
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of North
Carolina.
2. The current address of record for Mr. Payne with the North Carolina State Bar is 7 North
Main Street, Marshall, NC 28753.
3. Mr. Payne pled guilty to the federal felony offense of knowing false statement in
violation of 18 U.S.c. ยง 1014 as charged in Count Eight of the Bill of Indictment filed
against him in the United States District Court, Western District of North Carolina,
Asheville Division, Docket No. I: 17-CR-73, for knowingly making false statements for
the purpose of influencing an institution the accounts of which were insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the Bank of Asheville in connection with a loan
obtained in August 2009.
4. Mr. Payne freely and voluntarily consents to entry of this Consent Order of Interim
Suspension. Mr. Payne reserves any and all rights that may be available to him with
respect to any imposition of discipline sought by the North Carolina State Bar arising
from his guilty plea.
.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned hereby makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
1. 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0119(b) authorizes the Chair of the DHC to enter an order

suspending on an interim basis the law license of an attorney who pleads guilty to a
criminal offense showing professional unfitness in any state or federal court upon the
The NOlth Carolina State Bar v. David R. Payne
Consent Order of Interim Suspension

Page 1 of2

Chair's determination that there
suspension is warranted.

1S

a qualifying plea or conviction and that interim

2. The offense to which Mr. Payne pled guilty is a criminal offense showing professional
unfitness as defined in 27 N .C. Admin. Code IB.OI03(17), and Mr. Payne's guilty plea is
a qualifying plea to a criminal offense showing professional unfitness for which interim
suspension can be imposed.
3. It is appropriate to enter an order of interim suspension in this case.
THEREFORE, based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and
the consent of the parties, the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Corrunission hereby
enters the following:
ORDER
1. The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of David R. Payne is hereby
SUSPENDED pending the disposition of all disciplinary proceedings against Mr. Payne
related to his plea of guilty to a criminal offense showing professional unfitness in the
United States District Court, Westem District of North Carolina.

2. Mr. Payne shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128.
This the

l q~ day of

~~tc..'"

2018.

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Commission
CONSENTED TO BY:

Respondent

Stephen P. Lindsa
Counsel for Respondent

~

Counsel for Petitioner, The North Carolina State Bar
The North Carolina State Bar v. David R. Payne
Consent Order of Interim Suspension

Page 2 of2

\
\

\

