NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEYANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
1001179

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Anthony A. Pearl,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 21, 2011, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance tiled against you by S.C.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After consideIing the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of no lice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a linding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You are "Of Counsel" with the New York law linn, Steven F. Christiansen, PLLC. Mr.
Christensen previously practiced law with David W. McAndrews under the name, McAndrews
and Christiansen, LLP. You were listed as "Of Counsel" on McAndrews' and Christensen's
letterhead. On February 8, 2010, the North Carolina State Bar AuthoIized Practice Committee
served Mr. McAndrews with a letter of notice. The letter of notice alleged that Mr. McAndrews

was engaging in the unauthorized practice oflaw for sending a demand letter pursuant to the
North Carolina shoplifting statute. On August 4, 2010, the Authorized Practice Committee
issued a letter to cease and desist. Mr. McAndrews received the letter to cease and desist on or
about August 11,2010. You acknowledge that you were aware of the impropriety ofMr.
McAndrews sending letters involving North Camlina matters. Notwithstanding that, on August
17,2010, you sent a similar demand letter under Mr. Clu·istensen's letterhead thereby allowing
Mr. Christiansen to hold himself out as able to practice law in NC without a NC license. Mr.
Christiansen's conduct is the unauthorized practice oflaw. You knowingly assisted Mr.
Chlistensen with the lmauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bm regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a replimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

;2.

day of

~

, 2011.

/;//

~-~?~
Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/npm

'

