r"""1a
D
glj

..r\~S

,,!!i"'J ~.

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

1,:0;

~

WAKE COUNTY

,'--0.
-'

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE

,~' ~.

P<Q¥lCWLI-O Y HEARING COMMISSION
<'O/t9
:;;; OF THE
~~. NORT~. OLINASTATEBAR
(l.
~ 15 DHC41

B~ llP.?ls;;YJ:V

Plaintiff
CONSENT
ORDER

v,
KATHERINE HEATH PEKMAN,
Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Healing Commission
composed of Barbara B, Weyher, Chair, and members R. Lee Farmer and Randy Moreau,
pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § ,Ol14(h).
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Maria J. Brown and Margaret T.
Cloutier. Defendant, Katherine Heath Pekman, was represented by Deanna S. Brocker.
Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter, and both parties stipulate and consent to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant consents to entry of this order of discipline and freely and voluntarily
waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this order 01' to challenge in any way the
sufficiency of the findings.
Basedupon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bling this proceeding under the autholity granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
1.

2.
Defendant, Katherine Heath Pekman ("Defendant" or "Pekman"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar in 2011 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations,
and Rules of Professlwnal Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of
North Carolina.'
3.
Defendant was properly served with process, and the matter came before the
Healing Panel with due notice to all parties.
4.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Defendant was engaged in the
practice of law in Hickory, Catawba County, North Carolina.

5.
In August 2013, R.M. hired Pekman to represent her in an alimony/child support
enforcement action and made a $2,500.00 advance payment for legal services.
6.

In November 2013, Pekman stopped performing work on R.M.'s case.

7.
After 3 December 2013, Pekman initiated no communication with RM. and failed
to respond to RM.'s telephone and e-mail queries about the status of the case.
Pekman failed to return the $1,510.00 balance ofuneamed fees Pekman was
8.
holding in trust for RM.' s benefit.
9.
On 6 March 2014, R.M. filed with the State Bar a Petition for Resolution of
Disputed Fee ("fee dispute") concerning Pekman's representation of her.
10.
On 6 March 2014, the State Bar mailed notice of the fee dispute to Pekman. The
letter containing notice of the fee dispute was sent by certified mail to the address for Pekman on
file with the State Bar's membership department.
11.

The letter containing notice of the fee dispute was returned as unclaimed.

12.
Pekman's failure to participate in the fee dispute resolution process resulted in the
opening of State Bar Grievance File No. 14G0383 on 24 April 2014.
13.
The State Bar served Pekman with a Letter of Notice in No. 1400383 on 26
August 2014.
14.
The Letter of Notice informed Pekman that she was required to submit a written
response within fifteen days of her receipt of the Letter of Notice.
IS.

Pekman failed to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen days.

16.
On 22 September 2014, the State Bar sent Pekman a letter notifying her that the
State Bar had not received a response to the Letter of Notice and instructing her to respond by 1
October 2014.
17.

Pekman failed to respond to the Letter of Notice by 1 October 2014.

18.

On 9 January 2015, Pekman provided a response to the Letter of Notice.

19.
On 19 November 2015, Pekman refunded the entire fee RM. had paid and
provided an accounting of the disbursement of R.M.'s entrusted funds.
20.
Between December 2013 and November 2015, Pekman did not provide R.M. any
accounting of the unearned portion of the fee she was holding in trust for RM.'s benefit.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel entel's the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel, and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline as follows:
A. Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), for violation of the following Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct:
a. By failing to perfonTI any work on R.M.'s case after November 2013, Defendant
failed to exercise reasonable diligence in representing a client in violation of Rule
1.3;
b. By ceasing communication with RM. and failing to respond to R.M.'s requests
for information, Defendant failed to keep her client reasonably informed about the
status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly comply
with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
c.

By failing to refund the unearned portion of R.M.'s fee until 19 November 2015,
Defendant failed to provide prompt payment to the client of entrusted property
belonging to the client and to which the client was entitled in violation of Rule
1.15-2(m) and failed to take reasonably practicable steps upon termination of the
representation to protect a client's interests in violation of Rule 1.16(d);

d. By failing, during the period of time between December 2013 and November
2015, to provide any accounting to RM. of the unearned fee Defendant held in
trust for R.M., Defendant failed to provide an accounting of fiduciary funds to the
beneficial owner of those funds at least annually in violation of Rule US-3(t);
and
e. By failing to provide a timely response to the Letter of Notice in this matter,
Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1(b).
B. Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3), for failure to answer the formal inquiry
issued by the North Carolina State Bar in a disciplinary matter.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACf REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 20 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
discipline.

Defendant has been practicing law for three years and has no prior professional

3.
Duriug the time period relevant to this matter, Defendant was experiencing
unaddressed emotional problems that contributed to Defendant's violations of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. Defendant has since sought counseling to address these issues.
4.
Defendant's neglect of RM.'s matter, her failure to communicate with RM., and
her failure to complete the matter for which she had been retained caused sigaificant harm to
R.M. and RM.'s ability to resolve her legal matter. Defendant's conduct caused R.M. significant
3

confusion and frustration and impaired R.M.'s ability to achieve the goalof her representation by
causing unnecessary delay in R.M.'s case.
5.
R.M. was a vulnerable victim of Defendant's misconduct. R.M. was unfamiliar
with the legal process and had limited financial resources. R.M. had paid Defendant and relied
upon Defendant to protect or pursue R.M.' s legal rights.
6.
Defendant's repeated failure to respond to State Bar inquiries and otherwise
participate in the grievance process caused significant potential harm to the ptofession. Such
conduct interferes with the State Bar's ability to regulate its members and undermines the
profession's privilege to remain self-regulating.
7.
There is an absence of any evidence that Defendant intended to harm her client or
that she exhibited a dishonest or selfish motive.
8.
Defendant has acknowledged her conduct violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct and is remorseful for her actions.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above, the additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the
following;
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
1.
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.CAC. IB §.0114(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors warrant consideration of suspension of Defendant's license;
(a) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession;
(b) Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation;
(c) Multiple instances of failure to palticipate in the legal profession's self-regulation
process.
2.
The Hearing Panel concludes that none of the factors enumerated in 27 N .C.A.C.
IB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar are present in this
case.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B §.0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors are applicable in this matter;
(a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) Effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;
(d) Remorse;
(e) Vulnerability of victim;
(f) Defendant's limited experience in the practice of law.

4

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a censure,
reprimand, Of admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the significant harm to
Defendant's client aud the significant potential harm to the legal profession caused by
Defendant's conduct.
5.
Although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to warrant more than a censure,
it does not warrant an active suspension of her license.
6.
A stayed suspension of Defendant's law license is warranted because entry of an
order imposing less severe discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
misconduct and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.
Based upou the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusious of Law, and the Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters
the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
1.
The law license of Defendant, Katherine H. Pekman, is hereby suspended for one
(1) year effective from the date this Order of Discipline is served npon her. The period of
suspension is stayed for three (3) years as long as Defendant complies and continues to comply
with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall comply with all treatment recommendations of the evaluating
psychologist as well as any treatment provider(s), including recommendations
from the Lawyer Assistance Program. For the duration of the stay of her
suspension, Defendant shall direct her treatment provider(s) to provide the Office
of Counsel with semi-annual written reports concerning Defendant's condition,
Defendant's compliance with the treatment plan, and Defendant's progress
resulting from treatment. Such reports shall be received by the Office of Counsel
every June 1 and December 1. Defendant shall also comply with any and all
requests from the Office uf Counsel seeking updates on the status of her ongoing
treatment within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such requests. If Defendant
changes treatment providers dUling the stayed period of her suspension,
Defendant shall sign an authorization form consenting to the release of any
medical records and iuformation related to Defendant's treatment to the Office of
Counsel, and Defendant shall not revoke that release. Defendant shall
simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the Office of
Counsel and her new treatment provider(s). Within thirty (30) days of starting
treatment with the new provider(s), Defendant shall direct such new treatment
provider(s) to provide the Office of Counsel with a written report detailing
Defendant's treatment plan, as well as the semi-annual written reports described
above. All expenses of snch treatment and reports shall be borne by Defendant;
(b) Defendant shall arrange for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar to
serve as her law practice monitor. Defendant's practice monitor shall be an
attorney in good standing who practices law in the judicial district in which
Defendant proposes to practice law and who has been approved by the Office of
Counsel. The monitor shall agree to snpervise all client matters and will make
reasonable efforts to ensure that Defendant handles all client matters in a timely

5

fashion, including promptly responding to her clients and diligently pursuing her
clients' matters. Defendant shall agree to meet once every two (2) weeks with her
monitoring attorney, report the status of all current client matters to the
monitoring attorney, cooperate with the monitoring attorney, and provide any
information the monitoring attorney deems reasonably necessary to ensure that
Defendant is properly and timely handling all client matters. The monitoring
attorney shall submit written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of
Counsel, snch reports due on the following dates as they occur dming any stay of
this suspension: January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. Defendant bears
the responsibility of ensuring the monitoring attorney sends a written report each
quarter to the Office of Counsel as described above. This monitoring shall occur
for the duration of any stay of this suspension. Defendant shall pay the cost, if
any, charged by the monitoring attorney for this supervision. Defendant must
make the arrangements for this monitoring attorney and supply the Office of
Counsel with a letter from the monitoring attorney confirming his or her
agreement to perform all of the duties listed above;
(c) Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make appropriate
arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed during any stay of
this suspension;
(d) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of her current contact information, including her current business and
home addresses (not a P.O. Box) as well as her current telephone number(s), and
shall notify the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within ten (10)
days of such change;
(e) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State Bar
and shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
State Bar, including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance
Program, by the deadline stated in the communication or, in the absence of a
stated deadline, within fifteen (15) days of receipt;
Cf) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements, and Defendant shall pay all fees and costs assessed
by the State Bar by the applicable deadline;

(g) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition of which she receives notice after the effective
date of this Order;
(h) Defendant shall timely pay the costs and administrative fees of this action as
described below; and
(i) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during her suspension.
2.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
provided in paragraph l(a) - (i) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x).

6

3.
If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is
activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law, Defendant
must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that she has complied with each of the
following conditions:
(a) Defendant submitted her license and membership card to the Secretaly of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order lifting the
stay and/or activating the suspension of her law license;
(b) Defendant complied with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124 of
the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following the order lifting the stay
andlor activating the suspension of her law license;
(c) Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of
her current business and home addresses, as well as her current telephone number,
and notified the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within ten (10)
days of such change;
.
(d) Defendant responded to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, by the
deadline stated in the communication or, in the absence of a stated deadline,
within fIfteen (15) days of receipt and participated in good faith in the State Bar's
fee dispute resolution process for any petition of which she receives notice after
the effective date of this Order;
(e) Defendant promptly accepted all certified mail sent to her by the State Bar;
(f) That at the time of her petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment

of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect
from her, and including all judicial district dues, fees, and assessments;
(g) That at the time of her petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory Continning Legal Education (CLE) hours, in reporting
of snch hours, or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;
(h) Defendant did not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during her suspension;
(i) Defendant paid the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as reflected on

the statement of costs served npon her by the Secretary of the State Bar;

0) Defendant provided

to the Office of Counsel written or documentary evidence
establishing that Defendant is not then suffering from any mental or physical
condition that significantly impairs her professional judgment, performance, or
competence as an attorney and which meets all of the following criteria: (1) dated
no earlier than one month prior to the date of Defendant's petition for
reinstatement, (2) signed by a provider from whom Defendant has been receiving
ongoing treatment or a licensed psychologist who has conducted a comprehensive
psychological evaluation of Defendant, and (3) accompanied by sufficient

7

releases to permit the Office of Counsel to make direct, meaningful inquiry of the
treatment provider or evaluator; and
(k) Defendant complied with any other conditions deemed necessary for
reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel pursuant to the order lifting the stay
of the suspension of Defendant's law license.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary which Defendant shall pay within forty-five (45) days of service of the notice of
costs upon Defendant.
5.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct that may be
discovered or reported which occun'ed during the same time period as the conduct addressed in
this Order.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .Ol14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspension.

d by the Chair with the consent of the 0
------'-'-""->..L»"4:;.'£-' 2016.

earing panel members, this the ~

CONSENTED TO BY:

~",",T.;"OO"~
Attorneys for Plaintiff

i/fi:d,RAA JJ,~
Kathedne H. Pekman
Defendant

~~

"neannas:BrOCef

Attomey for Defendant

8

.Lt....

