~\1""2"""'3~

~)'J II.

"-~

~

5j

5',,-

6)'
__~

MAR 2011

FI''''

STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN , ..,

~

(>,~
<i,~ BEFORE THE

~rOOlGll'L1~ Y HEARING COMMISSION

~

~

WAKE COUNTY

u "

..4.
'"P

P

"'-1Jii1,;;,;::~

OF THE

NO~1m CAROLINA STATE BAR

,~y

16DHC36

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ORDER OF
DISBARMENT

v.
GREGORY L. PERRY, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter came before the undersigned Chair of The Disciplinary Hearing Commission
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. I B §.0117(d) upon an affidavit of surrender of license executed by
Gregory L. Perry on 2 March 2017 and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on 2
March 2017.
.
Based upon the pleadings and the record, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Gregory L. Perry, was licensed to practice law in North Carolina in
2007, and during all relevant periods herein he was an Attorney at Law subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of
the State of North Carolina
3.
On 24 October 2016, the North Carolina State Bar filed a formal complaint
against Defendant alleging that he was convicted of contempt of court, attempted to acquire
controlled substances from a client who he represented on drug-related charges, misled jail
officials in an effort to gain access to an inmate, and was deceptive in response to inquiries from
the State Bar, and thereby violated the Rules of Professional Conduct.· This conduct constitutes
grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28 (b)(I) and (b)(2), in that conviction of 1\
criminal offense showing professional unfitness is grounds for imposition of professional
discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1), and in that Perry engaged in criminal conduct
reflecting adversely on his trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer, attempted to intentionally
damage his client, attempted to assist a client in activity that he knew was criminal, engaged in a
contlict of interest, failed to withdraw from representing a client when withdrawal was required,

engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice, engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, and made false statements of fact in connection with a disciplinary matter in
violation of Rule 1.7(a)(2), Rule 1.16(a), Rule 8.I(a), and Rules 8.4(a), (b), (c), & (d) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
4.
Defendant has indicated his consent to disbarment by filing an affidavit of
surrender with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. The affidavit meets all requirements set
forth in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0117(a)(1)-(4) and (d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact. the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0108(a) provides that the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission has the power and duty to enter orders disbarring members by consent.

2.
Defendant's affidavit meets all requirements set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. I B
§.0117(a)(I)-(4) and (d) and the facts upon which the affidavit is predicated warrant Defendant's
disbarment.
3.
Defendant has admitted that the material facts upon which the State Bar's
complaint is predicated are true and the misconduct alleged in the complaint has been
established. The State Bar's complaint is incorporated by reference herein.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the undersigned
Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following
ORDER
The surrender of the license of Gregory L. Perry is hereby accepted.

I.

2.
Gregory L. Perry is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina
effective upon the entry of this order with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
3.
Gregory L. Perry shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0124 of
the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4.

The costs of this action are taxed against Defendant.

.

orcl

This the _?_ day of March, 2017.

FM

Disciplinary Hearing Commission

BEFORE THE
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
16 DHC 36

STATE OF NORTH

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF
LAW LICENSE

v.
GREGORY L. PERRY, Attomey,
Defendant

Gregory L. Perry, first being duly swom, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in NOlth Carolina.
2. My resignation is fi'eely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.
3. I am aware that there is pending a complaint against me before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission regarding allegations that 1 was convicted of contempt of court,
attempted to acquire conttolled substances from a client who I represented on drugrelated charges, mlsled jail officials in an effOlt to gain access to an inmate, and was
deceptive in response to inquiries from the State Bar.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the pending complaint is predicated
are true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that I could not successfully defend
against the pending disciplinary charges.

')I'd..

This the ~ day of March, 2017.

T,

,

~nLQ(1"-""',,-}

Notmy
Public
of
the
County
of
Notth Carolina, certily that GWgOly L. Peny personally
appem'cd before me this day, was sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit is true and
accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.

tlcdlfax:

' State 0

~"""""'"
. . ~).7.

,.d
This the 4~
:'-~

~~-

~

~

- 1-

..

.----~- ----------~-.--.-----.-~-------------

