WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

\',\\\\% 19Z0?IG
~ •
?~
~ \.II!;'?- 'LU\3
&:
BEFORE T HE
t:"'!
• ,wsdlI JNARY HEARlNG COMMISSION

.-

f\l'C,O Qt\v

~

~

IN RE REINSTATEMENT PETITION OF )
)
)
EDWIN A. PETERS
)

OF THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12 BCR 2

ORDER DENYING
REINSTATEMENT

This matter came on to he heard and was heard on FeblUruy 15, 2013 by a hearing panel
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofM. H. Hood Ellis, Chair, Renny W. Deese
and Joseph Barlow Herget; with the petitioner proceeding pro se and A. Root Edmonson
representing the North Carolina State Bar. Based upon the oral stipnlations of the parties, the
evidence presented at the hearing and the argnments made by the parties, the hearing panel
makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Edwin A. Peters ("Peters") was licensed to practice law in Notih Carolina on ApIil 2,
2005.
2. On April 18,2007, Peters tiled an affidavit surrendering his license to practice law
with the NC State Bar in which hc admitted misappropriating at least $8,281.85 of his clients'
funds.
3. On ApIil 20, 2007. Peters was disbarred by order of the Council.
4. On November 15, 2012, Peters filed a Petition for Reinstatement with suppOliing
documents and affidavits that resulted in this hearing.
5. Prior to filing his petition, Peters had published a notice of his intent to seek
reinstatement in the Fall 2012 issue of the State Bar Journal.
6. Peters notified the NC State Bar, the "complainant" in his disciplinary case, of his
intent to seek reinstatement.
7. Peters was never charged 01' convicted of a criminal offense related to his
misappropriation and, thus, never lost his citizenship.
8. On Apl'il23, 2007, Peters filed an affidavit with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
showing that he had properly wound his practice down.

9. Peters complied with the Council's April 20, 2007 order.
10. No court entered any order relating to the matter that resulted in Peters' disbannent.
11. Peters did not engage in the unauthorized practice of law dUling his disbannenl.
12. The Client Security Fund did not disburse any funds to any of Peters' clients as a
resnlt of Peters' misconduct.
13. Peters reimbursed the money missing fi'om his trust account contemporaneously with
the October 2007 order entered in Wake County Superior Court disbursing the funds that had
been frozen in Peters' trust account.
14. Peters paid all dues, Client SecUlity Fund assessments and CLE fecs owed to the NC
State Bar prior to commencement of the hearing.
15. Peters accepted responsibility for the misconduct that resulted in his dishannent and
was remorseful.
16. Peters had several loyal friends who testified as to Peters' character. At least two of
those friends had not had sufficient contact with Peters since his disbarment to offer evidence of
whethcr Peters' character had refonned. One fi'iend testified that he did not think that Peters'
misconduct showed that Peters had bad character that needed reforming. All who testified on his
behalfbelieved that Peters' misconduct was an aberration from Peters' nOlmal character.
17. Peters spoke to youth groups in Wake County about his experience. He reached out
to other organizations, such as his law school alma mater, but got no responses.
18. Beginning in 2009, Peters was involved in domestic litigation in Wake County
District Court with his ex-wife. During that litigation, the following occurred:
(a) On September 14,201 I, an Order of Equitable Distribution was entered.
(b) On September 21, 201 1, Peters entered Notice of Appeal fi'om that order.
(c) At 4:47 p.m. pm October 4, 2011, Peters filed a document with the Court entitled
Transcript Order for Appeal that indicated that Peters was contracting with the
court reporter to prepare a transcript ofthe equitable distribution hearing and was
tendering a check to the court Teporter for $200.00 as a deposit and partial
payment toward the costs of the transcript.
(d) Peters signed a Certificate of Service attached to the Transcript Order for Appeal
indicating that he was serving his wife, his wife's atto111cy, and the COUlt reporter
with the filed document.
(e) Because of other circumstances that developed the following day, Peters had to
use the $200.00 for another purpose and did not send the COUlt reporter the
$200.00. Also, Peters did not mail the Transcript Order for Appeal to any ofthc
intended recipients listed in the Certiticate of Service.

2

(t) Although Peters knew he had not sent the $200.00 to the court reporter, he did not
file anything with the Court to correct the inaccuracies in the Transcript Order for
Appeal or its Certificate of Service prior to a motion for sanctions that was filed
by opposing counsel.
19. Peters failed to offer proof that he understands the CUlTenl Rules of Professional
Conduct.
20. Peters asked the panel to make any recommendation for reinstatement contingent
upon his receiving a passing grade on the NOlth Carolina Bar Exam and the MPRE to satisfy his
burden of proving competence and learning in the law.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
]. Peters published notice of his intent to seek reinstatement in compliance with §
.. 0125(a) (3) (A).
2. Peters notified the affected parties of his intent to seek reinstatement in compliance
with § .0125(a) (3) (B).
3. Peters' misappropriation of his clients' funds was a serious offense that requires a
strong showing of a refonned character.

4. Peters has not proven by clear and convincing evidence that he has reformed and
presently possesses the moral character required for admission to practice law in this state taking
into account the gravity of the misconduct which resulted in his disbarment. Therefore, Peters
has not satisfied his burden pursuant to § .0125(a) (3) (C).
5. Because he has not demonstrated a refol1ned character to his community, Peters'
reinstatement to the practice aflaw will be detrimental to the integrity and standing of the bar
and to the administration ofju~tice and to the public's interest. Therefore, Peters has not
satisfied his burden pursuant to § .0125(a) (3) (D).
6. Peters' never lost his citizenship. Therefore, Peters has satisfied his burden pursuant
to § .0125(a) (3) (E).
7. Pcters wound down his law practice after his disbarment in compliance with §
.0125(a) (3) (F).
8. Peters complied with all applicable orders of the Council in compliance with §
.0125(a) (3) (G).
9. No court entered any order relating to the matter that resulted in Peters' disbarment.

3

Therefore, Peters has satisfied his burden pursuant to § .0125(a) (3) (H).
10. Peters did not engage in the Ullauthorized practice oflaw during his disbamlent in
compliance with § .0 I25(a) (3) (I).

II. Peters engaged in conduct dUling his domestic litigation that may have becn grounds
for discipline under O.S. § 84-28(b) by failing to send documents to recipients as shown on his
certificate of service. Therefore, Peters has not satisfied his burden pursuant to § .0125(a) (3) (J).

12. Peters has failed to prove that he understands the cun'ent Rules of Professional
Conduct. 111cretore, Peters has not satisfied his burden pursuant to § .0125(a) (3) (K).
13. The Client Security Fund did not disburse any funds to any of Peters' clients as a
l'csult of Peters' misconduct. Therefore, Peters has satisfied his burden pursuant to § .0 I25(a) (3)
(L).
14. Peters reimbursed the money missing £i'om his trust account. Therefore, Peters has
satisfied his burden pursuant to § .0125(a) (3) (M).

15. Peters paid all dues and fees owed to the North Carolina State Bar in compliance
with § .0125(a) (3) (N).
16. Peters chose to rely on his passing a future North Carolina Bar Exam and the MPRE
as his method of satisfying his burden pursuant to § .0 125(a)( 4).
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
committee enters the following Order:

1. The hearing panel considered all of the evidence offered at Peters' reinstatement
hearing and recommends to the Council that Peters' petition for reinstatement to the practice of
law in North Carolina be denied.

2. If Peters chooses not to ask the Council to review the decision of this hearing panel,
this order will constitute the final order in this matter.
3. If the Council reviews the decision of this hearing panel and chooses to reinstate
Peters, Peters' reinstatement should be conditioned upon his successful completion of a written
bar examination administered by the Nolih Carolina Board of Law Examiners.

'11"
Signed on tilis the _~~_,. day of March, 2013 with the knowledge and consent ofthe other
members of the paneL

(.-r /,\c:/", .

(U{
- - · ·..,--,·-~·cC(_//='-·, . - - - - - - - M. H. Hood Ellis, Chair
Disciplinary Healing Panel

4

