NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G0476

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
NICOLLE T. PHAIR,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 25,2018 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by S. C. The grievance was assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs investigation of this
matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You were seeking an ex parte emergency custody order on behalf of your client. The
parties had a pre-existing court date on April 26, 2017 and your associate appeared in court that
morning and advised the court of the ex parte motion. You proceeded to then argue for the
motion while opposing counsel argued against it and the judge decided to continue the matter to
another date. Despite these events, you took the motion to another judge that same day, April 26,

and again requested the emergency custody. The second judge signed your order with no
knowledge of the prior judge's continuance or that the opposing patty was represented by
counsel.
When the second judge learned from opposing counsel about the prior hearing, he
vacated his emergency custody order. The judge found that your conduct violated the local rules
of the judicial district, that the order was obtained by misrepresentation, fraud or other
misconduct, and that the defendant was prevented from having a fair trial. The Grievance
Committee agreed with these findings.
Your conduct violated Rules 3.3(a), 3.5(a)(4)(A), and 8.4(c) ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depati from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

DM/lb

ZZ-

day of

f£J,; ~~

8.

