NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G0680 and 09G0776

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Mary S. Phillips,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 14, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by L. P and J. W.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Conunittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Conunission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
TIle Grievance Conunittee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You agreed to handle estate matters for L. P. and J. W. You did not promptly handle
these estate matters, in violation of Rule 1.3 of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
L. P and J. W. filed separate grievances against you regarding your handling of these
estate cases. You did not respond to those grievances within fifteen days of receiving the letters

_0

_.,

,";\;

of notice regarding them. You also failed to provide a response after you were given an
extension of time to respond.
You were subpoenaed to the Grievance Committee's meeting in October 2009. At that
meeting, the Grievance Committee asked that you provide written responses to both of the
gnevances. They alsoaskedtniliyousuomifacopyofbotfiestatefiles,ITIcludingarrorders -relative to the two estates, the fee agreements in both cases, and all accountings that you had
made in both estates. The State Bar's deputy counsel followed up the Grievance Committee's
request for information by letter dated October 27, 2009. You did not provide the requested
information to the Grievance Committee.
You were subpoenaed to the State Bar Grievance Committee meeting scheduled for
January 14, 2010. You did not attend thatmeeting, claiming that your car had broken down and
you were unable to make it to the meeting.
The Grievance Committee found that your failure to respond to the various requests from
the State Bar to answer the allegations in the Complainant's grievances violated Rule 8.1 (b) and
8.4(d). You are reminded that as a licensed att9,rney in this state, you are required to cooperate
with the investigation of any grievanc(l that ll/ay,pe filed against you.
. ,,.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
;

In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council ofthe North

Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

-Q- day 0t:=4z:';;;¢;Jq:~"""~~6' 2010

rk. . <-Q~

ROllald G: Baker, Sr., ChaIr
'.. ".,,'.', ynevance Committee
.. ' .. ;.

RGB/lr

