NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
1OG0727

WAKE COUNTY

n~

THE MATTER OF

Mary S. Phillips,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)
)

On October 28,2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance <;:ommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined iu the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand. or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, butJhe misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Ms. R. H. hired you to obtain a divorce, resumption of her maiden nanle, and handle other
domestic issues. A complaint was filed on January 15, 2009 and the case came on for hearing on
March 23, 2009. At the conclusion of the hearing, the court granted the absolute divorce and
allowed Ms. H. to resume the use of her maiden name. Other issues were reserved future
disposition.

Sometime in January 2010, the clerk's office contacted you and advised that you needed
to forward the divorce judgment to Judge Paul Hardison for his review and signature. The clerk
contacted you numerous times, but with no response from you. In June 2010, Ms. H. contacted
Judge Hardison regarding the divorce judgment. Judge Hardison instructed the clerk to contact
you again to prepare the judgment for his signature. You did not respond to the judge's request
that you prepare the judgment. On Thursday, July 22, 2010, Judge Hardison called your office
and left a message that if the divorce judgment was not submitted on or before July 26,2010, you
would be reported to the North Carolina State Bar. You did not prepare the order by July 22,
2010 and your conduct was reported to the North Carolina State Bar. As a result of your failure
to prepare the divorce order as Judge Hardison requested, Judge Hardison had the divorce order
prepared and filed.
Your failure to prepare and file timely the divorce judgment violated Rule 1.3 of the
Rules of Professional Conduct. Your failure to follow Judge Hardison's request to prepare and
file the order violated Rule 8.4(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this repJimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$100.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

2-,7"

day

of_~d<-.-,-_c_._"",_ _

,2010.

~

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

