'" ~ 9 10 II /,J~

<0 \
V,
';j-

..A

,..

~

ilUl cO

:J /9'~

-j":~.

J

<".

f<:::.~

fY)

.-% t::/lSD DIiIC <::$'
ps

N

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

~
~
cf>,f!
\
!?92Sl~
BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
II DRC 6

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDEROF
DISCIPLINE

STEVEN E. PHILO. Attorney,
Defendant
Tills matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, and members Fred Morelock and
Dr. Charles L. Garrett, Jr., pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .01 14(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter.
Defendant. Steven E. Philo ("Philo"), was represented Douglas J. Brocker. Both Plaintiff
and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings offacl and conclusions of law recited in
this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Philo has freely and volun!l!fily
stipulated to the foregoing findings offuct and consents to the conclusions of law and
entry of the order of discipline. Philo freely and volwlIarily waives any and all right to
uppeal the enlry of this consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent oflhe parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings ofFaet
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North CaJ'Olina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
autbority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of tbe North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
?
Defendant, Steven E. Philo ("Philo" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on September I. ]974, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, subject to the laws orthe State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar, and the Rules ofProtessionBI Conduct.

3.
Philo was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set,
and the matter came before Ihe Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.

4.
During the relevant pedocts referred to herein, Philo was engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina at a law office in Franklin. Macon County,
North Carolina.
5.
Philo served as closing attorney for several rea! estnte transactions in
which Ultima WNC Development, LLC ("Ultima") sold loIs in the Wildflower
subdivision in Franklin, North Carolina, hereinafter referred to as "the Wildflower
transactions."
6.

Philo represented me buyers in the Wildflower transactions.

7.
In each Wildflower transaction, a lender lonned funds to the buyer fur the
buyer to purchase me Wildflower lot.
8.
The lenders sought to proleclmeir interests in these transactions through
the instructions and requirements issued to Philo as closing altorney.
9.

Philo represented each lender in the Wildflower transactions.

10.
The tenus of each Wildflower transaction were established by a purchase
contract and several addenda to tIle purchase contract.
II.
One ofme addenda (hereinafter "the buyer escrow addendum") to the
purchase contracts in tile Wildflower transactions provided that the seller, Ultima, would
deposit a designated amount ofth. purchase price into an escrow account (hereinafter
"buyer escrow account") after the closing. The amount was typically about 10-15% of
what was identified as the purchase price on the first page oflhe purchase contract. The
funds in this account were for the buyer to use to pay the monthly mortgage payments on
the loan being taken to purcbase Ibe property. The buyer escrow funds were not held or
disbursed by Philo for any of the Wildflower transactions.
12.
The funds (llereinafter referred to as "the buyer escrow") deposited into
the buyer escrow account belonged to the buyer. The runds were to be used 10 make the
buyer's monthly mortgage payments. Iflhe buyer resold the property before the funds in
the buyel' escrow account were depleted, any remaining funds were to be disbursed to the
buyer.
13.
The placement ofthese funds by Ultima into nn escrow account for the
buyer was a contractual obligation in the transaction and was an integral part of the
transnction.
14.
Philo Was aware of the buyer escrow addenda and the buyer escrow
payments in the Wildflower transactions he closed.
15.

The buyer escrow constitnted at least one oftbe following:
2

a. payment by the seller in the Wildflower transactions to the buyer;
b. payment ofthe buyer's interest on his or her mortgage loan during the
months for which paYments were covered by the funds in the buyer
escrow account;

c. a concession 10 the buyer in the Wildflower transactions;
d. a contribution by the seller in the Wildflower transactions;
c.

return of funds to the buyer. This return of funds back to the buyer in the
buyer escrow account was n credit to the buyer.

H

16.
Philo should have shown this payment of funds into the buyer escrow
account on the HUD·I Settlement Statements he produced for these transactions, in order
for the HUD·1 Settlement Statements to accurately reflect the full nature of Ibe
transactions and all receipts and disbursements in the transactions.
17.
Philo railed to show Ultima's payment of funds into the buyer escrow
accounl on (he HUD·I Settlement Statements in the Wildflowertransactions.
18.

Philo did not otherwise notifY the lenders oflbe buyer escrow payments.

19.
Several oflhe lenders who loaned funds to buyers in the Wildflower
transactions issued closing instructions to Philo ibat had provisions that were violated by
tile buyer escrow.
20.

Philo had an obligation to comply with each lender's closing instructions.

21.
Philo h.d an obligation to close the transaction only ifi! complied with the
lender's closing instnlctions.
22.
Philo had an obligation to not close the transaction if it did not comply
with the lender's closing instructions, absent notice to the lender of the TIon-compliance
and approval from ibe lender to proceed.
Philo closed Wildflower transactions even though the teTIllS violated
23.
certain lenders' closing instructions.
24.
Philo did not notifY those lenders thai the telms of the trans"ction violated
the lender's closing instructions or otherwise communicate with the lenders regarding the

apparent conflict between the closing instructions and the buyer escrow addendum.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

3

Conclusions Of Law
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Philo and the subject matter of this proceeding.
?
Philo's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84.28(b)(2) as follows:

a. By providing inaccurate lflJD·I Settlement Statements to lenders in the
WildHower lranseclions Illat failed to show the full nature of the transactions
and all receipts and disbursements in the transactions" Defendent failed to
communicate to bis clients all infOImation necessary for Ihem 10 make
infonned decisions regm'ding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b};
b. By failing to act in compliance with lenders' closing instructions, Defendant
failed to diligently represent the lenders in violation of Rule 1.3; and
c. By failing to notify lenders thaI the transactions included a buyer escrow in
conilict with a prohibition in the closing instructions, Defendent failed to
reasonably consult with the client about the means by which the client's
objectives are to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a}(2) and failed to
explain the matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pennit the client to
make infonned decisions regarding the representation in violation of l.4(b).
Upon the consem of the parlies, tbe Hearing Panel also enlers the following:
Findings OfFect Regarding Discipline

l.
Banks are not normally thought of as vulnerable entities. Nevertheless,
banks rely upon the closing attorney 10 carry out the closing in an ethical, lawful. and
proper manner. These institutions are particularly vulnerable to conduct of attorneys that
circumvents or facilitates others in the circumvention ofsafegUllfds employed by lenders.
2.
Accurale HUD·I Settlement Statements are necessary for the syslem of
finance in real eslnle to function. Lenders rely upon the HUD· I Settlement Statements to
accurately reflect the receipt and disbursement of funds in real estate closings.
3.
Substantial credits for or payments to tlte buyer can potentially affect the
lender's risk assessment of the buyer andlor the lender's evaluation of the value ofllle
collateral.
4.
Philo now appreciates how the buyer escrow could potentially have
affected Ille lender's risk assessment of the buyer and/or the lender's evaluation ofthe
value of the collateral and !hat it was information that should have been communicated 10
the lender. PWlo now appreciates that he should have shown this payment of fund. into
the buyer escrow account on tlte HUD· I Settlement Statements he produced for these
transactions, in order for the HUD· I Settlement Statements to accurately reHect the full
nature of the transactions and all receipts and disbursements in the transactions. Philo
failed 10 realize this potential effect at Ille time oftlte closings, however. and his failure to
4

show the escrow on the HUD-1 Settlement Statement was not done with any intent to
misrepresent the transaction to the lender.
5.
Lenders provided closing instructions, compliance with which were a
prerequisite to the lenders making the loans to the borrowers. Failure to comply with the
closing instructions circumvented the lenders' attempt to ensure the loons at issue were
ones it wos willing to make.
6.
Philo now acknowledges that the buyer escrow could be perceived as in
conflict with certain ofthe lenders' closing instructions. At the time, Philo assumed the
lender had tbe buyer escrow addendum because it bad the purchase contract and he did
not attempt to clarify the conflicting language in the closing instructions. Philo did not
ignore the closing instructions but, based on his assumption that the lender had the
addendum, he erroneously misinterpreted them not to prohibit the buyer escrow
arrangement. Philo is now aware that in most of the transactions the lenders had not
received the buyer escrow addendum and was not aware of the buyer escrow
arrangement. Philo now realizc.~ his obligation as clOSing attorney to communicate with
the lender when an apparent conflict arises between the terms of the transaction and the
closing instructions.

7.
Attorneys cannot assume a lender has received all pertinent information
from other sources. At least two oftbe lenders who were initially aware oftbe buyer
escrow arrangement were no longer favorably viewing this "!Tangement and might not
have proceeded with the transactions at issue if they bad been notified oflhe existence of
tlle buyer escrow by Philo on an accurate HUD-l Settlement Statement.
8.
Philo did not engage in the conduct described in the Findings of Fact
above with any dishonest or selfish motive.
9.
Philo has served the Bar and legal community, including acting as the
Chair ofthe N0l1h Carolina State Bar Lawyer's Assistance Program Board fTOm 1997 1998 and serving as a volunteer in the PALS program since at least 1992. While he was
Chair, Philo was instrumental in expanding LAP to include (he FRlENDS program. The
FRIENDS program addresses lawyers' mental healtb issues, in addition to tbe traditional
Blcohol and substance abuse issues addressed by PALS.
10.

Philo bas established a reputation for good character in his community.

11.
Philo has the following prior discipline: Reprimand, August 6,2007, for
assisting a company doing business as The Closing Place in the unauthorized proctice of
law.

12.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbannent, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

5

Based on tbe Findings of Fact and Conclusions ofLuw above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following;
Conclusions Witb Respect To Discipline

I.
The Hearing Paoel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Paoel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27N.C.A.C. IB § .Oll4{w)(J) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warraot suspension of
Defendant's license:
a) Defendant's actions potentiallY bad a negative impact on the client's or
public's perception ofthe legal profession; Dnd
b) Defendant's actions impaired his clients' ability to achieve the goals or the
representation.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.CAC. IB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbannent.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .01 14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations oflhe North Carolina State
Bar and concludes tbe following factors are applicable in this matter:
a) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
b) Defendant engaged in mUltiple offenses:
c) Defendant engaged ia a pattern of misconduct;
d) Defendant's full aud free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
e) Defendant's remorse;
f)

Defendan! bas practiced law for 38 years;

g) Defendunl's good chamcter and reputntion; and
h) The vulnerability of Defendant's clients.
4.
Defendant'S conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bur, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.
5.
The Hearing Panel bas considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
6

tile b'Tavity of the potential hann to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives nnd concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessnry to ensure Philo complies with necessary conditions to
avoid significant harm or tile potential for significant hann to clients.

7.
For tbese reasons, tbis Hearing Panel fmds that an order imposing
discipline shalt of a stayed suspension of Philo's law license would not be appropriate.
8.
Tfthe Hearing Panel bad found Philo to have committed the misconduct in
this case knowingly and intentionally, then it would have imposed much more serious
discipline. Tbe bann and potential barm that results from inaccurate HUD-l Settlement
Statements, as experienced by lenders, secondary market purchasers, real estate
professionals, and the public, cannot be overemphasized. It is important that the public
aod tbat other lawyers in Nortb Carolina understand that such conduct will not be
tolerated.

Based upon the foregoing Findings DfFact and Conclusions of Law ond the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline, and based upon the consent ofthe
porties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

Order Of Di&cipline
1.
Defendant, Steven E. Philo, is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw
for three years, elfective 30 days from service of tlus order upon Pbilo.

-2.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Philo complies, Dnd continues to comply during the period oflhe slay, with lhe following
conditions:
a. Annually submits n certification of the oreas of law in which he
practiced for the preceding 12 months. Said certifications are due no
later than December 31 of each year ofthe stay;
b. Each year orthe stay, completes 12 hours of continuing legal
education in addition to the hours required under 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter D, Section .1518. These 12 hours shall
consist of substantive education courses in lbe areas of law in which
Philo is then currentiypracticing. [fPhilo is engaged in the practice of
real property law, as defmed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter D, Section .2102, then 6 of these 12 hours must include
instruction in recognizing mortgage fraud or other fraud occurring in
residential real property transactions. These additional 12 hours must
be completed within the applicable time period for completing the
cOlltinuing legal education bours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code
7

Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .15 I 8 each year of the stay and must
be reported on the annual CLE report forms;
c.

Timely submits his annual CLE report form to the CLE deparlment of
the North Carolina State Bar eacb year oflbe stay and
contemporaneously sends a copy of the CLE report furm to the Office
of Counsel of the State Bar to document compliance with the above
conditions oftbe stay. "Timely" means by the date specified by the
CLE department as the date by which members must submit their
annual report fonns to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late filing penalty.
Philo mllSt ensure the Office of Counsel receives a copy of his annual
CLE report fonn no later than 15 days afier it is due to the CLE
department ofth. State Bar each year;

d. Pays all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments and
complies with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a
timely basis;
e. Keeps his address of record with the NOIth Carolina State Bnr current,

accepts all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and
responds to all letters of notice and requests for information from tllC
North Carolina Slnte Bar by the deadlines stated in the
communication;
f. Does not violate any oflhe Rules of ProfessiouaI Conduct in effect
during the period of the stny;
g. Does not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the stny; and

Il. Pays all costs nnd administrative rees oflhis proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within thirty (30) days after service of the notice of costs
and fees on bim.

3.
If the stay ofthe suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the following conditions are placed upon Philo's reinstatement to active
status. WiU, any petition Ph.ilo files for reinstatement to active practice, Philo must
demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he complied with each ofthe
following conditions:
a. Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective dale
of the order activating hIs suspension;
b. Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules on a timely basis;
c. Within the 12 months immediately preceding his application for
reinstatement, completed 12 hours of continuing legal education in real
8

property law as defined in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter J,
Subchapter D, Section .2102. 6 of these 12 hours must include
instruction in recognizing mortgage fraud or other fraud occurring in
residential real property transactions;
d. Not have violated any of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
e. Not have violated any laws of the State ofNol1h Carolina or oftbe
United States;
f.

Paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by dIe Secretary within
thirty (30) days of service of the notice of costs upon him;

4.
Any order of the Administrative Committee Ortlle North Carolina State
Bar placing Philo in inactive status for any reason shall toll the nmning oftlle suspension,
the period ofU1e stay of the suspension, and Philo's obligation to comply with the terms
of the stay oftbe suspension under this order. Upon Philo's reinstatement to active status
by the Administrative Committee, the tolling oftbe running ofthe suspension and the
stay of the suspension under this order shall be lifted, at which time Philo's obligation to
comply widl the conditions oflhe stay oflhe suspension in this order will reslIme.
S.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction oflhis
mailer pursunnt to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .OI14(x) cfthe
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel chair with the consent orlhe olher
Hearing Panel members.
This th~day of

~~f

,n /7
~A~
2012.

~

~

Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Consent Order of Discipline con coming Steven E. Philo, 11 DHC 6
Agreed and consented to by:

(~~-'=~0--.--------'--'"
..... ..---Jeilnifer A. Porter
,...--.,
Attorney for Plaintiff

~j&~~g,~
Steven E. Philo
Defendant

Duglas J. ra
.
Attorney for Defendant

9

