BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G0904

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
JEFFREY 1. PHILOGENE,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 19,2018 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. The grievance was
assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staff s
investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You are associated with "Upright Law" of Chicago, Illinois, also known as "Law
Solutions Chicago LLC," doing business as "Law Solutions PLLC" and possibly also known as
"Allen Chern Law," "Jason Allen Law," "Allen & Associates, LLC," and "Immediate Payroll
Information Services, LLC." Upright maintains a website, advertising that it can provide legal
representation for consumers filing for bankruptcy or in financial distress across the nation. The

website states that the firm has multiple lawyers in North Carolina who are identified as
"partners" in the film. Each of these North Carolina lawyers has his or her own law practice in
addition to being a "patiner" in Upright. Most of these North Carolina lawyers have signed
agreements with the firm under which they are "non-equity, non-voting paliners."
If a consumer responds to the film's advertising through the website or contacts Upright
on its toll-free telephone line, the consumer first discusses his or her matter with nonlawyers in a
call center in Chicago; these nonlawyers will ask initial questions, collect information, and quote
fees the firm will charge the client. The nonattorney would "provide a general description of
various kinds of debt relief services," "gather the prospective client's debit card, [and] obtain the
prospective client's verbal authorization to use the card to process payments toward legal
services[.]" After the nonattorneys sign the person up with the firm, the clients generally speak
with you. You will advise the clients as to which type of bankruptcy is best for them and will
allegedly select which attorney will be representing the client. You will also answer any
questions they may have about the law, their case, bankruptcy, and the process; this advice is
legal advice. You provide this advice to clients of various states despite only being licensed in
North Carolina. By providing legal advice to clients in various states in matters of litigation that
are pending in comis before which you are not licensed, you are engaging in the unauthorized
practice of law in violation of Rule S.S(a).
In determining that a Reprimand was appropriate in this matter, the Committee noted the
lack of remorse or understanding of the compliance issues shown in your response to this matter.
The Committee also noted that you are continuing to work for Upright despite the obvious issues
with the firm's practices. The Committee is hopeful that this Reprimand will lead you to take
immediate remedial actions and never again engage in this type of misconduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the NOlih Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of$350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ~ day of -i-=-'--=-''--+_ _----=-_ ____/'

DM/lb

