NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTI-I CAROLINA STATE BAR
0660588

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

1

NIICITA V. MACKEY
Attorney At Law

1
1
1
1

REPRIMAND

On October 23,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by L. Washington.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifiing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing bcfore the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issuc an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented Mr. Washington in a domestic matter. The Grievance Committee
concluded that you neglected Mr. Wasl~ington'smatter by failing to appear in court in violation
of Rule 1.3: Diligence and failed to adequately communicate with Mr. Washington in violation
of Rule 1.4(a): Communication. The Committee also found that the fee you attempted to collect
from Mr. Washington is excessive in that the fee agreement calls for payment of $4,000 plus an

hourly rate without explaining what services Mr. Washington will receive for the $4,000 or when
the hourly billing begins. Your written fee agreement is therefore in violation of Rule 1.5(a) and
(b): Fees.
In addition, you were twice aslted by local Grievance Committee to provide a written
response to the grievance. You failed to do so. In December 2007 you did forward to the State
Bar a response letter dated June 7,2006 purporting to be your original response to the local
Committee. The Committee however concluded that your representation that you had responded
to the local Committee was false in violation of Rule 8.l(a): Bar Admission and Disciplinary
Matters and Rule 8.4(c): Misconduct. Lastly, since your response was not received until
December 2007, your response was not timely filed in violation of Rule 8.4(d): Misconduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15,1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing orthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

13% day of

v\hA

C).

G levance Committee

,2008

