BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
16G0117 & 16G0124

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
F. GREY POWELL,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 21, 2016, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar and T. B. The grievances were assigned
to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staff's investigation of these
matters.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Subcommittee found
probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of
the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detelmine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You associated with at least seven out-of-state law films (Credit Advocates Law Firm, Granite
Law, Legal Helpers Debt Resolution, Phoenix Legal Group, Lighthouse Tax and Financial, Cornerstone
Legal Group, and Pioneer Law) engaged in debt adjusting and the unauthorized practice of law in North
Carolina. During your association with these firms, you provided legal services to North Carolina
residents on behalf of and at the direction of out-of-state parties.
By providing legal services to North Carolina residents on behalf of and at the direction of these
out-of-state firms, you aided other entities in the unauthorized practice oflaw and in the crime of debt
adjusting in violation of Rule 5.5(f) and Rule 8.4(b), respectively. By claiming to provide legal services
via an out-of-state law firm that is not authorized to provide legal services here, you made false or

misleading statements about your services, in violation of Rule 7.1 (a). Moreover, you shared a fee with a
nonattorney and collected an illegal fee by accepting a portion of the fees collected by these firms from
North Carolina consumers in violation of Rule 5.4(a) and Rule 1.5(a), respectively.
In detelmining that a censure was appropriate in this case, the Committee took into account the
harm that necessarily results whenever attorneys aid umegistered, out-of-state entities in the unauthorized
practice of law and debt adjusting, particularly when money exchanges hands, court appearances are made,
and legal forms are drafted or filed on behalf of others. The Committee also considered the fact that you
were participating with at least seven different entities engaged in the unauthorized practice of law. The
Committee considered the significant number of cases on which you worked, the substantial amount of
money you made, the remedial actions you took by immediately terminating your relationship with these
firms and taking steps to protect the interests of your clients after your departure, and the remorse you
expressed that inspires confidence that this behavior will not be repeated.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the cOUlis, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

DM/lb

~ day of ~

IA s:..y

, 2016.

