BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14G0142

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
F. Grey Powell,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April16, 2015 the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar. The grievance was assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staff's investigation ofthis
matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In June 2012, you entered into an employment agreement with a California law firm,
Granite Law California, LLP ("Granite Law") to provide services in connection with the firm's
North Carolina clients. The law firm was not registered with the Nmih Carolina State Bar or the

North Carolina Secretary of State. The firm's two equity partners were licensed in California, but
not in North Carolina. You were listed as a "Granite Law Partner" on Granite Law's website.
Your primary involvement with Granite Law entailed reviewing loan modification documents for
spelling and clerical errors. Your partnership agreement with Granite Law provided that Granite
Law would pay you $50/file review. You were not paid by Granite Law's clients nor did you
routinely communicate with the clients. You reviewed about four files/month in 2013.
The Grievance Committee found that your arrangement with Granite Law California, LLP
assisted that entity in engaging in the unauthorized practice of law in North Carolina in violation
of Rules 5.5(a) and 8.4(a) ofthe North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attomey
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

b--1-k

day of -~A'----''-'-'-ft_,Y___

~J-

M-t.

'2015.

~

~rstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

