WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

)

IN RE: THE MATTER OF THE PETITION)
FOR REINSTATEMENT OF
)
)

LEEANNE QUATTRUCCI

)

ORDER STAYING
SUSPENSION

)
)

--------------------------~)-------------------------THIS MATTER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant
to a Petition for an Order Staying Suspension filed by LeeAmle Quattrucci on May 8,
2012.
Based upon the petition and a review of the records of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Secretary makes !be following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
On November 3, 2011, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DHC) entered an Order of Discipline in North Carolina State Bar v.
LeeAnne Quattrucci, II DHC 12 (hereinafter "the Order").

2.
The Order suspended Quattrucci's license to practice law for a period of
three years, effective November 8, 2011. The Order provided that, at any time after
serving six months of the active suspension of her license, Quattrucci could file a
petition seeking a stay of the remaining period of her suspension upon compliance with
the conditions stated in the Order.
3.
On May 8, 2012, Quattrucci submitted a petition requesting a stay of the
remaining p0l1ion of her active suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status
subject to the continuing conditions and requirements set forth in the Order.
4.
The Order required that Quattrucci be in compliance with a number of
conditions to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of her suspension.
5.
In her petition, Quattrucci described the actions she has taken to comply
with the conditions of the Order and provided supporting documentation.
6.
petition.

Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar does not object to Quattrucci's

7.
Counsel for the Petitioner and Connsel for the State Bar have agreed to
waive the thirty-day period provided in Rule .0125(b)(2) of the State Bar's Discipline
and Disability Rules, and consent to Quattrucci's reinstatement to active status on a date
less than thirty days from the tiling of her petition.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, and without any evidence
presented in opposition to the petition, the Secretary makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. The petitioner, LeeAnne Quattrucci, has satisfied the conditions established in
the Order for a stay of her suspension and reinstatement to active status, subject to the
continuing conditions set forth in the Order.
2. Quattrucci's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon
compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order.
BASED UPON the findings and conclusions stated herein, the Secretary hereby
enters the following:
ORDER
1. The remaining active suspension of Quattrucci's license imposed by the Order
in II DHC 12 is hereby stayed and Quattrucci is reinstated to the active practice oflaw in
North Carolina as of the date of this order.
2. The stay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions, and
requirements set forth in the Order.
3. Quattrucci's status as an active member of the North Carolina State Bar is
contingent upon her compliance with all of the remaining conditions set forth in the
Order.
This the 10 'day of

7~1 do!

2012.

,J

c--~

.=\ .

,\-~, ~-,~'k~-,) J
/cn

,

/

L. Thomas Lunsford II, Secr5)ary
North Carolina State Bar C.

2

i

