NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14G0766

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
CORINNE A. RAILEY,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 21, 2016 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by 1. H. The grievance was assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results ofthe State Bar staffs investigation of this
matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented 1.H. in a domestic case. 1.H. was unwilling to provide certain materials
requested by the opposing party in discovery without a protective order in place. Even after the
court entered a protective order, you failed to produce the discovery materials, in violation of
Rule 3.2 and Rule 8.4(d). In late May 2014, the court entered an orderrequiring your client to
pay $600 to his wife on the first of every month "beginning in May," and to pay an additional

$500 by July 1. You received a copy of the order soon after it was entered, and directed your
staff to mail it to lH. Your staff failed to do so, you did not attempt to contact lH. by phone or
email, and your client was therefore unaware of his obligations under the order. Consequently,
the opposing party filed and scheduled for hearing a motion for contempt. Your assistant
emailed the May 2014 post-separation support order and the motion for contempt to lH. on 17
July 2014, without any explanation of his obligations under the order, the fact that he was already
in arrears, or of why you had not timely notified him of the order. As a result of your inattention
to his case, lH. was sanctioned by the court. Your actions in lH.' s case after the May 2014
order was entered constituted a lack of diligence in violation of Rule 1.3, failure to communicate
in violation of Rules l.4(a) and (b), and inadequate supervision of your non-lawyer assistant(s) in
violation of Rule 5.3.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

~ of---.L~:fZ.l~!4':~=--_ _'
ichael L. Robinson, Chair
Grievance Committee

MLRllb

