WAKE COUNTY

IN THE GENERAL COURTS OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
09 CVS

NORTH CAROLINA

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PETITIONER,
v.
DEMETFUUS G. RAINER, ATTORNEY,
P&SPONDEF!T.

1
1

)

>

AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER
OF LAW LICENSE

)

Denletrius G. Rainer, being first duly swosn, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina. .
2. My resignation is freely and volu~ltarilyrendered. It is not the result of coercio~lor duress. I .
am fi111y aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3. I am aware that there is pending an investigation regarding allegations that I (a) engaged in a
conspiracy with members of Mol-tgage Fraud Cell No. 3 to c o ~ n n ~offenses
it
against the United
States, including rnaking a false statement in relation to a loan, engaging in nail fraud and
engaging in bank fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1014, 1341 and 1344; (b) engaged in a
conspiracy with members of Mol-tgage Fraud Cell No. 3 to launder monetary proceeds of
fraudulent real estate transactions in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1956(11); (c) engaged with lnelnbers of
Moltgage Fraud Cell No. 3 iil inail fsaud in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1341; and (d) engaged in a
conspiracy with Alfreda McLean to launder nlonetary proceeds of the mllawf~lldistribution of
r,o!~tro!led s ~ b s t ~ n cin
e sviolation c?fU.S.C. 1956(!?).
4. I have entered my plea of guilty to these charges. I am in fact guilty of these charges.
5. I acknowledge the truth of the inaterial facts upon which the investigation is predicated.

6. I know that if disciplinaly charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I
could not successfillly defend against them.
This the

& day of
Demetrlus G. Rainer

I, h & d e h ) . H e a ~Notary
, Public of the County of hecg/pnburol,State of
North Carolina, certify that Demetrius G. Rainer personally appeared before me this?day, was
sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of her own personal knowledge,
and executed the foregoing Affidavit.
,2009.

Notary Public

IN THE GENERAL COURTS OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
09 CVS

WAISE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

)
)
)
)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PETITIONER,

1
1
1

v.
DEMETRIUS G. MINER, ATTORNEY,
RESPONDENT.

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DlSBARMENT

)

1

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard by the undersigned Judge of the
Superior Court of Wake County. Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by
Katherine E. Jean. Respondent, Demetrius G. Rainer, was represented by James F. Wyatt, 111and
Robert A. Blake, Jr.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the court by
Deinetrius G. Rainer, the court makes the following:

INGS OF FACT
1. Demetrius G. Rainer operated a law office in Charlotte, Nortl~Carolina.
2. Rainer combined and conspired with Mortgage Fraud Cell No. 3 as alleged in the Bill of
Inforlnation filed in Case No. 3:08-cr-00239-MR pending in the United States District Court for
the Western District of North Carolina. Railler combined and conspired with Alfreda McLean as
alleged in the Bill of Information filed in Case No. 1:08 cr 439 pending in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia.
3. Rainer has entered a plea of guilty in 3:OX-cr-00239-MR to the following criminal offenses:
(a) engaging in a conspiracy wit11 nlelnbers of Mortgage Fraud Cell No. 3 to commit offenses
against the United States, including making a false statement in relation to a loan, engaging in
mail fraud and engaging in bank fraud, in violatioll of 18 U.S.C. 1014, 1341 and 1344; (b)
engaging in a conspiracy with members of Mortgage Fraud Cell 140.3 to launder monetary
proceeds of fraudulent real estate transactions in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1956(11); (c) engaging
with members of Mortgage Fraud Cell No. 3 in mail fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1341; and (d)
engaging in a conspiracy wit11 Alfreda McLean to launder the monetary proceeds of the u~llawful
distribution of controlled substances in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1956(11).

4. Raker is in fact guilty of these charges.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By (a) engaging in a conspiracy with members of Mortgage Fraud Cell No. 3 to coininit
offenses against the United States, including making a false statelnent in relation to a loall,
engaging in Inail fraud and engaging in banlc fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1014, 1341 and
1344; (b) engaging in a conspiracy with members of Mortgage Fraud Cell No. 3 to launder the
lnonetary proceeds of fraudulent real estate transactions in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1956(h); (c)
engaging with members of Mortgage Fraud Cell No. 3 in mail fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C.
1341; and (d) engaging in a conspiracy with Alfreda McLean to launder the monetary proceeds of
the unlawf~ildistribution of controlled substances in violation of U.S.C. 1956(h), Rainer violated
Rules 8.4(b) and (c) of the North Carolina Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. Rainer's lnisconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Section 8428(b)(2).
IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:

I . Deinetrius G. Rainer is DISBARRED froin the practice of law in North Carolina. The
disbarment is effective upon entry of this order by the court.
2. Rainer shall co~nplywith the provisions of 27 N.C. Adtnin. Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Section.0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and shall surrender 11er
license and pei-inanent meinbersllip card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along
with the affidavit required by $j .0124. Rainer has been given time to wind down her law practice
prior to entry of this disbwnent order; accordingly, her affidavit of co~npliancewit11 the
provisions of Sectioi~.0124 must be received by the State Bar within 10 days of tlle entry of this
order.

3. The costs of this action are taxed against De~netriusG. Rainer
Done and Ordered this 5th day of March, 2009.

e

Icatherine E. Jean
e
y for the North Carolina State Bar
n

Deinetrius G. Rainer

Robei-t A. ~ y a k eJr.
,
Attorneys for Respondent

