~~J""­
«( ?j";"

/-'\~ I:> cU l

<"\'.

NORTH CAROLINA:;;""

~:

~

WAKE COUNTY

:::.
~
.. &

...d

~

o~
"'t~,

BEFORE THE
/:-Stp. 20 70
~SCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
If".' t;:-:;51
OF THE
J t,;;,l)
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
<::;j!
09 DHC 13
,t~~

E1

.~~ 'v;0?:)
.=:..;.--

The North Carolina State Bar,
Plaintiff,

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

v.

]anet P. Reed,
Defendant.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

This matter came on to be heard and was heard before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, C. Colon Willoughby, ]r., ]. Michael Booe, and
David L Williams on August 20, 2010. The Plaintiff was represented by William N. Fan'ell,
Deputy Counsel. Defendant was represented by Dudley A. Witt. Based upon the pleadings, the
stipulated facts and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing panel hereby finds by
clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.

Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of

North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding tmder the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated therel111der.
2.

Defendant, Janet P. Reed (hereinafter "Defendant" or "Reed"), was admitted to

the North Carolina State Bar on September 12, 1997, and is an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

3.

DUling all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, Reed was

actively engaged in the private practice oflaw in Jacksonville, Onslow County, North Carolina.
4.

On or about October II, 2007 Reed was appointed to represent Jeremy Cox

(hereinafter "Cox") in Onslow County District Criminal Court for multiple traffic offenses
including speeding 90 miles per hour in a 45 mile per hour zone and reckless driving in File No.
06CR5216 and speeding 71 miles per hour in a 55 mile per hour zone and driving while license
revoked in File No. 06CR703 796.
5.

Reed was also representing Cox on another traffic infraction for unsafe passing,

File No. 06IF4088.
6.

On or about February 20, 2008, Reed approached Matthew V. Silva (hereinafter

"Silva"), Assistant District Attorney for the Fourth Prosecutorial District, in court to negotiate a
plea agreement on behalf of Cox.
7.

Reed and Silva reached an agreement in File No. 06CR5216 that upon successful

completion of an eight (8) hour driving course Cox would be allowed to plead guilty to speeding
70 mph in a 45 mph zone to resolve the charges of speeding 90 mph in a 45 mph zone and
careless and reckless driving. Silva also stated he would not oppose a Prayer for Judgment
continued on the 70 mph in a 45 mph zone.
8.

At the time Silva agreed to this disposition in 06CR5216, he was unaware of

Cox's pending unsafe passing infraction, File No. 06IF4088.
9.

At the time Silva agreed to the disposition in 06CR5216, he was also unaware of

Cox's pending charges of speeding 71 mph in a 55 mph zone and Driving While License
Revoked in File No. 06CR703796.
10.

Silva prepared a plea agreement fonn, reflecting the proposed disposition in

06CR5216, by filling in the case number 06CR5216, marking "90/45 C&R" as the charge and
-2-

marking "70/45" as the plea. The form did not contain Silva's agreement not to object to a
Prayer for Judgment Continued.
II.

After preparing the plea agreement form Silva signed the form and handed the

document to Reed.
12.

Reed then informed Silva of Cox's pending unsafe passing infi-action, File No.

06IF4088.
13.

Silva agreed to allow Reed to add the unsafe passing infraction, File No.

06IF4088, to the plea agreement form, after verifying with Reed that the addition would be
limited to a single infraction of lillsafe passing. In return for this addition, Cox would be
required to plead to an additional charge of improper equipment in lieu of unsafe passing in File
No. 06IF4088.
14.

Reed agreed and was given permission by Silva to amend the plea agreement to

renect the additional negotiation described in paragraph 13.
15.

Silva was unaware of the pending charges of71/55 and Driving While License

Revoked in File No. 06CR703796 when he made the additional agreement described in
paragraph 13.
16.

With Silva's authorization, Reed made the following additions to the plea

agreement form:
a)

By the case number, she added "06IF4088"

b)

By the charge, she added "& Unsafe Passing"

c)

By the plea, she added "& IE"

17.

Without Silva's authorization Reed also added the File No. "06CR703796" to the

plea agreement form.

-3-

18.

Reed and Cox signed the plea agreement form and Reed returned it to Silva, who

was in trial at the time and unable to review it.
19.

When Silva had the opportunity to review the plea agreement fonn he noticed that

Reed had added File No. 06CR703796 to the agreement without obtaining his approval or
notifying him that she had added this file to the plea agreement.
20.

After he noticed the unauthorized addition of File No. 06CR703796, Silva

notified Reed's practice mentor of what Reed had done and to infonn him that the plea
agreement was no longer valid.
21.

The next day, in Reed's presence, Silva told the presiding District Court Judge

that the plea agreement was no longer valid and that he would prosecute each charge against Cox
individually and without reduction because he could not tmst Reed.
The presiding Judge called Cox to the front of the courtroom and asked if Cox

22.

wanted Reed to continue to represent him.
Cox responded in the negative and Silva requested to have Reed removed as

23.

appointed counsel for Cox.
24.

The court appointed new counsel for Cox.

25.

The effect of adding File No. 06CR703796 to the plea agreement could have

resulted in a dismissal of the offenses of speeding 71 mph in a 55 mph zone and driving while
license revoked by the District Attorney's office.
26.

Bobby Franklin Blakeney, Jr. (hereinafter "Blakeney") retained Reed in or about

April 2008 to represent him in domestic matters including but not limited to Divorce from Bed
and Board, Equitable Distribution, Child Custody and Child Support.
27.

Reed filed a Complaint on behalf of Blakeney in Onslow County on or about

April 15,2008.
-4-

28.

Blakeney's wife filed a similar action in California.

29.

After discussion between the California and North Carolina courts, it was

determined that the issue of custody would properly be heard in North Carolina and either state
could hear the other matters.
30.

Reed calendared the issues of temporary custody, visitation and summer vacation

forJuly21,2008.
31.

Under the local Rules of Court for Onslow County, "all actions involving

unresolved, contested, or temporary issues, or change of custody and visitation of a minor child
shall be ordered to mandatory mediation on such issues prior to trial."
32.

This mandatory mediation is required in all cases unless exempted by the Court.

33.

Reed filed for an exemption by a Motion and Order to waive Custody Mediation

in Blakeney's case on or about June 25, 2008.
34.

Reed falsely stated in the motion that Blakeney lived more than fifty (50) miles

from Court. Where the parties reside more than 50 miles from the Court, such distance is
considered good cause for an exemption in the discretion of the COUlt under local rules.
35.

Reed also falsely stated in the motion that the opposing party was unwilling to

participate in any meaningful contact with the minor child. This allegation was untrue because
the minor child was residing with Blakeney's wife at that time.
36.

Blakeney discussed the incorrect information in the motion with Reed before

Blakeney and Reed signed the motion and before Reed filed the motion with the court.
37.

Reed advised Blakeney to sign the Motion even though she knew the allegation in

paragraphs 35 and 36 were false.

-5-

38.

Reed was retained to represent Richard J. Ogniewski (hereinafter "Mr.

Ogniewski") in the case entitled Kristie K. Ogniewski vs. Richard Ogniewski, File No.: 08 CVD
4036, Onslow County District Court.
39.

Kristie K. Ogniewski, (hereinafter "Ms. Ogniewski") the Plaintiff in 08 CVD

4036, was represented by attorney Timothy Oswalt (hereinafter "Oswalt").
40.

Oswalt contacted Reed on March 5, 2009, requesting available dates to depose

Mr. Ogniewski.
41.

Reed's paralegal, Dorothy J. Novak, responded to Oswalt, on behalf of Reed, that

April 8, 2009 would be an acceptable date for Mr. Ogniewski' s deposition.
42.

On March 25,2009, Oswalt noticed Mr. Ogniewski, by and through Reed, of his

intent to depose Mr. Ogniewski on April 8, 2009.
43.

On March 31, 2009, Reed filed calendar requests for April 7, 2009 and April 8,

2009, the date before and the date of the scheduled deposition, asking that all pending motions be
heard. At tlle time iliat these calendar requests were filed the only pending motion was a motion
to modify post separation support. This request was in violation of the local mle requiring
calendar requests to be submitted no later than 10 (ten) days prior to the beginning of the session.
44.

On April 1,2009, Reed filed a Motion to Continue Deposition and an Amended

Motion to Continue Deposition with no corresponding calendar request.
45.

On April 8, 2009, tlle presiding judge refused to hear any of Reed's motions.

46.

Reed and Mr. Ogniewski presented themselves at 2:00 p.m. on April 8, 2009 at

Oswalt's law offices for the scheduled deposition of Mr. Ogniewski.
47.

Prior to the commencement of the deposition, Reed agreed to standard

stipulations which included waiving objection as to the notice of taking said deposition or as to
the time or place thereof.
-6-

48.

Shortly after the deposition began Reed unilaterally tenuinated the deposition

stating that the deposition was being conducted in bad faith and in an unreasonable maImer,
aIuong other things.
49.

In a Motion to Terminate Deposition, filed on April 9, 2009, the day after the

deposition was tenuinated, Reed stated, among other things, that the questions presented "were
not part of any prior discovery question" and "that the Defendant or Defendant's counsel was not
put on notice as to the line of questions to be presented".
50.

Ms. Ogniewski, plaintiff in 08 CVD 4036, incurred expenses and inconvenience,

including attorney's fees as a result of Reed's termination of the deposition without justification.
51.

On April 30, 2009, the presiding judge denied Reed's Motion to Terminate

Deposition and found, in part, "that the deposition was not conducted in bad faith or in such a
manner as to w1reasonably aImoy, harass or oppress the defendant".
52.

Reed was ordered to pay the cost of the partial deposition as well as Ms.

Ogniewski's attorney fees.
53.

There is no lcgal authority to terminate a properly noticed deposition on the

grOlmds "that the questions presented to the defendant were not part of any prior discovery
questions" aIld/or "that the defendaIlt or the defendant's counsel was not put on notice as to the
line of questions to be presented".
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel hereby enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I.

All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel aIld the panel has jurisdiction

over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.

-7-

2.

Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grOlmds for discipline pursuant to N.C.

General Statute § 84-28(b)(2) in that she violated one or more of the Rules of Professional
Conduct as follows:
a.

By failing to disclose to Silva the existence of File No. 06 CR 703796 and adding

it to the plea agreement form after it was signed by Silva without notifying Silva, Reed
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation and engaged
in conduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rules 8A(c) and (d)
of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
b.

By advising a client to sign a Motion which falsely represented material facts and

by filing the fOD11 containing false representations with the Onslow County District
Court, Reed engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation
and engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of
Rules 1.2(d), 3.3, 8A(c) and (d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
c.

By failing to comply with the localmles of court, and by failing to make

reasonably diligcnt efforts to comply with a legally proper discovery request, Reed
handled a legal matter that she knew or should have known she was not competent to
handle in violation of Rule 1.1 of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
d.

By lmjustifiably teD11inating a properly noticed and ongoing deposition of her

client, Reed failed to make a reasonably diligent effort to comply with a legally proper
discovery request by an opposing pm1y in violation of Rule 3A(d)(2) and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8A(d) in violation
of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

-8-

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and upon the
evidence and arguments presented at the hearing conceming appropriate discipline, the I-Iearing
Panel hereby finds the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.

IB§ .01 14(w) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and finds the
following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

Prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

A pattern of misconduct;

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;

e.

Negative impact of the Defendant's actions on client's or public perception of the

legal profession;
f.

Negative impact of the Defendant's actions on the administration ofjustice;

g.

Substantial experience in the practice oflaw;

h.

Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attitude toward the

proceeding; and
1.

Remorse.

2.

Defendant's conduct in the plea negotiation with Assistant District Attorney Silva

caused significant hann to the administration of justice and to her client.
3.

Defendant's conduct in the signing and filing of a motion which falsely stated

material facts caused significant hann to the administration of justice.
4.

Defendant's conduct in terminating a deposition without legal justification caused

significant harm to the administration ofjustice.

-9-

5.

Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the legal profession in that her

acts bring the legal profession into disrepute.
6.

The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline

available to it including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension and disbannent, in
considering appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
7.

The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser fOnTIS of discipline available to it and

finds that suspension is the only appropriate discipline in this case for the following reasons:
a.

The factors under Rule .OI14(w)(l)(A) and the general factors under Rule

.Ol14(w)(3) that are established by the evidence in this case are of a nature to SUppOlt
imposition of a suspension.
b.

Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail to

acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would fail to
acknowledge her prior discipline, would be inconsistent with discipline issued in prior
cases involving similar misconduct, and would send the wrong message to Defendant, to
other attorneys, and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar;
c.

Defendant's conduct reflects adversely on her trustworthiness or fitness as a

lawyer.
d.

Discipline short of an active suspension would not adequately protect the public,

the administration ofjustice, and the legal profession. The protection of the public and
the legal profession requires that Defendant be suspended so that she understands her
obligations to her clients, the public, the legal profession and the administration of
justice.

-10-

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Conclusions
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I.

The law license of Defendant, Janet P. Reed, is hereby suspended for five (5)

years elTective thirty (30) days after service of this Order of Discipline on her.
2.

Defendant shall submit her license and membership card to the Secretary of the

North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following service of this Order on Defendant.
3.

Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.A.C.

1B § .0124, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an
affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within ten days of the effective date
of this Order of Discipline certifying she has complied with the wind down rule.
4.

Within fifteen days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant will provide the

State Bar with a street address and mailing address at which clients seeking return of their files
and records in Defendant's possession or control may obtain such files and records and at which
the State Bar may serve any notices or other matters upon her.
5.

Defendant must show she has complied with each of the following conditions

during her period of suspension before seeking reinstatement:
a.

Not have violated any laws of the State of North Carolina or the United States;

b.

Not have violated any provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct;

c.

Paid the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of the Bar within 30

days;
d.

Kept her address with the State Bar current;

e.

Promptly accepted all certified mail from the Bar;

-11-

f.

Responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from the Bar by the

deadline stated in the communication;
g.

Satisfactorily completed a law office management course taught by a law office

management consultant, approved in wTiting by the Office of Counsel of the Bar within 6
months of petitioning for reinstatement;
h.

Satisfactorily completed a lawyer's ethics course of continuing legal education

with the primary emphasis on professionalism in the practice of law, approved in writing
by the office of counsel of the Bar, within 6 months of petitioning for reinstatement; and
1.

Completed a practical skills course of continuing legal education in the course

area of fanlily law, approved in writing by the office of counsel of the Bar, within 6
months of petitioning for reinstatement.
6.

Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action and assessed by the Secretary to

be paid within 30 days of the service of this Order of Discipline upon Defendant.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with fulllmowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Panel.
This is the? 2-ctay of

I:ooLe,
J»~ , 20 I O.
I
/'-""

C~l~ CC/LQJ?

C. Colon Willoughby, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-12-

\

~

