WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

'\ '6 910 1Tlc'.J
fl.'()
. 4\ 'l...'
1"1"

BEFORE THE
Y HEARING COMMISSION
-....I.
iFfll:;'
..
~.
OF THE
·m.~Ii} Df~R ~ CAROLINA STATE BAR
.&&
15DHC2

MA~G1lpir.N

C.;
'1_ '

;:'

i';'.

.

\"~.C>/J.,)

_," '\1~

.

";t&.~'t
)
CONSENT ORDER TRANSFERRING
Plaintiff
) DEFENDANT TO DISABILITY INACTIVE
v.
) STATUS AND STAYING DISCIPLINARY
)
PROCEEDING
MARY Z. ALEXANDER REED, Attorney,
)
)
Defendant )
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, Irvin W. Hankins, III, and Michael S. Edwards. Catmen
Hoyme Bannon represented the North Carolina State Bar. Douglas J. Brocker represented
Defendant, Maty Z. Alexander Reed. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the transfer of Defendant to disability inactive
status. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any right to appeal the entry of this consent order
transfen-ing her to disability inactive status.
Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Mary Z. Alexander Reed, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
1990 and is an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the
State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant periods refen-ed to herein, Reed engaged in the practice oflaw in
the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina.
4.
Reed's ability to practice law is impaired by depression, panic attacks, and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
5.
In December 2009, Reed was the victim of a violent attack for which the perpetrator
:was subsequently convicted of attempted murder. Her injuries were so severe that she required more

than two weeks of hospitalization. Following this traumatic event, she sought mental health
treatment for panic attacks and bouts of depression.
6.

Reed cUlTently meets the diagnostic criteria for PTSD and major depressive disorder.

7.
Although Reed has been in treatment for these conditions for approximately a year,
her current PTSD and depression substantially interfere with her cognitive and emotional
functioning. Given the nature of Reed's prior trauma, her PTSD symptoms were frequently
triggered by her work as a criminal defense attorney, and she stopped representing clients in criminal
cases.
8.
Reed's PTSD is a mental condition that significantly impairs her professional
judgment, perf01111ance or competence as an attorney.
9.
Reed's major depressive disorder may also be a mental condition that significantly
impairs her professional judgment, performance or competence as an attorney.
10.

Reed requests and consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinaly Hearing Commission, and the DHC
has jurisdiction over Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Reed is disabled within the meaning of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0103(19) and should be
transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0118 and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8428(g).
3.
DisciplinalY proceedings in this case should be stayed as long as Reed remains in
disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118(e). If Reed is retm'ned to active status
by the DHC, the disciplinalY proceeding will be rescheduled by the Chair of the Commission.
ORDER
I.
Defendant, MalY Z. Alexander Reed, is hereby transferred to disability inactivc status
in accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g) and 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0118(d)(5).
2.
Reed shall refi'ain from practicing law in North Carolina Ulltil she is reinstated to
active status by the DHC pursuant to the procedures set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0125(c).
3.
The disciplinary action filed by Plaintiff is stayed until such time as Defendant is
reinstated to active status.

4.
This order shall be effective immediately upon entry pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. I B §
.OI18(d)(5)(A).

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this is thed

ofM.y,201S.

~

~~

Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Consented to:

!:/:lei~~
Defendant

Attorney for Defendant

~ii.4S... ... ,~

Calmen Hoyme Bannon,
Attorney for Plaintiff

~

