BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G1169

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
SHANNON T. REID,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 26, 2018 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by O. R The grievance was assigned to a Subcommittee, which
thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Subcommittee found
probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of
the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
O. R. hired you in July 2016 to handle an expunction case. You did not give Mr. R. an update
on the status of his expunction case, in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3)(4). In February 2017, Mr. R. hired
you to handle his speeding/reckless driving charges. In your response to this grievance, you indicated
that you were still working on Mr. R.'s behalf to achieve a favorable disposition in those charges.
However, you failed to keep Mr. R. updated on the status of the speeding/reckless driving charges, in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3)(4).
You have not completed the expunction case. In your response to the grievance, you stated that
the expunction case was delayed so that you could resolve the criminal charges against Mr. R.
Nevertheless, the Grievance Committee found that your failure to diligently attend to the expunction

case violated Rule 1.3. The Grievance Committee noted that you refunded the attorney's fee that Mr.
R. paid you.
Mr. R. filed a grievance against you with the 27-A Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee
(local grievance committee). You were notified of the grievance and asked to provide a written
response. You did not file a written response with the local grievance committee. Mr. Douglas
Arthurs, chair of the local grievance committee, called you about this grievance and you did not return
Mr. Arthurs' call. The investigating attorney tried to call you on several occasions. On February 7,
2018, you called the investigating attorney and promised to file a written response, as well as refund the
attorney's fee to Mr. R. You did not file a written response to the grievance, but you did refund the
attorney's fee to Mr. R. When asked why you did not respond to the local grievance committee, you
indicated that you believed you could resolve your differences with Mr. R. You further stated that
before you and Mr. R. could resolve your differences, the grievance had been sent to the North Carolina
State Bar for investigation. You had an obligation to respond to the local grievance committee, even
prior to settling your differences with Mr. R. Your failure to respond to the local grievance committee
violated Rule 8.1 (b) and Rule 8.4(d).
The Grievance Committee noted in issuing this censure that you received a reprimand in 2009
for failure to respond to a grievance and a reprimand in 2016, for neglect of a client's traffic case,
failure to respond to the client's inquiries about the case, failure to respond to the fee dispute facilitator
and failure to answer follow-up questions regarding the grievance.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourrelf as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this

77.. ~ay of

~ "' )CT""

De

DMilb

