NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09GI03I

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Shannon T. Reid,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 15, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by A. D.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a wlitten form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
A. D. filed a grievance against you with the North Carolina State Bar on August 31,2009,

alleging that you neglected his domestic case. You were served with a letter of notice which
apprised you of Mr. D's allegations on November 19, 2009. You did not respond to the
grievance within 15 days of receipt of the letter of notice, as is required by the North Carolina
State Bar's rules. The State Bar office sent a follow-up letter on December 31, 2009 and asked

that you respond no later than January 15,2010. You did not respond by the January 15
deadline. The Office of Counsel asked your State Bar councilor to contact you. Your councilor
indicated that she left a telephone message for you, but did not get a return call. The Office of
Counsel then subpoenaed you to the North Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee meeting on
April 15, 20 I 0, and you did appear at that time and spoke to two members of the Grievance
Committee. When asked about your failure to respond to this grievance, you indicated that you
had no excuse for not responding.
The Grievance Committee found that you violated Rule 8.1 (b) and 8A( d) by not
responding to this grievance. Lawyers in North Carolina are members of a self- regulated
profession. Our rules allow us to investigate the public's complaints against lawyers and impose
discipline, if necessary, for the protection of the public. The grievance process necessarily
includes the lawyer answering the allegations of misconduct. In order for us to continue to be a
self-regulated profession, we must require lawyers to participate in the grievance process.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Cormnittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

.s- day of_-"'------o-4----''-----+
Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGBllr

, 2010

