~"l\ 2 3 45
~~
~ 6~

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

l~l
~

Ie

.

(/(1",
cP
'w.fOt'l! B

~IPLIN.Ji'RY -'

G COMMISSION
-.,,~1'iIl.u...
~ THE
~
. NO~C -~, LINASTATEBAR
'(-~>
~4 DHC 8

\;Co

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

WILLIAM WALLACE RESPESS, JR.,
Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ("DHC") composed of Barbara B. Weyher, Chair, ,and members Renny W.
Deese and Mark S. Edwards, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .Ol14(h) ofthe.North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules ("State Bar Rules"). Plaintiff was represented by B;ll'1'Y S. McNeill,
Deputy Counsel.- Defendant, William Wallace Respess, Jr., was represented by Dudley
A..Witt and David B. Freedman of Crumpler, Freedman, Parker & Witt, Winston-Salem,
...North Carolina. Both .Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate an4.agree to the findings of fact
and conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed.
Defendant has fi'eely and voluntarily stipulated to the following findings of fact and
consents to the conclusions of law and entry of the order of discipline. Defendant freely
and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this consent order of
discipline.
.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations offae!, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws ofNOlth Carolina and is the propel' party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, William Wallace Respess, Jr. ("Respess" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 22, 1976, and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina
State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Respess was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Lenoir, Caldwell County, NOith Carolina.
FmST CLAIM FOR RELffiF

4.
Following neck fusion surgery in October of 2006, E.s.l ("Mrs. E.S.")
became progressively addicted to the prescription drug Hydrocodone.
5.
At times, Mrs. E.S. combined her ingestion of Hydrocodone with alcohol
or other prescription medicines such as Xanax or Ambien.
6.
During the period of her addiction until approximately April of2012, Mrs.
E.S. presented herselfto her husband, family, friends, and doctors as being ill with
epileptic seizures or some other serious medical condition, causing her to occasionally
collapse, become disoriented, or sometimes render her unconscious, although she knew
her true problem was her addiction to Hydrocodone.
7.
In early April of2012, Mrs. E.S.'s husband found her naked on the floor
ofthdr bathroom, disoriented, and uncommunicative, and transported her to the Frye
Regional Medical Center in Hickory, NOith Carolina, where her treating doctor
diagnosed her for thdirst time as having narcotics in her system and warned her that "if
you keep this up, you are going to die."
. '
,

8.
Even after the warning from the doctor referenced in Paragraph 7 above,
Mrs. E.S" denied taking narcotics and blamed her positive test results for narcotics on her
use of an over-the-counter pill to help her sleep.
9.
Following the incident in early April of2012 referenced in Paragraph 7
above, Mrs. E.S.'s husband found a suicide note written by Mrs. E.S. in which she asked
that he take care of their two daughters and she expressed that she loved their daughters.
10.
Approximately one week after the incident in early April of2012
referenced in Paragraph 7 above (April 11 or 12,2012), Mrs. E.S.'s husband woke up and
discovered her unresponsive in another room, resulting in Mrs. E.S. again being
transpOited to Frye Regional Medical Center for evaluation and treatment.
II.
During her admission referenccd in Paragraph 10 above, the doctor
infOimed Mrs. E.S.'s husband that Mrs. E.S. was addicted to drugs and had a high level
of alcohol in her blood.
12.
Based upon his subsequent financial investigation, Mrs. E.S.'s husband
learned that Mrs. E.S. had surreptiously drained their family's lines of credit, spending at
least $675,000 or more in order for her to purchase drugs from a local drug dealer and,
.
then after his death, over the internet.
I To protect the privacy of Defendant's clients and others referenced herein, no identifying information
other than their initials are included in this publicall)' available Consent Order. However, the patties are
aware of the identities of the individuals referenced herein by their initials.

-2-

13.
Mrs. E.S.'s husband made arrangements for Mrs. E.S. to enter a drug
rehabilitation program at Fellowship Hall, an alcohol and drug treatment center in
Greensboro, North Carolina, on April 16, 2012, where she stayed for 28 days.
14.
During Mrs. E.S.'s treatment at Fellowship Hall, Mrs. E.S.'s husband filed
for divorce and emergency custody of their daughters on May 11, 2012.
15.
Mrs. E.S. successfully completed the Fellowship Hall treatment program
and was released from the program on May 14, 2012.
16.
Following her treatment at Fellowship Hall referenced in Paragraphs 13
and 15 above, Mrs. E.S. remained drug-fi'ee, participated in Narcotics Anonymous
("NA"), and stayed in touch with her sponsor.
17.
During May of2012, Tracy Roberts, Mrs. E.S.'s best friend and mutual
friends with Respess and his wife, Carol, at that time, telephoned Respess and asked him
to meet with Mrs. E.S. about representing her in the domestic action filed against her by
her husband.
18.
Mrs. E.S.'s mother spoke with Respess on May 11, 2012, and was
histtucted to bring Mrs. E.S. to Respess's office at 5:00 p.m. on Monday, May 14, 2012.
19.
Mrs. E.S.'s mother and stepfather picked up Mrs. E.S. from Fellowship
Hall on May 14, 2012, and all three met with Respess that afternoon.
20.
Mrs. E.S., with the financial assistance of her parents, retained Respess to
represent her as the defendant in the proceeding brought by her husband for divorce,
custody oftheir two children and equitable distribution oftheir marital property.
21.
Mrs. E.S.'s mother and stepfather paid Respess an initial retainer of
$2,500 on behalf of their daughter on May 15, 2012, and eventually contributed a total of
$16,500 towards Respess's fee for representing Mrs. E.S., which Mrs. E.S. eventually
repaid to her mother and stepfather.
22.
Because of her [mancial instability, her ongoing rehabilitation from her
drug addiction, and faced with the breakup of her marriage and family, Mrs. E.S. was
mentally and emotionally vulnerable during the time that Respess began representing her
in May of2012.
23.
Mrs. E.S. was age 45 when Respess began representing her in May of
2012; Respess was age 64 at that time.
24.
Respess was aware of Mrs. E.S.'s past drug addiction and commitment for
rehabilitation.
25.
After being released from the Fellowship Hall treatment program and
within 30 days of beginning to attend the meetings ofNA, Mrs. E.S. began a sexual
relationship with A.B., a fellow addict and NA attendee with a criminal history.
-3-

26.
In early September of2012, Tracy Roberts informed Mrs. B.S. about
A.H. 's criminal history, causing Mrs. B.S. to stop her relationship with AH., although
they continued to visit one another as friends.
27.

Respess became aware of Mrs. B.S. 's relationship with AH. in October of

2012.
28.
Respess married his first wife, Catherine Barnes, in May of 1972, and
separated from Catherine in December of 1988; Respess and Catherine divorced in
February of 1990.
29.
While married to Catherine in 1982 to 1983, Respess engaged in an affair
and sexual relationship with P.R., who at the time was a current client.
30.
Respess began representing client M.e. in 1988, engaged in an affair and
sexual relationship with M.C., and malTied M.C. (his second wife) in November of 1990;
Respess and M.C. divorced in May 1996 after Respess began an affair and sexual
relationship with C.A.C., his employee at the time.
31.

In October of 1999, Respess began representing L.B. in a domestic action.

32.
In December of 1999, while he< was L.B.' s attorney ofr~col'd, Respess
. visited L.B.'s apartment and engaged in sexual relations with L.B.
On March 24,2000, Respess moved to withdraw from representing L.B.,
33.
citing "irreconcilable differences" and L.B. consent to the motion; the motion was
granted on April 7, 2000, and later that month another attorney entered an appearance as
counsel on behalfofL.B.
34.
In 2001, attorney Brian F. Davis of Asheville, North Carolina, wrote to
Respess on behalf ofL.B. claiming that Respess had engaged in malpractice by having a
sexual relationship with L.B. while he represented her in her domestic action.

In early 2002, Respess reached a settlement agreement with L.B. and paid
35.
her the sum of $92,500.
36.
Respess married his third wife, C.A.C., on June 7, 2003, and was married
to C.A.C. at the time he began representing Mrs. B.S. in 2012.
37.
During the summer of2012, C.A.C. learned that Respess and Mrs. B.S.
were texting and telephoning each other as often as 14 times per day, and, as a result,
C.AC. suspected that Respess and Mrs. B.S. were having an affair.
38.
Available telephone records for Respess's cell phone, beginning
December 23,2012 through September 1, 2013, confirm a pattern of numerous, almost
daily telephone calls between Respess and Mrs. B.S. for which Respess did not bill Mrs.
B.S.
-4-

39.
Tracy Roberts and her boyfriend accompanied Respess and C.A.C. to their
condominium at Myrtle Beach, South Carolina during the week of July 18-22, 2012, and
Ms. Roberts noted that Respess talked about Mrs. E.S., his client, excessively.
40.
Ms. Roberts warned Mrs. E.S. about engaging in a relationship with
Respess, her attorney, but Mrs. E.S. assured her that she and Respess were not having an
inappropriate relationship.
41.
While Mrs. E.S. was residing in a Waterford Place apartment in Hickory,
North Carolina, Fanny Peel Lail observed Respess going in and out of Mrs. E.S's
apartment on approximately five occasions in June, July and August of2012, during
early morning hours.
42.
On the morning of Thursday, March 7, 2013, C.A.C. asked Respess to
cease his relationship with Mrs. E.S., and later that evening Respess informed C.A.C. that
he wanted a divorce.
On Sunday, March 10,2013, Respess moved C.A.C. to their condominium
43.
at Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, and had her sign a settlement agreement on March 20,
2013 in which she agreed, among other things, to release Mrs. E.s. from any claims
arising from the dissolution of their marriage.
44.
Respess and Mrs. E.S. acknowledge that by sometime in March of 2013
they had fallen in love and began a sexual relationship, with Mrs. E.S .. staying overnight
at his residence on most nights during April and May of2013 when she did not have
'
custody of or visitation with her daughters.
45.
On May 29,2013, the attorney for Mrs. E.S.'s husband, J. Steven Brackett
("Mr. Brackett"), informed Respess that his client suspected that Respess and Mrs. E.S.
were engaging in a personal relationship, and Mr. Brackett warned Respess that he
should withdraw from representing Mrs. E.S.
46.
In early June of2013, Mrs. E.S.'s husband warned her that her
relationship with Respess, her attorney, might render any settlement invalid, to which
Mrs. E.S. responded that her relationship with Respess would be public once the.
settlement was signed.
47.
Mrs. E.S., her husband, and the judge signed the consent judgment
concerning equitable distribution and permanent alimony on June 10, 2013, and the
consent judgment was filed on June 13,2013.
48.
The provisions ofthe consent judgment filed on June 13, 2013 expressly
preserved the issues of child custody and child support, but also allowed Mr. Brackett to
withdraw as counsel of record for Mrs. E.S.'s husband, and allowed Respess to withdraw
as counsel of record for Mrs. E.S.
On June 14-16,2013, Mrs. E.S. accompanied Respess to Myrtle Beach,
49.
South Carolina for the weekend.

-5-

50.
During the last week of July of2013, Respess asked Mr. Brackett ifhe
should withdraw as Mrs. E.S.'s attorney in the child custody matter, and Mr. Brackett
advised him that he should withdraw.
51.
Although the consent judgment filed on June 13,2013 allowed Respess to
withdraw as counsel of record for Mrs. E.S., he did not do so and he and his law firm
continued to represent and bill Mrs. E.S. on matters in connection with her domestic case,
including the following: preparing and filing a Qualified Domestic Relations Order
("QDRO") on July 30, 2013 as Mrs. E.S.'s attorney; preparing and filing an amended
QDRO on August 30, 2013, again as Mrs. E.S.'s attorney; and preparing and recording a
number of deeds On August 30,2013 to comply with the consent judgment.
52.
Mrs. E.S. met with attorney John F. Morrow, Sr. for the first time on
August 28, 2013 about representing her in the still pending child custody and child
SUppOit matters.
53.

Respess and Mrs. E.S. became engaged to be married on September 3,

2013.
54.
Mr. Morrow filed a Notice of Appearance in Mrs. E.S.'s domestic case on
September 13,2013.
55.
Foll?wing Respess's divorce from C.A.C., on May 17, 2014 Respess and
the former Mrs. E.S. were married.
56.
While Respess was representing Mrs. B.S. as her attorney, Respess and
Mrs. B.S. engaged in a sexual relationship.
57.
Respess and Mrs. E.S. did not have a consensual sexual relationship
before his legal representation of her commenced on or about May 14,2012.
SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF
58.
On or about June 4, 2013, while Respess was representing Mrs. E.S. as her
attorney, Respess made a down payment on and financed the purchase of a vehicle for
Mrs. B.S.
59.
Respess made the monthly payments for Mrs. E.S. on the vehicle loan
referenced in Paragraph 58 above in July, August, September and October 2013.
60.
The monthly vehicle loan payments for July and August 2013, referenced
in Paragraph 59 above, occurred while Respess was representing Mrs. E.S. as her
attorney.
61.
Respess made other monetary loans to Mrs. E.S., including a loan of
$5,000 in July 2013 towards Mrs. E.S.'s payment due on her condominium.

-6-

62.
The monetary loans referenced in Paragraph 61 above occurred while
Respess was representing Mrs. B.S. as her attorney.
63.
The loans made by Respess to Mrs. B.S. referenced in Paragraphs 58, 59,
and 61 above were not reduced to writing.
64.
Respess did not advise Mrs. B.S. in writing of the desirability of seeking
the advice of independent legal counsel concerning the loans referenced in Paragraphs
58,59, and 61 above.
65.
Mrs. B.S. did not consent in writing to the loans made by Respess to her
referenced in Paragraphs 58, 59, and 61 above.
66.
The vehicle payments and monetary loans referenced in Paragraphs 58, 59
and 61 above were made by Respess to Mrs. B. S. to help an individual with whom he had
developed a close personal and emotional relationship.

In October of2013, Mrs. B.S. repaid Respess all ofthe loans he previously
67.
made to her and took over the monthly payments on the vehicle he had purchased for her.
THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF
68.
Respess testified under oath at a November 20,2013 deposition in the
domestic action referenced in Paragraph 14 above.
At the deposition referenced in Paragraph 68 above, Respess testified that,
69.
other than a former domestic client by the initials ofL.B. in the year 1999 and Mrs. B.8'.,
he had never engaged in an "inappropriate" sexual relationship with any other client.
70.
In testifying at the deposition referenced in Paragraphs 68 and 69 above,
Respess knew at the time that he had had personal and sexual relationships with former
clients P.R. in 1982·83 and M.C. in 1988, but he did not believe that such consensual
sexual relations with a client was inappropriate until the adoption of Rule 1.19 of the
Rules of Professional Conduct on July 24, 1997.
Prior to the deposition testimony by Respess referenced in Paragraphs 68
71.
and 69 above, Respess's counsel had relayed to Plaintiffs counsel that Respess
acknowledged having a personal and sexual relationship with former client P.R.
72.
Although Respess's testimony at the deposition may not have been
technically false because of the use ofthe word "inappropriate" in the question directed
to Respess, Respess's answer to the question was not candid under the circumstances.
FOURTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF
On or about July 7,2013, Mrs. B.S. had a telephone conversation with her
73.
husband about their daughters' visitation schedule.

·7·

74.
During the conversation referenced in Paragraph 73 above, Mrs. B.S.
handed the telephone to Respess to discuss with Mrs. E.S.'s husband the still-pending
visitation schedule issue.
75.
schedule.

Respess discussed with Mrs. E.S.'s husband by telephone the visitation

76.
Respess was Mrs. E.S.'s attorney of record at the time ofthe telephone
conversation referenced in Paragraphs 73-75 above.
77.
Respess knew at the time of the telephone conversation referenced in
Paragraphs 73-75 above that Mrs. B.S.'s husband was being represented by counsel, Mr.
Brackett.
78.
Following the telephone conversation between Mrs. E.S. 's husband and
Respess referenced in Paragraphs 73-75 above, on July 8, 2013 Mr. Brackett forwarded
to Respess a facsimile concerning Respess conversing directly with his client, amenable
terms for child custody, and noting that his client believed that Respess and Mrs. E.S.
were openly cohabitating such that his client's alimony payments to Mrs. E.S. would
terminate following the July of 2013 payment.
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS

79.
After Mrs. B.S. sought to hold her husband in contempt for ceasing to
make the monthly alimony payments to her, Mrs. B.S. 's husband ultimately did not·
prevail on the litigation ofthe cohabitation argument, and he continued to pay Mrs. B.S.
alimony until she married Respess.
.
80.
Respess has a reputation in the legal community of being an excellent
attorney in domestic cases.
Based upon the consent ofthe parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Detimdant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a) By engaging in a sexual relationship with Mrs. E.S. during the time she
was his client and he was her attorney of record, Defendant had sexual
relations with a current client in violation of Rule 1.19(a);
b) By making loans to Mrs. E.S., his client, without her informed consent
confirmed in writing, Defendant's representation ofMt·s. B.S. involved a
concurrent conflict of interest in that such representation may have been
-8-

materially limited by his personal financial interest in the loans in
violation of Rule 1.7(a)(2);
c) By making loans to Mrs. B.s. while she was his client, Defendant entered
into business transactions with a client without the informed written
consent ofthe client in violation of Rule 1.8(a); and,
d) By having the telephone conversation with Mrs. B.S. 's husband
concerning the children's visitation schedule, knowing that Mrs. B.S.'s
husband was represented by counsel in the ongoing domestic proceeding,
Defendant engaged in a communication with a person represented by
counsel in violation of Rule 4.2(a).
3.
Given the specific wording of the question at the deposition about
"inappropriate" sexual relationship with any other client, there is not clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that Defendant testified falsely under oath at the deposition in
violation ofRule 8.4(c).
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I.
Mrs. B.S.'s financial instability following the breakup of her marriage and
family and her ongoing rehabilitation from her drug addiction made her mentally and
emotionally vulnerable during the time that she was Respess's client in 2012 and 2013.
2.
pefendant was aware from his' settlement with Mrs. L.B. in, 2002 and from
the Rules of Professional Conduct that having a sexual relationship with a current client
constituted professional misconduct, but nevertheless Defendant engaged in such
misconduct with Mrs. B.S. instead of refraining from having a sexual relationship with
her or withdrawing fi'om her case before he commenced a sexual relationship with her.
3.
Bven after being encouraged in May of2013 and again in July of2013 to
withdraw from representing Mrs. B.S., Defendant continued as Mrs. B.S.'s attorney of
record in her domestic case and billed Mrs. B.S. for his and his firm's legal services
during a time in which he and Mrs. B.S. engaged in a continuing sexual relationship.
4.
Defendant's sexual relationship with his client, Mrs. B.S., caused litigation
over whether their alleged cohabitation justified Mrs. B.S.' s husband stopping his
alimony payments to her, thus jeopardizing Mrs. B.S. financially, but Mrs. B.S.'s husband
ultimately did not prevail on that issue.
5.
Defendant and Mrs. B.S. fell in love during the course of his
representation of her, and eventually married after Defendant's divorce from C.A.C.
6.
Defendant was cooperative with the State Bar's investigation, and
admitted the wrongful nature of his conduct.
7.

Defendant is remorseful for his conduct.
-9-

8.
Based upon the recommendation of Plaintiffs counsel, Defendant has
been evaluated by a psychologist who specializes in sexual disorders, and the
psychologist is of the opinion that Defendant does not suffer from a diagnosable
condition, such as a mood or personality disorder.
9.

Defendant has a favorable reputation among his peers and colleagues.

10.

Defendant has no prior discipline by the State Bar.

II.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censnre, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS WITH RESPECT TO DISCIPLINE

I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(I) of the State Bar Rules and concludes the
following factors warrant considerationof suspension of Defendant's license:
(B)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;

(D)

Elevation of Defendant's own iliierest above that of his client;

(E)

Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception ofthe legal profession; and,

(F)

Defendant's actions had a negative impact on the administration of justice.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(2) ofthe State Bar Rules and concludes there are no factors
which warrant consideration of disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w)(3) ofthe State Bar Rules and concludes the following factors
are applicable:
(B)

Remoteness of prior offenses;

(C)

Presence of a selfish motive;

(G)

Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;

(K)

Cooperative attitude toward the disciplinary investigation and
proceedings;
.l(J.

(0)

Acknowledgement of the wrongful natnre of his conduct;

(P)

Defendant's remorse;

(Q)

Defendant's good character and reputation; and

(S)

Defendant's degree of experience in the practice of law!

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline becanse of
tbe gravity of the misconduct at issue and tbe harm or potential harm Defendant's
misconduct caused to the public, the administration ofjustice, and the legal profession.
5.
The Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing discipline shOit of
suspension of Defendant's law license would not adequately protect the public, the legal
profession, or the administration of justice for the following reasons:
a) The factors under 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(1) and (w)(3) tbat are
established by tbe evidence are of a nature that support imposition of
suspension as the appropriate discipline; and,
b) Entry ofless serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness
of tbe offenses Defendant committed and would send the wrong message
to other attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings
of fact and conclusions regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Panel enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, William Wallace Respess, Jr., is hereby suspended fi'om the
practice oflaw for two years, effective 30 days from service ofthis order upon
Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§ .0124 of the State Bar Rules.
3.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide
the State Bar's Office of Counsel with an address and telephone number at which clients
seeking retnrn of files can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and
Defendant shall promptly provide client files to all clients who request retnrn of their
files.
4.
Six months after the effective date ofthis Order, Defendant may seek a
stay of the remaining period of suspension by filing a motion in the DHC demonstrating
by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Defendant has met all requirements for

reinstatement set out in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0125(b), and has complied with each of the
following conditions:
a) Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
ofthe North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective
date of his suspension;
b) Defendant shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of
the State Bar Rules on a timely basis;
c) Defendant shall timely submit his annual Continuing Legal Education
("CLE") report form to the CLE Depmtment of the North Carolina State
Bar each year ofthe suspension and contemporaneously send a copy of the
CLE report form to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar to document
compliance with the above condition. "Timely" means by the date
specified by the CLE depmtment as the date by which members must
submit their annual report forms to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late
filing penalty. Defendant must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a
copy of his annual CLE report form no later than 15 days after it is due to
the CLE department of the State Bar each year;
d) Defendant shall pay all State Bar Membership dues and Client Security
Fund assessments and comply with all CLE requirements on a timely
basis;
e) Defendant shall keep current his address of record with the North Carolina
State Bar, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
f) Defendant shall not violate any ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;
g) Defendant shall not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the period of the suspension; and
h) Defendant shaIl pay all costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within thhty (30) days after service of the notice
of costs on him.
5.
If Defendant complies with the above conditions and is granted a stay of
his suspension, the stay will remain in effect only if Defendant complies, and continues to
comply, with all of the conditions in Paragraph 4(a)-(h).
6.
If during the stay of the suspension authorized by this Order Defendant
fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay ofthe
suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .01l4(x) of
the State Bar Rules, and the DHC may enter an order imposing such conditions as it
deems proper for the reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension.

7.
If Defendant does not obtain a stay of the suspension imposed by this
Order, to be reinstated at the end of the two-year-term of suspension Defendant must
demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Defendant has met all
requirements for reinstatement set out in 27 N.CA.C 1B § .0125, and has complied with
the provisions of Paragraph 4(a)-(h) above.
8.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary, which shall be paid within thirty (30) days of service ofthe
notice of costs upon Defendant.
9.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(x) of the State Bar Rules throughout the
period of the suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other
Hearing Panel meIl!~ ~
This the.!i day of~015.

David Freedman
Attorney for Defendant

