-i1\R 23 2(J

"~~

STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

,~

'f>

,"

t'f:p

~ <3'¢

<J <Ote.,

cab'

<;,P BEFORE THE

~l~ISClPLIN. Y HEARING COMMISSION

"'vf'Mp_

~

OF THE

~O~' CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

14DHC8R

"/r

Plaintiff
ORDER STAYING REMAINDER OF
SUSPENSION

v,

WILLIAM WALLACE RESPESS, JR.
Attorney,

,

Defendant
THIS MATTER was heard on February~, 2016 by a hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission ("DHC") composed of Barbara B. Weyher, Chair, and
members R. Lee Farmer and Michael S. Edwards, pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB
§ .OI25(b)(7) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff was
represented by Barry S. McNeill, Deputy Counsel. Defendant, William Wallace Respess,
Jr. ("Defendant" or "Respess"), was represented by Dudley A. Witt of ClumpIer,
Freedman, Parker & Witt, Winston-Salem, North Carolina. On January 26, 2016,
Defendant fLIed a verified Petition for Order Staying Suspension ("Petition"). The
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin Code
1B §§ .0125(b)(3), (b)(4) and (b)(6), did not respond in opposition to the Petition. In his
Petition, Defendant seeks a stay of the time remaining on his two year suspension
pursuant to the Consent Order of Discipline ("Order") filed on June 5, 2014,
Based upon Defendant's pleading and attachments and the matters of record, the
hearing panel hereby makes, by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
On June 5, 2015, in a Consent Order of Discipline entered in The North
Carolina State Bar v. William Wallace Respess, Jr., No. 14 DHC 8 ("Order"), the DHC
of the State Bar suspended Defendant for two years begil111ing 30 days from the date of
service ofthe Order upon him,
2.
Defcndant's counsel accepted service ofthe Order on behalf of Defendant
on June 22, 2015,
3.
Defendant's two year suspension under the Order became effective as of
July 22, 2015.

4.
The Order provided that, after six months from the effective date of the
Order, Defendant could file a verified petition for a stay of the remaining period of his
suspension.
5.
Defendant filed the present verified Petition after six months from the
effective date ofthe Order.
6.
The Order provided in relevant part that, in order to be reinstated,
Defendant had to demonstrate in his petition by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
that, in addition to complying with the general provisions for reinstatement contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar, he had complied during his suspension with the following conditions:
a. Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days fi'om the effective
date of his suspension;
b. Defendant shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of
the State Bar Rules on a timely basis;
c. Defendant shall timely submit his annual Continuing Legal Education
("CLE") repOli form to the CLE Department of the North Carolina State
Bar each year oflhe snspension and contemporaneously send a copy of the
CLE report form to the Office of Counsel ofthe State Bar to document
compliance with the above condition. "Timely" means by the date
specified by the CLE department ~s the date by which members must
submit their annual report forms to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late
filing penalty. Defendant must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a
copy of his annual CLE report form no later than 15 days after it is due to
the CLE department of the State Bar each year;
d. Defendant shall pay all State Bar Membership dues and Client Security
Fund assessments and comply with all CLE requirements on a timely
basis;
e. Defendant shall keep current his address of record with the North Carolina
State Bar, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
f. Defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;
g. Defendant shall not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the period of the suspension; and
h. Defendant shall pay all costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within thirty (30) days after service of the notice
of costs on him.

2

7.
Defendant timely submitted his license and membership card to the
Secretary of the State Bar on July 22, 2015.
8.
Defendant timely filed an affidavit with the State Bar on July 28, 2015
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 certifying that he had submitted his license and
membership card to the State Bar, that he had withdrawn from or completed all client
matters, that he had notified all clients of his suspension and his inability to act as an
attorney after the effective date of the suspension, that he had advised his former clients
to seek legal advice from other attomeys, and that the State Bar could direct
cormnunications to his residential address in Taylorsville, North Carolina, his home and
cell phone numbers, and his e-mail address.
9.
Defendant is in compliance with his CLE requirements and reporting
requirements.
10.
and costs.

Defendant is current in payment of all State Bar membership dues, fees

11.
Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current address.
12.
Defendant did not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct, the laws of
the United States, or the laws of any state or local govemment during his suspension.
13.
Defendant paid the costs and administrative fees associated with his DHC
proceeding within thirty (30) days of receipt of the statement of costs.
14.
Defendant otherwise complied with the general provisions for
reinstatement contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 ofthe Rules and
Regulations of the State Bar.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, William Wallace Respess, Jr., and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Defendant has shown by clear, cogent and convincing evidence his
compliance andlor substantial compliance with the conditions for staying the remainder
of his two-year suspension.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
panel enters the following

3

ORDER
1.
A stay of the remaining portion of Defendant's two-year suspension is
hereby ordered, and Defendant is hereby reinstated to practice law in North Carolina
immediately upon the filing of this Order.
2.
The conditions of the Order are modified as follows: the stay of his
suspension will remain in effect only if Defendant complies, and continues to comply,
during the remainder of the stay of his suspension with the following conditions:
a. Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of
his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his stayed
suspension;
b.

Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Deprutment of the North Carolina
State Bar throughout the period of his stayed suspension;

c.

Defendant responded to allielters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated
therein with full and complete responses and all requested documentation
throughout the period of his stayed suspension;

d.

Defendant complied with CLE or membership obligations
throughout the period of his stayed suspension;

e.

Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct
in effect during the period of his stayed suspension; and,

f.

Defendant did not violate any laws of the State ofNolih Carolina or
of the United States during the period of his stayed suspension.

3.
Unless Defendant's obligations under the Order are modified by further
order of the DHe, Defendant's obligations under this order end two years from the
effective date of the original Order (July 22, 2015) provided there are no motions or show
cause proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of
the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 16 § .Ol14(x) of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all
conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause
proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension
is pending when the period of the stay ofthe suspension would otherwise have
terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension
and activate the remaining suspension time in whole or in prut if it finds that any of the
conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
4

obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
pending motion or show cause proceeding.
4.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph 2
·above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(x) of the Ru1es and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply f01" reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing an application for reinstatement demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:
a.

Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125 of the Rules and Regu1ations of the
North Carolina State Bar; and

b.

Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraph 2 (a) - (f)
above.

-1 ~gned by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this tile

d·'v day of February, 2016.

//7

'7

1/~J3~J

Jarbara B. Wey,l\.yt, Chair
Disciplinary Hkfing Panel

5

