NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
11G0687

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Samuel Richardson, III,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 24, 2013, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by IG.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter ofnotice,ihe Grievance路Committee found probable
chuse." Probable cause is defined in the rilles as "reasonable Catis\i路toBelieve that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjustirying disciplimiiyaction.'!: .... l'. "
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detelmine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension ofthe attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You represented D.D. in !In alienation of affection lawsuit filed against lG. After a hearing on the
malter, Your-client was awarded damages;inc1udihgattbl11ey fees. -'J.a:"slawyet objecte(iioiheatiorney fee
award because you failed topi:ovideevidence ofyourfees'.:Thejudge agreed 'and stated that the claim for
attorney fees would be heard on a later date. The judge directed you to prepare the order. You prepared the
proposed order and forwarded the same to opposing co]]'Osel for review. Your proposed order included an
award for attorney fees. Opposing counsel objected and informed you of her specific objection to including
an attorney fee award. Because you did not receive opposing co]]'Osei' s written changes to your proposed
order, you forwarded your proposed order to the court for signature. You were well aware of opposing
counsel's objection and the court's ruling to address the fees in a separate hearing. Nevertheless, you
included the attorney fee award in the proposed order you sent to the court. Although your cover letter to

the court states that opposing counsel has some changes, you failed to inform the court of the changes. You
also failed to remind the court that the attorney fee award wa~ to be decided at a later time after a hearing on
the same. Your conduct caused the judge to sign an order that you knew did not accurately reflect the
court's decision. Your conduct is prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).
Because of your disregard for the court's decision and opposing counsel's objection, J.G. had to pay his
lawyer to file a Motion to Set Aside the Order. Your conduct is a further violation of Rule 8.4(d). You did
not provide opposing counsel with a copy of your cover letter to the judge. You therefore engaged in an
improper ex parte communication with the judge in violation of Rule 3.5(a). The Committee recognized
that the court corrected the error and that you withdrew your claim for attorney fees.
J. G. also alleged that you had a conflict of interest because you representedj. G.' s wife in a divorce
action against J.G. The committee concluded that you did not have a conflict of interest.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards ofthe legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this 20 th day of February, 2013 .

. . . 11tM~7l1-1M:
Margm路M. Hunt, Chair路
..... .
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

".

". '.-

.'

.

