BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0660844

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Peter J. Underhill,
Attorney At Law

1
1
1
1
1

REPRIMAND

On October 18,2007 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and my
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A-reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You were retained as legal counsel for Default Real Estate Specialized Services, Inc.
("D.R.E.S.S.") from August 2005 to January 2007. D.R.E.S.S. was hired by lenders to provide
the lenders with foreclosure/substitute trustee services, including legal services. D.R.E.S.S.
arranged for you to appear as substitute trustce in the foreclosure matters for D.R.E.S.S.'s
customers as part of your retainer agreement with D.R.E.S.S. D.R.E.S.S. entered into a business

relationship with TD Service CompanyIMelmet Default Services, Inc. (hereinafter "TD
Service"}. You represent that you did not participate in the formation of the business relationship
between TD Service and D.R.E.S.S. or its ongoing operation and never had any direct contact
with TD Service. Paperwork filed in foreclosure matters by TD Service contained your name as
one of the substitute trustees. The Authorized Practice Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar found that TD Service was engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in North Carolina by
offering foreclosurc services that included legal services directly to ~nortgagelenders. Through
your association with D.R.E.S.S. and D.R.E.S.S.'s association with TD Service, you allowed
your name to be used and yow legal services to be provided to the customers of TD Service. In
this way, you assisted D.R.E.S.S. and TD Service with the unauthorized practice of law in
violation of Rule 5.5(d), even though your contact was indirect.

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct.
The Grievance -Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand,
that it will be - -. .
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
-

--

--

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the 1 lt"ay

of January, 2008.

James R. Fox, Chair
Grievance Committee

