" ~5678.9

()J

"v it'~~\\~.-;:.
-&

[;:;
I£':>
r:;:';

NORTH CAROLINA

~;13

\.~=::,

WAKE COUNTY

.... ,~.,)

r:;

~\, ~

~

~'O

v:l
BEFORE THE
1f\'-;..lGIPLlNARY l-lEARING COMMISSION
\)'P
OF THE
~
0' '\;"

"."',

'. <:~[?
,) I[ )) "\ \ll 'il';)\':Y'
~,
-"-.\'~~The North Carolina State Bar,
Plaintiff,

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

v.

Terry B. Richardson,
Defendant.

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09 DH C 2

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

This matter came on to be heard and was heard before a Hearing Committec of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, Sharon B. Alexander, Robcrt F. Siler,
and Donald G. Willhoit on October 2, 22 and 23, 2009.
William N. Farrell, Deputy Counsel.

The Plaintiff was represented by

Defendant was represented by W. Terry Sherrill and

participated pro se as well. Based upon the testimony presented and the evidence admitted at the
hearing, and the admissions in the answer to the complaint, the Hearing Committee hereby finds
by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of North

Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority grantcd it in Chapter
84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.

Defendant, Terry B. Richardson (hereinafter "Defendant or "Richardson"), was admitted

to the North Carolina Statc Bar on 22 August 1981, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations

and Rules of Professional Conduct of the State of North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the
State of North Carolina.
3.

During all of the periods relevant hereto, Defendant was actively engaged in the private

practice oflaw in Wilmington, North Carolina.
4.

On or about September 18, 2002, Leroy F. Hill, Jr. (hereinafter "Hill") retained

Defendant to represent Hill in a lawsuit, New Hanover County File No. 02 CVS 1945, that had
been filed against Hill.
5.

The lawsuit was an action for specific performance seeking to compel Hill to convey

marketable title to a piece of real property pursuant to a sales contract in which Hill agreed to sell
the property for $60,000.00.
6.

On September 18, 2002 Hill signed a contingent fee agreement pursuant to which he

agreed to pay one-third of the value of the subject propel1y to Defendant for representation in
02CVS1945.
7.

The lawsuit, File No. 02 CVS 1945, was dismissed on December 8, 2003, pursuant to a

settlement agreement and release of claims.
8.

On or about December 30,2003, I-Jill accepted an offer to purchase the subject property

from Eldridge C. Grady and wife, Joyce H. Grady, (hereinafter "the Gradys") for a sales price of
$180,000.00.
9.

Pursuant to the Gradys' offer to purchase, $2,500.00 earnest money was to be held in

escrow by Defendant and disbursed only at closing or otherwise in accordance with the terms of
the purchase agreement.
10.

Defendant received $2,500.00 from the Gradys and deposited the money into his trust

account on or about January 5, 2004.

-2-

11.

The $2,500.00 earnest money was to be held in trust by Defendant for the benefit of the

Gradys.
12.

Defendant and Hill orally agreed that Defendant would receive one-half of the sales price

of$180,000.00. The one-half of the sales price was for the representation of Hill in 02 CYS
1945 and the additional service of finding a buyer for the subject property. This agreement was
not reduced to writing.
13.

Hill told Defendant he was desperate for money and asked Defendant to pay him one-half

ofthe earnest money deposit that Defendant received fi·om the Gradys.
14.

Defendant disbursed $1,250.00 to Hill, which was one-half of the Gradys' earnest money,

by trust account check number 8021 dated January 5, 2004. Defendant also disbursed $1,250.00
to himself by trust account check number 8020 dated January 5, 2004, which was the other half
of the Grady's earnest money. Defendant had no authority to disburse these funds from the
escrow on January 5, 2004, as none ofthe conditions to disburse these funds had been satisfied.
15.

The anticipated sale ofthe subject property to the Gradys did not occur.

16.

The Gradys' attorney advised them not to close upon the offer to purchase for the reason

that title to said property was not marketable or insurable.
17.

The Gradys' attorney demanded a refund of the earnest money paid to Defendant.

18.

Defendant returned $2,500.00 to the Gradys as a return of the earnest money held

pursuant to the December 30,2003 offer to purchase. This money was paid from Defendant's
trust account by check number 8016 dated January 8, 2004. Defendant intended this check to
constitute the return of the earnest money.

-3-

19.

At the time Defendant refunded the Gradys' earnest money he had already previously

disbursed the earnest money to himself and Hill. Defendant did not replenish the trust account
before issuing the refund check.
20.

The funds used to reimburse the Gradys were the entrusted funds of other clients or third

parties who had funds in Defendant's general trust account.
21.

On occasion Defendant fai led to maintain bank deposit slips for his trust account listing

the name ofthe client or other person to whom the funds belonged.
22.

Defendant regularly failcd to indicate on his trust account checks Ii·om which client

balance the checks were drawn.
23.

Defendant did not always maintain ledgers showing a record of receipts and

disbursements for each person or entity from whom and for whom funds were received and
showing the current balance of funds held in the trust account for each person or entity.
24.

Defendant failed to reconcile the total of the individual client balances of his general trust

account with the current bank balance for the trust account as a whole, on at least a quarterly
basis.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.

All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the committee hasjurisdiction

over Defendant and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.

Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. General

Statute § 84-28(b)(2) in that the conduct violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at
the time of the conduct as follows:

-4-

a.

By disbursing the Gradys' earnest money of $2,500.00 to Hill and himself,
Defendant failed to identify, hold and maintain the entrusted property of the
Gradys in violation of Rule 1.I5-2(a) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct.

b.

By failing to maintain bank receipts or deposit slips listing the source of all funds
deposited in the trust account and failing to name the client to whom the funds
belong, defendant failed to maintain records in violation of Rule I. I5-3(a)(I) of
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

c.

By failing to maintain a ledger containing a record of receipts and disbursements
and showing client balances of funds held for clients in the trust account,
defendant failed to maintain a ledger in violation of Rule 1.15-3(a)(5) of the Rules
of Professional Conduct.

d.

By failing to reconcile his trust accounts at least quarterly, Defendant tailed to
total and reconcile those accounts with the current bank balance each quarter in
violation of Rule 1.15-3(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

e.

By using entrusted funds to refund the Gradys' earnest money, defendant used
entrusted funds to the benefit of himself and I-Jill, who were not the legal or
beneficial owner of the property in violation of 1.15-20) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the additional
evidence and arguments presented at the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the I-Tearing
Committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:

-5-

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant committed multiple violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct governing

entrusted funds.
2.

Defendant falsely testified that he had submitted all his trust account records to the Bar as

requested.
3.

Defendant was deceptive in his responses to the Bar when he was specifically asked ifhe

deposited personal funds to cover the refund check to the Gradys.
4.

Defendant was deceptive in his responses to the Bar in not advising the Bar that he that

he had disbursed one-half of the Grady earnest money to himself when he was asked to explain
the circumstances in covering the $1,250.00 deficit in his trust account by writing the check to
Hill out of the Grady's earnest money.
5.

Defendant was dcceptive in his responses to the Bar when he was asked to explain his

alleged ownership of a portion of the Asa Richardson Heirs fund contained in his trust account.
6.

Defendant failed to create a ledger card for the Gradys showing that he held $2,500.00 in

trust for them.
7.

Defendant failed to maintain an accurate ledger showing the current balance for the Asa

Richardson Heirs fund in his trust account.
8.

Defendant did not keep an accurate and current record of disbursements from the Asa

Richardson Heirs fund in his trust account.
9.

Defendant failed to acknowledge his misconduct in the mismanagement of the Grady's

earnest money which he held in trust for them. This mismanagement is incontrovertible based
on defendant's trust records, his responses to the Bar, and his testimony given under oath in
various actions.

-6-

10.

Defendant showed a complete lack of appreciation for his fiduciary obligations to the

Gradys and the management of their funds which he held in trust.
11.

Money received by a lawyer in a fiduciary capacity should never be used for personal

purposes. Defendant used the Grady's money for personal purposes and refunded this money
from other funds in his trust account.
12.

Defendant testified at an earlier proceeding regarding how he covered the Grady's

refund, that "[it] was trust account funds. 1just figured that so long as 1 reimbursed the trust
account, that it would be all right".
13.

Defendant testified at the present proceeding that when hc wrote the Grady's refund

check that he knew he was good for it and he took a chance.
14.

This testimony demonstrates, at worst, intentional disregard of his fiduciary obligations

and or at best, a failure to appreciate his fiduciary obligations as an attorney.
15.

Defendant refused to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his mismanagement ofthe

Grady's money.
16.

Defendant has not been previously disciplined by the North Carolina State Bar.

17.

Defendant has good eharacter and reputation.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of Faet

Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

His eonduet eonstituted multiple violations of the rules governing entrusted funds;

b.

Submission of false evidence, false statements or other deceptive practices during
the discipl inary process;

-7-

2.

c.

The refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his misconduct; and

d.

His substantial experience in the practice of law.

Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

The absence of a prior disciplinary record; and

b.

His good character or reputation.

3.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.

Defendant created a substantial risk of significant harm to the Gradys by his premature

disbursement of the Gradys' earnest money to himself and Hill without regard to his fiduciary
duty to the Gradys.
5.

Defendant created a substantial risk of significant hann to other clients for whom he held

entrusted funds when he refunded the earnest money to the Gradys from the trust account using
funds of other clients or third parties.
6.

Defendant's failure to keep rcquired trust account records as required by the Rules of

Professional Conduct created the potential risk of significant harm to his clients and persons who
had entrusted fimds in his trust account.
7.

Defendant's disregard of his fiduciary obligations pertaining to monies entrusted to him

by clients or by family members, or others, created the risk of potential significant harm to the
public and the profession.
8.

Defendant's failure to keep required trust account records as required by the Rules of

Professional Conduct created the potential for significant harm to the Asa Richardson heirs.
9.

Defendant's mismanagement in the handling of the Gradys' earnest money put entrusted

funds at risk. Defendant's inability to account for all funds entrusted to him at all times impairs

-8-

the ability of his clients or persons to entrust him with their money and their affairs. Once
known to the public, such conduct harms the profession as a whole.
10.

The Hearing Committee has considered all disciplinary options and I1nds that censure,

reprimand or admonition would not be sufficient discipline to protect the public because of the
substantial risk of significant harm to the Gradys, the Asa Richardson heirs funds and the legal
profession caused by Defendant's conduct, and the threat of potential signil1cant harm stemming
from his continuing failure to appreciate his fiduciary obligations as an attorney who handles
entrusted funds.
11.

The Hearing Committee considered all lesser options and finds that discipline short of

suspension would not sufficiently protect the public for the following reasons:
a.

Defendant's refusal to appreciate the significance of the wrongful nature of his
misconduct regarding the mishandling of the Gradys' earnest money;

b.

In light of Defendant's refusal to appreciate the wrongfid nature of his conduct
(except for his failure to keep trust records and failure to reconcile his trust
account), the only discipline, which will serve to deter Defendant from future
misconduct of this kind, is suspension of his license to practice law for a time;

c.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses that Defendant committed and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members
of the Bar of this State;

d.

A suspension is the only discipline that can be stayed on conditions whereby the
attorney can be monitored to assure that he has taken appropriate corrective action

-9-

to assure that his future clients and the public are not exposed to the significant
risks exhibited by Defendant's conduct.
12.

The Hearing Committee therefore concludes that the only sanction in this case that can

adequately protect the public is a suspension of Defendant's license for a period oftime that is
stayed only upon Defendant's continuous compliance with conditions intended to protect clients
and the public from the risk of significant hann shown by the Defendant's conduct in this
instance.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings Regarding
Discipline, and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

The license of Defendant, Terry B. Richardson, is hereby suspended from the date of the

service ofthis Order upon him to and through December 31,2011. The period of suspension is
hereby stayed to and through December 31, 2011 upon the following conditions:
a.

During the period of stayed suspension Defendant will retain the services of
accountant Janice Fonville Stokes or another accountant satisfactory to the State
Bar to conduct a quarterly review of the status of any accounts into which client
or fiduciary funds have been deposited by Defendant. Each quarter Defendant
will deliver to the Office of Counsel a qUaI1erly report prepared and signed by the
Accountant certifYing that Defendant has reconciled each account with the bank
balance, that he has maintained client ledgers identifYing all funds in each
account, and that Defendant is otherwise meeting all requirements of Rule 1.15 of
the Rules of Professional Conduct;

-10-

b.

Defendant is to submit such quarterly reports by each April 15, July 15, October
15, and January 15 during the period of stay, and shall provide the certified public
accountant the necessary information to satisfactorily prepare such quarterly
reports. Defendant will be solely responsible for all costs associated with the
monitoring of his trust account(s);

c.

On or before December 31,2009, Defendant shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction
of the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar, that Defendant has
reimbursed from his own funds all amounts that are due to the Asa Richardson
Heirs fund;

d.

On or before December 31, 2009, Defendant shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction
ofthe Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar, that Defendant has
identified all clients with funds remaining in his attorney trust account and who
are entitled to have the funds that remain in that trust account. Once those clients
are identified, Defendant shall properly disburse the identified funds as
appropriate;

e.

Defendant will complete an accounting course, either a continuing legal education
course teaching attorney trust accounting practices or other accounting course
with an emphasis on management of attorney trust accounts and/or fiduciary
funds approved in advance by the Office of Counsel. Defendant will complete
this course by June 30, 2010, and will provide the Office of Counsel proof of
completion within ten days of completion ofthe course;

f.

Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions of the
Rules of Professional Conduct during the period ofthe stayed suspension;

-11-

g.

Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for information by the earlier of
the deadline stated in the communication or within 30 days;

h.

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements; and

I.

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current home and business street (not P.O. Box) addresses and
telephone numbers.

2.

If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the provisions of Paragraph I above

at any point during the period the suspension is stayed, the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in §.OI 14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
3.

If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is activated for

any reason, the DHC may enter an order providing for such conditions as it deems appropriate
and/or necessary for reinstatement of Defendant's law license. Furthermore, before seeking
reinstatement of his license to practice law, Defendant must show by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence that he has complied with each ofthe following conditions:
a.

Has accounted for and disbursed all funds in his trust account properly and
otherwise satisfied the requirements enumerated in paragraph I (a), (c), (d), and
(e);

b.

Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary ofthe North Carolina
State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order suspending his law license;

-12-

c.

Complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules on a timely basis following the order suspending
his law license;

d.

Paid all due and owing membership fees, Client Security Fund assessments and
costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar and complied with all continuing legal
education requirements imposed by the State Bar.

4.

Defendant is taxed with the costs ofthis action as assessed by the Secretary which shall

be paid within thirty days of service of the notice of costs upon the Defendant.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with full knowledge and consent ofthe other
members ofthe Hearing Committee.

This is the

3J day of n~

,2009.

-13-

