NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.

)
)
)

)
)

WALTER E. RICKS, III,
Defendant

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSION OF LAW AND ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE BY CONSENT

)
)
)

TItis matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
duly appointed and composed of the Chair, M.H. Hood Ellis, and panel members Theodore C.
Edwards, II and Dr. Charles L. Garrett, Jr. William N. Farrell represented Plaintiff. Defendant
was represented by Florence A. Bowens. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact
and conclusions ofJaw recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant
knowingly, freely and voluntarily consents to the order of discipline, waives a formal hearing in
tltis case, waives his right to appeal this consent order or challenge in any way the sufiiciency of
the findings, tile conclusions of law or the discipline imposed. Based opon tile stipulations of
fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing panel enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, tile NOrtll Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of Nortl1 Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under tl1e
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of tl1e General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the Nortl1 Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

')
Defendant, Walter E. Ricks, 11l (hereinafter "Defendant" or "Ricks"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on August 14, 1970 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During part of the relevant periods reLimed to herein, Defendant was engaged in the
practice of law in the State ofNortl1 Carolina and maintained a law office in Durham, Durham
County, North Carolina.
4.
As of January 2009, Defendant has been suspended from the active practice onaw in the
State ofNorth Carolina due to non-compliance with Continuing Legal Education requirements.

5.
In Or about July 2005, Defendant was retained by Howard Hill to represent him in an
EEOC matter.
6.

Defendant was paid $3,250 by Mr. Hill as a retainer fee for his services.

7.
On June 27, 2005, Defendant filed a eomplaint on Mr. Hill's behalf in the United States
District Court, Middle Dislriet of North Carolina, Greensboro Division titled Howard Hill v.
Mike Leavitt, in his offiCial capacity as the Secretary ofthe United States Department ofHealth
and Human Services, 1:05-CV-00582.
8.
On December 11, 2006, a Motion for Summary Judgment and Memorandum in Support
of Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment was file,d by defense counsel in J:05-CV-00582.
9.
On January 17, 2007, Defendant received a letter from the United States District Court
informing him U,at no response had been filed in response to the December 11,2006 Motion for
Sununary Judgment.
10.
On February 1, 2007, Defendant Ricks filed aMotion to A1lowPlaimiff's Memorandum
of Law in Opposition to Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment to be filed out of time on
Mr. Hill's behalf. The Motion was granted.
11.
On February 22, 2007, Defendant Ricks filed Plaintiff's Memorandum of Law and
Affidavit in Opposition to Defendant's Motion for SUD1mary Judgment on Mr. Hill's behalf. The
affidavit was signed by Mr. Hill.
12.
On August 24, 2007, a Recommendation of United States Magistrate Judge was filed
recommending that the court grant defense counsel's motion for summary judgment.
13.
On September 24, 2007, an order adopting Magistrate Judge's Recommendation that
Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment in J:05-CV-00582 was granted and fue case
dismissed.
14.
After the September 24, 2007 order was adopted, Defendant performed no additional
wode or contacted Mr. Hill regarding J:05-CV-00582.
15.

Defendant failed to notif)r Mr. Hill offue granting of the summary judgment in 1:05-CV-

00582.

16.

Defendant failed to return Mr. Hill's client file to him after being demanded to do so.

17.
On or about February 23, 2009, Mr. Hill filed a grievance with fue State Bar against
Defendant, grievance file no. 09G0208.
18.
On or about April 13, 2009, the State Bar sent a Letter of Notice to Defendant by
certified mail regarding grievance file no. 09G0208.
19.
Defendant received fuis Notification on April 14, 2009 and was required to respond
wiU,in fifteen days but failed to respond.

-2-

20.
On April 30, 2009, Defendant was granted an extension until May 13, 2009 to foonally
respond to the Letter ofNotice but lililed to respond.
21.
On May 22, 2009, due to Defendant's failure to respond to the February 23, 2009 Letter
of Notice, a model policy letter was sent to District 14 Councilor, Margaret McCreary in an
attempt to contact Defendant and have him comply with responding to the February 23, 2009
Letter of Notice. Defendant again failed to respond to the February 23, 2009 Letter ofNotice.
22.
On August 18, 2009, the State Bar served Defendant with a subpoena to appear at the
State Bar and produce Mr. Hill's client file on September 16, 2009.
23.
On September 16, 2009, Defendant appeared at the State Bar offices pursuant to the
August 18, 2009 subpoena.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel hereby enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has jurisdiction over
Defendaot and the subject matter of this proceeding. By agreeing aod consenting to this order of
discipline, Defendant has waived any and all defects in the service of the Summons and
Complaint and in the Notice of Hearing.
2.
Defendant's conduet, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, cOIlStitutes grounds for
discipline pursuaot to N.C. General Statute §84-28(b)(2) in that the conduct violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time ofthe conduct as follows:
a)
By failing to communicate with Mr. Hill after filing the brief in opposition to
defendant's motion for summary judgment Defendant was in violation of Rules 1.4(a)(3) and
1.4(a)(4);
b)
By failing to perfoon any work on behalf of Mr. Hill after filing the brief in
opposition to defendant's motion for summary judgment, Defendant was in violation of Rule 1.3;
c)
By failing to consult with Mr. Hill after the magistrate recommended that the
motion for summary judgment be granted, Defendant was in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
d)
By failing to provide Mr. Hill vl'ith a copy of his client file upon request,
Defendant failed to surrender property to which his client was entitled in violation of Rule
1.l6(d); aod
e)
By failing to respond to the State Bar's February 23, 2009 Letter of Notice
regarding 0900208 until being subpoenaed to appear at the State Bar amounted to a failure to
respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary authority and was in violation of
Rule B.1(b).

-3-

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact' and Conclusions of Law, the hearing panel
enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different fanns of discipline
available to it.
2.
The hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.01l4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and finds the
following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

The presence ofprior disciplinary offenses by Defendant;

(b)

Multiple violations of the Rules ofProfessional Conduct; and

(c)

Defendant's substantial eXperience in the practice ofJaw.

3.
The hearing panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.OI14(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and finds the
following factors warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
(a)
The negative impact of Defendant's actions on his clients' perceptions and the
public's perception of the legal profession;
(b)

The negative impact ofDefendant's actions on the administration ofjustice;

(c)

Impairment ofhis clients' ability to achieve the goals ofthe representation; and

(d)
process.

Multiple instances of failure to panicipate in the legal profession's self-regulation

Any sanction less than suspension would fail to aclrnowledge the seriousness of the
4.
. offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the public, and would send the
wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the
Bar.
The hearing panel considered the factors delineated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14(w)(2)(A)
5.
of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carol1na State Bar and finds the circumstances of this
case do not require disbarment in order to protect the public.
6.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all disciplinary options and finds reprimand,
admonition or censure would not be sufficient discipline to protect the public, clients or potential
clients, the profession and the administration of justice. 111e hearing panel finds that any
discipline less than suspension would not be appropriate in this case.

-4-

7.
The hearing panel finds and concludes that the public will be adequately protected by
suspension of Defendant's license, for a period oftime.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and FindingsRegarding
.
Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following;
ORDER OF DISCfPLlNE
1.
Defendant's license to practice law in the State ofNorth Carolina is hereby suspended for
three (3) years.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar nO later than thirty days following service of this Order on Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.CAC. JB §
.0124, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an
afiidavit with the Secretary ofthe North Carolina State Bar witbin ten days of the effective date
of this Order of Discipline certifying he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
Within fifteen days of the effective date of this Order, defendant will provide the State
Bar with a street address and mailing address at which clients seeking return of their files and
records in defendant's possession or control may obtain such files and records and at which the
Slate Bar may serve any notices or other matters upon him.
5.
After the completion of 18 months of active suspension of his license, defendant may
apply for a stay of the balance of the suspension upon filing a petition with the Secretary ofthe
North Carolina State Bar at least thirty days before any proposed effective date of the stay and
demonstrating the following by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
n.
That defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his CtllTent business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in address
within ten days of such change;
b.
That defendant has responded to all communications from the North Carolina
State Bar, including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty
days of receipt or by the dcadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner, and has
participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition
received after the effective date ofthis Order;
c.
That defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States or any state or local government during his suspension;
d.
That defendant has properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
requiremcnts of27 N.CAC. 1B § .0124, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules; and
e.
Defendant has paid all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client
Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect
from him, and has complied with all Continuing Legal Education (CLE) requirements on a
timely basis during any period during which the suspension ofhis law license is stayed.

-5-

6.
If defendant successfnIly seeks a stay ofthe suspension ofhis law license after 18
months, such stay will continue in force only as long as he complies with the following
conditions:
a.
Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised ofhis cun-ent business and home addresses;
b.
Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communlcations from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days of
receipt or by thc deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner, and participate in
good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition received during the
stay;
c.
Defendant shaH not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or any state or local government during his suspension; and
d.
Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements and shall pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline.
If defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions ofthe stayed suspension provided
7.
in paragraph 6 above, the stay ofthe suspension may be lifted as provided in § .0 I l4(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
8.
If defendant does not seek a stay ofthe active portion ofthe suspension or if some part of
the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, defendant must comply with the
condition set out in paragraphs 5(a) through (e) above before seeking reinstatement ofhis liccnse
to practice law.
9.

Defendant is taxed with the costs oftIlls action as assessed by the Secretary.

Signed by the Chair ofthe Hearing Panel with the consent of the other Hearing Panel
,2010.
members, this the 1~day of t§J.~

ti,

~HvhftpL

CONSENTED TO:

LJ.J-k..- .:E. U

/;¢

Walter E. Ricks, III, Defendant

orney for Defendant

\",,)~Mh..

N

Y
-6-

