/'

~"-(jlB
~J
9~

(~}

(;;

STATE OF NORTH CAROLrNI'Ai

\f'.'~
IJ-J]

~~?,

ora

-2'

2al~7 ~
Flf"_c.{",j'
r:,.. Uj
D~CIP
~
l'\l

{;<.>

WAKE COUNTY

i9~ ..

.,.

BEFORE THE
RY HEARING COMMISSION
(J,
~ i::i)
OF THE
HCAROLINASTATEBAR
(j~"B
14 DHC 1

\~~.>\?
~!fc'22\l ~c

*

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
JOHN W. ROEBUCK, JR., Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MA TIER was considered by a hearing panel ofthe Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ("DHC") composed of Joshua W. Willey, Jr., Chair, Donald C. Prentiss, and
Michael S. Edwards pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §.0114 ofthe North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. Plaintiff was represented by Deputy Counsel
G. Patrick Murphy. Defendant was represented by J. Michael McGuinness. Defendant
waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order and to the discipline imposed.
By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant waives any right to appeal this
consent order or challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the pleadings and the admissions, and with consent of the parties, the
hearing panel finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper pmly to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNolth
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, John W. Roebuck, Jr., ("Roebuck" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the NOith Carolina State Bm' on August 26, 2003, and was at all times
refelTed to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
laws ofthe State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods refened to herein, Roebuck was
engaged in the practice oflaw in Richmond County, North Carolina.
4.
Prior to April 15, 2013, Roebuck illegally obtained prescription pain
medication from various individuals, usually five or six pills at a time, in exchange for
money.
5.
Prior to April 15, 2013, Roebuck had represented TH on criminal charges
filed in Richmond County, North Carolina.
6.
Prior to April 15, 2013, Roebuck asked TH to acquire additional
prescription pain medication for Roebuck, and TH agreed to do so.
7.
On April 15, 2013, TH and Roebuck exchanged several text messages. In
the text messages, Roebuck reminded TH not to forget the prescription pain medication,
or "meds" as he called them, and told her he wanted "40 or 50 dollars worth." Later that
day, TH stopped by Roebuck's office where he paid TH $50.00 to obtain prescription
pain medication for him.
8.
On April 24, 2013, TH met with Roebuck and delivered to him nine (9)
white tablets scored "M358" in consummation of their agreement and as they had
discussed in text messages on April 15, 2013.
9.
The nine (9) white tablets scored "M358" which Roebuck bought from TH
have been examined by the North Carolina State Crime Laboratory and fOlmd to be
consistent with a pharmaceutical preparation containing Dihydrocodeinone
(Hydrocodone), a Schedule III Preparation of an Opium Derivative and a controlled
substance in North Carolina.
10.
The North Carolina State Crime Laboratory determined that the combined
weight of the nine (9) white tablets scored "M358" was 5.81(+1- 0.04) grams, a
trafficking amount of Hydrocodone under North Carolina law.
II.
On April 24, 2013, Roebuck possessed the nine tablets he purchased fi'om
TH, and he transported them in his vehicle, a 2003 Ford Crown Victoria, both acts in
violation of North Carolina law.
12.
On April 24, 2013, Roebuck was arrested and charged in Slate v. Roebuck,
13 CRS 51033 (Richmond County), with two counts of trafficking in a controlled
substance and one count of knowingly and intentionally maintaining a vehicle for the
purposes of using controlled substances.
13.
On December 18, 2013, Roebuck pled guilty in Richmond County
Superior Court case Stale v Roebuck, 13 CRS 51033(Richmond County), to knowingly
and intentionally maintaining a vehicle that was resorted to by persons using controlled
substances for the purpose of using controlled substances in violation ofN. C. Gen. Stat.
§90-108(A)(7), a felony offense.

-2-

14.
Defendant was sentenced to a minimum of three and a maximum of
thitteen months in the custody of the N.C. Division of Adult Correction. The sentence
was suspended for eighteen months and Defendant was placed on supervised probation
for eighteen months.
IS.
On January 28, 2014, the Chair of the DHC filed an Order ofInterim
Suspension suspending Defendant's license until the conclusion of all disciplinary
proceedings relating to this matter.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, John W. Roebuck, Jr., and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(1) and (b)(2) as
follows:
(a)

By pleading guilty in State v Roebuck, 13 CRS 51 033(Richrnond
County), to knowingly and intentionally maintaining a vehicle resorted
to by persons using controlled substances in violation of N.C. Gen.
Stat. §90-108(A)(7), a felony offense, Defendant has been convicted
of a criminal offense showing professional unfitness in violation of
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1); and

(b)

By agreeing to purchase prescription pain medication unlawfully from
TH, purchasing Hydrocodone from TH, and possessing and
transporting Hydrocodone in his vehicle, Defendant committed
criminal acts (conspiracy, possession of a controlled substance, and
trafficking a controlled substance) that reflect adversely on his
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8 .4(b), and
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4Cd).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the
consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the profession and the
public's perception of the profession as defendant's illegal purchase of prescription pain
medication resulted in serious criminal charges which are documented in the court file of
the criminal case and were the subject of media reports. The public expects that attorneys
-3-

will abide by the law and Defendant's conduct shows his disregard for his obligation to
obey the laws of this State.
2.
Defendant entered into a plea agreement with the State of North Carolina
resolving the criminal charges without a trial.
3.

Defendant had an assessment for substance abuse prior to the criminal

4.

Defendant did not contest the interim suspension imposed by the Chair of

case.

theDHC.

5.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

6.
Defendant, who was licensed to practice law in NOlth Carolina in 2003,
has substantial experience in the practice of law.
7.
Defendant has acknowledged his conduct violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct and is remorseful for his actions.
8.

Defendant involved a former client in his illegal conduct.

9.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension and
disbarment, in determining the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar and determines the following factors are applicable:
a. No prior discipline;
b. Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
c. Imposition of penalties in the criminal proceeding;
d. Remorse; and
e. Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North

-4-

Carolina State Bar and determines the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
a. Defendant's intent to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
b. Defendant's actions had a negative impact on his client's and the public's
perception of the legal profession; and
c. Defendant's actions had a negative impact on the administration of justice.
3.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe factors enumerated
in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and determines that commission of a felony is present and requires the
Hearing Panel to consider disbarment as discipline. The Hearing Panel has considered
disbarment and has determined that disbarment is not warranted here given the nature,
facts, and circumstances of the conduct in this case.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all other forms of discipline and
concludes that any sanction less than suspension would not be sufficient discipline
because of the gravity of the harm to the profession and the pUblic. The Hearing Panel
further concludes that any lesser discipline would fail to aclmowledge the seriousness of
the violations committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the public, and
would send the wrong message to attorneys and to the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in this State.
5.
The Hearing Panel concludes that the public will be adequately protected
by suspension of Defendant's license for a period oftime with conditions for his
reinstatement designed to ensure protection of the public and continued compliance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, John W. Roebuck, Jr., is hereby SUSPENDED from the
practice oflaw for four years, effective upon the filing of this Consent Order of
Discipline with the Cleric. Defendant will be given credit against this period of
suspension for the time he has been on interim suspension since January 28,2014.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days of the effective date of this Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar

-5-

within 30 days of the effective date ofthis Order, certifying he has complied with the
wind down provisions.
4.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs ofthis disciplinaty
proceeding within 180 days of service of the statement of fees and costs upon him by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
5.
Defendant shall 0 btain a mental health evaluation within sixty days of the
effective date ofthis order by a licensed and qualified psychiatrist or psychologist
("mental health professional") engaged by Defendant. This evaluation may be
coordinated through the Lawyer Assistance Program. The mental health professional
Defendant engages to perform this evaluation shall be approved in advance by the North
Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel. Prior to the evaluation, Defendant shall sign an
authorization consenting to the release of all medical records and information related to
Defendant's evaluation to the Office of Counsel, and Defendant shall not revoke that
release. Defendant shall simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to
the Office of Counsel and the mental health professional. Defendant shall direct the
evaluating mental health professional to provide a written report of such evaluation and
recommended treatment, if any, to the Office of Counsel within fifteen (15) days of the
completion of the evaluation. Such evaluation shall contain an opinion as to whether
Defendant is suffering from any addiction, substance abuse, or mental, psychological, or
emotional condition. All expenses of such evaluation and report shall be borne by
Defendant.
6.
Defendant shall comply with all treatment recommendations of the
evaluation described in paragraph 5 above. Defendant shall sign an authorization
consenting to the release of any medical records and information related to Defendant's
treatment to the Office of Counsel, and Defendant shall not revoke that release.
Defendant shall simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the Office
of Counsel and his treatment provider. Defendant shall direct his treatment provider to
provide the Office of Counsel with a written report detailing Defendant's treatment plan.
Defendant shall also direct his treatment provider to provide the Office of Counsel with
quarterly written reports concerning Defendant's condition and compliance with the
treatment plan. Such reports shall be received by the Office of Counsel each January 1,
April I, July 1 and October 1 for the time covered by this Order of Discipline. Defendant
shall also comply with any and all requests from the Office of Counsel seeking updates
on the status of his ongoing treatment within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such requests.
All expenses of such treatment and reports shall be borne by Defendant.
7.
Defendant shall not possess, use or consume any controlled substances or
any prescription drugs other than as authorized by his treating physician and obtained
with a lawful prescription from a licensed pharmacy during the entire period of this
suspension.
8.
Defendant shall enroll in FirstLab Professional Health Monitoring
Program or other service agreed to in advance by the Office of Counsel of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "monitoring laboratory") within thirty days of the

-6-

effective date of this Order of Discipline. Such monitoring will be at Defendant's
expense. Such monitoring will include random testing for the substances identified by
the NOlth Carolina State Bar. Such monitoring will include at least thirteen random drug
screens per year for the period of this suspension. Compliance shall include having no
failures to test and having no positive test results that are not consistent with proper
authorized use of a prescribed medication. The monitoring agreement with the
monitoring laboratory will require the monitoring laboratory to report to the North
Carolina State Bar the following: any failure of Defendant to submit a required testing
sample at a location approved by the monitoring laboratory when directed to do so by the
monitoring laboratory; any failure of Defendant to pay for a test; any attempt by
Defendant to alter the required testing sample or impair the ability of the testing to detect
controlled substances and/or prescription medicines in his testing sample; and any
positive test result. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or documents to allow sllch
reporting and shall not revoke the release during the period of monitoring.
9.
Defendant shall comply with all the terms and conditions of his
probationary sentence in State v Roebuck, 13 CRS 51033 (Richmond County), and any
court order modifying those terms or conditions.
10.
Defendant shall not violate the laws of the United States, any state, or the
provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of his sllspension.
II.
Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of his current home and business street (not P.O. Box) addresses and
telephone numbers.
12.
Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for information as
required by Rule 8.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by the deadline. stated in the
communication.
13.
Defendant shall, within sixty days prior to applying for a reinstatement,
have the mental health professional who conducted the evaluation described in paragraph
5 above celtify, under oath, based on his or her independent and comprehensive
evaluation of Defendant, whether in his or her professional opinion Defendant suffers
from an active addiction to any legal or illegal substances, or suffers from any mental,
psychological, behavioral, cognitive, or emotional condition or disorder that impairs
Defendant's ability to practice law, that impacts Defendant's ability or willingness to
comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct, and/or that poses a risk of harm to the
public if he engages in the practice of law.
14.
Defendant must show compliance with the requirements and provisions of
paragraphs 2 through 13 of this Order of Discipline as well as with the requirements of27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125(b) in order to be reinstated from this suspension to active
status.

-7-

J..-

Si gned)2. the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
_7_ day of
E'Cel"v'\ b("M,-2014.
Jj

CONSENTED TO BY:

/

/J

I

~

w. Roebuck, lr.

G. Patrick Murphy
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

efendant
•
. Michael McGuinness
Counsel for Defendant

-8-

