d:~'A.
.1'i;o
Al
<! 'f
T

£""'''--,1

l,..>"

/1-,:,,"'V
NORTH CAROLINA

y

MAR 2011'

'J'

f:'L 01
BEFORE THE
J
! tD Of-Ie oti IPLINARY HEAIUNG COMMISSION

li=::i

\~
\o.~

WAKE COUNTY

U"

Vp//
", 0'/

,\(;;.

'\v·
·',d. ~I"rl C\
L' I.. '"
---.:..<!~

~

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
10 OHC 40

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.

DAVID H. ROGERS, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter is before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, and members Robert F. Siler and Dr. Charles L.
Ganett, Jr. Carmen Hoyme Balmon represents Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, David H. Rogers, has not participated in this matter alld no counsel of record
has appeared on his behalf.
On Plaintiff s motion, judgment by default was entered against Defendallt. Based
upon the pleadings and admissions pursnallt to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0114(f) alld Rule 8(d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, the hearing pallel
hereby finds by clear, cogent, alld convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bm"), is a body duly
orgallized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper palty to bring this
proceeding under the authority grallted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Cmolina Administrative Code).
7
Defendallt, David H. Rogers (hereafter "Defendant" or "Rogers"), was
admitted to the N01th Cmolina State Bar on 8 June 1979 and is all Attorney at Law
subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Cmolina
State Bar alld the laws of the State of North Carolina. Rogers' license to practice lawin
North Carolina was active 11-0111 the date of his admission until 7 March 1983, when he
was judicially suspended. Rogers' license was reinstated on 3 JallUary 1986 and
remained active until 20 March 2003, when it was suspended for three years. On 25 May
2006 Rogers entered into a consent order of discipline wherein his license was suspended
for five years, to nm consecutive to his prior suspension. Rogers' law license was still
suspended when the complaint in this matter was filed.

3.

Defendant was properly served with process in this action.

4.
In July 2008, Rogers went to the Orange County home of William
Anthony Ralston and shot Ralston in the abdomen, seriously injuring him.
5.
As a result of the conduct described in paragraph 4, Rogers was charged,
in State of North Carolina v. Rogers, Orange County file numbers 08 CRS 000872 and
08 CRS 053684, with one count each of attempted murder (a class B2 felony) and assault
with a deadly weapon with intent to kill inflicting setious injury (a class C felony).
6.
In October 2010, after a Superior Court jury trial, Rogers was convicted of
both charges in file numbers 08 CRS 000872 and 08 CRS 053684.

As previously found by default judgment and now recited herein, based on the
foregoing Findings of Fact the hearing panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All the parties are properly before the heating panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, David H. Rogers, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1), for his convictions of
attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill inflicting serious
injury, criminal offenses showing professional unfitness.
3.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, also
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
By engaging in the felonious conduct for which he was convicted, Rogers committed
criminal acts that reflect adversely upon his trustworthiness and fitness as a lawyer in
violation of Rule 8.4(b).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The findings in paragraphs 1 through 6 above are reincorporated as if fully
set forth herein.
2.
Rogers was licensed in 1979 and therefore has substantial experience in
the practice of law.
3.
Rogers committed violent felonies and thereby engaged
conduct involving moral turpitude.

- 2-

111

criminal

4.
Acting with intent to kill and infliction of serious injmy are elements of
the crime of assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill inflicting serious injury.
Rogers' conviction of that offense establishes that he acted with intent and caused serious
harm to his victim.
5.
The felonies Rogers committed necessarily result in incarceration under
North Carolina law.
6.

Rogers' criminal convictions are a matter of public record.

7.

Rogers' status as a lawyer is a matter of public record.

8.
When a lawyer is convicted of a serious crime it brings the legal
profession into disrepute.
9.
Rogers has a history of repeated and lengthy active suspensions from the
practice of law, which demonstrates a pattern of serious disciplinary violations.
10.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and upon consideration of the factors set forth in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .01 14(w), the hearing panel hereby
enters the following additional
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IE § .0114(w) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.
The hearing panel finds evidence of the following factors:
(a) From Rule .0114(w)(l):
I.

Intent of Defendant to cause the resulting harm or potential harm, in
that inherent in Rogers' convictions are findings that he acted with
intent to harm the victim of his crimes;

11.

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;

111.

Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of trustworthiness or
integrity;

IV.

Effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties (to wit: the victim of his
criminal offenses);

-3-

(b) From Rule .OI14(w)(2):
I.

Commission of a felony.

(c) From Rule .OI14(w)(3):
I.

11.
111.

Prior disciplinary offenses;
A pattern of misconduct; and
Substantial experience in the practice of law.

2.
Rogers' conduct resulted in at least potential significant hann to the
profession due to the public nature of his criminal charges and conviction.
3.
Rogers' conduct resulted in significant harm to William Anthony Ralston,
the victim of his crimes.
4.
The hearing panel has carefully considered admonition, reprimand,
censure, suspension and disbannent in considering the appropriate discipline in this case.
5.
The hearing panel finds that admonition, reprimand, censure or suspension
would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of harm and potential hann to
the public and the profession in the present case.
6.
The hearing panel concludes that discipline short of disbarment would not
adequately protect the public for the reasons stated above and for the following reasons:
a.

Rogers committed misdeeds involving moral turpitude and violations of
the public trust, including violent crimes for which imprisonment is
mandatory. Felonious violations of criminal law are among the most
serious kinds of misconduct that an attorney can cOlmnit.

b.

Rogers has repeatedly engaged in serious misconduct reflecting adversely
on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer.

c.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Rogers committed, would be
inconsistent with discipline issued in prior cases involving similar
misconduct, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.

d.

The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that Rogers
not be permitted to resume the practice of law until he is able to
demonstrate the following: That he has refonned; that he understands his
obligations to his clients, the public, and the legal profession; and that
pennitting him to practice law will not be detrimental to the public, the
integrity and standing of the legal profession, or the administration of

- 4-

justice. Disbarred lawyers are required to make such a showing before
they may resume practicing law.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel hereby
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant, David H. Rogers, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of

law.
2.
Defendant shall pay the costs of tills proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant must pay the costs within 30 days
of service upon him of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
3.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 NCAC lB § .0124 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules .

.'"")/cl:
Signed SY7Jl7.e Chajr with the consent of tile other hearing panel members, this the
o

C/__' day of

/~~!!I?c;Ao

'

2011.

7

~

.

~

-7

/"

/)

~~A a~0;f;;£
Steven D. Michael, CI{air
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-5-

