WAKE COUNTY

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
HUBERT N. ROGERS, III, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of David W. Long, Chair, R. Lee Farmer, and Ronald C. Brinson. Leanor Bailey
Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Hubert N. Rogers, III,
was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Defendant waives a formal hearing in the above
referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order. The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By
consenting to this order, Defendant knowingly, freely, and voluntarily waives his right to appeal
this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Hubert N. Rogers, III (hereafter "Defendant" or "Rogers"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 23 August 1980 and is an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Rogers actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Lumberton,
Robeson County, North Carolina.
4.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Rogers maintained a general
attorney trust account at PNC Bank, account number ending 6489 (hereinafter "PNC trust
account").

Page 1 of10

5.
Rogers used the PNC trust account as a general account into which all entrusted
client funds were deposited and from which such funds were disbursed.
6.
On or about 29 August 2017, Rogers' PNC trust account was the subject of a
random procedural audit by the State Bar.
7.
Rogers had previously been subject to random procedural audits in April 1994
and June 1997.
8.
Rogers was cited in the April 1994 procedural audit for the following deficiencies
in his trust account management:
a. Failure to perform quarterly reconciliations of his trust account;
b. Failure to provide written accountings upon completion of disbursement of
entrusted funds;
c. Advancing funds from the trust account for bank charges due to failure to
maintain sufficient funds in trust for bank charges; and
d. Failure to identify clients on deposit slips.
9.
Rogers was cited in the June 1997 audit for the following deficiencies in his trust
account management:
a. Failure to perform quarterly reconciliations of his trust account;
b. Failure to perform monthly reconciliations of his trust account;
c. Failure to always provide written accountings to clients at completion of
disbursement or at least annually if funds are held for more than twelve
months;
d. Advancing funds from the trust account;
e. Failure to always indicate current balance on client ledgers;
f.

Failure to maintain a ledger of attorney funds to service the trust account;

g. Failure to escheat abandoned funds as appropriate and failure to provide a
copy of the escheat form to the State Bar;
h. Failure to provide a copy of the Amended Directive to the bank and State Bar;
1.

Failure to promptly remove from the trust account earned fees or cost
reimbursement thereby commingling attorney funds with client funds; and

J.

Failure to always indicate on items payable to the lawyer the client balance
from which the funds are drawn.
NCSB v. Rogers
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 2 oflO

10.
The August 2017 audit revealed the following deficiencies in Rogers' trust
account management, including:
a. Failure to perform quarterly reconciliations of the following PNC trust
account balances: the balance as it appeared on Rogers' general ledger for the
PNC trust account, the total of all subsidiary ledger balances, and the adjusted
bank balance;
b. Failure to perform monthly reconciliations of the balance of the PNC trust
account as shown on Rogers' records and the balance of the PNC trust
account as shown on the current bank statement;
c. Failure to provide a copy of the directive on NSF trust checks to the bank;
d. Failure to review monthly bank statements and cancelled checks;
e. Failure to maintain client ledgers;
f

Failure to maintain, sign, and date reconciliation reports; and

g. Failure to complete quarterly transaction reviews of transactions occurring in
the PNC trust account.
11.
Rogers was deficient in his management of the PNC trust account as described in
paragraph 11 above.
12.
Rogers also failed to disburse entrusted funds from the PNC trust account on
behalf of several clients who were currently entitled to such funds.
13.
In some instances, Rogers had maintained these clients' entrusted funds in the
PNC trust account since 2014.
14.
Rogers employed non-lawyer assistants to whom he delegated several of his trust
account management duties, including but not limited to monthly and quarterly reconciliation of
the PNC trust account and maintenance of client ledgers.
15.

Rogers had direct supervisory authority over such non-lawyer assistants.

16.
Rogers did not make reasonable efforts to ensure that his non-lawyer assistants
performed monthly reconciliations of the PNC trust account.
17.
Rogers did not make reasonable efforts to ensure that his non-lawyer assistants
performed quarterly reconciliations of the PNC trust account.
18.
Rogers did not make reasonable efforts to ensure that his non-lawyer assistants
maintained client ledgers.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
NCSB v. Rogers
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 3 oflO

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Hubert N. Rogers, III, and over the subject matter.
2.
Rogers' conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct as follows:
a. By failing to perform a three-way reconciliation of the PNC trust
account quarterly and monthly reconciliation of the balance of the
PNC trust account as shown on Rogers' records and the balance of the
PNC trust account as shown on the current bank statement, Defendant
failed to conduct the required reconciliations of his trust account in
violation of Rule 1.15-3(d);
b. By failing to provide a copy of the directive on NSF trust checks to the
bank, Defendant failed to provide the required bank directive in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(1);
c. By failing to review monthly bank statements and canceled checks for
the PNC trust account, failing to maintain, sign, and date reconciliation
reports, and failing to complete quarterly transaction reviews of
transactions occurring in the PNC trust account, Defendant failed to
conduct the required trust account reviews in violation of Rule 1.153(i);
d. By failing to maintain client ledgers, Defendant failed to maintain the
minimum records required for general trust accounts in violation of
Rule 1. 15-3(b);
e. By failing to timely disburse his clients' entrusted funds, Defendant
failed to diligently represent his clients' interests in violation of Rule
1.3, failed to properly maintain entrusted funds in violation of Ru1e
1. 15-2(a), and failed to promptly pay to the client or to a third person
as directed by the client entrusted property belonging to the client in
violation of Rule 1. 15-2(n); and

f.

By failing to supervise his non-lawyer assistants' management of the
PNC trust account, Defendant failed to supervise his non-lawyer
assistants to the extent necessary to ensure that their conduct was
compatible with Defendant's professional obligations in violation of
Rule 5.3(b).
NCSB v. Rogers
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 4 oflO

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
Rogers received a reprimand in 1991 for failing to personally inspect the public
records before certifying to the lender that the property's title was marketable.
2.
Rogers failed to take reasonable corrective actions to the supervision of his nonlawyer assistants and the management of his trust account to ensure that entrusted funds were
properly safeguarded and to ensure his compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
Rogers' failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted funds betrays
a vital trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal profession. Clients are entitled
to have their funds handled with the utmost care.
4.
Rogers' failure to always perform quarterly reconciliations of his trust account
after having been twice previously cited for such failure demonstrates his intent to commit acts
where the potential harm is foreseeable.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.0116(f)(1) and concludes that the following factors that warrant suspension or
disbarment are present:
a. Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable~ and
b. Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of
the profession.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B .0116(f)(2) and concludes that no factors that warrant disbarment are present.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.0116(f)(3) and concludes that the following are applicable in this matter:
a. Remoteness of prior offense~

b. Multiple offenses~

NCSB v. Rogers
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 50f10

c. Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attitude toward
the proceedings; and
d. Defendant has been licensed to practice law for approximately thirty-eight
years.
4.
Defendant caused potential significant harm to his clients by failing to properly
manage their entrusted funds.
5.
Defendant's conduct placed entrusted funds at risk and has the potential to cause
significant harm to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows his
disregard for certain of his duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys
tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence
in the legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
6.
The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including: censure,
reprimand, and admonition, and finds that discipline less than suspension would not adequately
protect the public from Defendant's future misconduct because (i) of the gravity of potential
significant harm to clients, and (ii) a period of reporting pursuant to a stayed suspension is
necessary to ensure Defendant's proper handling of entrusted funds.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and on the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Hubert N. Rogers, III, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for two years effective 30 days from service of this order upon Rogers. This suspension is stayed
immediately as set forth herein and subject to the terms of paragraph 3 below.
2.
Defendant shall pay, within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and costs
upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative fees and costs ofthis proceeding.
3.
The two-year suspension is stayed for a period of four years as long as Defendant
complies with all the following conditions:
a. Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary of the State Bar within 30 days of service of the
statement of fees and costs upon him;
b. Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State Bar
with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's Trust
Account Handbook, using the Trust Account Reconciliation sheet available on
the State Bar's website, for all trust accounts he maintains. Defendant shall
provide (i) the three-way reconciliation report, (ii) client ledgers for all clients
NCSB v. Rogers
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of10

with funds in the trust account( s) during that month as may be requested by
the Office of Counsel, (iii) ledger for any personal funds maintained in the
trust account(s) for bank: or credit card fees, (iv) trust account general ledger,
(v) multi pIe balance ledger report (report listing balance of funds maintained
in trust for each client during reporting period), (vi) the bank: statements, (vii)
canceled checks, and (viii) as may be requested by the Office of Counsel,
deposit slips for each month. These documents are due on the 15 th day of the
following month - for example, the three-way reconciliation for the month of
January is due on February 15;
c. Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA or other accounting professional
approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar audit all trust accounts
maintained by Defendant. This audit shall assess whether Defendant has in
his trust account the client funds he is required to maintain for his clients at
that time, as well as Defendant's compliance with all requirements of Rule
1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The audit shall include addressing the items on the
CPA Report Template which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendant.
The quarterly audit reports from the CPA or accountant are due no later than
30 days after the end of the quarter - for example, the audit for the first
quarter of the calendar year (January, February, and March) is due on or
before April 30. It is Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure that the CPA
or accountant completes and submits the reports required herein. Defendant
shall bear the cost of preparation and submission of these reports;
d. If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or audit reveals any
deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rules 1.15-2 or 1.15-3,
Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the date of the threeway reconciliation report or audit and shall provide documentation showing
the remedial action to the State Bar within 2 days of the date of such action;
e. Defendant shall provide any other records requested by the Office of Counsel
within 10 days of the request;
f.

By the deadline stated in the request, Defendant shall comply with any
requests from the Office of Counsel to provide any information regarding his
trust account(s) or to sign and provide any release or authorization to allow
the Office of Counsel to obtain information directly from any bank: in which
Defendant maintains a trust account;

g. Within 6 months of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall complete
2 hours of continuing legal education on the topic of trust account
management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. This
continuing legal education requirement is in addition to the requirements set
out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code ID.1518;

NCSB v. Rogers
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 ofl0

h. Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business address, office telephone number, and office e-mail address.
Defendant shall notify the State Bar of any change of address within 10 days
of such change. His current business address must be a street address, not a
post office box or drawer;
1.

Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the State Bar;

J.

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within 30 days
of receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;

k. Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition that is pending at the time of entry of this
order or of which he receives notice after the effective date of this order;

1. Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar continuing legal education
requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed therefor by the
applicable deadline;
m. Defendant will pay all State Bar and judicial district membership dues, Client
Security Fund assessments, and any other related dues, fees, assessments
and/or costs by the applicable deadline; and
n. Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States or of any state or local government.
4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, Defendant's obligations under this Order end 4 years
from the effective date of the Order provided there are no pending motions or show cause
proceedings alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B .0118, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show
cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension
is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the
DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay ofthe suspension and activate the 2 year
suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met.
The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay
will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
5.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out above
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted in accordance with 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B.0118.

NCSB v. Rogers
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8 of 10

6.
lfthe stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order imposing such conditions as it
deems proper for the reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension.
Additionally, Defendant must establish the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
prior to being reinstated to the practice of law after any period of active suspension:
a. Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary of
the State Bar within 30 days of the date of the order lifting the stay and/or
activating the suspension of his law license;
b. Defendant complied with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128
following entry of the order lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension of
his law license;
c. Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against him
in this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by
the Secretary of the State Bar;
d. That within 15 days of the effective date of the order activating the suspension
Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and telephone number at
which clients seeking return of files could communicate with Defendant and
obtain such files;
e. That Defendant provided within 10 days client files to all clients who made a
request for return of their files;
f.

Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his current
address and notified the State Bar of any change in address within 10 days of
such change;

g. Defendant responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within 30 days
of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner;
h. At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment
of all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments, and other assessments, charges or surcharges the State Bar is
authorized to collect from him, including all judicial district dues and
assessments;

i.

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory continuing legal education hours in reporting of
such hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at continuing
legal education programs;

NCSB v. Rogers
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 9 oflO

J.

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant has completed within
the 6 months that immediately preceded his petition for reinstatement 2 hours
of continuing legal education on the topic of trust account management
approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar;

k. Defendant did not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States, or the laws of any state or local government during his
suspension; and

1.

Defendant participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition that was pending at the time of entry of this order or
of which he received notice after the effective date of this order.

7.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB. 0118 until all conditions of the stay of suspension are
satisfied.
/ t41Jned by
Chair with the consent of t~ other He ring P
the ~ day of-l-'=----_--=---=-----,ยฃ-_ _ , 201r

el members this

WE CONSENT:

HUbefU!:1trr--r
Defend t

M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

NCSB v. Rogers
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 10 aflO

