THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

RANDOLPH C. ROMEO, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Theodore C. Edwards II, Chair, Robert F. Siler, and Donald G.
Willhoit. Carmen H. Bannon represented The North Carolina State Bar. Alan M.
Schneider represented Defendant. Defendant has agreed to waive a formal hearing in
this matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw
recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant also stipulates that,
by consenting to the entry of this order, he waives his right to appeal or challenge in any
way the sufficiency of the findings in this consent order.
Based on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.

2.
Defendant, Randolph C. Romeo (hereinafter "Romeo" or "Defendant"),
was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1976 and is, and was at all times referred
to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the period from 2001 through 2008, Defendant actively engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Hendersonville, Henderson County, North Carolina.

4.
During the period from 2001 through 2008, Romeo had a high-volume
real estate practice and maintained an attorney trust account through which millions of
dollars in entrusted funds flowed nearly every month. Unless otherwise specified, the
findings of fact in the paragraphs below are also applicable to the period from 2001
through 2008.
5.
Romeo maintained his attorney trust account at Macon Bank. He did not
file with Macon Bank a written directive requiring the bank to report to the State Bar if
an item drawn on the trust account was presented against insufficient funds. (Reports of
this kind to the State Bar are hereafter referred to as "NSF notices").
6.
In December 2001, Romeo issued a trust account check for $2,827.20 for
costs and fees that had been assessed to the executrix of the Estate of Thomas L.
Anderson ("the executrix"). Although Romeo had represented the executrix in her
administration of the estate, therc were no funds in Romeo's trust account held on her
behalf at the time he issued the $2,827.20 check.
7.
TIle $2,827.20 Romeo disbursed from his trust account in December 2001
belonged to his other clients. The beneficial owners of the entrusted funds in Romeo's
trust account in December 200 I did not authorize Romeo to use their funds for the
purpose of making payments on behalf of the executrix,
8.
In real estate transactions for which Romeo served as closing attorney, he
represented the buyer and the lender unless he affirmatively notified either or both of
those parties that he did not intend to represent them.
9.
Romeo was the closing attorney for a 3 February 2004 transaction in
which Robert Ward refinanced his home loan. The HUD-l Settlement Statement
reflected that disbursements totaling $8,326.98 would be made to the Clerk of Superior
Court to satisfy three outstanding judgments. The HUD-I also reflected that Ward would
receive $58,249.02 in loan proceeds.
10.
On or about the date of Ward's closing, Romeo made the disbursements to
Ward and to the Clerk of Superior Court as set forth on the HUD-l. Approximately ten
days later, on 12 February 2004, Romeo disbursed an additional $8,326.98 from his trust
account to Ward. At the time of the 12 February 2004 disbursement to Ward, Romeo had
only $2,000.00 remaining in his trust account for Ward's benefit.
II.
$6,326.98 of the $8,326.98 Romeo disbursed from his trust account to
Ward on 12 February 2004 belonged to Romeo's other clients. The beneficial owners of
the entrusted funds in Romeo's trust account in February 2004 did not authorize Romeo
to use their funds for the benefit of Ward.
12.
In SOme of the real estate transactions in which Romeo served as the
closing attorney, Romeo did not ensure that the HUD-I Settlement Statement accurately

2

reflected the receipts and disbursements for the transaction. Lenders rely on HUD-I
Statements for accurate information about the transactions they are funding.
13.
Romeo was the closing attorney for a 22 December 2006 transaction in
which Thomas Clark refinanced his home loan. The HUD-I Settlement Statement
reflected that Clark would bring $14,802.23 to closing, and would not receive any
disbursements.
14.
Several weeks after the closing, Romeo disbursed $4,442.31 to Clark from
his trust account. Approximately six weeks later, on 21 February 2007, Romeo disbursed
an additional $3,011.09 from his trust account to Clark. At the time of the 21 February
2007 disbursement to Clark, Romeo had only $20.00 remaining in his trust account for
Clark's benefit.
15.
$2,991.09 of the $3,011.09 Romeo disbursed from his trust account to
Clark on 21 February 2007 belonged to Romeo's other clients. The beneficial owners of
the entrusted funds in Romeo's trust account in February 2007 did not authorize Romeo
to use their funds for the benefit of Clark.
16.
Romeo was the closing attorney for a September 2006 transaction in
which Milton and Justine Seim purchased property from Carriage Park Associates, LLC,
a developer ("the Seim-Carriage transaction"). Romeo regularly conducted closings for
lotssold by Carriage Park, and Carriage Park paid Romeo's $600 fee for the Seim
transaction.
17.
The lot Carriage Park sold to the Seims was encumbered by a deed of trust
on the entire tract of land that was being developed. In order to transfer clear title to a lot
within the development, Carriage Park had to submit a release payment to the lender who
held the deed of trust on the entire tract. The lender would then execute document
releasing that specific lot from the deed of trust.
18.
Romeo received $216,364.38 from the Seims and disbursed proceeds to
Carriage Park on or about 26 September 2006, the day of closing. Although Romeo
would normally have sent the necessary release payment on the day of closing, he held
the release payment until January 2007 at the request of Carriage Parle
19.
Romeo did not file the deed from Carriage Park to the Seims until 14
December 2006, at which time he had not submitted the payment necessary to release the
Seims' lot from the deed of trust.
20.
In multiple real estate transactions for which he served as the closing
attorney, Romeo did not ensure that all anticipated deposits for the transactions had been
received before he made disbursements.
21.
On multiple occasions, Romeo did not actually receive loan proceeds,
earnest money, or other deposits he should have received for a closing. These

3

outstanding deposits, which included $81,000.00 in loan proceeds that Romeo should
have received in 2004 and approximately $28,000 he should have received in 2005,
resulted in a significant shortfall in Romco's trust account.
22.
In multiple real estate closings, Romeo twice disbursed the amount he was
entitled to collect for expenses. As a result, Romeo received the benefit of entrusted
funds to which he was not entitled.
23.
Romeo routinely prepared checks for disbursements associated with a
scheduled closing in advance of the closing. On at least one occasion, he deposited a
trust account check for his fee that was prepared in anticipation of a closing which did not
ultimately take place. Because the closing did not take place, Romeo was not entitled to
this fee, and no funds were deposited into his trust account to cover tllis fee. As a result,
Romeo received the benefit of entrusted funds to which he was not entitled.
24.
On at least one occasion, Romeo disbursed the amount of his fee from the
trust account when the lender had already paid his fee for that closing directly to Romeo.
In so doing, Romeo received the benefit of entrusted funds to which he was not entitled.
25.
A member of Romeo's staff performed regular reconciliations of Romeo's
trust account, flagged discrepancies in the reconciliations, and presented the
reconciliations to Romeo.
26.
Romeo received the overall account balance reconciliations and the
individual client ledger reconciliations of his attorney trust account prepared by his staff,
but did not review them.
In the fall of 2008, Romeo learned that there was a deficit in his trust
27.
account. The total shortfall was approximately $150,000.00.
28.
On 16 January 2009, Romeo deposited $23,497.00 of his personal funds
into the trust account. Over the ensuing six month period, he withdrew all but $97.00 of
those funds for personal expenses.
29.
By letter dated 16 March 2009, Macon Bank notified tl1e State Bar that
Romeo's attorney trust account had been overdrawn on four separate occasions between
December 2008 and March 2009. The letter noted that the bank "did not find a directive
signed by Mr. Romeo on NSF Trust account checks," but stated the bank had nonetheless
determined that it should notify tlle State Bar.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following

4

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel, and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's actions, as set forth in the foregoing Findings of Fact,
constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. §§ 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated one or mOre of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his
actions as follows:
a. By failing to direct Macon Bank to provide the State Bar with NSF
notices, Romeo failed to file a written directive requiring the bank to
report to the State Bar when an item drawn on his trust account was
presented against insufficient funds, in violation of Rule 1.15-2(k);
b. By using $2,827.20 of entrusted funds belonging to other clients for the
benefit of the executrix of the Anderson Estate, by disbursing to Clark
$2,991.09 of entrusted funds belonging to other clients, and by disbursing
to Ward $6,326.98 of entrusted funds belonging to other clients-all
without authorization from the beneficial owners of those fundsDefendant used entrusted funds for the benefit of third parties in violation
of Rule l.15-2Ul;
c. By failing to promptly file the deed from Carriage Park to the Seims, and
by delaying submission of the release payment at the request of Carriage
Park, Romeo failed to act with reasonable diligence on behalf of his
clients, the Seims, in violation of Rule 1.3 and permitted an entity that
paid him to render legal services for another to direct his professional
judgment in violation of Rule 5.4(c);
d. By failing to ensure that all anticipated deposits for the benefit of parties
to a real estate transaction had been received before he made
disbursements for that transaction, Romeo failed to act with reasonable
diligence on behalf of his clients-the buyers and the lenders-in
violation of Rule 1.3;
e. By failing to ensure that HUD-l Settlement Statements accurately
reflected receipts and disbursements for real estate transactions, Romeo
failed to act with reasonable diligence on behalf of his client, the lender, in
violation of Rule 1.3, and failed to keep his client reasonably informed
about the status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a);
f.

By disbursing twice the amount he was entitled to collect for expenses, by
collecting a fee for a closing did not tal(e place, and by disbursing the
amount of his fee from the trust account when his fee for that closing had

5

already been paid, Romeo used entrusted funds for personal benefit in
violation of Rule 1.15-20);
g. By failing to personally perform reconciliations of his trust account and by
failing to review trust account reconciliations performed by his staff,
Romeo failed to ensure tbat individual client balances were reconciled at
least quarterly in violation of Rule 1.l5-3(d)(l), and failed to ensure that
the overall balance of the trust account was reconciled with his records at
least monthly in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d)(2);
h. By depositing $23,497.00 of personal funds into his trust account, Romeo
commingled personal and entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(t).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel also enters the following additional
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant's conduct caused significant potential harm to his clients, in

that:
a. Defendant's failure, for many years, to perform the requisite reviews
of his trust account created the risk that client funds could be
compromised as a result of fraud or bank error, and such loss would
not be detected;
b. Defendant misapplied entrusted funds, which could have resulted in
his clients' permanent loss of entrusted funds or required them to incur
additional expense in attempting to recover their funds;
c. Defendant commingled personal funds in his attorney trust account,
which makes entrusted funds potentially subject to claims by the
lawyer's creditors;
d. Defendant failed to diligently protect the interests of his lender clients
by not providing them with accurate information about the receipts and
disbursements associated with transactions they were funding. When
lenders are inadequately represented in this way, they may make
higher-risk loans tbey would not otherwise make if they were fully
informed;
e. Defendant failed to promptly file the deed in the Seim-Carriage
transaction, despite the fact that he had already disbursed the Seims'
funds to the seller. As a result, there was a period of nearly 6 weeks in
which the Seims' funds were already in the hands of the seller, but
they were not the record owners of the property. During tbat time, the

6

lot purchased by the Seims could have been attached by a creditor of
Carriage Park or deeded to someone else.
2.
Defendant's gross inattention to the status of his trust account resulted in
unintentional misappropriation of entrusted funds. Although these misappropriations
were not the result of dishonest intent, they were nonetheless caused by dereliction of
Defendant's obligations as an attorney and fiduciary.
3.
Defendant recognizes the impropriety of his conduct and has modified his
office procedures to ensure proper handling of entrusted funds in the future.
4.
When he was contacted by the State Bar, Defendant made good faith
efforts to audit his trust account and identify the causes of the deficit.
5.
Defendant has completely replenished the shortfall in his trust account,
primarily by depositing a significant amount of personal funds into the account.
6.

Defendant has fully cooperated with the State Bar in this matter.

7.
There is no evidence that any client suffered actual hann due to the
mismanagement of Defendant's trust account. However, such mismanagement in the
handling of client funds puts the entrusted funds at risk and erodes the confidence clients
place in attorneys who handle their affairs. As a result, such conduct hanns the
profession as a whole.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. The absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
b. The absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
c. Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
d. Good faith efforts to rectify the consequences of his misconduct, including
remedying the shortfall in his trust account with personal funds;
e. Good character or reputation;
f.

A pattern of misconduct;

7

g. Multiple offenses;
h. Defendant's considerable experience in the practice oflaw;
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered written discipline but fmds that an
admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be sufficient discipline because of the
gravity of the potential harm to client funds. The Panel further finds that such discipline
would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant and
send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the
Bar in this State.
3.
The Hearing Panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(l) and (2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and finds the following factor warrants suspension of Defendant's license:
Misappropriation or conversion of assets of any kind to which the defendant
or recipient is not entitled, whether from a client or any other source.
4.
But for the mitigating factors and Defendant's recognition of the
impropriety of his conduct, this Panel would consider an active suspension of
Defendant's license to practice law due to the nature and extent of Defendant's trust
account violations. However, given those circumstances, the Hearing Panel finds and
concludes that the public will be adequately protected by suspension of Defendant's
license, stayed for a period of time with conditions imposed upon Defendant designed to
ensure protection of the public and Defendant's continued compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and upon consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The license of Defendant, Randolph C. Romeo, is hereby suspended for
three years from the date this Order of Discipline is entered. The period of suspension is
stayed for two years upon the following conditions:
a. During the period of stayed suspension Defendant will retain
the services of a Certified Public Accountant to review the status of any
accounts into which client or fiduciary funds have been deposited.
Defendant will deliver to the Office of Counsel a report prepared and
signed by the Certified Public Accountant certifying that Defendant has
reconciled each account with the bank balance, that he has maintained
client ledgers identifying all funds in each account, and that Defendant is
otherwise meeting all requirements of Rule 1.15-3 of the Rules of
Professional Conduct;

8

b. Defendant is to submit such reports by each January 30, April
30, July 30, and October 30 during the period of stay, and shall provide
the CPA the necessary information to satisfactorily prepare such quarterly
reports. Defendant will be solely responsible for all costs associated with
the monitoring of his trust account(s);
c. Within sixty days of the effective date of this order, Defendant
shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar, that Defendant has reimbursed from his own funds all
amounts disbursed during the audit period in excess of deposits for
specific clients from his attorney trust account at Macon Bank;
d. Within sixty days of the effective date of this order, Defendant
shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Office of Counsel ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, that Defendant has identified all clients I) with funds
remaining in his attorney trust account at Macon Bank or 2) who should
have funds remaining in that trust account. Once those clients are
identified to the satisfaction of the Office of Counsel, Defendant shall
properly disburse the identified funds. In the event the account does not
contain sufficient funds for clients identified who should have fimds in the
account, Defendant shall reimburse to the account those amounts from his
own funds in order to properly disburse funds on behalf of those clients;
e. Defendant will complete an accounting course, either a
continuing legal education course teaching trust accounting practices or
other accounting course with an emphasis on trust accounts and/or
fiduciary fimds approved in advance by the Office of Counsel. Defendant
will complete the course within six months of the date this order is entered
and will provide the Office of Counsel proof of completion within ten
days of completion of the course;
Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws or any
provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the
stayed suspension;
f.

g.
Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for
information by the earlier of the deadline stated in the communication or
within 30 days, as required by Rule 8.1 (b) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct;
h. Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership
and Continuing Legal Education requirements; and

9

i. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of his current home and business street (not P.O. Box)
addresses and telephone numbers.
2.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the provisions of
Paragraph I above at any point during the period of time the suspension is stayed, the
stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in §.Ol 14(x) of the
NOl1l1 Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
If thc stay granted herein is revoked or the suspension of Defendant's
license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice
law, Defendant must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied
with each ofthe following conditions:
a. Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order
suspending his law license:
b. Complied with all provisions 01'27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules on a timely basis following the
order suspending his law license;
c. Paid all due and owing membership fees, Client Security Fund
assessments and costs assessed by the DI-1C or the State Bar and complied
with all continuing legal education requirements imposed by the State Bar.
4.
If thc stay granted herein is revoked or the suspension of Defendant's
license is activated for any reason, the DHC may enter an order providing for such
additional conditions as it deems appropriate and/or necessary for reinstatement of
Defendant's law license.
5.
Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary which shall be paid within thirty days of service of the notice of costs upon the
Defendant.
Signed bv the Chair with the fuJI knowledge and consent of the other members of
-1'-the Hearing Panel, this
day of "] "If"'"'-'V"-\
' 2010.

TI.:

Theodore C. Edwards II, Chair, Hearing Panel

10

CONSENTED TO:

~\)J-.~
Camlen H. Bannon, Deputy Counsel

64:P1'iL~
Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

II

