3
q

H

f
Oun <.;-I' 0 !!I.; 0

c

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

2:
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
53 SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO.: 13 M _ __

IN THE MATIER OF THE TENDER OF .
SURRENDER OF THE LAW LICENSE
OF

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

PHILLIP GRAHAM ROSE, Attorney

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of
Wake County upon the tender of surrender of his law license by Phillip Graham Rose.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, Phillip Graham Rose (hereinafter "Rose"), the Court makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Rose was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in August 1995 and is,
and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
2,
During all of the periods relevant hereto, Rose was engaged in the practice
of law in Raleigh, North Carolina.
3.
Rose is aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding
allegations that he conspired to engage in mortgage fraud and participated in said fraud
by falsely indicating on the HUD-l Settlement Statements he created for real estate
transactions that the borrowers in the transactions brought funds to closing when in fact
the funds were provided by the seller. Rose has pled guilty to the charge of conspiracy to
commit mail fraud, wire fraud, and bank fraud arising from this conduct, in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, Docket No, 5:12-CR-290I.
4,
Rose desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in North Carolina,
5.
Rose's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, It is not the result of
coercion or duress, Rose is fully aware ofthe implication of submitting his resignation.
6,
Rose acknowledges that the material facts upon which the investigation is
predicated are true,

Page 1 of3

7.
Rose has submitted his resignation because he knows that if disciplinary
charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could not
successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
By falsely indicating on the HUD-1 Settlement Statements he created for
real estate transactions that the borrowers in the transactions brought funds to closing
when in fact the funds were provided by the seller, Rose engaged in criminal conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and
(c) of the North Carolina State Bar Rules of Professional Conduct.
2.
Rose's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2).
3.
The Courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary
action against attorneys practicing therein.
4.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person of Phillip Graham Rose and of
the subject matter of this proceeding.
5.

Rose has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
I.
Carolina.

Phillip Graham Rose is DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North

2.
Rose shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter
I, Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by ยง .0124. Rose shall
have thirty (30) days from the date of the entry of this order to complete the requirements
of ยง .0124.
3.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Rose shall provide the
State Bar with the name, address and telephone number of a person who has agreed to act
as custodian of Rose's client files and who clients can contact to obtain their files.
Rose's designated custodian shall promptly return client files to clients upon request.
4.
Rose shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license, and shall not
be eligible for reinstatement, until the expiration of at least five (5) years from the date of
this order.
Page 2 of3

5.
Rose's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence to the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission and the Council of the North Carolina State Bar that he has complied with
terms of this order and 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Section .0125.
6.

The costs of this action are taxed against Rose.

Done and Ordered this

1-4-

day of _ _--=JtA>f=--I'---______ , 2013.

S"pcri"~
Ph' .p Graham Rose
Respondent

Page 3 of3

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISIQ~
FILE NO.: 13 M.
. ';';:;

WAKE COUNTY

,
,,

"'.)

AFFIDAVIT TENDERING THE SURRENDER OF THE LICENSE OF
PHILLIP GRAHAM ROSE
I, Phillip Graham Rose, being first duly sworn, say:
~

__',

I.JI

~

\.0

I.

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of Section .0117 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Section .0117.

2.

My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3.

1 am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations that I
conspired to engage in mortgage fraud and participated in said fraud by falsely
indicating on the HUD- 1 Settlement Statements I created for real estate transactions
that the borrowers in the transactions brought funds to closing when in fact the funds
were provided by the seller. I have pled guilty to the charge of conspiracy to commit
mail fraud, wire fraud, and bank fraud arising from this conduct, in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, Docket No. 5:12-CR-290-1.

4.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.

5.

My resignation is being submitted because I know that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.
Respectfully submitted, this the ~ day Of--';r.._....7(~~_ _ _ 20I3.

I, l0W'r"G\.o\ ~. \-\-,' \ \
. ' Notary Public of the County of Wa i:.~
, State of North
Carolina, certifY that Phillip Graham Rose personally appeared before me this day, was sworn, attested that the
foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.

otary Public
My commission expires:

G . 28 - 2{?JL{

WHITNEY e, HILL
NOTARY PUBLIC
WAKE COUNTY, N.C.

My Commission Expires 6-28-2014.

,

