STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE GRIEVANCE
COMMITTEE OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

\"\ \~YI5'}5il

WAKE COUNTY

-'»

~

'"

~ ~j

..A

.....

APR 2015

U'

IN RE:

.,>{

" c'

~

JESSE B. ROUSE, III, ATTOR.l""~.="'"

{f/,
~

1201094 and 14GOl90

~

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING ATTORNEY
TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chairperson of the North Carolina State
Bar's Grievance Committee pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §.0118(b), with
Jennifer A. Porter and Barry S. McNeill representing the North Carolina State Bar and
Dudley A. Witt representing Jesse B. Rouse, III. Based upon facts received from the
member and with the consent of the member and the counsel, the undersigned makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to consent to this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
1.

2.
Member, Jesse B. Rouse, III ("Rouse"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1983, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
Rouse actively engaged in the practice of law in the State of North
Carolina and maintained a law office in Fayetteville, North Carolina.
4.
There are currently pending two grievance concerning Rouse, 12G I 094
and 14G0190
5.
Committee.

These gnevances have not yet been considered by the Grievance

Consent Order Transferring Attorney to Disability Inactive Status
In re Jesse B. Rouse, III

Page 1 of3

6.
During the State Bar's investigation of these grievances, Rouse presented
the State Bar with letters from his treating medical provider, Leonardo Figueroa, M.D.
7.
Dr. Figueroa states Rouse has been a patient with Dr. Figueroa's practice
for over ten years, and has been diagnosed with several chronic medical problems,
including coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia (high cholesterol),
obstructive sleep apnea, atrial fibrillation, gout, kidney disease, and degenerative joint
disease. Rouse has undergone repeat cardiac stenting and increased clinic visits. Rouse
has begun to experience syncopal (fainting) and. presyncopal (dizziness preceding
fainting) episodes.
8.
Rouse has a past medical history including: coronary artery disease, status
post coronary artery by-pass, chronic atrial fibrillation, hypertension, obstructive sleep
apnea, ischemic cardiomyopathy, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, anemia, and
congestive heart failure. Due to the before mentioned medical conditions, Rouse
experiences the following symptoms: pain, fatigue, nausea, fainting, dizziness and
periods of breathing difficulty.
9.
Due to his medical conditions and symptoms, Dr. Figueroa expresses the
opinion that Rouse cannot perform the duties of an attorney effectively at this time.
10.
Rouse currently suffers from medical conditions which significantly
impair his professional judgment, performance, or competence as an attorney.
II.

Rouse consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, and with the consent of the
member and the counsel, the undersigned makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §.01J8(b), the propel' parties have
consented to Rouse being transferred to disability inactive Status.

2.

Rouse is disabled within the meaning of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB

§.O I 03(19) ..
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
1.

Jesse B. Rouse, III is transferred to disability inactive status.

2.
Rouse shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina unless and until
returned to active status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §.0125(c).

Consent Order Transferring Attorney to Disability Inactive Status
In re Jesse B. Rouse, III

Page 2 of3

3.
Within 15 days ofthe effective date of this Order Rouse shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files
can communicate with Rouse and obtain such files.
4.
Rouse shall promptly return client files to clients upon request, within 5
days of receipt of such request. Rouse will be deemed to have received any such request
3 days after the date such request is sent to Rouse if the request is sent to the address
Rouse provided the State Bar pursuant to the preceding paragraph.
5.
Any failure by Rouse to return a requested client file that has not been
remedied by the date on which Rouse files any petition for reinstatement shall be taken
into consideration in determining whether Rouse has met his burden of proving by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence that he is no longer disabled and is fit to resume the
practice oflaw.
6.
Investigation or action on any Petition for Resolution of Disputed Fee or
Grievance pending as of the date of this order or received after the date of this order is
hereby abated unless and until Rouse is reinstated to active status. Should Rouse be
reinstated to active status, investigation or action on any abated Petition for Resolution of
Disputed Fee or Grievance shall resume.

This

the~daYOf_L~-'-IP=--r,--,--;-'..\_ _ _.2015.

~tbVl~

JoQM. Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar
CONSENTED TO:

se, III
ber, North Caronna State Bar

13

y S.

c eill
Deputy C unsel
North Carolina State Bar

Consent Order Transferring Attorney to Disability Inactive Status
In re Jesse B. Rouse, III

Page 3 of3

