STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
(c pDISTRICT COURT DIVISION
l
•• L_L,_,
FILENO.
~

f:!!

COUNTY OF ROWAN

ILl 'd5 f

20111 JUfJ 1 I MIlO: 40
TIFFANY DAWN RUSSELL

1-)():}iI\1-!
, \ ...., > \ I ,I';

('U"l"I,!T\1
\.j
) 'I
I.
J

COlmER OF CENSURE

r \/
;.' ",,,. -,~-

TIns MATTER on June 6, 2014 at 11:53 a.m. in open court immediately following a ruling
on a set aside motion and as a consequence of Attorney Russell's unprofessionalism, a chambers
conference convened. Present in chambers were Attorney Tiffany Dawn Russell, Assistant District
Attorney Michelle Walker and Bailiff Rick Vanhoy.

FINDINGS OF FACTS
1. In chambers, the undersigned asked Attorney Russell whether her statements in open COUlt
complied with her professional duty to yield gracefully to the court's order.
2.

Attorney Russell stated, "I don't feel procedLU'e and statutes have been followed and I'm
just being honest with you."

3. Attorney Russell was non-responsive, the undersigned again asked whether her statements
in open COUlt complied with her professional duty to yield gracefully to the court's order.
4. Att011ley Russell replied, "I just don't agree," and then repeated her earlier statement.
5. The \Jlldersigned informed Attorney Russell that she was being censUl'ed for her
unprofessional behavior and willfl.ll failure to comply with the North Carolina General
Rules of Practice for the Superior and District COUltS Rule 12.
6. The undersigned infornled Attorney Russell that she was being fined $100.00 for her
unprofessional behavior and willful failure to comply with the North Carolina General
Rules of Practice for the Superior and District Courts Rule 12.
7. When instructed to pay the Clerk of Court the fine, Attol1ley Russell asked if she could
email the Ulldersigned about this.

8. The undersigned instructed Attomey Russell that she was not to email the presiding
Judge.
9. Attomey Russell then stated she was "just seeking judicial advice."
10. While the undersigned was completing paperwork in chambers and as Attorney Russell was
waiting in the courtroom for the clerk to finish preparing the bill of costs for the fine
imposed, Attorney Russell became impatient and stated, "This is bullshit."
II. While court was in recess Lieutenant Rucker cautioned Attomey Russell to be quiet.
12. Attorney Russell stated, "This shit doesn't happen in Raleigh."
13. Again, Lieutenant Rucker instructed her to be quiet
14. Attorney Russell stated, "This comi is not in session."
IS. Attorney Russell waved her $100.00 in cash to all present in the comiroom during the
exchange outlined above.
IT IS THREFORE ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED:
I.

Attorney Russell is hereby censured and shall pay a fine of $1 00. 00 to the Rowan County
Clerk of Comi.

2. Copy of this Order of Censure shall be delivered by personal service to Attorney Tiffany
Russell at 123 W. Main Street, Suite 316, Durham, NC 27701 and Executive Director Tom
Lunsford of the North Carolina State Bar at P.O. Box 25908, Raleigh, NC 27611.

+~

This the

I(

•

day ofJune, 2014.

'-->-<.~ .ie

Brown
Chief District Court Judge,
19C Judicial District

2

