STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
CABARRUS COUNTY

, ZlJ1
.",'

In re Vernon A. Russell, Esquire

'.,

?2
, ..

OENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
P SWIEjUOR COURT DIVISION

"-'-'

ORDER

This cause coming on before the Honorable W. David Lee, Judge Presiding at the Aplil
13,2009 session of Cabarrus County Superior Court upon the motion of the District Attorney
that Vernon A. Russell, Esq. (hereinafter "the attorney") be admonished and sanctioned for the
filing ofthat certain motion, filed March 9, 2009, seeking to disqualify the District Attorney,
Roxann Vaneekhoven, with respect to the prosecution of the attorney's client, Alfred E.
Johnson, for an alleged assault on a female (Cabarrus File#06 CRS 54380); and
,(,;,

The attorney having waived further notice and requested that the Court hear the matter on
April 16, 2009, and this Court having the inherent authority, recognized in O.S. 84-36 and cases
construing same, to discipline lawyers, which authority is well recognized and is not superseded
by the State Bar's disciplinary powers; and the Court having conducted a hearing, at which both
the attorney and the District Attorney were given a full and fair opportunity to be heard, as
appears of record, and after which both the District Attorney and the attorney were allowed to
file supplemental written arguments; and the COllli having considered all of the evidence,
arguments and contentions presented at the hearing and subsequent thereto; and
The attorney having acknowledged his familiarity with our Supreme COlllt's decision in
State v. Camacho, 329 NC 589 (1991), the attorney aclmowledging his participation in the filing
and presentation of an earlier motion to disqualifY the District Attorney in the Cabarrus County
trial of State v. David Devine in which Camacho was cited and argued; and it appearing that the
attorney participated in similar conduct in the Devine case referred to above, as is more
particularly set forth in the December 8, 2005 Order of Senior Resident Judge W. Erwin
Spainhour, a copy of which is appended to this Order for further reference;
And it appearing that district attorneys are independent constitutional officers, and that
Article IV, sec. 18 of the North Carolina Constitution provides that the district attorney shall "be
responsible for the prosecution on behalf of the State of all criminal actions in the Superior
Courts of his district. .. " and that district attorneys have the exclusive discretion to determine
what cases will be prosecuted in their respective districts; and it appearing at this hearing that
there is no actual conflict, as contemplated in Camacho, justifYing the disqualification of District
Attorney Roxann Vaneekhoven in the prosecution of Alfred E. Johnson, all of the statements and
arguments presented leading to no more than mere conjecture or speculation with respect to any
possible conflict, the motion being frivolous and wholly without merit; and

The District Attorney having determined, in her discretion, for reasons in no way related
to those advanced by the attorney in his motion, but because the matters and things alleged in the
motion, as stated by the District Attorney in her response, malce it "foreseeable that anyone
prosecuting this case (i.e., the Alfred E. Jolmson case) may wish to call the District Attorney as a
witness to impeach the defendant's credibility," that another prosecutor should be brought in to
handle the prosecution ofMr. Johnson.
The Court concludes that the motion was interposed for the improper purposes of
causing unnecessary delay and needless waste of time and effOli, the same being harassing and
vexatious in nature, and being an impropriety substantially interfering with the administration of
justice; and the Court ftuiher concluding that the motion was iutended to reduce public trust and
confidence in the District Attorney as a constitutional officer;
And the Court having considered other possible sanctions, inclucJl'pg 9~If,sure or
coupled
reprimand, but the Court having determined, in its discretion, that tills adihohl~liment,
:Jk"
-\.,".: ',.
with informing the North Carolina State Bar of this misconduct are the most appropriate
sanctions in this instance;
NOW THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED that Vernon A.
Russell is admonished by this Court for his misconduct in the filing and prosecution of the
motion; and further, that Vernon A. Russell is cautioned that ftuiher efforts to disqualify the
District Attorney without substantial evidence of an actual conflict in any pending or future
prosecution may subjecl him to further, more severe sanctions.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that a copy of this Order be sent by the Clerk to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar, as well as to Vernon A. Russell, Esquire, and to tile
District Attorney, Roxaon Vaneekoven.
With the consent of counsel this Order is signed out of session nunc pro
of April, 200'.

tUIlC

tills 21 st day

~,,~_

W~JUdge Presiding

NORTH CAROLINA
CABARRUSCOUNTY

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NOS.. ,QJ CRS 22984-86
01 CltS.!£il'3.e8-70: 02 CRS 6973-4

.

~~V·

STATE OF NORTH

CAROLIN~ CO\)~0~~
\

~\) \

?-,f(.US G 1:J'.b\

y\ . . . ,-p..'Ol"q /t-..S
V

~-D ~

~

RDER

\~

Gil""

. loe\>,M--DA VJD KEITH DEVINE, 'Ii
Defendant.

f>,'''\'

'/

These matters are before the court upon defendant's Motion to Disqualify the
Cab3JTUs County District Attorney's Office fi'om prosecution of the above-captioned
criminal cases now pending in the Superior Court for Cabarrus County. A hearing was
conducted in this court before the undersigned judge presiding on , December 2005.
District Attorney Roxann Vaneekhoven, and Assistant District Attorneys Ashlie P.
Shanley and Paul Holcomb appeared on behalf of the State. The defendant was present in
court and was represented by his attorneys of record, Luke Largess and Vernon A.
Russell.
A BRIEF PROCEDURAL HISTORY OF THE CASES
The defendant is an employee of the Cabarrus County Board of Education. He
was indicted by the grand jury of Cabarrus County in nine indictments of taking an
indecent liberty with nine different students. At the lime of his indictment he was a
teacher at J.N. Fries Middle School in Cabarrus County, and had been a teacher for
twenty-three years.
As a result of the indictments the defendant was suspended from his duties as a
teacher and the Cabarrus COlmty Board of Education moved to dismiss him as a tenmed
teacher in the Cabarrus County Pubiic Schools. The defend3J11 requested a hearing, and a
hearing was duly conducted before a case manager assigned by the North Carolina State
Board of Education. At the hearing before the case manager the testimony of the alleged
viclims in case number 01 CRS 22986 (Jordan Smith), case number 01 CRS 23370
(Kristen Black) and case number 02 CRS 6973 (Jordan Hiltz) was heard. The case
manager found that the testimony of these three alleged victims was not credible, and he
rec01wnended to the Superintendent of the CabarTLls County Schools that the defendant
not be dismissed. Thus, the defendant remains an employee of the Cabarrus County
Schools, but not in the classroom. Instead, the defendant is employed in the school bus
garage.

In June of 2003 case nwnber 02 CRS 6972, wherein Nikki Waller was the alleged
victim, was tried before Judge Mark KJass and a jury. At the close of all the evidence
Judge Klass dismissed the case and did not submit the case 10 the jury. The remaining
ei ght cases are pending in this court.
THE CONTENTIONS OF THE DEFENDANT AND THE STATE
The defendant contends that the elected District Attorney in this district, and her
should be disqualified from prosecuting the defendant on the pending charges for
the following reasons:
stan~

(a) The defendant contends that a witness, refened to herein as "V.A.", then age
14, committed perjury during a voir dire exan1ination in the absence of the
jury at the trial of case number 02 CRS 6972 in June of 2003. The witness
V.A. was not allowed 10 testify in the presence of the jury at the conclusion of
the voir dire. The defendant contends that the District Attorney should
investigate or prosecute V.A. for perjury or subornation of perjury, but that
defendant's counsel has been "rebutled every time the topic has been raised."
(Defendant's Motion filed 26 October 2005, p. 7.) The defendant contends
that "the failure of the Slate to address criminal deception by its witnesses
creates a conflict of interest in pursuing these criminal convictions against the
defendant." Ibid., p. 9.
(b) The defendant contends that the district attorney's refusal to investigate
criminal conduct of its witnesses "might be tied" to the fact that the District
Attorney and her staff are too close personally and politically to the alleged
victims and their families; that one of the alleged victims, Kristen Black, is the
daughter of David Black, who served for several years as the chai1Tllan of the
Cabarrus County Republican Party; and that the elected District Attorney ran
on the Republican ticket and as part of her campaign she promised to "rid the
County of sex offenders." Id., p. II. Further, the defendant contends that
Assistant District Attorney Ashlie Shanley, who was the lead prosecutor at the
trial in June, 2003, was at that time the vice-chair of the Cabarrus County
Republican Party, and that Chainnan Black and his wife sal tluough the trial
in open court during.the entire trial in 2003~ ~'even though theIr OV'/11 child did
not testify and was not the complaining witness." lei., p. 11. Because of this
the defendant has concluded that the District Attorney has the "urge to 'get'
the man who allegedly took indecent liberties with ... (Mr. Black's) daughter
(and that this) has impacted the District Attorney's ability to view these cases
objectively and to prevent her and her staff fi·om addressing criminal conduct
by those trying to (convict the defendant)", 1d., p. 11, and 111at, therefore, a
conflict of interest exists. In short, the defendant accuses the District Attorney
of refusal to exercise her constilutional duties and prosecule crimes because of
personal and political relationships. ]d., p. 12. For this, the defendant alleges
that the District Attorney and her staff should be removed from furtJ1er
involvement in the pending cases.

2

District Attorney VaneekJlOven and her staff vigorously dispute each allegation of
the defendant, and contend in the State's Response to Defense Motion to Disqualify, and
in oral argument, as follows:
(a) In fact, the District Attorney has investigated the alleged perjury of the
witness, V.k, and other witnesses for the State and concluded that the crime
of perjury could not be proven. TIle defense called witnesses that contradicted
each other in the June, 2003, trial, and it is common that there be
inconsistencies in the testimony of the witnesses any trial.
(b) No conflict of interest exists. The decision to prosecute the defendant for

taking indecent liberties with nine school children stems solely from the
discharge of the constitutional duties of the district attorney-not from
politics. The defendant's attorneys have demanded special consideration for
the defendant, but the District Attorney's office treats all defendants the same,
and prosecutes cases based on the evidence available. The defendant was
charged, arrested and indicted under the authority of then District Attorney
Mark Speas. District Attorney Vaneeklloven was not in office when the
decision to prosecute these cases was made. The fact that Ms. Vaneeklloven
campaigned to aggressively prosecute child molesters is no evidence of a
connict of interest in the Devine cases. Her office has always rigorously
prosecuted such persons, and this case is no different from the numerous cases
that have been prosecuted by her and her staff. The District Attorney and the
members of her staff belong to numerous civic clubs, churches, and the
Chanlber of Commerce. The fact that fal1lily members of the alleged victims
belong to some of the same organizations, including the Republican Party,
does not create a conflict of interest.
(c) Numerous witnesses have come forward to the investigating officers alleging
inappropriate touching on the part of the defendant. Some of those persons are
adults in their thirties who know none of the alleged victims in the pending
cases. In addition, other fonner students were contacted who were in the
defendant's classes a few years before the alleged victims in these cases, and
'h''''''',r ..,.JC'o confim,cd
;.,..,,·. . .,.. . . . . . . . . p"'a+L\" +"""
.... l"'~,"'g Vi
. . . + ':'lLL
<'+"""d,'-t'"
dorlen~'"'1·
"'"
l ! HI.....
ulu.pp!v.Ii
lUt!1..-11111
..... u.:::. b"-'
) t'·c
11
\..
1 Uct.I t. T
Law
enforcement officers have identified more than twenty victims and could have
charged the defendant with crimes involving each of these persons. Further
investigation revealed that youth group members of the defendant's church,
who had never been in his school classes and did not know the complaining
students in the present cases, stated that he had inappropriately tOllched them
at church.
~ ! \...

Ul~

,

o

After reviewing and consideling the arguments of counsel, the applicable law, and
revieVv'ing the materials submitted and the files in these nlatters~ the court ll1akes the
following:

3

FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
J. In open court the parties stipulated to the following facts: (a) David Black was
the chainnan of the Cabamls County Republican P811y for a significant period
of time; (b) Roxarm Vaneekhoven ran as a Republican candidate in the 2002
election and was elected District Attorney; (c) Kristin Black is the daughter of
David and Deborah Black; and (d) Assistant District Attorney Ashlie Shanley
at the time of the 2003 trial was the vice-chair of the Cabarrus County
Republican Party. The court accepts these stipulations as true and correct.

2. District Attorney Vaneekhoven, and others working at her direction, have
investigated the allegations of perjury of the- witness V.A., and others, and the
District Attorney has exercised her professional judgment and authority in
deciding not to prosecute charges of perjury. TIl ere is no evidence that the
decision not to prosecute V.A. was made inappropriately or in any way
contrary to the constitutional duties of the District Attomey. On the contrary,
the duty of the District Attomey is to obtain justice, not merely to convict.
North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 3.8. (See also,
Defendant's Supplemental Brief, filed 5 December 2005, p. 2.) In the present
case, the District Attomey was entirely justified in not prosecuting V.A. for
peIjury. The inconsistencies in V.A. testimony were discovered during voir
dire while the jury was not present in defendant's first trial, and V.A. was not
pennitted to testify before the jury. There is no evidence that the District
Attorney or her staff knew of these inconsistencies before V.A. was offered as
a witness by the State. The court tal(es judicial notice of the fact that it is not
unusual for a witness to testify in open court differently from what the witness
has told an attorney prior to trial. This is a fact of life that any trial lawyer is
accustomed to endure. As a part of her constitutional duty to obtain justice, it
was proper for the DistJict Attomey not to prosecute a person for a crline
whom she did not reasonably believe she could convict.
3. The fact that the chainnan of the Cabarrus County Republican Party chose to
attend court tlu'oughout the trial of the defendant in 2003 does not indicate
that the district attomey was prosecuting the defendant for political or
personal reasons. The Constitution of North Carolina, art. I, § 1 g~ provides that
we have open courts in this State, and any person, including Mr. Black, could
have attended the trial. He had a constitutional right to be in court, and neither
he, nor anyone else, should be criticized for exercising that right. Furthennore,
both Mr. Black and District Attomey Vaneekhoven had an absolute right to
belorig to the Republican Party, and that fact, coupled with the fact that Mr.
Black's daughter is one of the alleged victims in this marler, has no bearing
whatsoever on the marmer in which the District Attorney exercises her duty in
that office.
4. The fact that Mr. Black's daughter is one of the alleged victims in this matter,
and that Ms. Vaneekhoven and Mr. Black are both members of the Republican

4

Party does not mean that the district attorney is prosecuting the defendant for
political or personal reasons. There is simply no evidence presented that such
is the case here. The alleged' crimes have been duly investigated and
prosecuted properly according to the evidence that has been presented that has
been made available to this court_
5_ The leading case in North Carolina applicable to this motion is State v.
Comacho, 329 N.C. 589, 406 S.E.2d 868 (1991). In that case the Supreme
Court of North Carolina Iuled that a trial judge had exceeded his authority by
ordering a District Attorney to request that the North Carolina Attorney
General assume prosecution of a criminal case and that the District Attorney
was disqual ified from prosecuting the case further. The defendant in Comacho
attempted to have the Mecklenburg County District Attorney and his entire
staff prohibited from participating in the prosecution of the defendant on the
grounds that one of the assistant distlict attomeys previously had been on the
staff of the public defender during the defendant's first trial. The trial court
allowed the defendant's motion, and the Supreme Co1.)rl of North Carolina
reversed that decision.
In the Comacho case the Supreme Court noted that District Attomeys are
independent constitutional officers elected in their districts, and that Article
IV, § 18 of the North Carolina Constitution provides that the district attorney
shall .. _be responsible for the prosecution on behalf of the State of!ill criminal
actions in the Superior Courts of his district..." (emphasis added by the
Supreme Court). 329 N.C., 593. The Attorney General of North Carolina may
prosecute a case in the Superior Comt, but only upon the request of the
District Attorney. N.C. Gen. Stat.§114-2(4). Addressing the question of
whether the trial court exceeded its authority by ordering that "in order to
avoid even the possibility or impression of any conflict of interest, the DistJict
Attorney and his entire staff must withdraw from the case, the Supreme Court,
after a detailed review of cases from NOlih Carolina and other jurisdictions,
ruled that "a prosecutor may not be disqualified ll-Oln prosecuting a criminal
action in this State unless and until the trial court detennines that an actual
conflict of interests exists." 329 N .c., 601.
6. The defendant cited to the court several cases in support of his motion. Each
of these cases is distinguishable fr0111 the present controversy on the basis of
the facts presented. In no case cited by the defendant, nor found by the court,
has a District Attorney been prohibited from prosecuting a defendant under
facts similar to, or that can be reconciled with, the case before the court.

7 _ In the cases before this court, no conflict of interest exists, llild there is no
basis in law or in fact for.the disqualification of the District Attorney lli1d her
staff. Accordingly, the defendant's motion should be denied_

5

IT IS, THEREFORE, ORDERED that defendant's Motion To Disqualify District
Attorney shall be, and the same is hereby, DENIED.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, in the discretion of the court, that the State's
request that the defendant's attorneys be sanctioned for filing the motion be denied~
This Order was prepared by the undersigned, and is entered on this the
December, 2005.

8' day of

~.~~
w.
Erwin SpainJ1T7
Judge Presiding

6

