NORTH CAROLlNA

FILED

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
2013 ,IIIfl .- 6 prj II: 113 .SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
NEW HANOVER COUNTY
13 CVS 499
-j':"';"
', '1(,!Ji;p
f'S ,C,
f._
.. f 11I,."·,,
,~.\ r:')
_,._.,v.
... " ,
t, ""h __ IT_"'~:

IN THB MATTER OF
SAM DREWES RYAN

THIS CAUSE has been heard and considered by the Seniol' Resident Superior
COllrt Judge for the Fifth Jlldicial Dlstl'ict p\l1'sllant to the COlllt'S inhel'enl autho1'ity, 8e6,
e.g., In 1'6 Be{/~'ely, lSI N.C. App. 569,566 S,E,2d 125 (2002), and its statlltory power,
see N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84.280), 10 regulate the conduct of attorneys.
IT APPEARS TO THE COURT that Respondent Sam Drewes Ryan
("RespOlldent"), Franklin E, Martin, Trustee of Respondent's law practice ("Trustee"),
the North Carolina State Bar (the "State Bar"), by and through its Deputy Counsel A.
Root Edmonson, and the Lawyer Assistance Pl'Ogram's LAP Committee of the North
Carolina State Bat· (the "Lawyer Assistance Program"), by and through the Lawyel'
Assistance Pl'Ogram Director Robynn E, Moraites, have consented to entry of this Order
as sct f01ih herein, and the Court enters IIpon the I'ccord the following:
1.

Respondent is a lawyer licensed to practice law in North Carolina, and she is a
resident of New Hanover County, North Carolina.

2,

Respondent submits to the jurisdiction of the COlllt, and she acknowledges and
agrees that she is subject to the disciplinary authol'ity of the Comt and the rules
and regulations oftlle State Bat'. See N.C, Gen, Stat. § 84-280); In l'e Burlon, 257
N.C. 534, 542·43, 126 S.E,2d 581, 587·88 (1962); In l'e Paul, 84 N.C. App. 491,
499, 353 S.E.2d 254, 259 (1987),

3.

The COllrt entered a Consent Orde1' (the "First Ordel"') unde1' seal on March 28,
2013, pursuant to which, infer aI/a, Respondent was "l'elieved from the practice of
law" fo1' ninety (90) days, beginning on April 15,2013, due to certain health cEire
conditions.

4,

Because the practical effects of several provisions of the First Order wel'e not
contemplated by the parties and the COlltt, the Cou!'t entered another Order (1110
"Second Order") on Aprill 0, 2013, to clarify the fl'llstrated provisions of the First
Order. By and through the Second Orde1', Franklin E, Martin was appointed as
Tl'tlstee of Respondent's law pl'actice,

5.

Based on matters of record, and reports from the State Bar, the Lawyer Assistance
Program, Trllstee, and Respondent's treating health providers, as well as

arguments and representations of Respondent's counsel, and with the express
consent of Respondent and her counsel, the Court concludes that the First Order
and the Second Order should be vacated and replaced by this Order.
6.

The Court is authorized to enter an Order of Consensual hlacUve Status in
accordance with 27 N.C.A.C. ID .0617. See In l'e Beasely, 151 N.C. App. at 571,
566 S.E.2d at 127-28.

NOW THEREFORE IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED as
follows:
1.

Respondent's license to pI'aclice law in the State of North Carolina is hereby
tl'ansfel'1'cd to Consensual Inactive Status. Respondent shall not practice law in
the State of NOl'th Carolina unless and until the Coul'tl'elut'lls hel'\O active stalus.

2.

The First Order and Second Order are hereby VACATED.

3.

Trustee is authorized to take such actions as are necessal'Y to obtain possession of
any known client files of Respondent and, to the extent it has not already been
done, shall notifY Respondent's clients of her inactive status and their need to
obtain new counsel if fUlther legal representation is required. The duties as
Trustee shall include receiving oalendal'illg notices and moving for appropriate
continuances in pending cases, identifying Respondent's trust accounts and
fiduciary accounts, obtaining all records related to Ryan's trust account and
fiduciat·y accounts, supervising the disbursement of funds from any trust 01'
fiduciary account to the appropriate person, and any other act necessary to wind
down Respondent's law practice and protect the interests of Respondent's clients.

4.

The State Bar is cUl'rently auditing Respondent's trust and fiduciary accounts.
The Trustee shall assist the State Bat· in any manner necessary to effectuate and
complete the State Bar's audit. The Trustee is authorized to execute new
dil'ectives l'egarding signatory authority over such accounts, and he is authorized
to receive records from the banks holding such trust and fiduciary aCCO\ll\ts. The
Trustee shall take such aclions as are necessary to identify the ownership of any
funds in such accounts and disburse such funds as directed by the I'espectlve
clients and beneficiades. The Tl'ustee shall maintain adequate accounts and shall
aCCO\1nt to the Court fOl' approval at the completion of the disbursement of funds.
The Trustee may apply to the Court for compensation as provided by law. The
T1'Ustee shall be discharged \Ipon completion of the Trustee's duties.

5.

Respondent and 11er cO\lllsel shall cooperate fully with Tl'ustee'sefforts to obtain
possession of her client files as well as the Trustee's administration and
management of Respondent's tnlst and fiduciary accounts.

6.

Respondent, Respondent's counsel, Trustee, the State Bar, by and through its
Deputy Counsel A. Root Edmonson 01' other authol'ized representative, and the
Lawyer Assistance Program, by and through the Lawyer Assistance Progmm
Director Robynn E. Moraites or other authorized l'epresentative, shall notice all
other parties of any fUliller hearings relating to tllis matter.

7.

Any petition or motion In this matter shall be filed under seal by the Clerk and
served on all parties consenting hereto.

8.

Respondent may petition the Senior Resident Superior COUIt Judge for the Fif:lh
Judicial District at any time fOl' transfer to active status upon proof satisfactOl'Y to
the Court that Respondent has regained her capacity to practice law. Aftel'
consideration of Respondent's petition, the COllI't may enter an order retuming
Respondent to active status upon her showing that her treating professionals and
the Lawyer Assistance Program have submitted evidence demonstrating that the
Respondent's health care condition is manageable and that she has regained her
ability to practice law free of impairment.

9.

Respondent shall execute releases and waivers allowing the Lawyer Assistance
Progl'am to communicate with the Court regarding her compliance with auy
clinical recommendations of health care pl'Oviders thmugh the Lawyel' Assistance
Program.

10.

During the term of Consensual Inactive Status, Respondent shall not owe State
Bar dues 1101' have to complete continlling legal education requirements.

11.

A copy of this Order shall be served by Trustee upon all parties consenting hereto.

12.

The Court retains jul'isdiction of this matter, and tins matter is retained
subject to further ordllr$ of the Comt.
SO ORDERED on the

~ day of <L~

[CONSENT SIGNATURES FOLLOW]

.2013.

f01'

and

APPROVAL AND CONSENT:

~----Respondent

,.
...;Z::._ 4£/ e.-..
'anklin E, Martin
Smith Moore Leatherwood LLP
Trustee

~ef~

Culbreth Law Firm, LLP
COllhsel for Re~pondent

A, Root Edmonson
Deputy Counsel
The North Carolina State Bar

Lawyer Assistance Program Director
Lawyer Assistance Program's LAP Commi~ee
of the N01'th Carolina State Bar

[END OF CONSENT ORDER]
WI1.MINGTON 56629.4

