BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06G093 1

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

TN THE MATTER OF
Donald H. Barton
Attorney At Law

1
1
1

REPRIMAND

)

1

On July 1 2,2007 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by T. M. L.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Co~rl~nittee
found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in

cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You appeared before a judge and obtained an ex parte order in a custody matter without
joining all necessary parties and without providing notice to counsel for the opposing party. This
conduct violated Rule 3.5(a)(3). By submitting a proposed order to the court which mistakenly
asserted that sole custody was awarded to the child's grandparents when it was not you violated
Rule 3.3(d). If you had provided notice to the opposing counsel of your ex parte communication,

the additional hearings to correct this matter would not have been necessary and the improper
order would have been avoided. The problems caused by this conduct affected the parties to this
litigation as well as the judge and opposing counsel
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the 1 2 ' ~day of September, 2007

James R. Fox, Chair
Grievance Committee

