NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

S. VANN SAULS, Attomey,
Defendant.

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composcd of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, and members Fred Morelock and
Joe Castro. Katherine E. Jean represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Douglas J. Brocker represented Defendant, S. Vann Sauls. Both parties stipulate and
agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to
the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations of fact
and the consent ofthe parties, the hearing panel hereby makes by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the NOlih Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws ofNOlih Carolina and is the proper paIiy to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
?
Defendant, S. VaI1l1 Sauls, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar
on August 23, 1997 and is, and was at all times refClTed to herein, an attomey at law
subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the NOlih Carolina
State Bar and the laws of North Carolina.

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in Johnston County, North Carolina.
4.

Defendant was properly served with process.

5.
Defendant represented Lucas Daniel Currin in Johnston County court file
number 07 CR 054378 on a charge of driving after consuming alcohol under the age of
21.

6.
Defendant represented Bryan Scott Clark in Jolmston County court file
number 07 CR 50005 on a charge of driving while impaired.
7.
Defendant represented Frankie McLamb Lee in Jolmston County court file
nunlbers 07 CR 51510 and 07 CR 51511 on related charges of driving while license
revoked and driving while impaired.
8.
Defendant associated attorney Chadwick Lee to assist him in representing
Clark and Frankie Lee because he did not nOTInally handle driving while impaired cases.
9.
ill September 2007, Defendant learned that Assistant District Attorney
Cynthia Jaeger had submitted her resignation from the Johnston County District
Attorney's Office and that her last day as a Johnston County assistant district attorney
would be the end of September, 2007.
10.
On or about September 17, 2007, Defendant met with Jaeger and
discussed with her specific factual and legal reasons she should consider dismissing the
charges against Currin, Clark and Frankie Lee.
11.
After this discussion, Jaeger agreed to dismiss the cases against Currin,
Clark and Frankie Lee. Defendant provided Jaeger with proposed dismissal fOTIns at that
meeting.
12.
The proposed dismissal fonns Defendant gave to Jaeger for the Clark and
Frankie Lee matters had been partially completed, including the caption, file number,
charges at issue in each case, date and Jaeger's name but not the reason for the dismissal.
Jaeger told Defendant to have Chadwick Lee fill in the reasons for dismissal and file the
forms because Chadwick Lee was primarily handling ti,e Clark and Frankie Lee matters.
13.
When he gave to Jaeger tl1e proposed dismissal fonns for tl1e Currin
matter, the fonns were totally completed except for Jaeger's signature.
14.
Jaeger signed the dismissal fOTIns for the Currin, Clark and Frankie Lee
cases, which were dated September 17, 2007, and gave tl1em to Defendant.
15.
Shortly after ti,e meeting, Defendant provided the dismissal fOTIns for tile
Clark and Frankie Lee cases to Chadwick Lee.
16.
Defendant retained the dismissal for ti,e Currin case in his file. He later
delivered ti,e dismissal fonn to Chadwick Lee for filing.

2

17.
When she signed the dismissal fonns for the Currin, Clark and Frankie
Lee cases, Jaeger was a Johnston County Assistant District Attorney.
18.
Jaeger told Chadwick Lee not to file dismissal fonns signed by Jaeger for
DWI cases in the Clerk's office until after Jaeger no longer was employed by the
Jolmston County District Attorney's Office. Before Chadwick Lee filed any of the
dismissal fonns, he told Defendant about this conversation with Jaeger.
19.
On or about Janumy 24, 2008, Chadwick Lee or an employee in Chadwick
Lee's office delivered two dismissal fornls for Frankie Lee's cases to the Clerk of Court
for filing. The dismissal fonns filed in the Frankie Lee cases were fonns that Chadwick
Lee obtained directly from Jaeger and not the fonns Defendant obtained from Jaeger on
or about September 17, 2007.
20.
On or about February 1,2008, Chadwick Lee or an employee in Chadwick
Lee's office delivered a dismissal fonn for Clark's case to the Clerk of Court for filing.
The dismissal form filed in the Clark case was a fonn that Chadwick Lee obtained
directly from Jaeger and not the one Defendant obtained from Jaeger on or about
September 17, 2007.
21.
On or about March 25, 2008, Chadwick Lee or an employee of
Chadwick's Lee's office delivered to the Clerk of Court a dismissal fonn for Currin's
case. Tills was the fonn Defendmt obtained from Jaeger on or about September 17,
2007.
22.
Chadwick Lee did not deliver the disnllssal fonns for the Frankie Lee and
Cunin matters to the Clerk of Court for filing immediately upon receiving them because
Defendant and Chadwick Lee wanted to wait to file the dismissal forms until their clients
paid the full attomey fee for their cases. Clark had paid his fee in full by the time Jaeger
left her employment as a Johnston County assistant district attomey. Therefore,
Chadwick Lee did not delay delivering the Clark dismissal to the Clerk of Court as a
means of securing payment of legal fees.
23.
Jaeger signed many dismissals for now disbarred lawyers Chadwick Lee
and Jonathon Lee Hatch. WI,en tl,ese dismissals canle to the attention of tl,e elected
District Attomey in Johnson County, the elected District Attorney asked the State Bureau
ofInvestigation to investigate the circumstances surrounding these dismissals.
24.

The SBI did investigate the circlllllstances surrounding these dismissals.

25.
EventuallY,5 lawyers were charged with crinllnal offenses relating to the
dismissals. Three of those lawyers, Jaeger, Hatch and Chadwick Lee, have pled guilty to
felony offenses, have been sentenced to substantial periods of incarceration and have
been disbarred.

3

26.
On January 25, 20 I0, Defendant entered a plea of guilty in Johnston
County Superior Court file no. 09 CR 01792, State a/North Carolina 1'. S. Va11l1 Sallis,
to four counts of misdemeanor obstruction ofjustice relating to the filing of the dismissal
forms in the cases ofltis clients Currin, Clark and Frankie Lee.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, the hearing panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, S. Vann Sauls, and over the subject matter.

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(I) and (2) as follows:
a.

By pleading guilty to and being convicted of four counts of
misdemeanor obstruction ofjustice, Defendant was convicted of
criminal offenses showing professional unfitness, in violation of
N.C.G.S.84-28(b)(I).

b.

By providing dismissal forms to Attorney Chadwick Lee for filing
in the Jolmston County Clerk of Court's Office in the Currin, Clark
and Frankie Lee cases and permitting dismissal fomls to be filed in
the Clerk's Office after Jaeger was no longer an assistant district
attorney and with lmowledge that Jaeger had instructed they not be
filed until after her employment as an assistant district attorney
ended, , Defendant committed criminal acts wltich reflect
adversely on Iris honesty, trustwortlriness, or fitness in other
respects in violation of Rule 8.4(h) and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule
8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

c.

By failing to notify Currin and Frankie Lee that he had obtained
the signed dismissal forms and by retaining the signed dismissal
fonns until Currin and Frankie Lee paid Iris legaJ fees, Defendant
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

Based upon tl,e stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing
panel hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence fue following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
The hearing panel finds the following additional facts relevant to the appropriate
discipline:

4

1.

In Defendant's criminal case, the court imposed the following sentence:
a. 90 days incarceration, suspended;
b. supervised probation for 3 years;
d. a prohibition against representing clients in criminal cases for 3 years;
e. attending 10 hours of CLE in criminal law and 2 hours of CLE in ethics
for each year of his probation over and above the normal CLE
requirements;
f 100 hours of community service:
g. $2500 fme; and
h. $2350 restitution.

2.
Defendant fully cooperated at an early stage with the SBl investigation
and freely admitted his conduct to the SBl, to the lawyers who prosecuted the crinlinal
case, to the court in the criminal case, to the Grievance Committee and to the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
3.
Defendant voluntarily refunded all fees paid by the clients whose cases are
in issue, thereby satisfying the restitution requirements of his criminal sentence
contemporaneously with imposition of the criminal sentence.
4.
Defendant has a general civil practice focusing on real estate and business
law. Defendant was not experienced in DWI defense. He associated Chadwick Lee to
assist him with the representation of Clark and Frankie Lee and left it to Chadwick Lee to
detemline proper court procedure.
5.
Defendant did not realize at the time that his conduct was wrongful.
However, when it was explained to him that his conduct was wrongful, Defendant
accepted that met and has e:,:pressed remorse and contrition.
6.

Defendant's remorse and contrition appear to be sincere.

7.
With the exception of the professional misconduct at issue in this case,
Defendant has demonstrated good character in his professional and personal life and a
long tenn commitment to the rural community in which he resides and practices law.
8.

The misconduct at issue appears to be uncharacteristic of Defendant.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact regarding discipline, and the consent of
the parties, the hearing panel makes the following additional

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB§ .0114(w) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes that the following factors are applicable in this matter:

A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
1.
J.

K.
1..

M.
N.

O.
P.

intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
elevation ofthe defendant's own interest above that of the client;
negative impact of the defendant's actions on client's or public's
perception of the profession;
negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration ofjustice;
impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;
effect of the defendant's conduct on third parties;
absence of prior disciplinary offenses in this state or any otherjurisdiction;
timely good faith effort:s to make restitution or to rectify consequences of
misconduct;
a pattern of misconduct;
multiple offenses;
interinl rehabilitation;
full and free disclosure to the hearing panel or cooperative attitude toward
the proceedings;
remorse;
other than the conduct at issue in this proceeding, Defendant has
demonstrated good character and judgment;
degree of experience in the practice oflaw; and
imposition of other penalties or sanctions.

2.
Defendant's actions sigoificantly harmed the public's perception of the
legal profession and the public's perception of the administration ofjustice.
3.
The hearing panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a
public censure or replimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of
the harm caused by Defendant's conduct.
4.
Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail to
acknowledge tlle seriousness of the misconduct coll1111itted by Defendant and would send
the wrong message to lawyers and to the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
5.
For these reasons, the hearing panel believes and so finds that an Order
calling for discipline short of a suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.

6

6.
Under other circumstances, the misconduct in tlus case would warrant
more serious discipline. The misconduct caused substantial harm to the public's
confidence in the integrity of the criminal justice system. It is important that the public
and that other lawyers in North Carolina understand that such conduct will not be
tolerated. However, the hearing panel finds and concludes that ti,e mIique circumstances
of this case justify a downward departure from what would otherwise be more severe
discipline. The factors that particularly warrant a downward departure are: that Defendant
did not realize the wrongfulness of his conduct when he committed the conduct; that
Defendant fully accepts responsibility for his actions; that Defendant aclmowledges the
wrongfulness and the seriousness oflus misconduct and is genuinely remorseful; tI,at
with the exception of the misconduct at issue here, Defendant has displayed good
character in his personal and professional life; and that the nusconduct at issue appears to
be an aberration.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and additional
findings and conclusions regarding discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the
hearing panel hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of Defendant, S. Vann Sauls, is hereby suspended for tlrree (3)
years beginning 30 days from service oftlus Order upon Sauls.

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than tIllrty (30) days following service of this
order upon him.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C. AdnIin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of ti,e
North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of tills order, certifYing that
he has complied with ti,e wind down rule.
Witlun 15 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall provide
4.
the State Bar with an address at wluch clients seeking return of their files can obtain such
files and shall promptly return all files to his clients upon request. The address shall be a
physical address, not a post office box or drawer address.
5.
After serving six (6) months of the active suspension of Ius law license,
Defendant may seek a stay of the balance of the suspension by filing a petition with the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar and demonstrating the following by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence:
a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied witll
the terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 of ti,e State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

7

b.

That he paid the administrative fees and the costs of tlns
proceeding witllin 30 days of service of the statement of costs upon
him.

c.

That he kept his physical address of record Witll the North Carolina
State Bar current, promptly accepted all certified mail from the
North Carolina State Bar, and responded to all letters of notice and
requests for infomlation from the North Carolina State Bar by the
deadlines stated in the communications. The address provided by
Defendant shall be a physical address, not a post office box or
drawer address.

d.

That he has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of tlle United States or of any state.

e.

That he paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and complied Witll all Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis.

f.

That he has paliicipated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition of which he receives notice
after the effective date of this ordcr.

g.

That during the period of active suspension he completed 6 hours
of continuing legal edncation on the topics of ethics and/or
professionalism. These 6 hours shall be in addition to tlle hours
required by 27 NCAC 1D .151 8 and shall be in addition to the :2
hours of CLE required by tlle judgment in Defendant:' s criminal
case.

6.
Defendant may file a petition seeking a stay of tlle remaining suspension
and setting forth the above requirements up to 30 days prior to the end of the 6 month
period but shall not be reinstated until the end of that period.
7.
If a stay is granted and Sauls is reinstated to practice during ally portion of
the three (3) year suspension, and if during such stay period Sauls fails to comply with
anyone or more of the conditions 5(c) through 5(f) above, then the stay oftlle suspension
of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
8.
If Sauls successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license, such
stay will continue in force only as long as he continues to comply with all of conditions
5(c) through 5(t) above.

8

9.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to '27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1. Subchapter B. § .CIl14(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout all periods of stayed
and active suspension.

r

O

bSigl1ed by the Chair Wi&the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of
Y2fC~M.J ,2010.

15~ 2l1~-vh/"""'-:----

Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

S.M-

Defendant

/"1 ,-~ _ /7

J .-.,~ -cw:/-1:~ Sr:?
')

//

I

.

"~4~.../'C;

.·--Douglas J.'BrocJ>lK
Attorney for Defendant

..--------,

-

~~
I(atherin~Jean
Attorney for Plaintitf

9

