WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

)

IN RE THE MATTER OF THE PETITION)
FOR REINSTATEMENT
)
)
)
)

S. VANN SAULS, Attorney

ORDER STAYING
SUSPENSION

)

THIS MATTER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant
to a Petition for an Order Staying Suspension filed by S. Vann Sauls ("Sauls") on June
14,2011.
Based upon the petition and a review of the records of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Secretary makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On December 9, 2010, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (hereinafter, "DHC") entered a Consent Order of Discipline in file number
10 DHC 11 (hereinafter "Order").
2.
The Order suspended Sauls' license to practice law for a period of three
years, effective January 9, 2011. The Order provided that, at any time after serving six
(6) months of the active suspension of his license, Sauls could file a petition with the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar seeking a stay of the remaining period of his
suspension upon compliance with the conditions stated in the Order.
3.
On June 14,2011, Sauls filed a petition to stay the remaining portion of
his active suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status subject to the continuing
conditions and requirements set fmih in the Order.
4.
The Order required that Sauls be in compliance with a number of
conditions to qualifY for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.
5.
In his petition, Sauls described and provided documentation of the actions
he had taken to comply with the conditions of the Order.

6.
petition.

Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar did not file an objection to Sauls'

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, and without any evidence
presented in opposition to the petition, the Secretary makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
The petitioner, S. Vann Sauls, has satisfied the conditions established in
the Order for a stay of his suspension and reinstatement to active status, subject to the
continuing conditions set forth in the Order.
2.
Sauls' reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon
compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order.
BASED UPON the findings and conclusions stated herein, the Secretary hereby
enters the following:
ORDER
I.
The remaining active suspension of Sauls' license imposed by the Order is
hereby stayed and Sauls is reinstated to the active practice oflaw in North Carolina as of
the date of this order.
2.
The stay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions,
and requirements set forth in the Order.
3.
Sauls' status as an active member of the North Carolina State Bar is
contingent upon his compliance with all of the remaining conditions set forth in the
Order.
4.
If Sauls fails to comply with the terms, conditions and requirements set
forth in the Order, the DHC may lift the stay and activate the remaining period of
suspension.
This the II'TI'Iday of July, 2011.

-.

2

