STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY

INRE:
MICHAEL A. SCHLOSSER.,
ATTORNEY

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chair of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .OI22(b). Brian P.D. Oten
represented the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"). Michael A. Schlosser was represented
by Deanna S. Brocker. Based upon the information presented and with the consent ofthe
member and of the Office of Counsel, the undersigned makes the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
The North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar') is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Michael A. Schlosser was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 19 August
1973 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in
North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Schlosser was engaged in the practice of law in
the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Greensboro, Guilford County, North
Carolina.
4.
Schlosser presently suffers from a neurocognitive impairment which significantly
impairs his professional performance, judgment, and competence as an attorney.
5.

Schlosser voluntarily consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

6.

The State Bar consents to Schlosser's transfer to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following

Page 1 of2

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
There is clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Schlosser is disabled within
the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0103(19).
2.

Schlosser should be transferred to disability inactive status with the State Bar.

3.
Schlosser and the State Bar voluntarily consent to Schlosser's transfer to
disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0122(b).
4.
Any pending or future grievances against Schlosser should be stayed during the
period of disability.

THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED

1.

Michael A. Schlosser is transferred to disability inactive status.

2.
Schlosser shall not practice law in North Carolina until he is no longer disabled
and has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar. The
reinstatement process shall be as provided in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0129(c).
3.
Any pending or future grievances against Schlosser are hereby stayed during the
period of disability until such time as Schlosser returns to active status. The State Bar may
continue to investigate allegations of misconduct and preserve evidence as necessary pursuant to
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0122(e).

TmSthe2.1+-~ayof NoveMber

,2017.

CONSENTED TO:

"ll~lc~J~~
ichael A. SchSser

(;)~f~

rianP.D.Oten
Deputy Counsel

Meanna S. ocker
Counsel for Michael A. Schlosser

In Re: M. Schlosser

Consent Order
PageZ ofZ

