STATE OF NORTH CAR

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
CONSENT
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

ROBERT R. SCHOCH, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a I-Iearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed ofM.H. Hood Ellis, Chair, and members Walter E. Brock, Jr. and
Joseph Barlow Herget, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(h). PlaintitT was represented by Jennifer A. Porter.
Defendant, Robert R. Schoch ("Schoch"), appeared pro se. Both Plaintiff and Defendant
stipulate and agree to the Endings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent
order and to the discipline imposed. Schoch has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the
foregoing 1indings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and entry of the order of
discipline. Schoch freely and volLmtarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of
this consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:

Findings of Fact
I.
PlaintitT the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar'), is a body duly
organized under the laws of Noi1h Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Robert R. Schoch, was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in 1971, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules ofProressional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Schoch was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in High Point, Guilford County, North Carolina.

4.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
5.
Cheri Leonard was represented on crimina! charges by appointed counsel
Charles Wannamaker ("Wannamaker'").
6.
Schoch approached Wannamaker and oiTered to aITange additional
psychological testing for Ms. Leonard.
7.
Wannamaker agreed to have Schoch aITange additional psychological
testing for Ms. Leonard.
8.
Schoch went to court with Wannamaker in Ms. Leonard's case on
March 23, 2009. The intent of Wannamaker and Schoch was to request a continuance on
ihis date to allow the further evaluation proposed by Schoch.
9.

Schoch identified himself to the court as an "amicus" to the court.

10.
Schoch did not enter a genera! appearance as Ms. Leonard's counsel in the
criminal case.

11.

Schoch addressed the cOlIl·i and argued for the motion to continue.

12.
Schoch interacted with the Assistant District Attorney, R. Jordan Green
("Green"), regarding the plea agreement that had been offered to Ms. Leonard. seeking to
ensure it would remain in place during the time taken lor the additional psychological
evaluation.
13.
Schoch told Green that if Green did not allow the plea agreement to
remain available to Ms. Leonard, Green would be in violation of the plea agreement and
applicable ethics rules.

14.
Schoch pllllJorted to withdraw a guilty plea on behalf of Ms. Leonard
before the court on March 23. 2009.
15.
I-Jerilens.

Schoch arranged for Ms. Leonard to be evaluated by Dr. Kristine M.

16.
Schoch led Dr. Herilens to believe that Schoch was counsel for
Ms. Leonard on her criminal charges.
17.
Schoch did not disclose to Dr. J-Jertkens that Ms. Leonard was represented
by Wannamaker.

Dr. Heri1(cns cvaluated Ms. Leonard but concluded that Ms. Leonard
intentionally under-pcrforn1ed in the evaluation, rendering the data Ii'om the evaluation
invalid.
18.

- :2 -

19.
Dr. Herfhns identified possible areas of further exploration but declined
to perf01111 any further evaluation of Ms. Leonard.
20.
Schoch harangued and harassed Dr. Herlkens regarding her decision not to
further evaluate Ms. Leonard.
21.
ShOlily after Dr. Her11ens' evaluation of Ms. Leonard, Wannamaker
contacted Dr. Herfkens, at which point Dr. Herikens realized WaJU1amaker was
Ms. Leonard's attorney.
7")
Wannamaker communicated to Dr. Herflens his thoughts and questions
regarding Ms. Leonard.

Schoch criticized as Improper Wannamaker's
23.
commlll1lcation with Dr. Herlkens withuut Schoch's involvement.

involvement

and

24.
Schoch interacted with Ms. Leonard aJ1d her family during the time that
WaJU1aJ11aker represented Ms. Leonard.
25.

Schoch gave Ms. Leonard legal advice regarding her criminal offenses.

26.
Schoch gave Ms. Leonard legal advice regarding her criminal offenses
while Ms. Leonard was represented by Wannamaker.
27.
Schoch gave Ms. Leonard legal advice regarding her criminal offenses
that was contrary to the legal advice given to Ms. Leonard by Wannamaker.
28.
Wannamaker ultimateiy
representation of Ms. Leonard.

made

a

motion

to

withdraw

from

his

29.
At a hearing in Ms. Leonard's case on July 20. 2009, Wannamaker moved
to withdraw from representation of Ms. Leonard due to the disintegration of his attorneyclient relationship with Ms. Leonard.
30.
The disintegrntion vI' Vv'annaJnaker's at1orn:::,y-dient rebtiDn~~hiv ivith
Ms. Leonard resulted /i'om Schoch's conduct and interference with that attorney-client
relationship.
31.
Schoch was present
July 20, 2009.

111

court for the hearing

111

Ms. Leonard's case on

32.
Schoch informed thc court on July 20. 2009 that he did not want to make a
general appearance as counsel for Ms. Leonard.
33.

Schoch did not entcr a general appearancc as counsel for Ms. Leonard.

34.

The court denied Wannamaker's motion to withdraw.

On July 20, 2009, the court ordered Schoch to tum over client file
35.
materials to Warl11amaker.
1

- J -

36.
The court ordered Schoch to turn over the client material to Wannamaker
by the close of business that day, .July 20, 2009.
37.
Schoch did not turn over his client file materials to Wannamaker on
July 20, 2009.
38.
At the hearing on July 20. 2009, the court ordered Schoch to have no
[mther involvement in the case.
39.
Subsequently Schoch wrote a letter to Wannamaker cntlclzmg
Wannamaker's representation of Ms. Leonard, making disparaging comments regarding
Wannamaker, and offering to remain involved in the case.
40.
On July 20, 2009, the cOLll1 ordered Schoch to have no contact with the
victim in the case, the victim's tinnily, Ms. Leonard, Ms. Leonard's trtlnily, and to have
no contact on either side of the case.
41.
Schoch asked the cOLlli if he could connnunicate with Debra Leathennan,
who was associated with Ms. Leonard, on an independent business matter.
42.
The court instructed Schoch he could
Leatherman only regarding the separate business matter.

communicate with

Debra

43.
After receiving the cou11's instruction set forth in the immediately
preceding paragraph, Schoch subsequently communicated with Ms. Leathcrn1an
regarding Ms. Leonard's case and told Ms. Leatherman he would keep Ms. Leatherman
updated about the case.
44.
Schoch made disparaging comments about Wannamaker and
Wannamaker's representation of Ms. Leonard in court on July 20, 2009, in court at a
subsequent hearing on .July 22, 2009, and in the letter to Wannamaker referenced above
in paragraph 38. which Schoch publicized by providing it to the court on .July 22. 2009.
45.

Schoch's comments regarding Wannamaker were contrary to the known
local custordS uf cuurtesy set rC:T courisd in court by Rule 12 of the r-";orth Carolina
General Rules of Practice.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the I-Iearing Panel enters the following:

Conclusions of Law

1.

All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct. as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above.
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)
By inserting himself into Ms. Leonard's ease, interacting in an improper
anci disruptive manner toward Green and Dr. Hefkens, and interfering in
-4 -

Wannamaker's relationship with Ms. Leonard, Schoch engaged
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule S.4(d):

111

conduct

(b)
By failing to turn over his client file to WaJUJamaker, offering to
Wannamaker his continued participation in the case, and communicating with
Ms. Leathenl1aJ1 about Ms. Leonard's case, Schoch failed to obey the court's
order in violation of Rule 3.4(c) and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule S.4(d); aJ1d
(c)
By making derogatory comments about Wannamaker in court and in a
letter he later provided to the court, Schoch failed to comply with known local
customs of courtesy in violation of Rule 3.S(a)( 4 leA).
g~~Sf'd llpnI! the- foregoing findi!"!gs (~f fi:lct and conclusie-ns c:f la.\\'~ ccnsidcration
of the factors set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(w)(3), consideration of all
available forms of discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the Heming
PaJ1el enters the following:

Order of Discipline

1.

Defendant, Robert R. Schoch, is hereby REPRIMANDED.

2.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs within
thirty days of service of the statement of costs upon him.
Signed bY..1he Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
~'7rhday of Sbw~./'
2012.
(/
(J
M.H. Hood Ellis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed and LOnsented to by:

.-

/ / ..............

/'

-(

-_.•....

~ C~ \t'\.l.'l c\"L4/\

.lei~ifer f(fo;;;;'

Date

Attorney for PlaintitT

-5-

.f

