STATE OF NORTH CARO

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
RICHARD B. SCHULTZ, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MA TIER came on for consideration before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Heming Commission composed ofR. Lee Fanner, Chair, and members Fred W. DeVore, III and
Tyler B. MOtTis. Jennifer A. POIier represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. William
E. Moore represented Defendant, Richard B. Schultz.
Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of
law recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Schultz has freely and
voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and
entry of the order of discipline. Schultz freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal
the entry of this consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff~ the NOlih Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of NOlih Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Richard B. Schultz ("Schultz"), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1975, and is, and was at all times refelTed to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in NOith Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Richard B. Schultz
Consent Order of Discipline

Page I of 8

3.
During all or pm1 of the relevant periods refen'ed to herein, Schultz was engaged
in the practice of law in the State of N0I1h Carolina and maintained a law office in Gastonia,
Gaston County, North Carolina.
4.
On June 2, 2015, an auditor for the North Carolina State Bar conducted a
random audit of Schultz's tlUst account.
5.

The following was found during the audit:
a. Schultz was commingling funds by failing to promptly disburse earned fees to
himself and retaining more funds belonging to him in the tlUst account than
necessary to pay bank service charges or otherwise maintain the account;
b. Schultz had not conducted all required monthly and quarterly reconciliations of
his tlUst account. He had completed reconciliations in which he compared the
total client balance with his bank statement balance for only the two most recent
months prior to the audit.

6.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.012S(b) (now recodified as 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0132(b)), on August IS, 2015, the State Bar sent Schultz a letter seeking to confirm
Schultz had taken appropriate corrective action to come into compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
7.
The State Bar requested Schultz confinn his compliance with Rule l.l5 of the
Rules of Professional Conduct by providing a tlUSt account reconciliation.
S.
In its August IS, 2015 letter, the State Bar requested Schultz provide a trust
account reconciliation tlu'ough August 2015 along with the suppOiting documents by September
30,2015.
9.

Schultz failed to respond to the State Bar's August IS, 2015 letter.

10.
On March II, 2016, the State Bar sent Schultz a letter noting the State Bar had
not received a response from Schultz to its August IS, 2015 letter and requesting Schultz
provide a trust account reconciliation through February 2016 with SUppol1ing documents by
March 31, 2016.
11.

Schultz failed to respond to the State Bar's March II, 2016 letter.

12.
On April 2S, 2016, the State Bar sent Schultz a letter noting the State Bar had not
received a response from Schultz to its prior requests and requesting Schultz provide a trust
account reconciliation through February 2016 with suppOiting documents by May 6, 2016.
13.

Schultz failed to respond to the State Bar's April2S, 2016 letter.

14.
On May 25,2016, the State Bar sent Schultz a letter by certified mail noting the
State Bar had not received a response from Schultz to its prior requests and requesting Schultz
provide a trust account reconciliation through FeblUary 2016 with supporting documents within
The North Carolina State Bar v. Richard B. Schultz
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 2 or8

ten days of receipt of the letter.
15.

Schultz received the State Bar's May 25,2016 letter by celtified mail on June 2,

16.

Schultz failed to respond to the State Bar's May 25, 2016 letter.

2016.

17.
On October 6, 2016, the State Bar sent Schultz a letter of notice by certified mail
notifying Schultz that a grievance file had been opened and that his response was required within
fifteen days of his receipt of the letter of notice.
18.
The letter of notice instructed Schultz to include with his response a monthly and
quarterly trust account reconciliation for the immediately preceding month and quarter,
respectively, using the State Bar's three-way reconciliation fom1 for the qualterly reconciliation
and providing the suppo11ing documentation listed in the letter of notice.
19.
Schultz received the State Bar's October 6, 2016 letter of notice by certified mail
on October 13, 2016.
20.

Schultz failed to timely respond to the letter of notice within fifteen days of

receipt.
21.
On November 4, 2016, the State Bar sent Schultz a letter notifying him that it had
not received his response to the letter of notice. The State Bar asked Schultz to provide his
response, although it would be considered late, by November 14,2016.
22.
Additionally, on November 4, 2016 a State Bar councilor e-mailed Schultz and
left him a voicemail message, to encourage him to respond to the letter of notice.
23.
On November 10,2016, Schultz sent the State Bar a letter apologizing for not
responding earlier to the State Bar and stating that upon his return to his office on November 14,
2016 he would prepare a response and send it immediately.
24.
Schultz did not respond to the letter of notice by the November 14, 2016 date as
requested in the State Bar's November 4, 2016 letter.
25.
On November 30,2016, the State Bar sent Schultz a letter noting that as of that
date the State Bar had not received Schultz's response to the letter of notice. The State Bar
encouraged Schultz to provide a response to the letter of notice that included addressing his
failures to respond to the State Bar along with the requested reconciliations and documents by
December 16, 2016.
26.

On December 5, 2016, Schultz provided a response to the State Bar.

27.
With his response, Schultz included handwritten reconciliations, not using the
State Bar form as requested, on which he listed client balances and compared the total client
balance with the bank statement balance for August 2015 through October 2016.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Richard B. Schultz
Consent Order of Discipline

Page30f8

28.
Schultz's reconciliations and his description of his tlUst account reconciliation
process omitted any maintenance of a general ledger or use of the balance on the general ledger
in his reconciliations.
29.
Pursuant to a subsequent request made to him by the State Bar that included a
request for his general ledger, on January 27, 2017 Schultz provided a completed t1u'ee-way
reconciliation form for October 2016.
In the materials he provided on January 27, 2017, Schultz did not provide a
30.
general ledger with the October 2016 reconciliation.
In his January 27,2017 letter, Schultz stated that his methodology for keeping a
31.
ledger for the tlUst account was to maintain client ledgers on index cards.
In his January 27, 2017 letter, Schultz referenced his previous explanation
32.
regarding his tlUst account methodology, which was included in his December 5, 2016 letter.
33.
In his December 5, 2016 letter, Schultz indicated that upon receipt of his monthly
tlUst account bank statement, he would prepare a written list from the index cards of the clients
and their respective balances and compare the total of the client balances with the bank statement
balance.
34.
The State Bar sent Schultz a letter dated April 24, 2017 addressing the issue of
promptly disbursing earned fees from his ttust account. Schultz was asked to update the State
Bar by May 19, 2017 if he made any changes to his procedures after reviewing the letter.
35.

Schultz did not respond to the State Bar's April 24, 2017 letter.

36.
The State Bar sent Schultz a letter dated June 30, 2017 in which it notified Schultz
that a general ledger, separate from the client ledgers, was now needed to conduct quarterly
reconciliations in compliance with Rule 1.15-3( d)(l), pursuant to the revision effective
September 30, 2016 under which the quarterly reconciliation process explicitly requires
comparison of the balance that appears on the general ledger for the tlUst account with the total
of client balances and with the bank statement balance.
37.
The State Bar requested Schultz provide a general ledger for his tlUst account that
he would maintain and use in his quarterly reconciliations by July 14, 2017.
38.

Schultz did not respond to the State Bar's June 30, 2017 letter.

Based upon the consent of the patties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Heating Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Richard B. Schultz, and the subject matter.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Richard B. Schultz
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 4 of8

2.

Defendant has engaged in conduct constituting grounds for discipline as follows:

a. Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:
I) By failing to promptly disburse eamed fees to himself and retaining more
funds belonging to him in the trust account than necessary to pay bank service
charges or otherwise maintain the account, Schultz failed to maintain
entrusted funds separate from his property in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a);
2) By failing to reconcile the balance of his tlUst account as shown in his records
with the bank statement balance for the trust account each month, Schultz
failed to conduct the required monthly reconciliations in violation of Rule
1.15-3(d)(2);
3) By failing to reconcile the total of individual client balances with the bank
statement balance at least quarterly, and by failing to reconcile the balance
from a general ledger for his trust account with the total of client balances and
with the bank statement balance at least quarterly after September 30, 2016,
Schultz failed to conduct the required qUaJterly reconciliations in violation of
Rule 1.15-3(d)(l);
4) By failing to provide the reconciliation and suppolting documents requested
by the State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128(b) (now
recodified as 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0132(b» in relation to the violation of
the Rules of Professional Conduct discovered in the random audit of Schultz's
trust account, Schultz failed to produce in a random audit records required by
Rule 1.15 upon request in violation of Rule 1.15-3(h); and
5) By failing to timely respond to the letter of notice in the grievance tile and
failing to respond to subsequent inquiries of the State Bar in the grievance file,
Schultz knowingly failed to adequately or timely respond to a lawful demand
for infonnation fl'om a disciplinaJY authority in connection with a disciplinary
matter in violation of Rule 8.1 (b).
b. Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3) in that Schultz failed to adequately or
timely answer a fOlmal inquity of the NOlth Carolina State Bar in a disciplinary matter.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Conclusions of Law, the patties' stipulations
of fact, and with the consent of the patties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 38 above are reincorporated as if set faIth

herein.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Richard B. Schultz
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 5 ofS

2.
The legal profession is entrusted with the privilege of self-regulation. When an
attorney fails to participate in the profession's self-regulation by failing to respond to the
inquiries of the State Bar, this interferes with the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys and
undermines the privilege of lawyers in this State to remain self-regulating.
3.
A keystone of the public's trust in the legal profession is the proper management
by attorneys of attorney trust accounts. The ability and willingness of attorneys to demonstrate
that proper management to the Stale Bar fosters public confidence and facilitates the State Bar's
regulation of the profession for the protection of the public.
4.

Defendant maintained client ledgers for his trust account

5.
Although not as frequently as required, Defendant engaged in review of his tJust
account records in the course of maintaining entrusted funds.
6.

There is no evidence of any dishonest motive on the part of Defendant.

7.
Prior to the revision of Rule 1.15-3(d)(1) effective September 30, 2016,
Defendant's reconciliation process was sufficient to meet the requirements of the quarterly
reconciliation previously in effect, if timely done.
8.
Defendant has begun maintaining a general ledger for his trust account and
conducting reconciliations in which he compares his bank balance, general ledger balance, and
client ledger balance total.
9.
With the addition of the maintenance of a general ledger and the incorporation of
comparison of the general ledger balance with the client ledger balance and the adjusted bank
balance in his reconciliations, Defendant's current reconciliation process is compliant with the
current version of Rule I.I5-3( d)( 1).
10.
Defendant has acknowledged that his failures to respond to the State Bar's
inquiries greatly exacerbated this matter. Defendant is taking steps to address the underlying
physical and mental health concerns that impacted his responsiveness to the State Bar.
Defendant has established procedures to ensure his prompt receipt of and response to State Bar
communications.
11.
Defendant has been practicing law for over 40 years and has established a
reputation for good character.
12.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following

The North Carolina State Bar v. Richard B. Schultz
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 60f8

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCWLINE

1.

The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code I B.O 116(w)(l), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar. We conclude
that there are no applicable factors under § IB.OI16(w)(2). We conclude that the following
factors under .OI16(w)(l) and (3) are applicable:
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0116(w)(l)
a.

Factor (F), Potential negative impact of Defendant's actions on the
administration of justice, to wit: the State Bar's regulation of the legal
profession; and

b.

Factor (1), Multiple instances of failure to pm1icipate
profession's self-ret,'Ulation process.

111

the legal

27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.OI14(w)(3)
c.

Factor (A), No history of prior disciplinary offenses;

d.

Factor (C), Absence of selfish motive;

e.

Factor (D), Timely good faith eff0I1s to rectify the consequences of his
misconduct;

f.

Factor (F), Pattern of misconduct;

g.

Factor (G), Multiple offenses;

h.

Factor (H), Effect of personal or emotional problems on the conduct in
question;

i.

Factor (I), Effect of any physical or mental disability or impairment on the
conduct in question;

j.

Factor (1), Interim rehabilitation;

k.

Factor (K), Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

I.

Factor (P), Remorse;

m.

Factor (Q), Excellent character reputation; and

n.

Factor (S), Substantial degree of experience in the practice of law.

The N0I1h Carolina State Bar v. Richard B. Schultz
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 7 of 8

2.
Defendant's failures to adequately or timely respond to the State Bar caused
potential significant harm to the profession and its self-regulation.
3.

There is no evidence of actual harm caused by Defendant's conduct.

4.

The Healing Panel considered all of the disciplinary options available to it. In the
course of this consideration, the Hearing Panel carefully considered the factor that could be
considered in imposing a suspension or stayed suspension. In light of all of the evidence, the
Hearing Panel concluded a reprimand is a more appropriate discipline.

5.
The Hearing Panel considered all lesser sanctions and concluded that discipline
ShOl1 of reprimand would not adequately protect the public. Imposition of a lesser discipline
would fail to acknow ledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and would send
the wrong message to members of the Bar and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this State.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.

Defendant, Richard B. Schultz, is hereby REPRIMANDED.

2.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding, including
the costs of all depositions, as assessed by the Secretary of the NOlih Carolina State Bar.
Defendant must pay the costs within 30 days of service upon him of the statement of costs by the
Secretary.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day of

" cUc.~

,

201-'--

CONSENTED TO BY:

~orter
Counsel for Plaintiff

illiam E. Moore
Counsel for Defendant

The North Carolina State Bar v. Richard B. Schultz
Consent Order of Discipline

PageSofS

1'$+

