,,~:'>"\~ 3WI2 J

~"!v'"
k;.

K;

~
ApI)

d
(<

S'

0'
1[20/4-1

;:;:; f:/l!£J
J
cp
STATEOFNORTIICARO''''' A·
7)DH~:::
~
c?>,

BEFORE THE

iJIS~ INARY HEARING COMMISSION

i>
OF THE
Of!l! II 9lS\'l\~ NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

13 DHC 3

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
ROBERT L. SCOTT, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ("DHC") composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair, and members Barbara B.
Weyher and Scott A. Sutton. Plaintiff was represented by G. Patrick Murphy.
Defendant, Robert L. Scott ("Scott" or "Defendant"), appeared pro se.
On December 10,2013, the Hearing Panel granted pmiial summary judgment in
favor of the State Bar concluding as a matter of law that Defendant violated Rule 1.3,
Rule 1.l5-2(m) and Rule 1.4(a) of the Rules of Professional Conduct as alleged in the
State Bar's Complaint for failure of Defendant on behalf of his client to timely obtain a
title policy, timely pay title insurance premiums, timely pay propeliy taxes, and respond
to the client's phone calls regarding those issues.
Based on the Hearing Panel's summmy judgment order, the sole issue remaining
for deternlination of what, if any, discipline is appropriate for the violations established
came on for hearing on February 20, 2014. Based on the Complaint, the Answer, the
Order of Summary Judgment, and exhibits and evidence admitted during ilie hearing, and
after careful consideration of ilie legal and factual arguments of the paliies before, during
and after the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence, the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Plaintiff, the Nolih Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of N olih Cm'olina and is the propel' party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina Slate Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant was admitted to the NOlih Carolina State Bar on April 2, 2005,
and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in
North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods rcfen-cd to herein, Defendant was
cngaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and conducted his practice
£i'om a law office in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.
4.
From June 2006 tlu'ough August 20 I 0, Defendant was employed by The
O'Brien Law Firm Co., LPA ("The O'Brien Law Firm"), a business that offered real
estate closing services in North Carolina. The O'Brien Law Firm, which was established
and operated by Dennis O'Brien, an attorney licensed and operating out of the State of
Ohio, was under contract to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) to be its attorneys for real estate closings in North Carolina and operated in North
Carolina fi'om an office located at 101 South Elm Street, Suite 225, Greensboro, NC
27401.
5.
Defendant was employed by The O'Brien Law Firm to serve as closing
attorney for closings The O'Brien Law Firm handled in the State of North Carolina and
was paid for those services by The O'Brien Law Firm.
6.
On September 24, 2007, The O'Brien Law Firm filed an Interstate Law
Firm Registmtion Statement with the North Carolina State Bar. On the registration
statement, Defcndant identified himself as a managing attorney for The O'Brien Law
Firm office in North Carolina. Each attorney listed on the registration statement agreed
to govern his or her personal and professional conduct with respect to legal matters
arising in North Carolina in accordance with the Rules of Professional Conduct of the
North Carolina State Bar.
7.
Defendant was a managing attorney for The O'Brien Law Firm office in
North Carolina, but did not have signature authority on The O'Brien Law Firm's trust
account for funds handled for closings in North Carolina, and did not exercise
supervisory authority over post-closing processes, such as timely payment of taxes and
title insurance premiums.
8.
When handling closings on behalf of The O'Brien Law Firm, Defendant
relied on non-lawyer employees of The O'Brien Law Firm and other non-lawyers to
perform title work, verify the taxes due, prepare the HUD-l settlement statement, secure
title insurance, pay the title insurance premiulll and conduct post-closing reviews. The
policy and procedures of The O'Brien Law Firm dictated the activities of non-lawyer
employees performing these functions. Defendant did not have or exercise the
supervisory authority sufficient to ensure the work non-lawyer employees performed was
compatible with the professional obligations of Defendant as closing attorney.
9.
During 2008, The O'Brien Law Firm was handling between 200 and 300
real estate closings a month in N0l1h Carolina.

-2-

10.
In his association with The O'Brien Law Firm, Defendant was the closing
attorney for Tammy C. McCrae-Coley ("McCrae-Coley") in the August 21, 2008
purchase by McCrae-Coley of property located at 728 Tucker St., Burlington, NC 27215
("Tucker St. property").
II.
Defendant did not attend the McCrae-Coley closing but he authorized his
signature to be placed on the HUD-I settlement statement related to McCrae-Coley's
purchase of the Tucker St. property by a Finn employee.
12.
The HUD-I settlement statement for the McCrae-Coley closing on the
Tucker St. property shows that a charge for title insurance in the amount of $162. 50 was
to be paid from McCrae-Coley's funds at the settlement.
13.
The IIDD-I settlement statement for the McCrae-Coley closing on the
Tucker St. property also shows that city/town property taxes in the amount of$209.78
and county property taxes in the amount of$194.67 were charged to and to be paid by
McCrae-Coley at the closing for her pOliion of the 2008 taxes.
14.
In April 2009, McCrae-Coley was notified by First Bank, High Point,
N. C., the fmancial institution that held the mOligage on the Tucker St. property, that the
title insurance on the Tucker St. propeliy had not been obtained. An agent of First Bank
advised McCrae-Coley that she had called and emailed The O'Brien Law Firm about the
failure to secure the title insurance policy on the Tucker St. property, but could not get a
return call.
15.
After learning title insurance had not been obtained, McCrae-Coley tried
for a few weeks to contact Defendant's office by phone. McCrae-Coley left messages
and advised members of The O'Brien Law Firm staff that the title insurance policy
needed to be issued and she needed somebody to call her back to let her know what was
happening to eonect the problem, but she never got a return call. McCrae-Coley then
took time offfrom her job, went to Defendant's office, and waited for someone to assist
her in her efforts to rectify the failure to secure title insurance on the Tucker St. propeliy.
16.
On June 25, 2009, TIle O'Brien Law Firm issued a check in the amount of
$162.50 to the title insurance company to secure a title policy on the Tucker St. property.
In December 2009, McCrae-Coley received aNotice of Attachment and
17.
Garnishment ("garnishment") from the Alamance County Tax Collector, which was also
sent to her employer. The garnishment documents informed McCrae-Coley that for tax
year 2008 a total of $641.05 was owed on the Tucker St. propeliy for taxes, interest and
costs. When McCrae-Coley investigated the matter, she learned that the 2008 taxes had
not all bcen paid on the Tucker St. property called for on the HUD-I settlement
statement.

18.
Because the Alamance County Tax Collector was going to garnish
McCrae-Coley's salary for the delinquent taxes that should have been paid on the Tucker
st. property according to the HUD-I settlement statement at closing, McCrae-Coley paid
the delinquent taxes and then, on or about December 7,2009, contacted Defendant's
-3-

office. McCrae-Coley spoke to an employee in Defendant's office, was told to fax the
delinquent tax information to Defendant's office, and was told that it would take 1-2
weeks for the matter to be resolved. McCrae-Coley complied with the instructions and
sent documentation to Defendant's law firm. After two weeks passed and McCrae-Coley
did not receive reimbursement for the taxes she had paid to stop the garnishment, she
called and emailed Defendant's law firm, but did not get any response to her requests for
information about the tax reimbursement. McCrae-Coley then contacted The North
Carolina State Bar.
19.
On March 30, 2010, a check in the amount of$546.82 was issued to
McCrae-Coley to reimburse her for the 2008 delinquent taxes she had paid on the Tucker
st. property.
20.
In January 2009, Defendant sent an email to management in The O'Brien
Law Firm advising them that in Defendant's view, The O'Brien Law Firm was operating
more like a title company than a law finn. Fwther, Defendant wrote in the email: 1) that
at least fifty percent of the phone calls and emails he received involved complaints about
some aspect of firm's closing process; 2) that staff often did not return phone calls or
emails from clients; and 3) that the backlog of files awaiting final policy issuance was
staggering.
21.
HUD's contract with The O'Brien Law Firm included terms regarding the
firm's operations and, according to Defendant, the problcms experienced in the McCraeColey closing were simple mistakes arising from a high volume real estate closing
operation.
On November 11, 2009, Defendant was admonished by the Grievance
22.
Committee of The NOlth Carolina State Bar for conduct arising from (wo real estate
transactions he closed in January and June 2008. The committee found that Defendant
had collected funds for title insurance but the funds were not promptly disbursed to the
title company, and the final documents necessary to issue the policy were not prepared
and sent promptly to the title insurance company.
Based on the above Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, (he Hearing Panel
makes the following conclusions regarding discipline by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Hearing Panel
has jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated
in 27 N.CAC. 1B § .0114(w)(1) and (w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes no factors are present in this case that would warrant
disbarment or suspension of Defendant's license to practice law.

-4-

3.
The HeaTing Panel has carefully examined the Admonition, Reprimand,
and Censure factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0113(k) ofthe Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, and concludes the following factors are
applicable to this ease:
a) Prior discipline for the same or similar conduct:
b) Refusal of Defendantlo acknowledge the wrongful natlU'e ofthe conduct;
and
c) .Imposition of lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness
of the misconduct and would send the wrong message to members of the
bar and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the bar.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .OI14(w)(3) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes the following factors are applicable in this case:
a) Prior disciplinary offense in this state or other jurisdiction;
b) Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attitude
towal'd the proceedings;
c) Refusal to aclmowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;
d) Defendant has not expressed remorse; and
e) Defendant is experienced in the practice of law.
5.
The conduct in which Defendant engaged violated one or more provisions
of the Rules of Professional Conduct, the harm or potential harm caused by the
Defendant is significant, and protection of the public requires more serious discipline
than an admonition or reprimand.
6.
An order imposing discipline short of a Censure would not be appropriate
and would not be sufficient to protect thc public.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline,
the Hearing Panel enters the following:

REMAINDER OF PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK

-5-

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
forth herein.

Defendant Robert L. Scott is hereby CENSURED for his conduct as set

2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees within
thirty days of service upon him by the Secretary of the statement of costs and
administrative fees.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of April, 20 I 4.

Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-6-

