NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
11G0637

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Tamla T. Scott,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On October 20, 20 II, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee
found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a
member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justiJYing disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending
upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating
factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice,
the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinaly Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bal', it is now my duty to issue this censure.
In 2005, you applied for admission to the District of Columbia Bar. During the application
process you completed alld submitted a Supplemental Questionnaire that asked whether there were
any charges or complaints "now pending" concerning your conduct as an attorney. You answered
this question "no." When you completed the Supplemental Questionnaire, you were aware of at
least one pending grievance and three unresolved fee disputes against you in North Carolina.
After you were admitted to the DC Bar, you received an inquiry from DC Bar Counsel inquiring
about your failure to disclose the pending North Carolina grievance during the application process. In

response, you stated that you had been unaware of the NOiih Carolina grievance until after you were
admitted to the DC Bar. This statement was false.
By failing to disclose the pending grievance in response to the Supplemental Questionnaire and
by stating to DC Bar Counsel that you had been unaware of any pending North Carolina grievances
until after you were admitted to the DC Bar, you lmowingly made false statements of material fact in
connection with a bar admission application in violation of Rule 8.I(a) and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty in violation of Rule 8.4(c).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from
adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a
strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the
public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a
respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.

In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Conunittee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby
taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this .,.<. ...l...rlay of

d~

, 2011.

dQ~

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

