~)

co "1 ro 9 10 IIp
•

.'"
I'»

...

STATE OF NORTH CAROL!

'<?
rp
OCT 201& ti'

.:'?,

F.::0

WAKE COUNTY

tti BEFORE THE

FILEf'TIli:iGIf.L :
'4.~

Y HEARING COMMISSION

IJDIjU "'-'>
OF THE
I>~
N~~ CAROLINA STATE BAR
~
15 DHC 34

THENORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT
ORDER

v.
EDWARD D. SELTZER, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the DisCiplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Joshua W. Willey, Jr., Chair, and members Richard V. Bennett
and Christopher R. Bruffey, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Maria 1. Brown and A.
Root Edmonson. Defendant, Edward D. Seltzer ("Seltzer"), was represented by T.
Richard Kane and Wintl"ed R. Ervin. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to
the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the
discipline imposed. Seltzer consents to entry of this order of discipline and freely and
voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this order.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plainti11; the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Edward D. Seltzer, was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in August 1980 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules
of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of
North Carolina.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process, and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all palties.
4.
f During the relevant period referred to herein, L>efendant was engaged in
the practice of law in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.

5..
Both before and during the relevant period of ti\ne, Defendant's pl'llctice
was almost.exclllsively in the field of State and federal crimlnallaw.
6.
On 19 Apl'i1 2006, Defendant was qualified as the personal representative
of the Estate of Charles Ryll1'l Dntz, Mecklenburg County file 06-E-lllO (the "Unfz
estate"). Defendant had never administered an MM6 before·, but agreed to q)lallfY ali
personal reptesentatlve of the U[\1t estate because the deceased was· the san of
Defendant's 100ig-time oftio.e assistant, and for the expl'ess purpose described below.

7,
Because of his personal relationship to the decedent's n;lOther, Defendant
Ul)dertook the tole of pel'Sol1al ~'epre8entatiye of the .·Untz estate without expectation of
compensation and, in fact, received no compensation.
8.
During his time as personal representative .of the Qnlz estate, Defendant
made no efforts to familiarize himself with the duties and obligations ·of the office of
personal representative.
9.
Defendant agreed to act as personal representative. in the Ulltz estate so
that Defendant's colleague Winfred BTvin to)lld pursue a wrongful death. action .on behalf
of the estate (the "Untz' wrongful death case"). Mr. Ervin also served as counseI to
Defl)nclant in his roie as pel'sQllal representative ofthe Untz estate.

10.
Aftet the C!erl~'s office ~ent DefunaiJIlt a notice to tilt; the 90-day
inventory, Defendant filed it iIi AllgUst 2006.
I!.
In JanuaryidU7, Mr, Ervin secured a default judgment against the
pI;inqiPllJ ~efeildant in the Uiltz wrongful death case.

12.
On 20 April 200'7,. the Clerk sent Defendant a notice to file the final
account within thirty (30) days.
.
13.

D&fenclant failed to file the final account within thirty (30) days,

Izk
On 7 June 2007, Defendant was served with an oi'del' requiring.hiro to, file
the final account within twenty (20) days. Defendant did not file the final acoount within
the required time.
.
.

15. In July' 2009, ihe priilcipal wrongful death:clefeI\dtmt prevailed on a Rille
·60 motion to set aside the default Mr. Ervin had obtained in Z.oD7, ~nd the Untt estate
was thus rendered a ITO as$et egtate.
16.
011 16 September 2.009, the Clerk sent Defendant an order to appe.ar and
show' (lail~e why he ha.d failed to file the final acoO]ll1t. D"fendil11t received the siww
cailse Qrder 0)1.21 September .20.09.
17.
At a show cause hearing on 28 Septeinber 2.0.09, Mr, 'Ervin appei)ted 011
Defel1dant's behalf and assured the Clerk Defendant would bring the accountings Cl\l1'ent
within .(\ few days.

18.
Defendant tiled overdue annual accountings, but not the final account, on
5 November 2009.
19.
In 20 I 0, the Clerk attempted to send Defendant notices and orders to file
the final accoUnt. One or mote ofthese notices went to the Wrong address.
20.
The wrongful death action was resolved in July 2011. Defendant believed
that Mr. Ervin had arranged for the filing of the final accounting in conjunction with
resohltion of the wrongful death claim.
21.
No finalaocounting had been filed, and Defendant took no steps to verify
that the estate filings were current.
22.
Based on Defendant's failure to file a final account, the clerk issued
ai10thcr show cause order to Defendant on 2.5 July 2014, with hearing set fot 18
September 2014.
23..

Defendant filed the final account in the Untzestateon 15 September 2014.

On 10 August 2012, Defendant was qualified as the personal
24.
representative of the Estate of Donald Miller Seltzer, Mecklenburg County file 12-E2367. Donald Seltzer was Defendant's father.
25.
During his time as personal representative of his father's estate, Defendant
made. no effOiis to familiarize himself with the duties and obligations of the office of
personal representative.
26.
Defendant sought the assistance of .his former law 'partner, Hugo A.
Pea("ce, III, in fulfIlling his obligations as the personal representative of his father's estate.
27.
Based on Mr. Pearce's offer to help, Defendant as.sumed Mr. Peat·ce would
take whatever action needed to be taken. Defendant did not communicate this expectation
to Mr. Pearce. Mr. Pearce believed Defendant would ask for advice when he needed it.

In 2012 and 2013, the Clerk attempted to send Defendant notices and
28.
orders to
an inventory and an .order to appeat" and show cause why he had not fi led an
inventory. these mailings went to the wrong address.

me

29.
Defendant was not aware of the delinquency in the filings until he was
notified of a show cause hearing scheduled for 18 September 2014.

30.
After Defelldant became aware of the show cause hearing, he asked Mr.
Pearce to assist him in taking the action necessary to closeout the estate, Mr. Pearce
<!greed to undertake the necessary steps on Defendant'S behalf.
31.
Mr, Pearce prepared an inveIJto)"y for Defendant's signature, and it was
filed oh 18 September 2014.

3

32.
At the 18 September show cause hearing, Defelidant Was found not in
contempt, and Was given ,tutil 1 Novembel' 2014 to file an annilal account and until 15
Januai'Y 2015 to file the final aCCQlint.
33.

No annual account was filed.

34.
Mr. Pearce prepared the finalacconnt for Defendant's signature, aild it
was filed on 13 March 2015.
35"
Because of his personal relationship to the decedent, Defendant undcltook
the role of personal representative of the Seltzer estate without expectation of
oompensation and, in fact, received no compensation.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the
Heafing Pand enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

J.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding,
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out In the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to nc. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows: By failing to
ensure that accountings in the Untz estate were timely filed, by failing to comply timely
with the cletk's April 2007 notice and June 2007 orders to file aocountings in the Untz
estate, and by failing prior to September 2014 to ensure that the inventory and
accountings in the Seltzer estate were timely filed, Defendant engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8ACd).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the
consent of the parties, the Heating Panel also enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

The findings of fact in paragraphs I - 35 above are reincorporated as if set

forthhereln.
2.
Defendant has prior ptQfessibnal discipiine, to wit: a 1992 Admonition for
neglectltlg a client matter, failing to communicate with a client, and failing to respond
timely to the Bar; a 1994 Reprimand for neglecting a client matter, failing to
communicate with a client, and failing to respond timely to the Bar; a 1996 Censure for
neglecting a cHent matter and failing to communicate with a clieht; a second 1996
Censure for neglecting a client matter, failing to communicate with a dient, and failing to
respond timely to the Bi;\r; a 2000 Reprimand for neglectinll a client and failing to
communIcate with.a client in three separate matters; and, in 2004, a three-year Snspension
stayed fo!' five yeat'S for rule violations including neglecting and failing to communicate
with dients in four separate matters and failing to respond timely to the Bat in three of
those matters.

4

3.
The complaint contained a third claim for relief which alleged neglect of
and fail!lte to cOinmunicate with a criminal client in a post-conviction matter and failure
to participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process in violation of Rules 1.3,
lA, and 1.5. The allegations of misconduct under Rules 1.3 and 1.4 mitTor misconduct
for which Defendant had been disciplined on multiple prior occasions, most recently with
a stayed suspension of his license in 2004.
4.
The State Bar is voluntarily dismissing the third claim fOr relief. The State
Bar is unable to prove the alleged violations of Rules 1.3 and 1.4 beca!lse Defendant'S
client, R. W., testified at his deposition (contrary to what he had previously communicated
to the State Bar) that he telt satisfied with the way Defendant had communicated with
hhn and pursued his caSe. The State Bar is unable to prove the alleged violation of Rule
1.5(0, predicated on Defendant's failure tp respond timely to notice of R.W. 's fee
disptlte, bec.ause it became apparent during discovery that the State Bar would not be able
to prove when Defendant received notioe of the fee dispute and therefore the date by
whioh he was obligated to respond. The defendant did in fact respond on September 30,

2014.
5.
The State Bar h also voluntarily dismissing the violations of Rule 1.15"3(1) alleged in conjunction with the fii's( and second olaims for relief. Defendant's
misconduct is, for reasons related to facts uncovered during discovery, more
appropriately addressed solely under Rule 8.4(d) .
6.
Defendant's response to the grievance regarding the two estate matters
was insufficiently thol"Ough to allow the State Bar to make a fair assessment of
Defendant's level ofeulpabifity for the delinquency of the estates.
7.
Because Mr. Pearce explicitly accepted responsibility for closing out the
Seltzel' estate, Defendant is not culpable for the failures to file an anm.)!jl account by 1
November 2014 and the final account by 15 January 2015.
8.
Defendant's personal connections to the decedents in both estates caused
him to avoid dealing with his .obligations as personal representative.
a. Charles Untz's mother was Defendant's secretary for many years. Her
otl1er son died ilnder similar circumstances in 2009.
b. Defendant had a particularly close relationship with his father and had
a difficult time dealing with the loss. Defendant asked for Mr .. Peal"ce's
help with the managing his father's eState because he anticipated this
difficulty.
9,
Defendant has substantial experience i.n the practice of law bui no prior
experience with estate matters. Defendailt's lack of experience and failure to familiarize
himself at the outset with the obligations of a personal representative contributed to his
inadvertent neglect ofthese estales.
10.
Defehdal1thas acknowledged cllipability and expressed remorse for failing
to ensure that the estates were managed appropriately.

5

11;
The impact on the administration of justice resulting from Defendant's
condupt was lImited to efforts the Mecklenburg County Clerk of COllrt had to eXPend in
order to get Defendant to comply with his obligations as personal r.epreSentative. This
impact was minimal. No one else. suffered any loss or advers.e consequences as a reS\llt of
Defendant's faihu'e to properly administer these two estates.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above, the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
maKes, the fo!lowillg:

CONCLUS10NS WITH RESPECT TO DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the fac;tors
enumerated in 27 N.CAC. IB §.01l4(w)(L) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes that no factors warrant consideration of suspension of
Defendant's license.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enuinerllted in
27 N.C.A.C. lB §.OI14(w)(2) and concludes that no factors warranting disbarinent are
present in this case.
.
3.
The Hearin'g 'Pane) has c011Sidel'ed all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.CAC. 1B §.O 114(w)(3) i\nd conclndes. the follOwing factors are applicabk in this
matter:
,
(A)

Defendant's. prior disciplinary offenses;

(B)

Remoteness of prior offenses;

(C)

Absence of selfish motive;

(G)

Mllltiple offenses;

(H)

Effect of any personal or emotional problems on the cOndllct in question;

(K)

Cooperafive attitude toward the proceedings; and

(V)
Material disparity between the kincl of misconduct at issue in prior
instances of' professional discipline and the kind of misconduct at issue in this matter.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered the Illck of gravity of the inisconduct at
issue and the insignificance of harm and potential harm Defendant's misconduct caused
to the administration of justice and concludes that issuing a reprimand is sufficient
discipline.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the
findings of fact and conclusions regarding discipline, and with the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Panel enters the following:

6

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant. Edward D. Seltzer. is hereby reprimanded.

2.
Defendant is taxed with administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary, including the cost of Defendant's deposition but excluding the
cost ofthe deposition relating to the dismissed third claim for relief. Defendant shall pay
the administrative fees and costs within thi11Y (30) days of service of the notice of costs
upon Defendant.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other Hearing
Panel members.
This thel6

t; of 0 cJ<J ~o 16.

consented to by:

Maria
own
Attorney for Plaintif

~

~~dD~.~~~~~~

T. Richard Kane
Attol'lley for Defendatlt

Defendant

7

