BEFORE THE GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
15Gl122

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ORDER OF
RECIPROCAL DISCIPLINE

v.

CHRISTOPHER 1. SEUFERT, Attorney,
Defendant

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §§ .0105(a)(l2) and .0116(b) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, and based upon the record in this matter, the
undersigned finds as follows:
1.
Respondent, Christopher 1. Seufert, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on
5 April 1996 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
in NOlih Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the
North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
2.
By order dated 30 September 2015, the Professional Conduct Committee of the
New Hampshire Supreme COUli issued an order reprimanding Christopher 1. Seufeli. As a basis
for its order, the Court determined by clear and convincing evidence that Seufert had engaged in
professional misconduct warranting a reprimand. The Committee concluded that Seufert:
(a) Failed to competently represent his clients' interests in their bankruptcy case by
failing to: (i) review his notes to accurately prepare the Chapter 7 petition and
schedules; (ii) review closely his clients' proposed submission to the bankruptcy
trustee in response to the trustee's request for more information; (iii) follow up
with his clients to provide missing information requested by the bankruptcy
trustee; and (iv) review the local rules so he could properly oppose the trustee's
motion for summary judgment on behalf of his clients; and
(b) Failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in advancing his clients'
interests in their bankruptcy case by failing to; (i) review his notes to accurately
prepare the Chapter 7 petition and schedules; (ii) review closely his clients'
proposed submission to the bankruptcy trustee in response to the trustee's request
for more information; (iii) follow up with his clients to provide missing
information requested by the bankruptcy trustee; and (iv) review the local rules so
he could properly oppose the trustee's motion for summary judgment on behalf of
his clients.
1

3.
On 9 November 2015, the North Carolina State Bar served Seufeli by celiified mail
with a Notice of Reciprocal Discipline. The Notice advised Seufert that the State Bar was
considering imposing identical discipline based upon the New Hampshire Supreme COUli's
reprimand.
4.
On 12 November 2015, the North Carolina State Bar served Seufeli by celiified
mail with a Letter of Notice alleging professional misconduct.
5.
On 13 November 2015, Seufeli responded to the State Bar's mailings and did not
object to the imposition of reciprocal discipline.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS the Chair of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LA W:
1.
The NOlih Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of the
proceeding and over the person of the Respondent, Christopher J. Seufert.
2.
The NOlih Carolina State Bar has complied with the procedure for imposition of
reciprocal discipline set fOlih in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0116 of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
The conduct found by the Professional Conduct Committee of the New Hampshire
Supreme COUli constitutes conduct in violation of Rules 1.1, 1.3, and 8.4(a) of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar Rules of Professional Conduct and justifies the imposition of reciprocal
discipline in this State.
4.
The reprimand imposed by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire should be
imposed on Respondent in the State of North Carolina.
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1.

Christopher J. Seufeli, is hereby REPRIMANDED in North Carolina.

2.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued discipline by the Grievance Committee, and in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB § .0105(a)(15), an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to
Seufert.
This the 8th day of February, 2016.

· son, Chair
Grievance Committee

2

