BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
THE REINSTATEMENT OF:

HEATHER ANNE SHADE,
Attorney

)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT
ORDER OF
REINSTATEMENT
18 RD 1

THIS MATTER was presented to a panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of David W. Long, Chair, Allison C. Tomberlin, and Michael S. Edwards upon the
consent of the parties. A. Root Edmonson represents the North Carolina State Bar and Heather
Anne Shade is pro se. Based upon the parties consent, the panel makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Heather Anne Shade ("Shade") was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on April
25, 1997 and is an Attorney at Law licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the
rules, regulations, and the Rules of Professional Conduct of the NOlih Carolina State Bar and the
laws ofNOlih Carolina.
2. By consent order entered November 7, 2011, the Chair of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar transferred Shade to disability inactive status in lID 01 because, in
the opinion of Dr. Duncan R. C. Scott II, M.D., Shade suffered from chronic pain caused by a
second laminotomy at L5-S 1 which had led to depression. Shade was being treated by Dr. Mary
Berg with mood stabilizers and anti-depressants. Shade's condition was disabling.
3. On May 8, 2018, Shade filed a Petition for Reinstatement Transferring from Disability
Inactive Status to Active Status with the NOlih Carolina State Bar.
4. On February 27, 2018, Dr. Duncan R. C. Scott II provided his professional opinion
that Shadte has experienced a significant decrease in her pain, as evidenced by a reduction of one
of her pain medications by half of the initial dose, which significantly alleviated her depression
to such an extent that Shade is no longer disabled. Dr Scott further opined that Shade suffers
from no mental or physical condition which would significantly impair her professional
judgment, performance, or competence as an attorney.
5. On May 1,2018, Ron Shulby, MA.Ed., a Forensic Therapist with 30 years experience
in the counseling profession, provided his professional.opinion, based upon his work counseling
Shade prior to and during the onset of her disability and again since January 22, 2018, that Shade

is functioning well cognitively and treatment has significantly mitigated her depression such that
she is no longer disabled.
6. On June 6, 2018, Dr. Mary Berg provided her professional opinion that Shanks
depression caused by the pain associated with her second laminotomy was no longer disabling
due to the reduction in her pain under Dr. Scott's care, the beneficial effect of counseling
provided by Ron Shulby, and Shade having been medication compliant while under Dr. Berg's
continuous care. Dr. Berg further opined that Shade's mental and physical conditions are
sufficiently treated and do not currently significantly impair her professional judgment,
performance, or competence as an attorney.
7. The NOlih Carolina State Bar does not have evidence contrary to the opinions of Drs.
Scott and Berg.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following:
CONCLUSION OF LA \\1

1. Shade has satisfied the burden set out in 27 NCAC 1B ยง .0129(c)(3) to show that she
is fit to resume the practice of law.
THEREFORE, the panel herewith GRANTS Heather Anne Shade's Petition for
reinstatement to active status.

4

Entered this is the
day of_-H-_ _-+__ 2018 with the full knowledge and
consent of the other members of the panel.

David W. Long, Chair
Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO:

on
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

2

