NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRJEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLfNA STATE BAR
06G 1033

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Richard A. Horgan,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)

CENSURE

)
)

On July 12, 2007, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by L. P.
Pursuant to section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggmvating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written fonn of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
A business company by the name of the North Carolina Small Business Association, LLC
(hereinafter "NCSBA") held itself out as able to provide customers with "an array of both legal and
non-legal services". You assisted in the formation ofNCSBA and periodically reviewed its
promotional materials and website. You had an agreement with NCSBA whereby you would prepare
living tmsts and other estate plan legal documents for its customers. You were identified in
NCSBA 's promotional materials and on its website as an attorney and professional associate of
NCSBA who would provide legal services to NCSBA's customers. NCSBA promoted the use of
living trusts at seminars at which you spoke. NCSBA representatives would then contact attendees
who indicated they would like to be contacted about living trusts. The NCSBA representative
gathered financial information from individuals, advised individuals that they needed living trusts,

estate planning services that centered around the provision of a living tmst you would prepare,
including review of the living trust with the customer and assistance with the execution and
implementation of the living trust. NCSBA provided your estate planning representation agreement
to the customer and collected your fee from the customer. You prepared the living trust and other
legal documents and provided those documents to NCSBA, which took them to the customer.
NCSBA reviewed them with the customer and assisted with the execution of the documents and the
funding of the living tmst.
NCSBA was engaged in the unauthorized practice of law, both by holding itself out as able to
provide legal services and by providing estate planning services through which the customer was
provided with a living trust, other legal documents, legal advice, and assistance with the execution
and funding ~fthe living trust. Your arrangement with NCSBA and the services you provided
assisted NCSBA in the unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(d) of the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct, and the receipt of fees for these services by both you and NCSBA
constitutes the sharing of a legal fee with a non-attorney in violation of Rule 5 A( a).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

~

y--/-'day

Of¥

,2007.

