'~'l')llt\, 3031 };; )
NORTH CAROLIN 't>\;'

/.0:

WAKE

COUNTY:'::::~

~
'<-)'
'f-=->",

'0/

__

<J;7

BEFORE THE

I'CO<J DIseT UNARY HEARING COMMISSION

~t::':

17{:>
.. ~:{) /)/-,
'1('

~~i
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Co;
11 DHC 25

' t:.:"r-•
~

'~"

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
COImnission composed ofM.H. Hood Ellis, Chair, Joshua W. Willey, Jr., and Joe Castro.
Willianl N. Fan'ell represented the North Carolina State Bar. Randolph E. Shelton, Jr.
was represented by Mary McLauchlin Pope. Defendant has agreed to waive a fonnal
hearing in this matter. The parties stipulate arld agree to the findings of fact and
conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant
also stipulates that, by consenting to the entry of this order, he waives his right to appeal
or challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings in this consent order.
Based on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authOlity granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statntes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the NOIih Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Rarldolph E. Shelton, Jr. ("Shelton"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1975 and is, and was at all times refen"ed to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods refelTed to herein, Shelton was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Moore County, North Carolina.

4.
Shelton qualified as the personal representative of the Estate of Mark Alan
Westbrook ("the Estate"), Moore County File 06 E 608, on or about September 18, 2006.
5.
On or about October 18, 2007, Shelton was given Notice to File a Final
Account in the Estate within thirty (30) days.
6.
On or about December 4, 2007 the Clerk of Court found that Shelton had
failed to file the final account for the Estate as required by law and ordered that he file the
final account within twenty (20) days.
7.
On or about February 5, 2008 the Assistant Clerk of Court found that
Shelton had willfully failed and refused to file the final account as previously ordered by
the Clerk of Court and that Shelton was in default of the Order ofthe Court.
8.
Shelton was ordered to personally appear before the Clerk of Court on
March 11, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. to show cause why he should not be removed as personal
representative of the Estate and attached for contempt for failure to comply with the
Order of the Court.
9.
Shelton failed to appear on March 11, 2008 before the Clerk of Court as
required by the Order to Show Cause.
10.
At the show cause hearing on March 11, 2008, the Clerk of Court found
that Shelton had willfully failed to comply with the Order of the Court to file an Account
and was held to be in Civil Contempt.
11.
of Court.

Shelton was removed as personal representative of the Estate by the Clerk

12.
During the time he was the personal representative of the Estate, Shelton
conducted the closing for the sale of a business, the Broad Street Bar and Grill, on or
about January 26,2007.
13.
Shelton prepared two settlement statements for the transaction. The initial
statement with a closing date of January 26, 2007 showed the following:
Contl'act Price:

$90,000.00

Attorney Fees for Buyer:

$975.00

Attorney Fees for Seller:

$975.00

14.
This closing statement was signed by Phil Peterson on behalf of the buyer
and by Shelton on behalf of the seller, the Estate of Mark Allen Westbrook.
15.
Shelton failed to disburse the funds from the sale of the business to the
Estate until June 5, 2008, subsequent to being removed as the personal representative of
the Estate.

16.
In June 2008, Shelton prepared a second and different settlement
statement for the sale of the business which he had earlier closed on January 26,2007.
17.
The two settlement statements are different in the amounts charged the
buyer and seller for certain costs.
18.
The June 2008 settlement statement shows a charge to the Seller for
document preparation in the amount of $1,950.00, which had not been charged to the
Seller dm1ng the closing on January 26,2007.
19.
The June 2008 settlement statement shows a charge to the Buyer for
attomey fees to Shelton in the amount of $2,200.00, an increase of $1,225.00 over the
attomey fees charged to the Buyer during the January 26,2007 closing.
20.
Shelton explained the discrepancy in his charges to the Seller-Estate, in
part, as follows:
"My fee was changed to reflect not only my fee for the bar closing but
also my fee for the remaining work which I had done on behalf of the
estate (will probate, dealing with creditors, etc.)."
21.
Shelton failed to seek approval of his collection of legal fees from the
Estate from the Clerk of Superior Court as required by N.C. Gen. Stat. 28A-23-4.
??
Shelton received $1,950.00 from the Estate to which he was not entitled
because the Clerk of Comi had not approved any attomey fees to be paid to Shelton.

23.
During the time that Shelton was the personal representative of the Estate
he held the proceeds from the sale of the business in his tlUst account.
24.
During this time he disbursed funds from the trust account by checks that
failed to identify the client whose funds were being disbursed, including checks to
himself which did not identify the client.
25.
During the time that Shelton was the personal representative of the Estate
and received the proceeds from the sale of the business, Defendant allowed the balance in
his tlUst account to fall below the minimum amount he should have been holding for the
Estate during the time he was maldng disbursements for the Estate.
26.
The personal representative of the Estate, who was appointed following
Defendant's removal, found no evidence that any proceeds from the sale or
disbursements associated with the sale of the business, described in paragraph 12 above,
were misappropriated or missing while Defendant served as personal representative of
the Estate.
27.
On or about March 20,2009, Shelton was served with a letter of notice in
State Bar grievance file number 08G0728 ("grievance").

28.

Shelton's response to the letter of notice was due on or about April 4,

29.

Shelton failed to respond to the letter of notice by April 4, 2009.

2009.

30.
On or about May 5, 2009 the State Bar sent Shelton a follow up letter
asking him to respond to the letter of notice by May IS, 2009.
31.

Shelton failed to respond by May 15, 2009.

32.

On or about July 24, 2009 Shelton responded to the letter of notice.

On or about January 25,2010, State Bar staff counsel sent Shelton a letter
33.
asking for documentation showing receipt and disbursement of funds for the Estate.
34.
On or about January 27, 2010 State Bar staff counsel sent Shelton a letter
with specific inquiries, including an explanation for his unilateral changes to the
settlement statement signed by the parties and his collection of his legal fees from the
sales proceeds.
35.

Shelton's response was due by February 26, 2010.

36.
On or about Febmary 26, 2010, Shelton contacted staff counsel and stated
that he would respond to the January 27,2010 letter after a meeting which was to occur
on March 1, 2010.
37.

Shelton failed to respond to the January 25,2010 letter.

38.

Shelton failed to respond to the January 27,2010 letter.

On or about March 31, 2010, Shelton was served with a subpoena
39.
requiring his appearance on April 29 2010, production of documents and written response
to the State Bar's January 27,2010 letter.
40.
Shelton appeared on April 29, 2010 but failed to produce all of the
subpoenaed documents or the written response to the January 27,2010 letter.
41.
Shelton was given until May 10, 2010 to produce the documents and
written response by letter dated April 30, 2010.
42.
10,2010.

Shelton failed to produce the documents or the written response by May

43.
On or about December II, 2010, Shelton was served with a supplemental
subpoena requiling production of additional docmnents, identification of clients for
unidentified disbursements, and a written response to the accompanying letter dated
December 10, 2010.

44.
following:

In the letter accompanying the subpoena, Shelton was asked to explain the

Why the single ledger balance report for the closing showed a deposit of
$92,000.00 yet the bank records showed only a deposit of$90,000.00.
Why numerous checks from his trust account did not identify from which
client balances the disbursements were made.
Why there was a failure to continuously maintain minimum balances in
his trust account for the proceeds received from the closing.
Why there was a failure to identify clients on disbursement checks fi'om
his tJust account.
Whether he had explanations for the State Bar's concems that various
Rules of Professional Conduct had been violated.
45.
Shelton's production of docwnents and response to the letter was due on
January 10, 2011.
Shelton failed to appear and produce the requested documents on January
46.
10,2011 as required by the subpoena and failed to respond to the letter of December 10,
2010.
47.
Shelton was the closing attomey for a real estate tJ'ansaction in which
Elizabeth Foster ("the Seller") sold real property located on US Highway 1, Southem
Pines, NC to SLK2, LLC ("the Buyer") or about April 15, 2010.
48.

As the closing attomey, Shelton represented the Buyer.

49.
Shelton prepared a HUD-l Settlement Statement for the transaction which
showed receipt of cash and disbursements for tl1e transaction. A true and accurate copy
of the HUD-l Settlement Statement is attached hereto as Exhibit C.
50.
The HUD-l Settlement Statement shows that Shelton collection $910.00
for title insurance from the Buyer and disbursed $910.00 to Fidelity National Title
Insurance Company for the Buyer's title insurance.
51.
Shelton failed to apply for title Il1surance for the Buyer until
approximately 4 months after the closing.
52.
Shelton failed to promptly respond to the buyer's requests for infonnation
and the title policy.
53.
On or about August 20, 2010, Shelton was served with a letter of notice
from the State Bar which requested the production of documents with his response.

54.

Shelton failed to produce the documents requested in the letter of notice.

55.
On or about October 7, 2010, the State Bar sent Shelton a letter asking him
to produce documents relating to the closing.
56.
Shelton failed to respond to the October 7, 2010 letter and failed to
produce the requested documents.
On or about December 11, 2010, Shelton was served with a subpoena that
57.
required his appearance and production of documents on January 10, 2011.
58.
Shelton failed to appear on January 10, 2011 and did not produce the
requested documents.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Heming Panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Heming Panel, and the Panel has
jUJisdiction over Defendant and the snbject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's actions, as set forth in the foregoing Findings of Fact,
constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. §§ 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated one or more of the Rules of Professional Conduct in eftect at the time of his
actions as follows:
(a)

By failing to timely respond in the Estate matter to the letter of notice,
vmious requests for infonnation and failing to comply with subpoenas
from the NOlih Carolina State Bar, Shelton failed to respond to lawful
demands for infonnation from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule
8.1 (b);

(b)

By failing to carry out his duties as a personal representative for the Estate
of Mark Allen Westbrook and being held in civil contempt by the Clerk of
Court, Shelton engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration
of justice in violation of Rule 8.4 (d);

(c)

By allowing his trust account balance to fall below the minimum balance
he should have been holding for the estate, Shelton failed to hold and
maintain entrusted property in violation of Rule 1.15-2 (a);

(d)

By disbursing funds from his trust account that failed to identify the client
whose funds were being disbursed, including checks to Shelton which did
not indicate the balance on which the check was drawn, Shelton failed to
keep the minimum records required for general trust accounts in violation
of Rule 1.15-3 (b) and made disbursements from his trust account payable

to himself that did not indicate the client balance on which the instrument
was drawn in violation of Rule 1.15-2 (h);
(e)

By taking $1,950.00 in fees from the Estate with out the approval of the
Clerk of Court Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(f)

By failing to promptly complete the work for the title insurance policy and
failing to promptly respond to the buyer's requests for infoTInation,
Shelton failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client and failed to comply with reasonable requests for
infonnation in violation of Rule 1.3 and Rule 1.4;

(g)

By failing to timely complete the work for the title insurance policy and
disburse the funds received from the buyer for title insurance, Shelton
failed to promptly payor deliver the entrusted property in violation of
Rule 1.15-2 (m); and

(h)

By failing in tile Foster closing to provide tile documents requested by the
North Carolina State Bar in the letter of notice, by failing to respond to a
further requests for infonnation and by failing to comply with a subpoena,
Shelton failed to respond to a lawful demand for infonnation from a
disciplinary autllority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b).

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel also enters the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

Defendant has substantial experience in tile practice oflaw.

2.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

3.
Defendant has reimbursed the Estate for legal fees he collected from the
Estate which had not been submitted to tile Clerk of Court for approval.
4.
Defendant has completed the Foster closing and has obtained tile title
insurance policy.
5.
Defendant's failure to respond to multiple inquiries from tile State Bar,
including requests in wliting and by subpoena, demonstrates a refusal to participate in
tile self-regulatory process. Such conduct interferes with the Bar's ability to regulate its
members and undennines tile profession's privilege to remain self-regulating.
6.
Defendant's conduct has caused hann and potential siguificant harm to his
clients, the public, and the legal profession. Defendant's failure to abide by the Clerk of

COUli's Orders and being held in contempt have the potential to cause significant hann to
the legal profession in the eyes of the public because these actions show a disregard for
his duties as an attorney and an officer of the cOUli. Erosion of public confidence in
attomeys foster disrespect for the profession as a whole.
7.
Defendant's failure to maintain proper trust account records in accordance
with the Rules of Professional Conduct has the potential to harm future clients and the
public.
8.
Defendant's failure to maintain appropriate trust accoUllt records in
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct does not allow tills Panel to reach any
conclusion at this time concerning whether Defendant has maintained all trust funds in
his trust account in full compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Accordingly, the State bar is not prohibited j}-om investigating and pursuing further
disciplinary action against Defendant, if necessary, based upon the results ofthe audit as
set fOrtil in the Order of Discipline to follow below.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional
Findings Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of tile Nortll
Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Defendant's timely good faith effOlis to make restitution or to rectify
consequences of misconduct;

c.

Defendant's mnltiple offenses;

d.

Defendant's pattern of misconduct; and

e.

Defendant's s substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

TIle Heating Panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .OI14(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bat·
and finds the following factor warrants suspension of Defendant's license:
?

3.

Elevation of the Defendant's own interest above that of the client;

4.
Negative impact of the Defendant's actions on client's or public's
perception of the profession;

5.
justice; and

Negative impact of the Defendant's actions on the administration of

6.
Multiple instances offailure to participate in the legal profession's selfregulation process.
7.
Any sanction less than an active suspension of Defendant's license would
fail to acknowledge the seliousness of the offenses cOlmIIitted by Defendant, would not
adequately protect the public, and would send the wrong message to attomeys and the
public regarding the conduct expected by members of the Bar.
8.
Due to the Defendant's neglect of his obligations to the profession, the
adminish'ation of justice, his clients, and his refusal to pmiicipate in the self-regulating
process of the NOlih Carolina State Bar, the Heming Panel concludes that the public and
the profession will only be adequately protected by imposing a period of active
suspension of DefendmIt' s law license. The Healing Pmrel has considered an admonition,
replimmrd or censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient to protect
the public and profession.
9.
Defendant should be allowed the opportunity to apply for a stay of a
poriion of the active suspension imposed by this Order upon compliance with certain
conditions designed to ensure protection of the public and to ensure DefendmIt's
complimlce with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and upon consent of the parties, the Healing Panel
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I)
The license of Defend mIt, Randolph E. Shelton, Jr., is hereby suspended
for three (3) years from the date this Order of Discipline is entered.
2)
Eighteen (18) months from the date this Order is entered, Defendant may
apply for a stay of the remaining period of suspension imposed by this Order upon filing
a petition with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bm' demonstrating by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence that, in addition to complying with the general
provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0l25(b) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, Defendant has complied with the following
conditions:
(a)

Paid the costs and administrative fees of this action within 30 days of
service upon him of the statement of costs by the Secretary;

(b)

Completed six (6) hours of continuing legal education in the area of tlUst
account management approved in advance by the Office of Counsel ofthe
NOlih Carolina State Bar;

(c)

Within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant
shall, at his sole expense, complete an audit and reconciliation of his tlUst
accounts and any other accounts in which Defendant has deposited client
funds under the supervision and certification of a licensed certified public
accountant (CPA). Such audit and reconciliation shall demonstrate that all
client funds have been fully identified, as to the rightful owner, and
accounted for, properly disbursed to their rightful owners, and that there
are no funds in the account belonging to Defendant unless pennitted under
Rule 1.15 of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Defendant will deliver a
report prepared and signed by the CPA certifying compliance with this
provision;

(d)

Defendant shall keep his address of record current with the State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for infonnation from the State
Bar by the deadline stated in the communication. Defendant's address of
record shall not be a post office box;

(e)

Defendant shall paJ.iicipate fully and timely in the fee dispute prograJ.l1
when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;

(f)

Did not violate the laws of any state or of the United States; aJ.ld

(g)

Did not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license
3)
pursuant to this Order, any stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies
with the following conditions:
(a)

During the pell0d of stayed suspension Defendant will retain the services
of a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) to review the status of any
accounts into which client or fiduciary funds have been deposited.
DefendaJ.lt will deliver to the Office of Counsel a report prepared and
signed by the Certified Public Accountant certifYing that Defendant has
reconciled each account with the bank balance, that he has maintained
client ledgers identifying all funds in each account, and that Defendant is
othelwise in compliance with all requirements of Rule 1.15 of the Rules of
Professional Conduct;

(b)

Defendant is to submit such reports by each JaJ.1UaIy 15, April 15, July 15
aI1d October 15 during the period of stay, and shall provide the CPA the
necessary infonnation to satisfactorily prepare such quarterly reports;

(c)

If the CPA finds any accounting in-egularities or deviance ii-om the Rules
of Professional Conduct requiring remedial action and provide proof of
such to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar and to the CPA within thirty
(30) days of the date of the CPA's report;

(d)

If any of the CPA's reports note any in-egularities or deficiencies requiring
remedial action, the CPA shall provide a final report regarding whether
Defendant's remedial actions were sufficient and whether Defendant's
trust account or accounts haslhave been brought into compliance with the
Rules of Professional Conduct. This final report shall be provided to the
Office of Counsel with a copy to Defendant within thiIiy (30) days of
Defendant's provision of proof of remedial action;

(e)

Defendant will be solely responsible for all costs associated with the
monitoring of his trust account(s). Defendant will be liable for the cost of
the CPA's services. Under no circumstances will the State Bar be liable
for the cost of the CPA's services rendered to satisfy the requirements of
tlus order;

(f)

Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel to
provide any infonnation regarding their tnlst accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to
obtain infonnation directly from any bank in which Defendants keep a
trust account, by the deadline stated in the request;

(g)

Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record Witll the Membership Department of the NOlih Carolina
State Bar and will keep the Membership Departrnent advised of his cun-ent
mailing address and physical address;

(h)

Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
infonnation from tlle North Carolma State Bar by the deadline stated
therein with full and complete responses and all requested documentation;

(i)

Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;

(j)

Defendant will pay all membership, Client Security Fund, and any other
related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable deadlme;

(k)

Defendant will not violate any ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the stay; and

(I)

Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the peliod of the stay.

If dUling the stay of the suspension either Defendant fails to comply with
4)
anyone or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in § .OI14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
5)
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion ofthe suspension of
his law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must provide in his application for reinstatement clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence of the following:
(a)

Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules; and

(b)

Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraphs 2 & 3 above.

6)
The Disciplinary Hearing COlmnission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pmsnant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspension.
Signed by the Chair p'ith the full }mpwledge and consent of the other members of
the Hearing Panel, this '}l 'aay of
'::;tJtMV.-, _,2012.

-

t/

(l<~~
M.H. Hood Ellis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Agreed and consented to by:

William N. Farrell
Attorney for Plaintif::f_-__

Date

