t;::~

WAKE COUNTY

03

,

'~':'I

v(J

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE

1;~~e~IZ02 ~}:\):,')Y

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
v.

SCOTT H. SHELTON, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
("DHC") composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members David W. Long and Bradley Lail,
pursuant to NOlih Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .Ol15(i).
Plaintiff was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant, Scott H. Shelton, was represented
by Alan M. Schneider. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact
and conclusions of law recited in this Consent Order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant
has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the
conclusions of law and entry of the order of discipline. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives
any and all right to appeal the entry of this Consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the patiies' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the patiies, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Scott H. Shelton, was admitted to the NOlih Carolina State Bar in
August, 1993 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in NOlih Carolina, subject to the laws of the State ofNOlih Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Hendersonville, Henderson County, NOlih Carolina.

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page lof12

4.
During the relevant period refe11'ed to herein, in connection with his law practice,
Defendant maintained four general trust accounts one at Mountain First Bank ending in
numbers 6009, one at Macon Bank ending in numbers 9109, one at First Citizens Bank ending in
numbers 3490, and one at RBC ending in numbers 4047 ("trust accounts").
5.
On December 14, 2011, the State Bar conducted a random procedural audit of
Defendant's trust accounts.
6.
The random audit revealed numerous deficiencies in Defendant's management of
his trust accounts.
7.
The State Bar subsequently conducted an investigative audit of Defendant's
Mountain First Bank trust account which is the trust account Defendant has primarily used since
2009.
8.
The audits revealed numerous failures of Defendant to properly maintain and
document his trust accounts as described in paragraphs 9 through 17 below.
9.
Defendant failed to at least quatierly total the individual client balances shown on
client ledgers and reconcile those to the bank statement balance for the trust account as a whole.
10.

Defendant failed to always identify the source of funds on deposit slips.

11.

Defendant failed to always identify the client on wires and/or electronic transfers.

12.
Defendant failed to always provide written accountings to clients at least annually
if funds were held in trust for more than 12 months.
13.
§ 116B-53.

Defendant failed to escheat unidentified/abandoned funds as required by N.C.G.S.

14.
Defendant failed to always record on checks from which client balances the
checks were drawn.
15.
Us field.

Defendant failed to have legible business size checks containing an auxiliary On-

16.
Defendant failed to provide the NSF directive to the banks where he maintained
trust accounts.
17.
Defendant sometimes disbursed more funds from the trust account for a particular
client than were deposited in the trust account for that client, and in so doing, used entrusted
funds for the benefit of persons other than the beneficial owners of the funds.
18.
Defendant's trust accounts had previously been audited by the State Bar on May
31, 2000 and that audit revealed several of the same violations of the trust accounting rules that
were found in the 2011 audit including failure to perform quatierly reconciliations.

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 2 of12

19.
Despite being accorded several opportunities to do so, Defendant has failed to
identify the beneficial owners of all of the funds in his trust accounts, including $44,229.10 in
RBC account ending in numbers 4047, $13,274.49 in Macon Bank account ending in numbers
9109, and $13,707.81 in First Citizens Bank account ending in numbers 3490.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law
1.
All patiies are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing to total client ledger balances and compare them to the bank statement
balance at least quatierly, Defendant failed to perform quarterly reconciliations of
his attorney trust account in violation of Rule l.l5-3(d);
(b) By failing to identify the client on all deposit slips and electronic wire transfers,
Defendant violated Rule 1.15-3(b)(1);
(c) By failing to provide written accountings to clients with funds in the trust account
for more than twelve months, Defendant violated Rule 1.15-3(e);
(d) By failing to escheat unidentified or abandoned funds, Defendant violated Rule
l.l5-2(q);
(e) By failing to identify the client on all checks drawn on the trust account,
Defendant violated Rule 1.15-3(b)(2);
(f) By failing to use legible business size checks containing an auxiliary On-Us field,
Defendant violated Rule 1.15-3(a);
(g) By failing to provide the requisite NSF notice to the bank at which he maintained
his attorney trust account, Defendant failed to follow appropriate trust account
recordkeeping procedures in violation of Rule 1.15-2(lc); and
(h) By disbursing more funds from the trust account for a patiiculat· client than were
deposited in the trust account for that client, Defendant used entrusted property
for the personal benefit of persons other than the legal or beneficial owners of that
propeliy in violation of Rule 1.15-20).

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 3 of 12

Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
Defendant has prior discipline in the form of two Admonitions issued by the
Grievance Committee in 2001 for violations of Rules 1.1(b), 1.3, 1.4(a) and 8.4(d) and a Censure
issued in 2018 for violations of Rules 1.3, 1.4(a) and 8.4(c).
2.
Defendant's failure to follow the trust accounting rules had the potential for
significant harm to his clients.
3.
While Defendant's conduct concerning the trust accounting rules demonstrates a
disregard of the rules regarding the safeguarding of client funds, the evidence is insufficient to
establish that he misappropriated entrusted funds.
4.
Defendant consented to an injunction filed in Wake County Superior COUli on
November 8, 2016 preventing him from handling entrusted funds.
5.
Defendant has cooperated with some, but not all, efforts of the State Bar and his
accountant to reconcile his trust accounts.
6.
Defendant's failure to reconcile his accounts and to cooperate with his accountant
has caused the disbursement of funds to beneficial owners, which include clients and third
patiies, to be delayed and has harmed those individuals.
7.
During pati of the time Defendant was mismanaging his trust accounts, he was
under the treatment of a psychiatrist for depression and anxiety for which he was prescribed
medication.
8.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional Findings
of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin .Code 1B §.0116(f)(1) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) Intent of Defendant to commit acts where harm or foreseeable harm to clients is
foreseeable;

NCSB v. Scott H. Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 4 of 12

(b) Negative impact of Defendant's actions on clients' or public's perception of the
profession;
(c) Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
(d) Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation; and
(e) Effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties;
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B .0116(f)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar and
concludes no factors are present in this instance that would walTant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B .0116(f)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Prior disciplinmy offenses;
(b) Remoteness of prior disciplinary offenses;
(c) A pattern of misconduct;
(d) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
(e) Effect of personal or emotional or physical or mental disability on the conduct in
question; and
(f) Degree of experience in the practice of law should have resulted
responsible approach to the trust accounting rules.

III

more

4.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses significant
potential harm to future clients.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or censure
but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
potential harm to the clients. The Panel fmiher concludes that such discipline would fail to
adequately protect the public and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a stayed
suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions to avoid
significant harm or the potential for significant harm to clients.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing discipline short
of a suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 5 of12

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings of fact
and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following:
Order of Discipline

1.
Defendant's law license is hereby suspended for three years effective thirty days
after service of this Order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall sUl1'ender his law license and permanent membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following the effective date of
this Order. If Defendant no longer has his membership card, he shall so state in the affidavit
refel1'ed to in paragraph 3 below.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0128
(a) and (b) and shall timely file the affidavit required by §.0128(d).
4.
Within thitiy days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Defendant and obtain such files.
5.
Defendant shall promptly return client files in his possession, custody, or control
to clients upon request, within five days of receipt of such request. Defendant will be deemed to
have received any such request three days after the date the request is sent to him if the request is
sent to the address Defendant provided to the State Bar pursuant to this Order.
6.
Defendant shall fully cooperate with the effOlis of Dawn Cash-Salau, accountant,
to determine the beneficial owners of the funds in his First Citizens account ending in 7777 and
First Citizens account ending in 3490.
7.
Defendant shall fully cooperate with the effOlis of Dawn Cash-Salau to reconcile
Macon Bank account ending in 9109 and PNC account ending in 6811 (formerly RBC Centura
account ending in 4047) and to determine the beneficial owners of the funds in those two trust
accounts.
8.
Defendant shall submit to the State Bar Office of Counsel ("Office of Counsel")
the three way reconciliations of the accounts refel1'ed to in the preceding paragraph within sixty
days of the effective date of this Order.
9.
Defendant shall provide to the Office of Counsel a proposed disbursement
summary that identifies clients with a balance in the trust account, lists the beneficial owners,
including their addresses, of all funds held in: 1) First Citizens account ending in 7777; 2) First
Citizens account ending in 3490; 3) Macon Bank account ending in 9109; and 4) PNC account
ending in 6811.

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 6 of12

10.
Defendant shall prepare and submit to the Office of Counsel within seven days of
the entry date of this Order a proposed disbursement order for the funds in First Citizens account
ending in 7777.
11.
Defendant shall prepare and submit to the Office of Counsel within sixty days of
the effective date of this Order proposed disbursement orders for the funds in the remaining trust
accounts listed in paragraph 9 above.
12.
Within five days of the Office of Counsel requesting any documentation
suppOliing the proposed disbursements, Defendant shall provide the documentation to the Office
of Counsel.
13.
Defendant shall reimburse the trust account(s) for any shOliages determined by
the accountant to be owed and provide proof of same to the Office of Counsel within sixty days
ofthe effective date of this Order.
14.
Defendant shall escheat any funds in any of the trust accounts that are required by
law to be escheated and provide proof of same to the Office of Counsel within sixty y days of the
effective date of this Order.
15.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary of the State Bar within thiliy days of service upon him of the statement
of administrative fees and costs.
16.
After no less than one year of active suspension, Defendant may move pursuant to
Rule .OI18(c) for a stay ofthe balance ofthe suspension by filing a motion in the cause
demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that, in addition to complying with the
provisions set forth in paragraphs 2 through 13 above, he has complied with the following
conditions:
(a) Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Depatiment advised
of his current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change;
(b) Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days
of Defendant's receipt of the communication or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and has patiicipated in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition which was pending
during the period of suspension;
(c) That at the time of his motion for stay, Defendant is current in payment of all
Membership dues, fees, and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments
and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from him,
including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;
(d) That at the time of his motion for stay, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in repOliing

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 7 of12

such hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;
(e) That Defendant has been in treatment with a psychiatrist and a psychologist, if
recommended by the psychiatrist, and has complied with all recommendations for
counseling and treatment, including, but not limited to, taking as prescribed any
prescribed medications;
(f) Within 30 days of filing the motion for stay, Defendant has provided the Office of
Counsel with an affidavit from his treating psychiatrist stating that Defendant has
complied with all treatment recommendations during the suspension and that in
the opinion of the psychiatrist, Defendant does not presently have any mental
health condition, disorder, or disease that will prevent him from responding
promptly to clients, conducting the required reconciliations of his trust account
and timely meeting his professional obligations;
(g) Within 30 days of filing the motion for stay, Defendant has provided a written
release to the Office of Counsel, authorizing all mental health providers from
whom he has received treatment during the suspension for any psychological,
emotional, or behavioral condition to communicate with the Office of Counsel
and to release to the Office of Counsel records relating to his compliance with his
treatment recommendations;
(h) That during the active suspension that preceded the motion for stay, Defendant
completed two hours of CLE in the area of trust accounting at least one hour of
which shall be a course taught by the Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the
North Carolina State Bar;
(i) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws ofthe
United States or of any state or local government during his suspension;

G) Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B .0128; and
(k) Defendant has paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as reflected on the
statement of costs served upon Defendant by the Secretary of the State Bar within
thiIiy days of service of that statement upon Defendant.
If Defendant's motion for stay is granted as to all or any portion of his
17.
suspension, the applicable suspension of his law license shall be stayed as long as he complies
and continues to comply with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant remains CUlTent in payment of all Membership dues, fees, assessments
and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or
surcharges that the State Bar is authorized to collect from Defendant, including all
judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 8 of12

(b) Defendant's timely completes his mandatory CLE hours, reports such hours, and
pays any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;
(c) Defendant shall open a new attorney trust account and have an accountant
approved in advance by the Office of Counsel audit the new trust account on a
qumierly basis to ensure Defendant's compliance with the Rules of Professional
Conduct;
(d) The accountant must repOli qumierly to the Office of Counsel concerning the
compliance of Defendant's trust account with the Rules of Professional Conduct,
including but not limited to reporting any accounting ilTegularities and any
deviance from the requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct, with a copy
of the repOli sent simultaneously to Defendant. The accountant's repOlis are due
no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter (first qumier's report due April
30, second quarter's repOli due July 30, third quarter's repOli due October 30, and
fOUlih qumier's repOli due January 30). It is Defendant's sole responsibility to
ensure the accountant completes and submits the reports as required herein;
(e) If any of the accountant reports referenced in paragraph (d) above note any
ilTegularities or deficiencies in Defendant's handling of entrusted funds, the
accountant shall prepare and submit to the Office of Counsel a subsequent repOli
regarding whether Defendant's remedial actions were sufficient and whether
Defendant's account(s) has been brought into compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The accountant shall provide this report regarding
remedial measures to the Office of Counsel within 30 days of Defendant's
provision of proof of remedial action. It is Defendant's sole responsibility to
ensure the accountant completes and submits the repOlis as required herein;
(f) All accountant evaluations, reports, and services refelTed to herein will be
completed and submitted at Defendant's sole expense;
(g) On or before June 30 each year the stay is in effect, Defendant shall submit an
affidavit celiifying to the NOlih Carolina State Bar that all general trust accounts,
dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by Defendant or his
law firm are administered, to the best of his knowledge, in compliance with the
requirements of Rule 1.15 (including all subpmis) or that he is exempt from this
provision because Defendant does not maintain any trust or fiduciary accounts for
North Carolina client funds;
(h) Defendant shall remain in treatment with a psychiatrist and comply with all
recommendations for counseling and treatment, including, but not limited to,
taking as prescribed any prescribed medications;
(i) Defendant shall ensure that all providers from whom he is receiving treatment for
any psychological, emotional, or behavioral condition send a quarterly written
repOli to the State Bar confirming that he is complying with all treatment
recommendations and is not suffering from any physical or mental condition that

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 9 of 12

significantly impairs his professional judgment. The reports shall be due each
January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30 during the stayed suspension of
Defendant's law license;
(j) Defendant shall arrange for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar to
serve as his law practice monitor. Defendant's practice monitor shall be an
attorney in good standing who practices law in Defendant's judicial district and
who has been approved in advance by the Office of Counsel. Defendant must
make the arrangements for this monitoring attorney and supply the Office of
Counsel with a letter from the monitoring attorney confirming his or her
agreement to perform the duties listed above within thirty days of the effective
date of any order returning him to active status. The monitor will supervise all
client matters and will ensure that Defendant timely handles all client matters and
promptly responds to his clients. Defendant shall meet once a month with his
monitoring attorney, report the status of all current client matters to the monitor,
cooperate with the monitoring attorney, and provide any information the
monitoring attorney deems reasonably necessary to ensure that Defendant is
properly and timely handling all client matters. The monitor will submit written
quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel and confirming that
Defendant is following the recommendations of the practice monitor. The practice
monitor repmis are due in the Office of Counsel each January 30, April 30, July
30, and October 30 during the period of stay. Defendant bears the responsibility
of ensuring the monitoring attorney sends a written report each quarter to the
Office of Counsel as described above. This monitoring will occur for the duration
ofthe stay. Defendant will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this
superVISIOn;

(k) If Defendant's treatment provider, practice monitor, or accountant fails to submit
any repmi required by this Order, it shall be grounds to lift the stay and activate
the suspension;

(1) Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make appropriate
arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed during this stay;
(m)Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during his stay;
(n) Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Depatiment advised of his
current business address. Defendant shall notify the State Bar of any change of
address within ten days of such change. His current business address must be a
street address, not a post office box or drawer;
(0) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thiIiy days
of receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner; and

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 10 of12

(P) Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution

process for any petition which is pending during any stay of the suspension.
16.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more ofthe conditions of the stay of
suspension provided in paragraphs 15 (a) - (P) above, the stay of suspension may be lifted in
accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0118(a).
17.
If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay of his suspension, Defendant's
obligations governing the stay under this Order end after the applicable period of the stay
provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance
with the conditions of the stay ofthe suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0118(a)
of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all
conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding
alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when
the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the
jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the remaining portion of the
suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met.
The stay ofthe suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay
will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
18.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of his law license or if some
part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter revoked, before Defendant can be reinstated or a
subsequent stay of the suspension can be entered Defendant must comply with the conditions set
out in paragraphs 2 through 13 above and the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0129
before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law, and must provide in the petition for
reinstatement clear, cogent and convincing evidence showing compliance therewith as well as
the following conditions:
(a) Within two months prior to filing any motion for reinstatement or stay, Defendant
shall be evaluated, at his own expense, by a board certified psychiatrist or
psychologist approved in advance by the Office of Counsel for the purpose of
determining whether Defendant has any mental or psychological impairment,
addiction, personality disorder, or other condition or illness;
(b) Defendant shall obtain a written report from the evaluating clinician described in
paragraph 4(a) setting fOlih: (i) the findings of the examination; (ii) the clinician's
opinion as to whether Defendant has any physical or mental impairment, addiction,
personality disorder, or other condition or illness that could adversely affect his
ability to practice law; and (iii) the clinician's recommendations, if any, regarding
ongoing treatment;
(c) Prior to or at the time of filing his motion, Defendant shall provide a copy of the
clinician's report described in paragraph 18(b) to the State Bar, and shall execute a
written release authorizing the examining clinician to provide medical records to, and
communicate with, the Office of Counsel of the NOlih Carolina State Bar regarding
the evaluation and repOli; and

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 11 of12

(d) Defendant shall have the burden of establishing by clear and convincing evidence
that, at the time he seeks reinstatement or a stay of the suspension, he does not have
any physical or mental impairment, addiction, personality disorder, or other condition
or illness that significantly impairs his professional performance, judgment or
competence.

Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other Hearing
Panel members.

This the

~ay of

r-

2018.

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Agreed and consented to by:

rJAj~
Alan M. Schneider
Attomey for Defendant

Scott H. Shelton
Defendant

NCSB v. Scott H Shelton, 17 DHC 1
Consent Order
Page 12 of12

