~-

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

/;;'0. \\\ \920(/;;
",!:>~
~0.!'
>:J
APR 20181

f:::::::?'

~

~::.

E'

rlLEDDHC

()1

('" ORE THE COUNCIL OF THE
~RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
fi:!18 BCS 1

~

"~/
~
IN RE: TENDER OF SURRENDER~~~0
LICENSE OF
)
)
JAMES M. SHELTON

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER was heard by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27
N.C.A.C. IB §.0121 (a) of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules upon the affidavit of
sunender oflicense executed by James M. Shelton on April 12, 2018 and filed in the offices of
the State Bar on April 17, 2018.
Based on the affidavit, the Council finds that James M. Shelton misappropriated client
entrusted funds, made misrepresentations to his client about entrusted funds, and made
misrepresentations in response to the State Bar's inquiry about his conduct in violation of Rule
8.4(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. This conduct constitutes grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28 (b)(2).
WHEREFORE, upon motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the following
Order:
1. The tender of sunender of the license of James M. Shelton is hereby accepted.
2. James M. Shelton is hereby DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North Carolina.
3. James M. Shelton shall comply with the provisions of27 NCAC IB § .0128 of the
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and shall surrender his license and
permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along
with the affidavit required by 27 NCAC IB § .0128(d) of the State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against James M. Shelton.
5. Within 10 days of the date of this Order, James M. Shelton shall provide the State Bar
with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with James M. Shelton and obtain such files, and James M. Shelton
shall promptly return all files to his clients upon request.
6. If James M. Shelton fails to fully comply with 27 NCAC IB § .0128, he shall
reimburse the State Bar for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding down
his practice. Such expenses to included, but are not limited to, storage facility fees,
rent payments, moving expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage
or other mailing expense, and compensation paid to a court-appointed trustee and/or
Order of Disbarment, James M. Shelton

Page 1 of 2

the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated with the trusteeship. The State
Bar shall send an invoice for wind-down expenses to James M. Shelton at his last
known address of record with the North Carolina State Bar. James M. Shelton shall
not be eligible for reinstatement until he has reimbursed the State Bar for all winddown expenses incurred.
Done and ordered this the 20th day of April, 2018.

~Wl~

Jo M. Silverstein, President
The North Carolina State Bar

Order of Disbarment, James M. Shelton

Page 2 of2

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER
JAMES M. SHELTON, being fIrst duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1.
I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to State Bar Discipline & Disability Rule 27 NCAC IB §.0121.
2.
My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, and is not the result of coercion
or duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.
3.
I am aware that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar into various
matters including allegations that I misappropriated in excess of $4,000 of client entrusted funds
and made material misrepresentations to a client and to the State Bar.
4.
I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the State Bar's investigation is
predicated are true.
5.
I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.
6.
I understand that the hearing by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar with
regard to the acceptance of the tender of surrender of my license to practice law will occur at the
regularly scheduled meeting of the Council of the North Carolina State Bar on Friday, April 20,
2018 at the North Carolina State Bar Building, 217 E. Edenton Street, Raleigh, North Carolina
27601.
7.
I hereby waive any further notice of the hearing before the Council on my
affidavit of surrender. I waive any claim, argument, or assertion that I have not received proper
or timely notice of the hearing before the Council on my affidavit of surrender or any other
defect in notice. I further waive any and all right or privilege to appear before the Council at
that hearing..

Affidavit of Surrender, James M. Shelton

Page 1 of2

8.
I afftrm that I have had a full opportunity to seek the advice and counsel of an
attorney in making the decision to ftle this affidavit of surrender and I am fully satisfted with
the services of my attorney in this proceeding.
Respectfully submitted, this the

12..

day of April, 2018.

I

Sworn to and subscribed before me
this the ~"'tiay of
2018.

J1p-n"'

,

~L
My commission expires:

u-II .. Zk-

Affidavit of Surrender, James M. Shelton

•

SHYLA D. MAHACEK
Notary Public
North Carolina
Alamanc:e County

Page 2 of2

