NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE

WAKE COUNTY

BAR

In re:

tt~~~
C. Shelman, Attomey

CONSENT ORDER

OF INTERIM SUSPENSION

U~

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DHC) pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.Ol19(b) by consent of the parties.
Upon consent of the parties and good cause shown. the undersigned hereby makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Hayley C. Sherman ("Sherman") was licensed to practice law in North Carolina on 20
November 2015 and is and was at all times refen-ed to herein an attomey at law, subject to the
rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws ofN011h Carolina.
2. The current address of record for Sherman with the Nol1h Carolina State Bar is 661 W.
Dalton Road, King, NC 27021.
3. Sherman pled guilty to the state felony offenses of possession of marijuana with intent to
manufacture, sell, or deliver in violation of N.C. Gen. ~'tat. § 90-95(a) (tlU'ee counts); sale or
delivery ofmal'ijuana in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90~95(a) (two counts); conspiracy to sell
or deliver marijuana in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-98 (two counts); maintaining a store,
dwelling, vehicle, boat or other place for use, stol'age, or sale of controlled substances in
violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-108(a)(7) (three counts); and one count of possession of a
Schedule IV substance with intent to manufacture, sell, or deliver in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat.
§ 90-95(a) and to two counts of the state misdemeanor offense of possession of marijuana
paraphernalia in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-113.22(a) as charged in Stokes County
Superior Court matters 18 CRS 50541, 42,45,46,49,50 and 53.

4. Sherman freely and voluntarily consents to entry of this Consent Order of Interim
Suspension.
Based 011 the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned hereby makes the following;
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.0119(b) authorizes the Chair of the DHC to enter an order
suspending on an interim basis the law license of an attOl'Iley who pleads guilty to a criminal
offense showing professional unfitness in any state 01' federal court upon the Chair's
determillEltion that there is a qualifYing plea or conviction and that interim suspension is
wan·anted.
The NOlth CarolillEl State Bar v. Hayley C. Sherman
Consent Order of Interim Suspension

Page 1 of2

2. The offenses to which Shennan pled guilty are criminal offenses showing professional
unfitness as defined in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 18.0103(17). and Sherman's guilty plea is a
qualifYing plea to a criminal offense showing professional unfitness for which interim
suspension can be imposed.
3. It is appropriate to enter an order of interim suspension in this case.
THEREFORE. based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and
the consent of the parties, the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission hereby
enters the following:
ORDER
1. The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of Hayley C. Sherman is hereby
SUSPENDED pending the disposition of all disciplinat'Y proceedings against Sherman
related to her pleas of guilty to criminal offenses showing professional unfitness in the
Superior Court of Stokes County, North Carolina.
2. Sherman shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B.0128.

ThiStherdayOf~

OlS+h~

2019.

~C~.

Ch~

Donald C. Prentiss:
Disciplinru-y Hearing Commission
CONSENTED TO BY:

~~
e
herman
Respo dent

~N!
Z7iI
Whitson Howie
Counsel for Respondent

Maria . Brown
Counsel for Petitioner
The North Carolina State Bar

The NOlth Carolina State Bar v. Hayley C. Sherman
Consent Order of Interim Suspension

Page 2 of2

