(() 1 '0910 //l.
,«?r,
~ r~
~')
rE:a
~
<'01'1/

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

IYLI2D ",OISCIP

~

VitO:::

WAKE COUNTY

~

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13 OHC 24

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
WILLIAM R. SHILLING, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Ronald R. Davis, Chair, Donald C. Prentiss and Karen B. Ray
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114 of the Rnles and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Barry S.
McNeill, Deputy Counsel. Defendant, William R. Shilling, was represented by Gregory
F. Boyer, of Franklin, North Carolina. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter
and both parties stipulate and consent to the entry of this Order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent Order 01' to challenge in any
way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel hereby makes, by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence, the following

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the NOlth Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, William R. Shilling ("Shilling" or "Defendant"), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar on September 17,2004, and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina
State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct. .
3.
During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Shilling was engaged
in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Franklin, Macon County, North Carolina.
1

4.

Shilling married Cheryl Ann Fox (Cheryl Shilling) on August 19,1999.

5.
Shilling and Cheryl Shilling are the parents of a son (minor son), who was
13-years-old as of February 2013.
6.

The Shilling family resided in Franklin, North Carolina.

7.
Shilling sometimes drank alcohol excessively at his residence, and became
verbally abusive of his wife and minor son when he did so.
8.
Following a domestic dispute in 2011 in which Shilling threatened Cheryl
Shilling and caused her and their minor son to leave their residence, Cheryl Shilling,
upon the advice of an attorney, began recording Shilling's abusive outbursts.
9.
Shilling was unaware at the time that Cheryl Shilling was making the
recordings referenced in Paragraph 8 above, and Paragraphs 11 and 20 below.
10.
On February 13,2013, during a domestic dispute at the Shillings'
residence over his minor son's homework, Shilling destroyed his minor son's cellphone
and threatened to physically assault his minor son, including multiple threats to punch his
minor son in the face causing injury.
11.
Cheryl Shilling recorded Shilling's threats to their minor son on February
13,2013, and the recordings confirm the threats made by Shilling to his minor son
referenced in Paragraph 10 above.
12.
On the morning of February 14,2013, Shilling admonished his minor son
about not using his time wisely to study for a scheduled test at school that day.
13.
Shilling warned his minor son that he was leaving momentarily and that if
his minor son did not accompany him, then his minor son would have to walk to school.
14.
As Shilling threatened to punish his minor son severely if the minor son
did not receive a perfect grade on the scheduled test, Shilling cornered his minor son
inside the front door oftheir residence.
IS.
Shilling said to his minor son, "Keep mmnbling, [minor son], I'll break
that jaw so they'll [have to] wire it shut. Swear to [expletive], God."
16.
When his minor son attempted to extricate himself from the corner, using
his arm to try to push past Shilling, Shilling punched his minor son in the abdomen with
his fist, shoving his minor son against the wail.
17.

The punch by Shilling left a red mark on his minor son's abdomen.

18.
After the assault, the minor son refused to leave with Shilling and be
transpOlied by Shilling to his school.
19.
Before Shilling left the residence, he said to his minor son, "1 think maybe
this weekend you and 1 should place everything you own in the front yard, pour gasoline
on it and burn it, except for your mattress, including the dog."
2

20.
Cheryl Shilling recorded Shilling's tln-eats to their minor son on February
14,2013, and the recordings confirm the threats made by Shilling to his minor son
referenced in Paragraphs 15 and 19 above.
21.
After Shilling left the residence in his vehicle, Cheryl Shilling telephoned
Emergency 911.
22.
During the 911 telephone call, Cheryl Shilling repolied that Shilling had
punched their minor son.
23.

A Deputy Sheriff was dispatched to tl1e Shilling residence.

24.
When Shilling returned to the residence, Cheryl Shilling telephoned
Emergency 911 again because Shilling attempted to enter the bedroom where she and her
minor son barricaded themselves.
25.
The Deputy Sheriff arrived while Cheryl Shilling was on the telephone
with the 911 dispatcher.
26.
recorded.

The Emergency 911 telephone calls made by Cheryl Shilling were

27.
In neither of Cheryl Shilling's February 14, 2013 telephone calls to
Emergency 911, referenced in Paragraphs 21-26, did Cheryl Shilling state that Shilling
had not shuck their minor son.
28.
Shilling was arrested on charges of misdemeanor child abuse in violation
of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-318.2 and communicating threats in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. §
14-277.1 on February 14,2013, in Siale v. William Shilling, No. 13-CR-50192 (Macon
County District Court).
29.
During a custodial interview with investigating law enforcement officers
on the day after his arrest, Shilling stated that he had pushed his minor son in retaliation
for the minor son pushing him first, but Shilling denied hitting or punching his minor son.
30.
During tl1e custodial interview referenced in Paragraph 29 above, Shilling
denied ever telling his wife, Cheryl Shilling, or his minor son that he was going to punch
his minor son.
31.
During the custodial interview referenced in Paragraphs 29 and 30 above,
Shilling denied that he had threatened to burn his minor son's belongings and dog.
32.
Shilling's statements during the custodial interview referenced in
Paragraphs 29, 30, and 31 above were false.
33.
On May 9, 2013, Shilling pled guilty in Macon County District Court to
misdemeanor child abuse in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-318.2, and misdemeanor
communicating threats in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-277.1, in State v. William
Shilling, No. 13-CR-50192 (Macon County District COUli).

3

34.
Shilling received a 60 day suspended sentence upon his guilty pleas
referenced in Paragraph 30 above, and was placed on unsupervised probation for 18
months.
35.
On May 9, 2013, Shilling and his wife, Cheryl Shilling, consented to the
entlY of a Domestic Violence Protection Order (DVPO) in Chelyi A. Shilling v. William
R. Shilling, No. 13-CVD-I09 (Macon COllnty District Court), requiring, among other
things, that Shilling not have contact with Cheryl Shilling and that Shilling not harass
Chelyl Shilling.
36.
On July 19,2013, a wanant issued for Shilling's anest in State v. William
Shilling, No. 13-CR-05l039 (Macon County District Comi), charging Shilling with
violation of the May 9, 2013 DVPO referenced in Paragraph 35 above.
37.
On or about October 2, 2013, Shilling was tried in Macon County District
Court, and was found guilty of violating the May 9, 2013 DVPO referenced in Paragraph
35 above, but appealed his conviction to Macon County Superior Court.
38.
On October 29-30, 2013, Shilling was tried by jury in Macon County
Superior Court, and on October 30, 2013 the jury found Shilling guilty of violating a
valid DVPO in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 50B-4.1 (A).
39.
On October 30, 2013, the presiding judge sentenced Shilling in State v.
William Shilling, No. 13-CRS-051039 (Macon County Superior Comi), to 75 days in
custody, but suspended that sentence placing Shilling on supervised probation for 18
months, and imposing an additional intermediate punishment for contempt of 15 days in
custody, to be served by Shilling within 90 days.
40.
On October 30, 2013, the presiding judge also found that Shilling violated
the conditions of his probation imposed 011 May 9, 2013, and modified the conditions of
probation to require that Shilling's probation be supervised instead of unsupervised.
41.
On October 30, 2013, Shilling gave notice of appeal of his conviction of
violating a valid DVPO, but subsequently withdrew the uotice of appeal in January 2014.
42.
On or about May 20, 2013, in responding to a grievance filed against him
by the State Bar (No. 13G0146), Shilling stated that during the February 14,2013
argmnent with his minor son, his minor son pushed him first and Shilling retaliated by
pushing his minor son.
43.
Shilling also stated in his response, referenced in Paragraph 42 above, that
his wife, Cheryl Shilling, had admitted during her February 14,2013 telephone call to
Emergency 911 that Shilling had not struck their minor son.
44.
Shilling's statements made in his grievance response to the State Bar,
referenced in Paragraphs 42 and 43 above, were false.

4

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUS~ONS

OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, William R. Shilling, and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Domestic violence by a lawyer is serious misconduct that reflects
adversely on a lawyer's titness to practice law.
3.
Shilling's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By committing misdemeanor child abuse in violation of N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 14-318.2, and misdemeanor communicating threats in
violation ofN .C. Gen. Stat. § 14-277.1, Defendant committed
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustwOlthiness or
fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b);

(b)

By making false statements to the investigating law enforcement
officers, Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4( c), and engaged
in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d); and,

(c)

By making false statements during the State Bar's grievance
investigation, Defendant knowingly made false statements of
material fact in violation of Rule 8.1(a) and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty. fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation
8.4(c).

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel also finds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS_REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

Det(mdant has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.
Defendant's misconduct did not occur in connection with his
representation of any clients.
3.
the media.
4.

Defendant's arrests, trials, and convictions received extensive publicity in

Defendant violated a lawful and valid DVPO.

5

5.

Defendant timely served the 15 days in custody for having violated the

DVPO.
6.
Defendant's only discipline, to date, is an Admonition dated May 6, 2013
in In re William R. Shilling, No. 1300140, in which he was found to have violated Rule
7.1(a)(I) for misleadingly adveliising on his website that he was endorsed by the State
Bar, and Rule 7.4(b)(3) for adveliising that he was a child welfare law specialist without
including proper language.
45.
Defendant previously represented the Macon County Department of Social
Services (MCDSS), but MCDSS ended that association following his aITest on the child
abuse charge.
46.
Defendant se1f-repOlied to the Lawyer Assistance Program (LAP) on
February 21, 2013, and has been compliant to date with the recommendations made in his
LAP contract.
47.
Defendant is pmiicipating in therapy with Mm1ha Teater, a licensed
counselor, for anger management issues, and Ms. Teater reports that she is satisfied with
his progress.
48.
Defendant's church pastor reports that he has observed a significant life
change in Defendant, and that he is thankful to have Defendant as a church pmiicipant.
49.
Defendant understands the significance of his misconduct and is
remorseful for the hann and potential harm that his conduct caused Cheryl Shilling, his
minor son, and the public's perception of the legal profession.
50.

Defendant enjoys a reputation ofheing a competent attorney.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following

CONCLUSIONS

~f.';AJWING

DISCIPLINE

I.
The hearing panel has carel1Jlly considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .01 14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. Prior disciplinary offense;
h. Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
c. Effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;
d. Defendant is remorseful for his conduct;
e. Defendant's reputation;

6

f.

The vulnerability of tbe victims;

g. Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw; and,
h. Defendant received imposition of criminal penalties.
2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enmnerated in
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01 14(w)(1) of tile Rules and Regulations ofthe North
Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors warrant suspension of Defendant's
license:
a. Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
b. Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession;
c. Defendant's conduct had a negative impact on the administration of
justice; and,
d. Defendant's conduct included acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation,
deceit, or fabrication.
3.
The hearing panel has also carefully considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code I B § .0 114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar and concludes that although acts of dishonesty or
misrepresentation are present in this case, disbarment is not necessary in order to protect
the public.
4.
The hearing panel has considered all other fOlms of discipline available
and concludes that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the
public, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar.
5.
The hearing panel finds and concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by imposing a period of active suspension which is subject to being stayed in
part upon Defendant's compliance with conditions designed to ensure protection of the
public and to ensure Defendant's compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based npon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
OIU!.ER OF DJSCIPLINE
1.
The license of Defendant, William R. Shilling, is hereby suspended for
two years. This Order will be effective 30 days after service of the Order upon
Defendant.

7

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no latcr than 30 days following the effective date of this
Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar
within 10 days of the effective date of this Order, celiifying he has complied with the
wind down rule.
4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of
files can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant shall
promptly return all files to his clients upon request.
5.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and fees.
Defendant shall pay the amount assessed within thiliy days 0 f service of the statement of
costs and fees upon him.
6.
One year from the effective date of this Order, Defendant may file a
verified petition for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension demonstrating by
clear, cogent and convincing evidence that, in addition to complying with the general
provisions for reinstatement contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the Rules
and Regulations ofthe NOlih Carolina State Bar, Defendant has complied during his
suspension with the following conditions:
a. Defendant, at his own expense, continued counseling with Counselor
Maliha Teater, and/or any other board-certified psychiatrist, psychologist,
or counselor (hereafter "Therapist") approved by the State Bar's Office of
Counsel and the Lawyer's Assistance Program (LAP), and followed and
complied with the course of treatment prescribed by the Therapist. The
Therapist shall provide monthly repOlis to the State Bar confirming
Defendant is following the recommendations of the Therapist. The
Therapist shall notify the State Bar if Defendant fails to follow the
recommendations of the Therapist. Defendant shall ensure these repOlis
and notifications are made. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or
documents to allow such reports and notifications, to allow the Therapist
to provide documents from Defendant's treatment to the State Bar, and to
allow the Therapist to discuss Defendant's participation alld treatment
with the Office of Counsel of the State Bar, and shall not revoke the
release during the period of suspension;
b. Defendant instructed his Therapist to notify the Office of Counsel and
LAP immediately in writing if, at any point dming the active period of his
8

suspension, Defendant ceases to be a patient or otherwise fails to comply
with the course of treatment prescribed by the Therapist;
e. Defendant executed a written waiver authorizing LAP to confer with the
Office of Counsel for purposes of determining if Defendant has
cooperated with LAP, has complied with the terms ofthe LAP contract,
and has complied with the terms of this order. If, during the suspension,
Defendant fails to cooperate with LAP, fails to comply with his LAP
contract, or fails to follow the treatment recommendation of his Therapist
or any successor Therapist approved by the Office of Counsel and LAP,
LAP shall immediately repOli such failure to the Office of Counsel;
d. Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of
the NOlih Carolina State Bar;
e. Within 15 days ofthe effective date of this Order Defendant provided the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking
retum of files could communicate with Defendant and obtain such files,
and that Defendant promptly retumed all files to his clients upon request;
f.

Defendant kept the Membershi p Department of the State Bar informed of
his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e·mail address throughout the period of his
suspension;

g. Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period 01' the suspension;
h. Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for infol1nation
from the North Carolina State Dar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his suspension;
1.

Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding continuing
education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of his
petition for reinstatement;

J.

Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;

k. Defendant did not violate any laws oflhe State of North Carolina or ofthe
United States during the period of the suspension; and

9

1.

Defendant paid all costs and tees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within thiIiy days of service of the statement of costs and fees
upon him.

7.
The procedures of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1B, Section .0125(b)
shall govern Defendant's petition for a stay of the remainder of the suspension of his law
license.
8.
Defendant may file a petition seeking a stay of the remaining period of his
suspension and demonstrating compliance with the conditions stated in Paragraph 6
above up to 30 days prior to the cnd of the first year of (he (wo year suspension, but the
stay shall not be lifted and Defendant shall not be reinstated until the end of that first year
of the two year suspension.
9.
Irthe State Bar does not file an objection to Defendant's petition for a stay
of the remainder of his suspension as described in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1B,
Section .0125(b)(6), (hen pursuant (0 Section .0125(b)(5) the Secretary shall put into
effect the stay of the remaining.period of suspension provided for in this Order by
reinstating Defendant to active status subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements
of this Order of Discipline, with Defendant's active status contingent upon continued
compliance with the terms of this Order. Such stay will continue in force only as long as
Defendant continues to comply with all conditions in this Order, including the conditions
set out in paragraph 11 below.
10.
If the State Bar files an objection to Defendant's petition for a stay of the
remainder of his suspension as described in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter IB, Section
.0125(b)(6), then pursuant to Section .0125(b)(7) the Secretary shall refer the matter to
the Chair ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission (DHC). The Chair of the DHC shall
appoint a hearing panel and set the matter for hearing as described in Section .0125(b)(7).
The Chair of the DHC shall appoint as members of the hearing panel the members
entering this Order if practicable.
II.
If Defendant is granted a stay of his suspension, the stay of his suspension
will remain in effect only if Defendant complies, and continues to comply, with the
following conditions:
a. Detendant, at his own expense, continued counseling with Counselor
Martha Teater, and/or any other board-certified psychiatrist, psychologist,
or counselor (hereafter "Therapist") approved by the State Bar's Office of
Counsel and the Lawyer's A3sistance Program (LAP), and followed and
complied with the course of treatment prescribed by the Therapist. The
Therapist shall provide monthly reports to the State Bar confirming
Defendant is following the recommendations of the Therapist. The
Therapist shall notify the State Bar if Defendant fails to follow the
recommendations of the Therapist. Defendant shall ensure these reports
and notifications are made. Defendant wi II sign all necessary releases or
documents to allow such reports and notifications, to allow the Therapist
10

to provide documents from Defendant's treatment to the State Bar, and to
allow the Therapist to discuss Defendant's pmticipation and treatment
with the Office of Counsel of the State Bar, and shall not revoke the
release during the period of stayed suspension;
b. Defendant instructed his Therapist to notify the Office of Counsel and
LAP immediately in writing if, at any point during the stayed suspension,
Defendant ceases to be a patient or otherwise fails to comply with the
course of treatment prescribed by the Therapist;
c. Defendant executed a written waiver authorizing LAP to confer with the
Office of Counsel for purposes of determining if Defendant has
cooperated with LAP, has complied with the terms of the LAP contract,
and has complied with the telms ofthis order. If, during the stayed
snspension, Defendant fails to cooperate with LAP, fails to comply with
his LAP contract, or fails to follow the treatment recommendation of his
Therapist or any successor Therapist approved by the Office of Counsel
and LAP, LAP shaB immecliat<Oiy repOlt such failure to the Office of
Counsel;
d. Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of
his current information for bis pbysical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his stayed
suspensIOn;
e. Defendant accepted all certilied mail ii'om the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membersbip Depmiment of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of his stayed suspension;
f.

Defendant responded to aBletters of notice and requests for information
ii-om the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his stayed suspension;

g. Defendant complied with continuing education or membership obligations
throughout the period of his stayed suspension;
h. Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of his stayed suspension; and,
1.

Defendant did not violate any laws ofthe State of North Carolina or ofthe
United States during the period of his stayed sllspension.

12.
Unless Defendmlt's obligations under this Order m'e modified by further
order of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission ("DHC"), Defendant's obligations under
this Order end two years from the effective date of the Order provided there are no
11

motions or show cause proceed'ings pending alleging lack of compliance with the
conditions ofthe stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(x)
of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the DHC retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met If a motion
or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of
the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise
have tenninated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the one year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of
the conditions of the stay have not been met The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
pending motion or show cause proceeding.
13.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph 11
above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina
State Bar.
14.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing an application for reinstatement demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:
a. Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0125 of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih
Caro lina State Bar; and
b. Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraph 11 (a) - (i) above.
IS.
lfDefendant does not seek n stay of any active period of his two year
suspension, Defendant must provide in hi~: application for reinstatement clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence of the following:
a. Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar; and

b. COll1pliance \vith the condit,ons set out in Paragraph 6 (a) - (1) above.
16.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Detendant for additional misconduct
discovered or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct
addressed in this Order.

12

~igned

{o

by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day ofFebruary, 2014.

Ci~~ PPbL OtimlL

Ronald R. Da ,Chair
Disciplinary Heal'jng Panel

ENTEDTOBY:

Barry S,
Deputy unsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

William R. Shilling
~-'-----,

13

