,

'

WAKE COUNTY

15 BSR 7 & 13 DHC 24

Plaintiff
ORDER STAYING REMAINDER OF
SUSPENSION

v.
WILLIAM R. SHILLING, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was heard on October 16, 2015 by a hearing panel ofthe
Disciplinary Rearing Commission ("DRC") composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair,
Shirley L. Fulton, and Karen B. Ray pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125(b)(7)
of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. On July 30,2015, the
Defendant, William R. Shilling ("Defendant" or "Shilling") filed a Verified Petition
Seeking Stay of Remaining Suspension ("Petition"). The Plaintiff, the North Carolina
State Bar ("State Bar"), pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §§ .0125(b)(3), (b)(4) and
(b)( 6), responded in opposition to the Petition. In his Petition, Defendant seeks a stay of
the time remaining on his two year suspension pursuant to the consent Order of
Discipline ("Order") filed on February 11, 2014. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar,
was represented by Barry S. McNeill, Deputy Counsel. Defendant, William R. Shilling,
appeared pro se.
Based upon the stipulations of the parties and the evidence introduced at the
hearing, the hearing panel hereby makes, by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the
following

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On February 11, 2014, in an Order entered in The North Carolina State
Bar v. William R. Shilling, No. 13 DRC 24 ("Order"), the Disciplinary Rearing
Commission ("DRC") of the State Bar suspended Defendant for two years beginning 30
days from the date of service of the Order upon him.
2.
Defendant's counsel accepted service of the Order on behalf of Defendant
on February 14, 2014.
3.
Defendant's two year suspension under the Order became effective as of
March 16, 2014.

1

c

'

4.
The Order provided that, after one year from the effective date ofthe
Order, Defendant could file a verified petition for a stay of the remaining period of his
suspensIOn.
5,
The Order specified that Defendant could file the petition seeking a stay of
the remaining period of his suspension up to 30 days prior to the end of the first year of
the two year suspension, but that the stay would not be lifted and Defendant would not be
reinstated until the end of that first year of the two year suspension,
6.
The Order provided in relevant part that, in order to be reinstated,
Defendant had to demonstrate in his petition by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
that, in addition to complying with the general provisions for reinstatement contained in
27 N.C, Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar, he had complied during his suspension with the following conditions:
a, Defendant paid the costs and administrative fees of this action as assessed
by the Secretary within thirty days of service of the statement of costs and
fees upon him;
b. Defendant, at his own expense, continued counseling with Counselor
Martha Teater, and/or any other board-certified psychiatrist, psychologist,
or counselor (hereafter "Therapist") approved by the State Bar's Office of
Counsel and the Lawyer's Assistance Program (LAP), and followed and
complied with the course of treatment prescribed by the Therapist. As
part of this condition, the therapist was to provide monthly reports to the
State Bar confirming Defendant was following the recommendations of
the Therapist. Defendant was responsible for ensuring these reports and
notifications were made by the Therapist. Defendant was required to sigu
all necessary releases or documents to allow such reports and
notifications, to allow the Therapist to provide documents from
Defendant's treatment to the State Bar, and to allow the Therapist to
discuss Defendant's participation and treatment with the Office of Counsel
of the State Bar;
c. Defendant instructed his Therapist to notify the Office of Counsel and
LAP immediately in writing if, at any point during the active period of his
suspension, Defendant ceased to be a patient or otherwise failed to comply
with the course oftreatrnent prescribed by the Therapist;
d, Defendant executed a written waiver authorizing LAP to confer with the
Office of Counsel for purposes of determining if Defendant had
cooperated with LAP, had complied with the terms of the LAP contract,
and had complied with the terms of the Order of Discipline. If, during the
suspension, Defendant failed to cooperate with LAP, failed to comply with
his LAP contract, or failed to follow the treatment recommendation of his
Therapist or any successor Therapist approved by the Office of Counsel
and LAP, LAP was to immediately report such failure to the Office of
Counsel.
2

·.

9.
On February 21,2014, the Clerk of the DHC served Defendant with the
invoice statement for the costs and administrative fees ofthis action as assessed by the
Secretary.
10.

Defendant owed $1,150.94 in costs and administrative fees to the State

Bar.
II.
Under the terms of the Order, Defendant was due to pay the costs and
administrative fees to the State Bar by Monday, March 24, 2014 (within 30 days of
service of the statement of costs and administrative fees).
12.
Defendant did not pay the costs and administrative fees by Monday,
March 24, 2014, and Defendant did not timely request an extension of time for doing so
before the deadline.
13.
On April 8, 2014, the Clerk of the DHC ("Clerk") filed a letter from
Defendant, dated April 4, 2014, in which Defendant acknowledged receiving the Clerk's
invoice dated February 18, 2014, and requested that he be granted a one-year extension of
time to pay the $1,150.94 because he had no income and had had to pay other unspecified
fees, fines and costs in connection with his "criminal matter." Defendant stated that he
hoped to have the criminal fees, fines and costs paid "within the next few months," and
then he intended to pay his CLE and State Bar membership dues before finally being able
to pay the disciplinary costs and fees.
14.
The Clerk wrote to Defendant on April 8, 2014 about whether he wished
to have his April 4, 2014 letter treated as a motion pursuant to N.C. R. Civ. P. 60, and on
April 14, 2014 Defendant responded in the affirmative, requesting that the Clerk serve a
copy of the April 4, 2014 letter upon staff counsel for the State Bar ("staff counsel").
15.
Pursuant to Defendant's directive, the Clerk furnished a copy of
Defendant's April 4, 2014 letter to staff counsel.
16.
On April 17, 2014, staff counsel filed a response arguing that assuming
arguendo the hearing panel could modify the original consent order to extend the 30-day
time period for Defendant to make the payment of the costs and administrative fees of the
disciplinary proceeding, Defendant nevertheless had failed to make the necessary
showing under N.C. R. Civ. P. 60(b)(6) for relief.
17.
On June 20, 2014, the panel filed an Order denying Defendant's motion
for an extension of time to pay the costs and administrative fees ("Order denying
motion").
18.
Due to his loss of income from his suspension and his other financial
obligations, Defendant did not timely pay the costs and administrative fees to the State
Bar.
3

,

'

19,
As his finances pennitted, Defendant made periodic payments on the costs
and administrative fees he owed to the State Bar, making a final payment in full to the
State Bar on February 18,2015.
20.
Defendant voluntarily began counseling and treatment with therapist
Martha Teater of Waynesville, North Carolina on April 12, 2013, and was already seeing
Ms. Teater when the Order of discipline was entered in February 2014.
21.
Defendant continued treatment with therapist Martha Teater during
March, April, and May of2014.
22.
Defendant sought counseling and treatment with Ms. Teater on 20
occasions between April 12, 2013 and May 28,2014.
23.
According to Ms, Teater, she forwarded monthly reports to the State Bar
for the months of March, April, and May of2014 in compliance with the Order.
24.
Ms. Teater ceased her treatment of Defendant on July 22,2014 due to
Defendant moving out of state.
25.
Defendant did not seek the Office of Counsel's approval of a successor
Therapist to Ms. Teater, and the Office of Counsel never gave its approval to such a
successor Therapist
26.

The State Bar ceased receiving Ms. Teater's monthly reports after May

2014.
27.
The State Bar received no additional reports concerning Defendant's
treatment from an approved successor Therapist
28.
Defendant and Ms. Teater indicate that when Ms. Teater ceased seeing
Defendant in late May 2014, Defendant's scheduled sessions were on an "as needed"
basis,
29.
Defendant was compliant with Ms. Teater's recommendations, followed
all of her treatment suggestions, and made substantial progress during his treatment by
her.
30.
When Ms. Teater finished treating Defendant in late May of2014, she had
no significant concerns regarding Defendant resuming the practice oflaw in North
Carolina,
31.
Defendant otherwise complied with the general provisions for
reinstatement contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125 of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, as well as the other conditions imposed by
the Order.
4

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, William R. Shilling, and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Because of his suspension, loss of income, and other financial obligations,
Defendant failed to timely pay the costs and administrative fees to the State Bar under the
specific terms of the Order, but ultimately did pay the costs and administrative fees in
full, and therefore the panel concludes that Defendant substantially complied with the
condition of the Order concerning the payment of costs and administrative fees.
3.
Although the Order required Defendant to continue monthly treatment
with Ms. Teater or another approved therapist, Defendant saw Ms. Teater on a regular
basis beginning in April 2013 until his change to an out-of-state residence in June 2014.
4.
When Defendant ceased seeing Ms. Teater in late May 2014, Ms. Teater
had begun scheduling his sessions on an "as needed" basis, indicating that Defendant had
made substantial progress during his treatment.
5.
Ms. Teater had no significant concerns for Defendant resuming the
practice oflaw in North Carolina.
6.
Ms. Teater provided monthly reports to the State Bar as required by the
Order until Defendant ceased his counseling sessions with her by moving his residence
out-of-state.
7.
Although under the Order Defendant technically should have sought this
panel's permission to cease his treatment sessions with Ms. Teater or another approved
therapist, Defendant underwent over 20 sessions of counseling and treatment with Ms.
Teater prior to moving his residence out-of-state, including sessions he voluntarily
initiated beginning in April 2013 until the Order was entered in February 2014, and
therefore the panel concludes that Defendant substantially complied with the conditions
ofthe Order concerning continuing therapy and monthly reporting of such therapy to the
State Bar.
8.
Defendant has shown by clear, cogent and convincing evidence his
compliance and/or substantial compliance with the conditions for staying the remainder
of his two-year suspension.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
panel enters the following

ORDER

5

I.
A stay ofthe remaining portion of Defendant's two-year suspension is
hereby ordered, and Defendant is hereby reinstated to practice law in North Carolina
immediately upon the filing of this Order.
2.
The conditions ofthe Order are modified as follows: the stay of his
suspension will remain in effect only if Defendant complies, and continues to comply,
with the following conditions:
a. Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of
his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his stayed
suspension;
b. Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of his stayed suspension;
c. Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his stayed suspension;
d. Defendant complied with continuing education or membership obligations
throughout the period of his stayed suspension;
e. Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of his stayed suspension; and,
f.

Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of his stayed suspension.

3.
Unless Defendant's obligations under the Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this order end two years from the
effective date ofthe Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .OI14(x) of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of
the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period
of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the
jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the remaining
suspension time in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have
not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the
conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any pending motion or show cause
proceeding.

6

,','

'

I'

4.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph 2
above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing an application for reinstatement demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:
a. Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0125 ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State £ar; and
b. Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraph 2 (a) - (f) above.

Signe~ consent ofthe other hearing panel members, this the ~
day 0

,2015.

~c~~
Donald C. Prentlss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

7

