NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08GOl49

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Ryan D. Shoaf,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 23, 2009 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by D. W.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjustif'ying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In 1999, D. W. sold property located at 2405 Chevron Drive to D. T. and wife. The deed
to D. T. and his wife had an incorrect legal description; thus, the wrong property was conveyed to
D.T. and wife. The 1999 conveyance from D.W. to D.T. and wife was not handled by your
office, but by D.W.'s attorney.

D.T. and wife conveyed the property to L.H. and husband in a closing transaction in
2007. S.H., an attorney employed in your office, closed the transaction. The same incorrect
legal description was used in the conveyance of the property from D.T. and wife to L.H. and
husband. The deed of trust for L. H. and husband encumbers the wrong property. In your
response to this grievance, you stated that the error on the property description made in 1999 by
D. W.'s attorney precipitated the "inevitable error on our part".
The Grievance Committee nevertheless found that your office was the last to handle this
closing and thus you had a responsibility to correct the situation. In your initial response dated
February 29, 2008 to this grievance, you stated the following: "I can assure you my full attention
will be given to ensure this matter will be resolved as quickly as possible." The State Bar's staff
attorney wrote you on March 24, 2008 and advised that the grievance would be held open so that
you could provide a status update as to how you were trying to resolve D. W.'s problem. You
did not respond to the March 24, 2008 letter, so the staff attorney sent you another letter dated
May 9, 2008 asking that you provide an update on the status of resolving D. W.'s problem. You
appeared before the Grievance Committee in October 2008 and January 2009. During your
appearances before the Grievance Committee, you told the Grievance Committee that you had
recorded a new deed that would correct this problem. In actuality, you had not recorded the deed.
The Grievance Committee was convinced that you made misrepresentations to the Committee
concerning how you were trying to resolve this situation. Your conduct violated Rule 8A( c) and
(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North

Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

JRF/lr

tN day of~~

, 2009

