WAKE COUNTY
'(c' uln£;':
THE NORTH CAROLINA STAiF~", .
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER

v.
MOHAMMED SHYLLON, Attomey,
Defendant
Defendant, Mohammed Shyllon ("Shyllon" or "Defendant") was ordered to
appear and show cause why the stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of
Discipline entered in this case on February 28, 2004 should not be lifted and the
suspension activated. This matter was considered by a Hearing Committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofF. Lane Williamson, Chair, and members
M. Ann Reed and Marguerite Watts pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code,
Title 27, Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(h). The Plaintiff was represented by Robeli
A. Crabill. TIle Defendant was represented by Irving Joyner. Based upon the
stipulations offact and the consent of the parties, the I-Iearing Committee hereby finds by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
On February 28,2004, a Consent Order of Discipline was entered in this
matter. The Order was served on Defendant on March 10,2004.
2.
The Consent Order of Discipline imposed a one year suspension stayed for
three years. The stay of the suspension was conditioned upon compliance with the
conditions stated in the order.
3.
follows:

The condition listed in paragraph 2a of the Order of Discipline states as

By 30 April 2004, at his expense, Defendant will have a complete audit
and reconciliation of his trust account under the supervision and
certification of a licensed CPA showing that all client funds have been
fully accounted for and that there are no funds in the account belonging to
Defendant unless permitted under Rule l.IS of the Rules of Professional
Conduct. Defendant will provide an audit report, including the trust
account records and the CPA's workpapers, prepared by the CPA that
celiifies that Defendant's trust account is in compliance with the Rules of

Professional Conduct, without qualification or reservation, to the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar by 15 May 2004;
4.
Shyllon did not provide an audit report, including the trust account records
and CPA's workpapers prepared by the CPA that certifies that Defendant's trust account
is in compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct, without qualification or
reservation to the Office of General Counsel.
5. Defendant provided a repOli prepared by a CPA that purpOlis to be a
reconciliation. This report does not certify that the account is in compliance with the
Rules of Professional Conduct as required by the consent order.
6. The provided report contains ledger cards that show that defendant should
have funds in his trust account for 22 clients. However, the balances for these clients are
not included in defendant's summary of money held in this trust account for all clients.
7. Defendant has not demonstrated that he had and now has sufficient funds in
his trust account for these 22 clients.
8. Defendant was asked to explain the discrepancies. Defendant's responses to
the State Bar's inquiries about the discrepancies revealed new deficiencies in defendant's
handling of client funds.
9. Defendant provided documentation of trust account transactions that showed a
check ti'om his operating account being shown on trust account ledgers.
10. Defendant provided several client ledgers reflecting disbursements with nonsequential number "9999."
Defendant's accountant advised that the "9999"
disbursements pertain to trust account checks that could not bc found.
II. Defendant provided documentation that since 2005, the time of the CPA
generated repOli, he has been depositing client funds that should have been held in trust
into an operating account. Defendant handled funds in this manner for clients including,
but not limited to, Nana Boasiako, Kokou Degoh, Segun Adesina, Sam Dodd, Sarah
Laryea. Defendant's handling of these clients' funds is set out below.
12. For client Nana Boasiako, defendant's file indicates $1,550 charged and client
will make two payments. Defendant's receipts #347014 and 347015 indicate Nana
Boasiako paid $1,550 on May 10, 2005. Defendant's records for this client show checks
numbered 1664, 1665, and 1666 for a total amount of $650.00 payable to uscrs all
dated August 2, 2005. Money received to pay filing fees to USCIS should be deposited
into trust with a ledger card identifying them as belonging to Nana Boasiako. There is no
ledger card and no record of any deposit to defendant's trust account for the benefit of
Nana Boasiako. There is no record of the disbursement of the remaining $900.00 of
client Boasiako's funds.

-2-

13. For client Kokou Degoh, defendant's receipt #347062 dated July S, 2005
indicates $1,000 paid and $1,200 due. Defendant's receipt #347094 indicates $1,200
paid and no balance due on August 2, 2005. For client Kokou Degoh, defendant's
records show checks numbered 1796, 1797, and 179S for a total amount of $675.00
payable to USCIS all dated November 18, 2005. Money received to pay filing fees to
USCIS should be deposited into trust with a ledger card identifying them as belonging to
Kokou Degoh. There is no ledger card and no record of a deposit to defendant's hust
account for the benefit of Kokou Degoh. Cheeks #1797 and #1798 for client filing fees
were returned for insufficient funds. 111ere is no record of the disbursement of the
remaining $1,525.00 of client Degoh's funds.
14. For client Segun Adesina, defendant's receipt indicates $750 received on July
1l,2005. For client Segun Adesina, defendant's records show checks numbered 170S,
1709, and 1710 for a total amount of $745.00 payable to USCIS all dated September 15,
2005. Money received to pay tiling fees to USCIS should be deposited into trust with a
ledger card identifying them as belonging to Segun Adesina. There is no ledger card and
no record of a deposit to defendant's hust account for the benefit of Segun Adesina.
There is no record of the disbursement of the remaining $5.00 of client Segun Adesina's
funds.
15. For client Sam Dodd, defendant's file indicates $2,200 paid in full September
1,2005. For client Sam Dodd, defendant's receipt #347220 indicates $1,550 paid arid no
balance due September I, 2005. For client Sam Dodd, defendant's records show checks
numbered lSIS, IS19, and 1820 for a total amount of $675.00 payable to USCIS all
dated October 24,2005. Money received to pay filing fees to USCIS should be deposited
into trust with a ledger card identifying them as belonging to Sam Dodd. There is no
ledger card and no record of a deposit to defendant's hust account for the benefit of Sam
Dodd. There is no record of the disbursement of the remaining $1,525.00 of client
Dodd's funds.
16. For client Sarah Laryea, defendant's receipt #347221 indicates $650 paid and
receipt #347222 indicates $1,550 paid and no balance due on September 1,2005. For
client Sarah Laryea, defendant's records show checks numbered 1769, 1770, and 1771
for a total amount of $675.00 payable to USClS all dated October 31, 2005. Money
received to pay filing fees to USClS should be deposited into hust with a ledger card
identifying them as belonging to Sarah Laryea. There is no ledger card and no record of
a deposit to defendant's trust account for the benefit of Sarah Laryea. There is no record
of the disbursement of the remaining $S75 of client Sarah Laryea's funds.
17. After receiving client funds, Defendant's documentation shows that he
paying client costs from his operating account.

IS

IS. Defendant's records show that he is making deposits of client funds to his
operating account.

-3-

]9. Defendant's use of the operating account to hold client funds is in violation of
the trust account rules.
20. Defendant's records indicate very few transactions in his trust account since
2004.
21. Defendant's failure to produce all the requested records has made it
impossible to velify that trust funds are properly safeguarded.
22. Defendant has failed to account for alJ client funds that were previously
deposited into his operating account.
23. The condition listed in paragraph 2a of the Order of Discipline states as
folJows:
By 30 June 2004, Defendant wilJ, at this own expense, complete a course in law
office financial management of at least 8 hours of instruction, focusing plimmily on trust
account management and record-keeping, approved in advance by the Office of Counsel
ofthe North Carolina State Bar;
24. ShylJon did not complete a course in law office financial management of at
least 8 hours of instruction, focusing primmily on trust account management and recordkeeping, approved in advance by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
].
AlJ parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee
has jUlisdiction over the Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
The Defendant, Mohmnmed Shyllon, has failed to comply with the
2.
folJowing conditions of the stay of his suspension contained in the Consent Order of
Discipline previously entered in this case:
a.
ShylJon did not provide a complete audit and reconciliation of his
trust account under the supervision and certification of a licensed CPA
showing that alJ client funds have been fully accounted for and that there
are no funds in the account belonging to Defendmlt unless pennitted
under Rule].] 5 of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Defendant did
not provide an audit report, including the trust account records and the
CPA's workpapers, prepared by the CPA that certifies that Defendant's
trust account is in compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct,
without qualification or reservation, to the Office of Counsel of the
North Carolina State Bar by] 5 May 2004;

-4-

b.
Defendant did not complete a course in law office financial
management of at least 8 hours of instlUction, focusing primmily on
tlUst account management and record-keeping, approved in advance by
the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar.

Based upon the stipulations and the documents ofrecord in this file, the Hearing
Committee hereby enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Shyllon's failure to provide a CPA-certified audit and reconciliation of his
trust account causes significant potential harm to those clients whose money he holds in a
fiduciary capacity.
2.
Shyllon's failure to complete 8 hours of financial management course
causes potential hann to those clients whose money he holds in a fiduciary capacity.
3.
Shyllon should not be in an active membership status and able to practice
law in North Carolina unless and until he is in compliance with the conditions stated in
the Consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the
conclusion regarding discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
ORDER
1.
The stay of the one year suspension of Defendant's license imposed in the
Consent Order of Discipline previously entered in this case is hereby lifted. This
activation of the suspension is effective thirty days from the date set for healing in this
matter, April 12, 2007, including any wind-down period under the rules, and will begin
on May 12, 2007.
2.
Defendant may move the Committee for a stay of the balance of
Defendant's active suspension at any time. In order to seek a stay of the balance of
active suspension, Defendant must show by clem·, cogent, mld convincing evidence the
following:

a.
Defendant will have a complete audit and reconciliation of his trust
and operating accounts, and any other accounts in which Defendant has
deposited client funds, under the supervision and certification of a
licensed CPA, approved in advance by the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar showing that all client funds have been fully accounted for and that
there are no funds in the account belonging to Defendant unless
pennitted under Rule LIS of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Defendant will provide an audit report, including the tlUSt account

-5-

records and the CPA's workpapers, prepared by the CPA that certifies
that Dcfcndant's trust account is in compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct, without qualification or reservation,
b.
Shyllon will complete a course in law office financial management
of at least 8 hours of instmction, focusing primarily on tmst account
managcment and record-keeping, approved in advance by the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar. This instlUction may be done
in increments totaling eight hours and need not be eligible for
Continuing Legal Education credit.
3.
In the event Shyllon meets the conditions in 2.a. and 2.b. above and a stay
of the active suspension is entered, Shyllon shall receive credit for any period served on
active suspension. Any remainder of the suspension shall be stayed for a period of two
additional years beginning on the date that the stay is entered. Any stay shall be
conditioned upon continued compliance with the same tem1S and conditions imposed in
the Consent Order of Discipline numbered 2.b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i and j.
4.
If the Defendant elects to not seek any stay of the suspension, Defendant's
reinstatement at the conclusion of the suspension is conditioned upon Defendant showing
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he has complied with the conditions set
forth in Paragraph 2 of this order in addition to the conditions set forth in the Consent
Order of Discipline and the general conditions required for reinstatement following a
suspension set fOlih in the Bar Rules.

-6-

Signed by the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Committee with the
consent of the other Hearing Committee members.

J

·1:il-~

This the -LL day of __'_i.-;'/;,u.',,

2007.

'.

F. Uln~ Williamson, Chair
Disciplinary Heming Committee

For the Defendant

For the Plaintiff

~Q.CfJJ

er, Attorney for the Defendant

Robert A. Crabill, Attorney for Plaintiff

.7.

Apr-11-100T 11:35pm

From-

Ul,l/J.{.' .... v ,

T-643

P.001/001

Signed by the undersigned Chair ofthEl Disciplinary Hea1;ng Conunitlee with the
cOllsenl <lfthe other Hearing Committee members.

2001.

F.LancVVtlliamson,Charr
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

For the Defendant

For the Plaintiff

R(lbllrt A. Crabill, Attorney fOT Plaintiff

Mohammed Shyllon, Defendant

-7-

F-4T1

