STATE OF NORTH

~-31'f1:-1'''''''>:>..
/,~ j,% ~\J :'ti ~ J :'::,.;"
4:<'t,:,...
A;( ~
j.':\',:
~.) "h,.
CAROLIN~~'
Drr:
'_l'\

BEFORE THE
' o~l\.CIPLfN\ARY HEARlNG COMMISSION
Fit')"
OF THE
ED DHcNOf{ftk CAR,OLINA STATE BAR
'?'
01:PHC 12, 10 DI-lC 9, 11 BSR 5

/k'J
~

~

WAKE COUNTY

Pro

0/ f'
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATEB .' LI

(",,'"D/

\ \,.'.

iL:V

'r'

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE &
REINSTATEMENT

v,

MOHAMMED M. SHYLLON, Attorney,
Defendant/Petitioner

THIS MATTER came before the hearing panel upon the filing of a petition by
Petitioner seeking reinstatement from the active suspension imposed by the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission's Order of Discipline in cases nos. 03 DHC 12 and 10 DHC 9, and
the filing of a response by Plaintiff objecting to Petitioner's petition for reinstatement.
These matters were considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, Robert F, Siler and Karen B. Ray
pursuant to 27 N,C.A.C. 1B § .0125(b) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian
P,D,Oten, Defendant/Petitioner, Mohanlmed M. Shy lion, was represented by Douglas.1.
Brocker. Petitioner waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and
consent to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order and to the
discipline imposed. Petitioner waives any right to appeal this consent order or challenge
in any way the sufficiency of the findings by consenting to the entry of this Order.
Based upon Shyllon's petition and supporting materials, the State Bar's response,
and the consent of the pm1ies, the hearing panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"), is a body
I,
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2,
DefendantlPetitioner, Mohammed M. Shy lion ("Defendant" or "Petitioner"
or "Shyllon"), was admitted to the North Carolina State Bm' on22 August 1976. At all
times refened to herein, Shy lion was subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of

Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
Shyllon was suspended from the active practice of law in the State of North
Carolina pursuant to the 12 April 2007 Consent Order of Discipline issued by the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the North Carolina State Bar ("DHC") in case
nWllber 03 DEC 12 (hereinafter, "the 2007 Order of Discipline").
4.
Shy lion was further suspended from the active practice oflaw in the State of
North Carolina pursuant to the 10 February 20 10 Consent Order of Discipline issued by
the DHC in case numbers 03 DEC 12 and 10 DHC 9 (hereinafter, "the 2010 Order of
Discipline"). The 2010 Order of Discipline resolved all remaining conditions of
Shyllon's reinstatement from the 2007 Order of Discipline and, following the new period
of active suspension of Shy lion's law license, set out new conditions which Shyllon
needed to comply with prior to reinstatement.
5.
Shyllon filed a petition for reinstatement on 18 October 2011. Shyllon,
thmugh counsel, recited actions taken to comply with the conditions in the 2010 Order of
Discipline and attached documentation in support of his statements. Shyllon
appropriately filed the petition with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar and
served a copy upon the Office of Counsel of the State Bar.
6.
After reviewing Shyllon's petition, Plaintiff timely filed a response
objecting to Shyllon's reinstatement by the Secretary ofthe North Carolina State Bar due
to Shyllon's violation of one of the conditions for reinstatement imposed by the 2010
Order of Discipline.
7.
The 2010 Order of Discipline required Shy lion to comply with a l1lmlber of
conditions prior to reinstatement, including but not limited to disbursing to the rightful
oW11er(s) all identified funds remaining in his trust accoWlt and escheating all unidentified
funds to the State.
8.
The 2010 Order of Discipline also required that Shyllon not violate any of
the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of suspension.
9.
In or amund JWle 2011, Shy lion began disbursing the funds retained in his
trust accowlt as required by the 2010 Order of Discipline.
10. Prior to disbursing the entrusted funds in his trust account, Shy lion did not
reconcile the trust account's actual balance with the balance reflected in Shyllon's
records.
II. At the time Shy lion began disbursing the entrusted funds in June 2011, his
trust account's actual balance was approximately $82.00 less than the balance reflected in
Shyllon's records due to research fees charged by Shyllon's bank against his trust
account in March 2009 and July 2009.

2

12. Because Shyllon did not check his actual tnlst account balance prior to
disbursing the funds in his tnlst account, Shy lion eventually attempted to disburse funds
from his tnlst account against insufficient funds. Shyllon's bank honored the check
drawn against insufficient funds.
13. Upon learning that he had disbursed against insufficient funds, Shy lIon
promptly reimbursed his trust account and provided Plaintiff with documentation
explaining his error.
14. Between March 2009 and August 2011, Shy lIon did not perform monthly or
quarterly reconciliations of the ftmds contained in his trust account.
15. Shyllon was actively suspended between March 2009 and August 2011 and,
as a result, there were no transactions in Shyllon's trust account other than the two
research fees in 2009.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant/Petitioner, Mohammed M. Shyllon, and over the subject
matter of this proceeding.
2.
Shy lIon's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes a
violation ofIhe Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a.

By failing to check the actual balance oflus tnlst account prior to
disbursing entrusted ftmds, and by failing to reconcile his trust
account records with the actual balance of ftmds contained therein
from March 2009 to August 2011, Shyllon failed to properly
reconcile his tnlst account in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d).

3.
Shy lIon 's violation of Rule 1.15-3(d) violates a condition of reinstatement
set forth in the 2010 Order of Discipline in that Shyllon violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct during his suspension.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the consent
of the parties, the hearing panel also finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING REINSTATEMENT
1.
Shyllon's violation of Rule 1.15-3(d) as described above, and therefore his
violation ofa condition of the 2010 Order of Discipline, is troubling in that Shyllon's
original discipline in case no. 03 DHC 12 resulted from his failure to properly maintain
trust account records in accordance with the Rules of Professional Conduct. Shyllon's
3

violation of Rule 1.1S-3(d) demonstrates his indifference to his obligations and
responsibilities under the Rules of Professional Conduct.
2.
Shy lion has taken additional steps to help ensure that no violations of the
Rules concel11ing his trust account will occur in the future. Shyllon has purchased
accounting software that is designed for use by law firms and is designed to track specific
client balances in tmst accOlmts. Shyllon has also aITanged to have a licensed certified
public accountant ("CPA") assist him with his trust account and reconcile his trust
accOlmt and specific client balances on at least a monthly basis.
3.
Shyllon's prompt attention and response to both the overdraft notice and
the State Bar's inquiries, as well as Shyllon's efforts to install mechanisms in his law
practice that should prevent similar elTors from reocculTing, demonstrate Shyllon's
present understanding of the significance of his misconduct as well as his responsibilities
under the Rules of Professional Conduct.
4.
Shy lion has otherwise provided the Slate Bar with satisfactory evidence of
his compliance with all other conditions imposed by the 20 10 Order.
5.
Shyllon fully cooperated with the State Bar's investigation of his
disbursement of entrusted funds from his trust account against insufficient funds.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Reinstatement, the hearing panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING REINSTATEMENT
I.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125(b)(8), a hearing panel
considering a petition for reinstatement fi·om suspension can impose additional sanctions
in the event violations of the 2010 Order of Discipline are found. Shyllon's failure to
comply with the condition in the 2010 Order of Discipline requiring that he not violate
the Rules of Professional Conduct during his suspension waITants additional sanctions in
the form of an extension of the suspension clllTently imposed on his license to practice
law.

2.
Shyllon's efforts in rectifying the violation are such, however, that the
suspension announced herein should be stayed for a period of time with conditions
imposed upon Shyllon designed to ensure protection of the public and continued
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
This panel notes the 2010 Order of Discipline imposed as a condition upon
reinstatement that Shyllon be subjected to random audits by the State Bar for three and a
half (3.5) years after reinstatement, with no more than two audits per year.
4.
This panel finds and concludes that the sanction announced below
adequately acknowledges Shyllon's failure to comply with both the Rules of Professional

4

Conduct and his failure to comply with the 20 I 0 Order of Discipline, and adequately
protects the public from future misconduct by Shy lion.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Reinstatement, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER
1.
The suspension of the law license of Petitioner, Mohammed M. Shyllon,
imposed by the 2010 Order of Discipline is hereby extended for an additional one (1)
year.

2.
For the next three and a half (3.5) years fi'om entry of this Order, Shyllon
shall permit audits of his tmst and operating accounts by the North Carolina State Bar.
Such audits will be conducted at Shyllon's expense, and all costs incuned during the
course of the audit shall be paid by Shyllon within thirty (30) days of the assessed costs
being served upon Shyllon. The North Carolina State Bar will not exercise the right to
audit the Shyllon's bank accOlUlts more than twice a year. Such limitation on random
audits will not preclude the N0l1h Carolina State Bar from conducting any audits for
cause pursuant to the Rules of Professional Conduct. Fw1hermore, any information or
documentation gained by the North Carolina State Bar while conducting said audit(s)
may result in further disciplinary proceedings being brought against Shyllon.
3.
This period of suspension is stayed for three years upon Shyllon's
compliance with all of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Furthermore, the stay of this
suspension shall continue upon Shyllon's compliance with the following conditions:
a.
For the first two years of the stayed period of suspension, Shyllon
shall have his tmst account audited on a quarterly basis by a Cel1ified Public
Accountant ("CPA") approved in advance by the Office of Counsel. The
CPA must examine all barlie accounts into which Shyllon has deposited any
entmsted funds for compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct. The
CPA must report quarterly to the Office of Counsel concerning the
compliance of Shyllon's account(s) with the Rules of Professional Conduct,
including but not limited to any accounting irregularities, deficiencies, and/or
any deviance from the requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct,
with a copy of the report sent simultaneously to Shy lion. The CPA's reports
shall include copies of all docwnents reviewed in generating the report and are
due no later than 30 days afier the end of each quarter (first quarter's report
due April 30, second quar1er's rep0l1 due July 30, third quarter's report due
October 30, arld fourth quarter's report due January 30). It is Defendant's sole
responsibility to ensure the CPA completes arld submits the reports as
required herein. Failure of the CPA to submit any report required by this
Order shall be grolmds to lifi the stay and activate the suspension.

5

b.
If any of the CPA's reports note any irregularities, deficiencies, or
deviance fi·om requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct concerning
Defendant's handling of entrusted funds, Defendant shall take remedial action
and provide proof of such to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar and to the
CPA within thirty (30) days of the date of the CPA's report.
c.
If any of the CPA's reports note any irregularities, deficiencies, or
deviance from reqnirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct concerning
Defendant's handling of entrusted nmds, the CPA shall provide a subsequent
report regarding whether Defendant's remedial actions were sufficient and
whether Defendant's account( s) has been brought into compliance with the
Rules of Professional Conduct. The CPA shall provide this report regarding
remedial measures to the Office of Counsel within thirty (30) days of
Defendant's provision of proof of remedial action.
d.
All evaluations, reports, and services of the CPA as described
herein will be at Defendant's sole expense.
e.
During the last year of the stayed period of suspension, Defendant
shall provide to the Office of Counsel on a quarterly basis copies of his
monthly and quarterly reconciliations and bank statements for the
immediately preceding qmuier, and copies of all client ledgers created during
or otherwise associated with the quarter's reconciliations. Such records shall
be due no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter (first quarter's
records due April 30, second quarter's records due July 30, third quarter's
records due October 30, and fourth quarter's report due January 30) and shall
be produced to the Office of Counsel at Defendant's sole expense. Failure of
Defendant to submit any of the records required by this Order shall be
grounds to lift the stay and activate the suspension.
f.
Shyllon shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this
proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of the N OIih Carolina State Bar within
30 days of notice of the costs being mailed to him at his address of record.
g.
Shyllon shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home physical address.
Shy lIon shall respond to all communications received from the
h.
NOIih Carolina State Bar within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in
the communication, whichever is sooner.
i.
Shy lion shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or any state.
If Shyllon fails to comply with any of the conditions stated in Paragraph 3
4.
above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Shyllon's license is activated for
6

any reason, before a subsequent stay of the suspension can be entered Shyllon must
demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence his compliance with 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .0124 and paragraphs 3(t) - (i) above during his active suspension.
5.
Shyllon's license to practice law is reinstated to active status with the
North Carolina State Bar subject to the stayed suspension and conditions announced
herein. Shyllon's reinstatement is effective as of 1 January 2012.
6.
All costs and administrative fees of this action are taxed to Petitioner.
Petitioner must pay the costs and administrative fees of this action within 30 days of
service of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
7.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.
8.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and
pursuing disciplinary action separate from this Order as warranted.

01

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of Oer€M8/, 2011.

i G.

H

SI~aron B. Alexander, C~air
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

Brian P.D. Oten
Deputy Cowlsel
NOlih Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Mohammed M. Sh lIon
Defendant

7

