BEFORE THE

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BAR
15DHC48 ol- t1"6SR7

WAKE COUNTY
( . ) ' -.c

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,cglS;

0,_-, \J

V2tb,~

Plaintiff
ORDER STAYING SUSPENSION
v.

JONATHAN SILVERMAN, Attorney,
Defendant
THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of DonaldC. Prentiss, Chair, Irvin W. Hankins, III, and Christopher R.
Bruffey pursuant to a Petition for Order Staying Suspension filed by Jonathan Silverman on 7
July 2017. Based upon the petition and a review of the records ofthe North Carolina State Bar,
the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. On January 5,2015, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission (DHC)
entered an Order of Discipline in North Carolina State Bar v. Jonathan Silverman, 15 DHC 48
C"DHC Order"), which suspended Silverman's license to practice law for a period of three years,
effective Febrnary 6, 2015.

2. The DRC Order provided that, at anytime after serving ei/lhteenmonths of the active
suspension of his license, Silverman could file a petition seeking a stay of the remaining period
ofhis suspension upon compliance with. the conditions stated in the Order.
3. On July 7, 2017 Silverman submitted a petition requesting a stay of the remaining
portion of his active suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status subject to the
continuing conditions and requirements set forth in the Order.
4. The Order required that Silverman be in compliance with a number of conditions to
qualifY for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.
5. In his petition, Silverman described the actions he has taken to comply with and
satisfY the conditions of the Order.
6. Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar does not object to Silverman's petition.

1

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, and without any evidence presented in
opposition to the petition, the Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The petitioner, Jonathan Silverman, has satisfied the conditions established in the
Order of Discipline for a stay ofms suspension and reinstatementto active status, subject to the
continuing conditions set forth in the Order.
2. Silverman's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon his continued
compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order.
Based upon the findings and CQnclusions stated herein, the. Hearing Panel enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The remain~g active suspension of Silverman's license impQsed by the Order of
Discipline in 15 DRC 48 is hereby stayed and Silverman is reinstated to the active practice of
law in North Carolina, effective August 7, 2017.
2. The stay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions, and
requirements set forth in the Order of Discipline.
3. Silverman's status as an active member of the North Carolina State Bar shall continue
in force only as long as he complies and continues to comply with all of the conditions set forth
in the Order of Discipline, as follows:
(a) Silverman shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department advised
of his current physical home and business addresses and telephone numbers;

(b) Silverman shall accept all certified mall from the North Carolina State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for infurmation from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or within fifteen
days of receipt of such communication, whichever is earlier;
(c) Silverman shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and continuing legal
education requirements, and shall pay all fees and CQstsassesged by the State Bar
and the Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline;
(d) Silverman shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;
and
(e) Silverman shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
federal laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of suspension.

2

2.
If Silverman fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditiolls set out in the
Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided
in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B ยง :0118 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Ru1es (approved by the Supreme Court of North Carolina on 22 September2016).
3.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
throughout the remainder of the suspension.

S~~hair with the CQnsent of the other hearing panel members, this thelQ.
day of

6

, 2017.

3

