-'
BEFORE THE
:-' ,CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
15 DHC 48

STATE OF NORTH CAR

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLlNA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
JONATHAN SILVERMAN, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATIER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, Irvin W. Hankins, III, and Patti Head.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian p.o. Oten. Defendant,
Jonathan Silverman, was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Defendant waives a formal hearing
in this matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this order, and consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the
eIllry of this order, Defendant knowingly, freely, and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this
I:onsent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings and conclusions herein.
Based on the foregoing and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Jonathan Silvennan ("Defendant" or "Silverman"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on 24 August 1985 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules
of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the relevant periods referred to herein, Silvennan was actively engaged in
the private practice of law in the city ofSantord, Lee County, North Carolina.
4.

Silvennan was properly served with the summons and complaint in this matter.

5.
In or around August 2009, S.O. retained Jonathan Silverman for representation
concerning a separation agreement and property settlement dispute.
6.
In or around October 2013, while Silverman's representation of S.O. was ongoing,
Silverman began a personal and physically intimate relationship with S.O.
7.

Silverman had sexual intercourse with S.O. while S.O. was his client.

8.

In or around May 2014, Silverman withdrew from his representation of S.O.

9.
[n November 2014, S.O. sought Silverman's assistance in retaining new counsel for
her ongoing case.
10. Silverman agreed to have his law firm represent S.O., and one of Silverman's law
partners began representing her.
II. Although Silverman was no longer the attorney of record in S.G. 's case, Silverman
continued to participate in the representation ofS.G.
12. Silverman engaged in sexual intercourse with S.G. during his firm's second
representation of S.O.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the DHC has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Jonathan Silvennan, and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)

By having sexual intercourse with S.O. while representing S.G. in her case,
Siiverman had sexualt'dations with a current client in violation of Rule
1.19(a) and engaged in conduct that was prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8A(d); and

(b)

By continuing to participate in the representation of S.O. after previously
withdrawing from the representation due to the sexual relationship that
developed during the representation, Silverman engaged in a concurrent
conflict of interest in violation of Rule l.7(a)(2) and engaged in conduct that
was prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d).

Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following

2

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I,
Delendant violated the trust inherent in the attorney-client relationship by
elevating his own interests above the best interests of his client.
2.
Defendant's continued sexual relationship with S.G. and subsequent
representation of S.G. after previously withdrawing from the representation due to the conflict
created by his sexual relationship with S.G. demonstrates a lack of judgment, a pattern of
misconduct, and demonstrates Defendant's intent to commit acts where the potential harm is
foreseeable.
3.

Deitmdant has substantial experience in the practice of law.

4,
Defendant's conduct has the potential to cause significant harm to the standing of
the pl'ofessiDn ill the eyt:~ of his clients an'::: in the ey~s' of tht: pub:ic beca~sc it sho\',.-s" h;3
disregard for his duties as an attorney,
5.

Defendant has previously been disciplined twice by the State Bar:
a. 92 DHC 18 - Defendant was admonished by the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission for engaging in conduct that was prejudicial to the administration of
justice by failing to reveal information to the Court that was necessary for the
court's full consideration of a plea agreement.
b. 03G I 150 - Defendant was admonished by the Grievance Committee for engaging
in a conflict of interest.

6.
Aside from the conduct described above, Defendant has established a reputation
for good character in his community.
7,
8,
conduct.

Defendant has indicated remorse for his actions.
Defendant has cooperated with the State Bar in its investigation of Defendant's

9_
The+icaring Pand hii~ carefully (;Ol1SiUt:ft!d -all of the diffe1'0lil forms' uf discipline'
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it.

3

2.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB § .OI14(w) of the Discipline and Disciplinary Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
3.
The Hearing Panel concludes that the following factors from § .OI14(w)(I),
which are to be considered in imposing suspension or disbannent, are present in this case:
(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the hann or potential hann is
foreseeable;
(b) Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of integrity in connection with the
events described in this order;
(c) Elevation of Defendant's own interests above that of the client; and
Cd} Defendant's aotionshlld a potential negative impact on his client's and the
public's perception of the legal profession.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in § .OI14(w)(2)
of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes no factors are
present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
5.
The Hearing Panel concludes that the following factors from § .OI14(w)(3),
which are to be considered in all cases, are present in this case:
(a) Defendant's prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Defendant's selfish motive;
(c) Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
(d) Defendant's remorse;
(e) Defendant's good character and reputation;
(t) Defendant's pattern of misconduct; and

(g) Defendant's substantial experience in the practice of law.
6.
Defendant's conduct caused significant potential harm to his client by
undennining the tlUst inherent in the attorney-client relationship.
7.
The Hearing Panel has considered admonition, reprimand, and censure as
potential discipline but finds that admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be sufficient
discipline because of the gravity of the potential harm to the client and the significant threat of
potential harm to the public.
8.
The Panel finds that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge
the seriousness ofthe offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the public,
4

and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters
the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of Defendant, Jonathan Silverman, is hereby suspended for three
years, effective 30 days from the date of service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the effective date of this Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0124
of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB §
.0124. As provided in § .0124(d), Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within 30 days of the effective date of this order, certifying he has
compl ied with the wind down rule.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and the costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary within 30 days of service oflhe statement of costs upon him.
S.
Within 30 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shaH provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant shall promptly retum all files
to his clients upon request.

6.
After serving no less than eighteen months of the suspension, Defendant may
petition for a stay of the remaining period of suspension imposed by this Order by filing a
verified petition with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant may file a
petition for a stay up to 30 days prior to the end of the eighteen-month period but no stay of the
suspension shalll,e c;;tered pl'ior to the expiration of at least eighteen months of this suspension.
In order to be eligible for a stay of the remaining period of suspension, Defendant must
demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that, in addition to complying with the
general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, he has complied with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall timely comply with paragraphs 2-5 of this section of the Order of
Discipline;
(b) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical home and business addresses and telephone
numbers;
5

(c) Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or within fifteen
days of receipt of such communication, whichever is earlier;
(d) Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and continuing legal
education requirements, and shall pay all fees and costs assessed by the State Bar
and the Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline;
(e) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution program when notitled of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;
and
(I)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
iederallaws olher than minor tmilk violations during the period of suspension.

7.
If Defendant is granted a stay of the suspension of his law license pursuant to this
Order, the stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies with the following
conditions:
(a) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical home and business addresses and telephone
numbers;
(b) Defendant shall accept all certitled mail from the North Carolina State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for infonnation from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or within fifteen
days of receipt of such communication, whichever is earlier;
(c) Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and continuing legal
education requirements, and shall pay all fees and costs assessed by the State Bar
and the Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline;
(d) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;
and
(e) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
federal laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of suspension.
8,
If Detendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in
Paragraph 7 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in
27 N,C, Admin, Code 1B § .0 114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules.
9.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of any active period of suspension, or if some
part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must provide in his
application for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence oflhe following:
6

(a) Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code I B § .0125 of the NOlth Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
and
(b) Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraphs 6(a) - (f) above.
10.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct discovered
or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct addressed in this Order.

C~N
TEDTOBV,

Brlli1PJ5.Otell

L

Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Alnn tv!. Schneider
Counsel for Defendant

7

