NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0660 193

IN THE MATTER OF
STEPHEN J. MANZANO,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

On April 19, 2007, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by M.B.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing in your case. After
considering the information available to it, including your responses to the letter of notice, the
Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as
"reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

The Rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. 'l'he Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential h a m to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Attorney M.B. retained you to work with him as co-counsel representing client A.F.
Before A.F.'s litigation was concluded, you and M.B. had a disagreement. M.B. instructed you to
return to him all confidential documents belonging to A.F. Instead of following this instruction,
you put confidential documents belonging to A.F. in garbage bags and deposited the garbage
bags outside the home of A.F.'s parents. You intended to reveal confidential client information
to A.F.'s parents. You intended to damage A.F.'s reputation and credibility with her parents. The

Committee found that your conduct violates Rules 1.6(a), I. 16(d) and 8.4 (g) the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this t h e 7 6

day of

&
Fox, Chair

,2007.

