NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G 1108 & 18G0425

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
DOUGLAS K. SIMMONS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 26, 2018 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. The grievances
were assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs
investigation of these matters.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the NOlih Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You associated with Lexington Law, a company engaged in the unauthorized practice of
law in North Carolina. Prior to Lexington Law's registration as an interstate law firm, you
provided legal services to N olih Carolina residents on behalf of and at the direction of Lexington
Law, thereby aiding another entity in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(f).
Moreover, you shared a fee with a nonattorney and collected an illegal fee by accepting a pOliion

of the fees collected by Lexington Law from N011h Carolina consumers, in violation of Rule
5.4(a) and Rule I.5(a). By allowing Lexington Law to direct and control the legal services you
provided on behalf of the firm, you allowed a nonlawyer to regulate your professional judgment
in rendering legal services in violation of Rule 5.4(c). After Lexington Law registered as an
interstate law firm, you became the firm ' s only North Carolina attorney and thus were
responsible for the firm's actions in this state. Your nonattorney assistants at Lexington Law
thereafter directly solicited clients in N0l1h Carolina and provided them with legal advice. You
indicated that you were unaware of these solicitations. By failing to supervise nonattorney
employees of Lexington Law such that they were permitted to provide legal services directly to
clients of the firm thereby engaging in the unauthorized practice of law, you failed to take
reasonable efforts to ensure that your nonlawyer assistants were acting in accordance with the
professional obligations of the profession in violation of Rule 5.3(a). Finally, by permitting your
nonattorney assistants to directly solicit clients, you violated Rule 7.3(a).
In determining that a Reprimand was appropriate in this case, the Committee took into
account the harm that necessarily results whenever attorneys aid unregistered, out-of-state
entities in the unauthorized practice of law, pat1icularly when money exchanges hands, com1
appearances are made, and legal forms are drafted or filed on behalf of others. The Committee
also considered the remorse you expressed in your response that inspires confidence that this
behavior will not be repeated.
You are hereby reprimanded by the N0l1h Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23 , 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

.....J~ day of..J. . .,. U!;7.I4~~~~=-_

Grievance Committee
TA/lb

