NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

ORDER OF
INTERIM SUSPENSION

KARLA W. SIMON, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter is before the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Rule .0115(d) of the Discipline &
Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina State Bar on the State Bar's petition for an order of
interim suspension ofthe law license of Karla W. Simon, based upon her convictions of crimes
showing professional unfitness in Cambridge Massachusetts. Based upon the petition and the
certified copy of Simons' guilty plea/conviction and judgment, the undersigned hereby makes
the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Respondent, Karla W. Simon, was licensed to practice law in North Carolina on
August 12,1972. Simon's license has been on inactive status as of December 31,1988. As an
inactive member of the North Carolina State Bar Simon is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of North Carolina.

2.
The current address of record for Simon with the North Carolina State Bar is 451
Linnie Canal, Venice, CA 90291.
3.
On November 3, 2014 in Cambridge, Massachusetts Simon pled guilty to the
felony of Stalking.
On December 18,2014 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, based upon Simon's
4.
admissions to sufficient facts, Simon was found guilty on 29 counts of misdemeanor Violation of
Harassment Prevention Order and nine counts felony Intimidate Witness/Juror/Police/Court
Official.
5.
2017.

Simon was sentenced to three years of probation, to expire on December 19,

6.
On May 26,2015 Simon was found to be in violation of her probation and was
sentenced to one year incarceration in the Massachusetts Department of Correction at MCI
Framingham.
7.
The North Carolina State Bar will file a formal complaint against Defendant
alleging she has violated the Rules of Professional Conduct based upon her felony convictions.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, the undersigned makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
The felony offenses to which Simon pled guilty and were convicted of are serious
crimes showing professional unfitness to practiqe as defined by Rule .0103(17) ofthe State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b).
2.
Rule .0115(d) ofthe N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules authorizes the
Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission to enter an order suspending an attorney's license
upon receipt of a certified copy of a plea of guilty to a serious crime showing professional
unfitness to practice law.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the license to practice law in North Carolina of Karla W.
Simon, is hereby SUSPENDED until the conclusion of all disciplinary matters pending before
the North Carolina State Bar relating to Simon's convictions to serious crimes showing
professional unfitness.

This thJ')"tYOf

6~~5.

~Ai£Jl
Steven D. Michael, ChaIr
Disciplinary Hearing Commission

