NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12G0704

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Travis H. Simpson,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On April 18, 2013, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by E. N.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defiued in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant hanll or potential significant hanll to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
E. N. filed a grievance against you with the North Carolina State Bar. The State Bar sent Mr.
N.'s grievance to the 21 st Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee (hereafter, local grievance
committee) for investigation. You were contacted by the local grievance committee on August 16,
2012 and asked to respond to Mr. N.'s grievance within 15 days of your receipt ofthe letter. You did
not respond timely to the local grievance committee. On November 15,2012, the local grievance
committee representative left a message with your office and advised that if you did not respond to the
grievance, the grievance would be returned to the North Carolina State Bar for investigation. You failed
to respond to the local grievance committee. Our office sent you a letter of notice which required you
to respond within 15 days of its receipt. You were served with the letter of notice on November 30,
2012, but did not respond until February 11,2013.

You admit that you did not respond to the local grievance committee regarding this grievance.
You offered no specific reason for your failure to respond other than you are a solo practitioner who is
understaffed and trying to juggle the demands of a law practice. Nevertheless, the Grievance
Committee found that your failure to respond to the local grievance committee violated Rule 8.1 (b) and
Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. In addition, your failure to respond promptly to the
State Bar's letter of notice violated Rule 8.1 (b) and 8.4(d). Our profession is self- regulated and it is
extremely important for lawyers to participate in the investigation of grievances filed against them by
responding to the complainant's allegations. The Grievance Committee notes that you have been
disciplined in the past for your failure to respond to the local grievance committee in one grievance and
your failure to respond promptly in two other grievances.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation ofthe Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

fe tIC

day of

~

, 2013.

Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

