STATE OF NORTH CAR
WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
v.

CONSENT ORDER OF
DlSCIPUNE

CASSANDRA DAWN SKERRETT,
Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Co=i8sion composed of Joshua W: Willey, Jr., Chair, and members William O. King
and Randy Moreau, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0114(11) of the NOl'th Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
Plaintiff was represented by Barry S. McNeill, Deputy Counsel. Defendant, Cassandra
Dawn Skerrett (,'Defendant" or "Skerrett"), was represented by David Freedman of
Crumpler, Freedman, Parker & Witt, Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Both Plaintiff and
Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings offact and conclusions oflaw recited in this
cOnsent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant has freely and voluntarily
. stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the conclusions oflaw and
entry of the order of discipline. Defendant freely and voluntmily waives any and all right
to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in tIus matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and With
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the North Ca1'Olina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized lmder the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina,
and the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of
the North Carolina Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, Cassandra Dawn Skerrett ("Skerrett" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1990, and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, anattomey at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
laws 'of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Skerrett was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina in Hendersonville,
Henderson County, North Carolina.
4.
Gene Carswell ("Mr. Carswell") is the Presideut of ACC Construction,
Iuc. ("ACC"), and GHC Land Development, L.L.C.("GHC").
5.
Through ACC and GHC, Mr. Carswell owned, developed, and built
residential homes on the lots in the Rebecca's Pond subdivision in Hendersonville, North
Carolina.
6.
Mr. Carswell aiso owned a property at 705 Oakland Street ("Oakland
Street") iu Hendersonville, North Carolina, which had an aprutment upstairs and offices
downstalrs.
7.
Mr. Carswell's. office was located in one of the downstairs offices of the
Oakland Street property.
8.
In June of 2009, Mr. Cmswell rented the upstairs apartment and a
downstairs office to Defendant, and Defendant agreed, as rent, to pay Mr. Carswell's
second mortgage on the Oakland Street property in tbe ru'llount of approximately $1,600
per month.
9.
Defendant moved her residence and office to Mr. Cmwell's Oakland
.. Street property on or about July 15,2009.
10.
Mr. Carswell and Defendant agreed that Defendant would share Mr.
Carswell's office manager, Ellie Ray ("Ms. Ray"), to WOlK for both Mr. CarsweH and
Defendant.
.
11.
Mr. Carswell furrtished the Oakland Street property offices with two
computers, with Defendant shming the main office computer with Ms. Ray and using the
other computer as her law practice computer.
. 12.
Prior to Mr. Carwell's office sharing anangement with Defendant, ACe
had brought a lawsuit against Robert and Dana Mangum ("Mangums"), and contemplated
filing additional lawsuits agairistChl'istopher and Susan Wall ("Walls"), and 'Constahce

Stl:ligiel ("Smigiel"), who had invested in building homes in the Rebecca's Pond
subdivision.
13.
Mr. Carswell and Defendant agreed that Defendant would represent Mr.
Carswell and ACC in ACC's lawsuits against the Walls, Mangums, and Smigiel, and
would do so on a contingency basis of25%.
.
14.
Defendaut filed ACe's lawsuit against the Walls and Smigiel in July
2009, and Defendant made an appearance as ACC's counsel ill the Mangums' lawsuit.

-2-

15.
Defendant terminated Ms. Ray in or about February 2010, but Ms. Ray
continued to work for Mr. Carswell.
16.
In May 2010, Defendant ceased paying Mr, Carswell's second mortgage
and changed the locks on the doors of the Oakland Street property.
17.
ACC's and GHC's business and.QuickBooks financial records were stored
on the computer being utilized by Defendant, and were password protected.
18.
On July 19,2010, at 9:50 a.m., Mr. Carswell terminated Defendant as his
aud ACC's attorney by email communication to Defendant, and Defendant
acknowledged receipt of the electronic e-mail communication the same date at I :16 p.m.
19,
Thereafter, on July 19, 2010, at approximately 4:30 p.m., Defendant filed
notices voluntary dismissal without prejudice in the Mangums' and Smigiel's lawsuits,
and a notice ofvolup.tary dislnissal with prejudice in the Walls' lawsuit.
.

of

20.
The notices of voluntary dismissal referenced in Paragraph 19 above were
filed by Defendant after she had been terminated as Mr. Carswell's and ACe's attorney,
were ftled without Mr. Carswell's knowledge or pennission, and were filed by Defendant
knowing that she had been terminated as Mr. Carswell's and ACC' s attorney.
Defundant never moved to withdraw from her appearances in the Walls',
21.
Mangoms', and Smigiel's lawsuits.
22.
In reliance on the notice of voluntary dismissal with prejudice filed by
Defundarrt in the Walls' lawsuit, .the .opposing party dismissed its counterclaim, and third
party claim against ACe.
.
23.
Because of Defendant's conduct, Mr. Carswell and ACC subsequently,
tl1l'ough . their successor counsel, were farced to move for relief fi'om the voluntary .
dismissal with prejudice filed by Defendant il1 the Walls' lawsuit.·
24.
Following a court hearing at which Defendant testified, on October 4,
2010 the court granted relief from the vohmt!Uy dismissal with prejudice filed by
Defendant in the Walls'· lawsuit, as well as the opposing patty's dismissal of its
coUhterclalrn and third patty claim,
25.
Mr. Carswell evicted Defendant fi'om the Oakland SU'eet property for
nonpayment of rent.
26.
Iii vacating the Oaldand. Street property, Defendant took both of the
.
computers which had been purchased by Mr. Carswell and his businesses.
27.
Mr. Carswell demanded that Defendant retom both of the computers, but
Defendant insisted that Mr. Carswell had donated the computers to her law practice.

-3-

28.
On September 6, 2010, Mr. CarsweIl filed a police report concerning the
computers taken by Defendant, but Defendant was never criminally prosecuted for taking
the computers.

29.
FolloWing termination as Mr. Carswell's and ACC' s attorney, and without
Mr. Carswell's knowledge or consent, Defendant knowingly gained access to . and
reviewed Mr. Carswell's personal and business files, including the ACC's and OI-fC's
bus.iness and QuickBooks financial records, which were stored on one or more or the.
computers taken from the Oakland 811"eet property.

:10.
Defendant did.not·divulge or reveal any confidential· and privileged
infotU\<ition gained from her access to and review of Mr. Carwell's personal and business
files' on the computers.
31.
Brian Sentelle ("Mr. Sentelle") received a workers' compensation
settlement totaling $140,000 ..

32.
Mr. Sentelle had Intemal Revenne Service ("IRS") and North Carolina
bepartment of Revenue tax liens against him at the time he received the settlement funds
referenced in Paragraph 31 above.
33.
Mr. Sentelle wanted to avoid the IRS being able to levy agginst his
settlement funds to satisry his IRS tax obligation.
34.
In July 2009, Mr. Sentelle infOlmed Defendant about the anticipated
settlement funds, his tax liens and his desire that the IRS not be able to levy against the
settlement funds;
.
Mr. Sentelle asked Defendant to deposit the settlement funds into
35.
Detendant"s trust account.

36.
Defendant agree!! to accept Mr. Sentelle's settlement funds and deposit the
same into her trust account.

37.
On September 2, 2009, Defendant deposited $100,000 of Mr. Sentel!e's
settlement fundS into her fum's trust account at the Mountain 1st Bank & Trust (account
number ending 111-079:3) ("fIrm's trust account").
38.
On September 12, 2009, Defendant deposited an additional $25,949 of Mr.
Sentelle's settlement funds' into her fum's trust account.

39. Mr. Sentelle claimed that, as to the remaining $14,051 of his settlement
funds, in early September 2009 he gave Defendant approximately $10,000 in cash;
including funds to negotiate a settlement with the IRS and approximately $2,000 in
payment to Defendant for representation of him on earlier misdemeanor criminal charges
and a contempt proceeding for violating a domestic violence protection order obtained by
afotmer girlfriend.

40.
No documentation exists to confinn that Mr. Sentelle gave Defendant the
approxhnately $10,000 in cash referenced in Paragraph 39 above.
4t
On September 12, 2009, Mr. Sentelle executed a Power of Attorney fOnh
authorizing Defendant to represent him in negotiations with the IRS concerning his tax
liens.
42:
On or about September 12, 2009, Mr. Sentelle moved to and lived for a
time in Florida.

43.
When Mr. SenteUe needed funds, he would contact Defendant and make a
request for the funds.
44.
Because Mr. SenteUe did not have a checking account, Defendant would
withdraw the requested amount of cash from the trust account. and wire the funds to··Mr.
Sentelle.
45.
Defendant informed Mi'. Sentelle that the only fee associated with his
withdmwals would be the bank's wiring fees.

46.
Unknown to Mr. SenteUe, Defendant charged Mr. Sentelle a $\00
administrative fee each time she withdrew cash to wire money to Mr. Sentelle.
47.
From September 15,2009 to October 5, 2009, Defendant or her office
assistant initiated seven (7) separate wire transfers of funds to Mr. Sentelle, and on each
occasion Defendant charged Mr. Sentelle a $100 administrative ree without his
'knOWledge or consent.
48. . On October 5, 2009, at Defendant's direction, Ms. Ray set up and
transfetred$96,OOO afMr. Sentelle's settlement funds Ibm the fum's trust aCCOlm! into a
new trust account for Mr. Sentelle's benefit, the "Brian Sentelle Trust Account" at the
M01l11tain 1" Bank & Trust (account number ending in -6489).
49.
The Brian Sentelle Trust Account referenced in Paragraph 48 above was
mistakenly set up as a savings account rather than a business checking account.
.

.

From Ootober 15,2009 to November 18, 2009, Defendant or Ms. Ray
initiated at least ten (10) withdrawals to Mr. Sentelle ii'om the Brian Sentelle Trust
Account, and on each occasion Defendant charged Mr. Sentene a $100 administrative fee
Without his knowledge or consent.
50.

51.
Because the Brian Sentelle Trust Account had been mistakenly set up as a
savings acco1l11t, as referenced in Paragraph 49 above, all of the financial transactions
referenced in Paragraph 50 above were drawn on the account as cash transactions.

52.
In November 2009, Mr. Sentelle became involved in
charged with criminal trespass, assault, and communicating threats.
-5-

a: fight and was

53..
On November 20, 2009, Defendant withdrew $2,000 from Mr. Sentelle's
funds without Mr. Sentelle's knowledge or consent.

entrost~d

54.
Because t.he Brian Sentelle Trust Account had been mistakenly.set up as a
savings account, ajl referenced in Paragraph 49. above, Defendant's withdrawal of the
$2,000 referenced in Paragraph 53 above was drawn on the account as a cash transaction.

55.
After .he . learned about .the unauthorized disbursements, Mr. Sentelle
discharged Defendant and requested a refund of all the funds remaining in his trust
account .
. 56.
Defendant infonned Mr. Sentelle that she would not refund the $2,000 fee
referenced in Paragraph 53 above because it was a non-refundable flat fee for
l'epi'esenting him on the criminal charges referenced in Paragraph 52 above.
.

.

'.

57.
Mr. Sentelle disputed the fee and demanded that Defendant close his trust
account and return the balance of his money.

58.

Defundant did not represent Mr. Sentelle or perfonn any legal services for

Mr. Sentelle on the criminal charges referenced in Paragraph 52 above.
59.

Defendant did not refund the $2,000 fee to Mr. Sentelle.

60.. . Defendant closed the Brian Sentelle Trust Account on November 27,2009
and arranged for Mr, Sentelle to pick up a check for the balance of $74,633.80 from the
bank.
.
.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings· of
Facf, the Hearing Panel enters the foIlowing:

Conclusions of La'lv
I.
All pruties are prope1'ly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this pI'QG.eeding.
.'

.

'

2.
Defendant'sconQuct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

It)

By accessing Mr. Carswell's personal and business files on the computers
without Mr. Carswell's authorization, Defendant committed criniinal acts
that reflect adversely on her honesty, tl1lstworthiness 01' fitness as a lawyer
in violation of Rule 8.4(b), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit 01' misrepresentation in violation ofRule8.4(c);

b)

By filing the notices of voluntary dismissal without Mr. Carswell's
penni3sion, Defendant acted ytithout her client's consent in violation of
Rule 1.2(a), intentionally prejudiced her client in violation of Rule 8.4(g),
failed to protect her client's interests upon teooination of the
-6-

representation in violation of Rule 1.16(d), and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d);
c)

By failing to move to withdraw from representation of Mr. Carswell and
ACC, Defendant failed to seek the conrt's pennission to withdraw from
the representation in violation of Rule 1.16(a)(3);

d)

By talong Mr. Sentelle's entrusted settlement funds as administrative fees
or as a nOlll'efundable flat fee without authorization, Defendant committed
a criminal act that reflects adversely on her honesty, trustworthioess or
fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b), and Defendant engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);

ej

By charging Mr. Sentelle a nonrefundable flat fee withont performing any
legal services for him and without refunding any unearned fees to Mr ..
Sentelle, Defendant charged and collected a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule 1.5(a); aud,

f)

By makiog cash withdrawals from a trust account that she maintained for
Mr. Sentelle, Defendant made cash withdrawals froin the trust account in
violation of Rules 1.15-2(h) and/or Rule 1.15-2(i).

3.
The evidence is conflicting and there is no clear, cogent and convinoing
evidence that Defendant willfully took and converted Mr. Carswell's computers.
4.
There is no clear, congent and convincing evidence that Defendant
deposited Mr. Sentelle's settlement funds initially into her trust account and eventnally
into a separate trust account in order to assist.Mr. Sentelle in tax evasion of theIRS.
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
Defendant has no prior disciplinary record concerning her license to
practice law io North Carolina.
2.
Defendant cooperated with the· State Bar's investigation and has been·
responsive to the State Hat's inquiries.

s

3.
Defendant's trueing of Mr. Sentelle' entrusted settlement funds as
a4ministrative fees (totaling $1,700) or as it nonrenmdable flat fce ($2,000) was without
. authorization and constitnted misdemeanor criminal aClsor a low level felony.
4.
misconduct.
5.

Defendant has expressed remorse for her actions and professional

Defendant previously served as an elected District COlllt Judge.

-7-

6.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fohns of
disoipline available to it, including adffionition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the foliowing:
Conclusious With Respect To Discipliue

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it. ..
2.
. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated
in 27 N.C.A.C.lB §.O 114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North CarolinaState
Bar and concludes the· fdll?wing factors warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
. (A)

Defendant intended to cause the resulting harm 01' potential harm;

(C)

Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, tl1lstworthiness, or
integrity;

(E)

Defendant's actions had a negative impact on the client's
perception of the legal profession;

(F)

Defendant's actions had a negative impact on the administration ofjnstice;

(G)

Impaiiment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
. representation; and,

(H)

01'

public's

Defendant's conduct had negative effect on third parties.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the disbarment factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. lB §. OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North
Carolina State· Bar and concludes that Defendant's misconduct involves· acts of
dishonesty or misappropriation which invoke the findings of 27 N.C.A.C.. 1B
§.01l4(W)(2)(A)and 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(2)(C).
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. 1B §.01l4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North CarolinaState
. Bar and concludes the following factors ate applicable in this matter:
(A)

Defendant's lack of prior diSciplinary offenses;

(G)

Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;

(K)

befendant's full and free dis.closure to the hearing panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
-8-

(P)

Defendant's remorse and efforts to repay all SlunS;

(Q)

Defendant's good character and reputation; and

. (S)

Defendant's degree of experience in the practice oflaw

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure butconc1udes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because~f
the gravity of .the misconduct at issue and the harm or potential hanu Defendant's
misc.onduct caused to the public, the administration ofjustice, and the legal prilfiissliin.· .

6.
The Hearing Panel also has considered the disbarment factots under 27
N.CAC.IB §.01l4(w)(2)(A) and 27N.C.A.C. lB §.OlI4(w)(2)(C), but concludes that
neither ofthesefactors warrant disbarment in order to protect the public in this case.'
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of suspension of Defendant's law license would not adequately pl'6tect
the public, the legal profession, 01' the administration of justice for the following reasons:
a) The factors under 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w)(1) and (w)(3) that are
established by the evidence are of a nature that support imposition of
suspension as the appropriate discipline; and,
b) Entry ofless serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness
of the offenses Defendant Mmmitted and would send the wrong message
to prosecutors, attorneys, and the public regardiug the condUct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.

Based upon the foregoing fmdings offact and conclusions oflaw and the findings offact and. conclusion regardihgdlscipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the .
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order of Discipline
1.
Defendant, Cassandra Dawn Skerrett, is hereby suspended from the
practice· of law for four years, effective 30· days frorn service of this order· upon
Defendant.
.

2.

Defendant shall submit her license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the effective date of this
Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C; Admin. Code lB § .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Ear, including promptly disbursing any entrusted funds cUTI'ently remaining in her firm's
trust account to its dghtful owner(8).
4.
Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the NOlth Carolina
State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this Order, certifying she has complied
. with the wind down rule.
-9-

5.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of
flies can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant shall
promptly return all files to her clients upon request.
.
6.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defend[jllt shall be served with a statement of costs and fees.
DefimdimtshaIl pay theamomit'assessedwithinthirtydays of service of the statement of·
~~~~~

.

.

.

7~
Two years from the effective date df this Order, Defendant may file a
verified petition for a stay of the remaining period of her suspension demonstrating by
clear, cogent and convinciIlg evidericethat, in addition to complying with the general
provisions for reinstatement contained in 27 N.C. Acfrnin. Code IB § .. 0125 dfthe Rilles
and RegUlations of the North Carolina State Bar, Defendant has complied during her
suspension with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant timely submitted her annual Continuing Legal Education
("CLE") report fonn to the CLE Department of the North Carolina State
Bar each year of the suspension and contemporaneously sent a copy of the
CLE report fornl to the Office of Connsel of the State Bar to document
compliance with the conditions of the stay. "Timely" means by the date
specified by the CLE department as the date by which members must
submit their armual report forns to avoid assessment of a $75.00 I,,(e
filing penalty. Defendant must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a
copy of her anmialCLE reportfoim no later than 15 days after it is due to
the CLE department of the State" Bar each year;
.

(b) In addition to her annual requirement of 12 hours of CLE and within the
next 24 ·months following .the effective date of her suspension, Defendant
. shall complete an additional six (6) hours ofCLE, approved in advance by
the Office of Counsel, related to law office management;

(c) Defendant properly wound down her law practice and complied with the
telms of27 N.C. Acfrnin. Code 1B § .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar;
(d) Within I;; days of the effective date of tins Order Defoiidant ptovided the
State Bar with·an address and telephone number at which clients seeking
return of files could commnnicate with Defendant and obtain such files,
and that Defendant promptly returned ·all files tD her clients upon request;
(e) Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar infonned of
her CUlTent information for her physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of her
suspension;

. .J. ()

Cf) Defendant accepted all certified mail ftom the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of her suspension;
(g) Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North Carolina State Bar'by the deadline stated therein with full
and. complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
pei'ibd of her suspension;
.
(h) Defendant has. come into.. compliance with any outstanding continuing
education of menibership obligations at the time of the filiug of her
petition for reinstatement;
.
(i) Defendant <lid not violateauy anile Rules of Professional Couductin .

effect dtiringthe period'ofher suspension;

CD Defendant did not violate any laws of the State ofNortli Carolina ot of the
United States during the period of her suspension; and
(k) Defendant paid aU costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the

Secretary within thirty days of service of the statement of costs and fees .
upon her,
8.
. The. procedures of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter lB, Section .OI2S(b)
shaU gQWm Defendant's petition for a stay of the remainder of the suspension ofher law
license.
.
9.
Defendant may.file a petition seeking.a stay of the remaining period of her
susPl'nsion and demonstrating compliance with the conditions stated in Paragraph 7 .
above at any time after· 30 days prior to the end of the second year of the fOUl' year
suspension, but the stay shall.not be lif\ed and Defendant shall not be reinstated until, at .
the earliest, the elld of that second year of the foUl' year suspension.
10.
If the State Bar does not file an objection to Defendant's petition for a stay
of the remainder of her silspension as desoribed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter lB,
Section .OI25(b)(6), then pUl'suant (0 Seotion .OI2S(b)(S) the Secretary shall put i11to
effect the stay of the l'emaLningperiod of .suspension provided for in this Order by
reinstating Defendant to active status subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements
this Order of Discipline, with Defendant's active statos contingent upon continued
compliance with the terms of this Order. Such stay will continue in force only as long as
Defendant continues to comply with all conditions in this Order, including the conrutions
set out in paragraph 12 below.

of

. 11.
If the State Bar files an objection to Defendant's petition for a stay of the
remainder of her suspension as described iu 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter lB, Section
.0125(bj(6), then pUl'suant to Section .OI2S(b)(7) the Secretary shall refer the matter to
the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission (DHC). The Chair of the DHC shall
appoint a hearing panel and set the matter for hearing as described in Section .0125(h)(7).

The Chair of the DHC shall appoint as members of the hearing panel the members
entering this Order if practicable.
12.
If Defendant is granted a stay of her suspension, the stay of her suspension
will remain in effect only if Defendant complies, and continues to comply, with the
following conditions:
. .
(a) Defendant shali arrange for an active member of the North Carolina State
Bar to serve as her law practice monitor. Defendant's practice monitor
shall be ao attorney in good standing who practices law in Defendant's
judicial district aod who has been approved by the Office of Counsel. The
monitor will supervise all cllent matters and will ensure that Defendant
haoGles all client matters in a timely fashion, including, but not limited to,
promptly responding to her clients and diligent pursuit of her clients'
matters. Defendant shall meet once a month with her monitoring attomey,
report the status of all current client matters to the monitor, cooperate with
the monifOl'ifig attillney, and provide aoy infonnation the monitoring
attorney deems reasonably necessalY to ensure that Defendaot is properly
and timely handling all client matters. The monitor will submit written
quarterly repOlts of this supervision to the Office of Counsel, such reports .
due on the following dates as they occur during the stay of this
suspension: Januruy 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. Defendant
bears the responsibility of ensuring the monitoring attomey sends a written
repoxt each quarter to the Office of Counsel as described above. This
monitoring will occur for the duration of any stay ofthls suspension.
Defendant will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this
supervision. Defendant must make the arrangements for this monitoring
attorneyaod supply the Office ofConnsel with a letter from the
monitoring attomey confinning his or her agreement to perfonn the duties
listed above;·
(b) Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make
appropriate arrangements for ao alternate monitoring attomey if needed
during any slay of her suspension;
(c) Defendallt kept the Melnbership Depaltment of the State Bar infonned of
het current infonnation for her physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and eemail address throughout the period of her stay of
suspension;

Cd) Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar thi'oughout the period of her stay of suspension;
(e) Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for infonnation
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
aod complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of her stay ofstlspension;

(f) Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of her suspension; and~

(g) Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of her suspension.
13. , If Defendant is granted a stay of her suspension, Defend~t' s, obligations
unde1' this Order end four years from the effective date of the Order provided there are no
motions or show cause proceedings. pending. alleging lack of compliance with the . '
conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114{x)
of the Rules and Regulations of· the North Carolina State Bar, the DHC retains
jurisdiction until all oonditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion
or show causeprocee<ling alleging laek of compliance with the conditions for the stay of
the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of thesnspension would otherwise
have tenuinated; the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate any remaining suspension time in whole or in part if it finds iliat
any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the' suspension and
Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until
resolution of any pending motion or show causepl'oceeding.
14,
If an orcIer staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defendant fails to cOlllply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph 12
above, then the stay ufthe suspension of her law license may be lifted as provided in 27
N.C. Admin. Code lB §.0114(x) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
,State Bar.
,
15.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
anYI'eason,Defendantlllay apply for. reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing an application for reinstatement demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the follDwing:

(a) Complianoe with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.'
Admin. Code lB § .0125 of the Rilles and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar; and
(b) Compliance with the cOllditionssetouUn Paragraph 12 (a) - (e) above.

16. If Defendant does not seek a stay of any active period of her four year
suspension, Defendant must provide in her application for reinstatement clear, cogent,
andoonvincing evidence of the following:
(a) Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar; and
(b) Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraph 7 (a) -(k) above.

17.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this.
l)1atter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) ofthe
North Carolina S1ljte Bar ])iscipline and Disability Rules tin'oughout the period of the
suspension.
Sitmed by theundersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other
Hearing Panel members.
This

the~fl)ecember 2015.

~.
Defendant

Attorney for Defendant Skerrett

