~
4. XJ~

~
~

STATE OF NORTH CARO

JUNZO!~

;~ A ff.IL£.D DfIfCCIP~~ ARY HEARING
BEFORE THE
COMMISSION
~

~::::.,

~.

OF THE

,", ORT]! CAROIJNA STATE BAR
"i}, __
lJ DllC 13

',:?,_.

_~~KE _COUNTY

0:;'

'4> "

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

ORDER OF DlSCIPLrNE

BENJAMIN S. SMALL, Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was heard on 12 and 13 April 2012, before a hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of M. H. Hood Ellis, Chair, Ronald R.
Davis, and Patti Head. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintift; the North Carolina
State Bar. Defendant, Benjamin S. Small, appeared pro se.
Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel makes by
cIear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the aUIhority !,'fanted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of N0I1h
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Camlina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Benjamin S. Smail (hereafter "Defendant" or "Small"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 3 December 2002 and is an Attomey at Law
subject to the rules, regUlations, and Rules of Professional Conduct ofthc North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant peJiod refelTed to herein, Small was actively engaged
in the practice of law and maintained a law office in Concord, CabalTUS County, North
Carolina.
4.
Small was appointed as counsel for the defendant in the Cabarrus County
case of Slale of North Carolina v. .lames Neal Halley, 07 CRS 53055. Halley was
charged with child abuse resulting in serious bodily injury, a Class C felony.

- I-

5.
[n August 2008, Small filed a motion for speedy trial on Halley's behalf
Soon thereafter, the case was scheduled for trial during the 19 January 2009 session of
court.

6.
On 4 December 2008 and less than 90 days fiom the scheduled trial in the
Halley case, Small filed a Designation of Secured Leave for the dates of 21-23 January
2009 in an etToti to secure leave so that he could attend a continuing legal education
class.
7.
Small failed to file his Designation of Secured Leave in accordance with
the North Carolina General Rules of Practice. Specifically, Small failed to tile his
Designation within the time allotted under the rules and before the Halley case was
scheduled jtll' trial. Although untimely, Small's Designation was not prohibited.
lnstead, it was rendered ineffective because it was filed outside of the timeline set by the
General Rules of Practice which do not prohibit untimely filing.
8.
On 26 November 2008, Small tiled a motion in the !lallev case entitled
"Motion to Recuse for Conduct Prejudicial to the Administration of Justice" (hereafter
"motion to recuse"). Pursuant to this motion, Small sought a court order recusing the
Office ofthc District Attomey from futiher participation in Halley's prosecution.
9.

There was

110

basis in law or fact for the motion to recuse.

10.
Small's motion to recuse impugned the integrity of the ADA assigned to
the Halley case and the entire DA's of'fice.
) l.
Small's motion to recuse was heard by Superior Court .Judge W. Erwin
Spainhour on 18 Deccmher 2008.
12.
The Superior Court denied Small's motion to recuse, specifically rejecting
Small's factual allegations as completely without merit and concluding that there was
"no basis in fact or law" for the motion. 'l'he Court f()und that Small's motion to recuse
was "vexatious" and "filed 1'01' the improper pW'[J0se of harassing [the ADA]."
13.
In September 2006, the Clerk of Cabarrus County Superior Court (the
"Clerk"), who at the time was M. G. Morris, appointed Small to serve as guardian ad
litem (GAL) for Clevie Hatley in a proceeding to determine Hatley's competence and to
detennine whether a general guardian should be appointed for Hatley.
14.
After a contested hearing in November 2006, Hatley was declared
incompctcnt. Hatley's daughtcrs, G. Ervin and S. FWT were appointed as his general
guardians.

J 5.
After the November 2006 hearing, at the direction of the Clerk, Hatley's
general guardians paid Small S275.00 as his GAL fee for the work he performed during
the hearing.

-2-

16.
In 2007, Attorney Russell lVas retained to assist Hatley
res lore his legal competency.

In

seeking to

17.
In September 2007, Russell filed a Motion to Restore Competency on
Hatley's behalf The Clerk, who at the time was Fred Biggers. again appointed Small as
GAL for HatIey in thc action to restore competency.
18.
Attorney Rogers represented the general guardians in opposition to
Hatley's motion to restore competency.
19.

The Clerk dcnicd Hatley's motion to restore competency.

20.
After Small submitted his invoice lor payment of his GAL fcc to the
Clerk, the Clerk directed Small to submit his invoice to Attorney Rogers. Hatley's
guardians paid the invoice Small submitted for his service as GAL Small charged $75
per hour for his service as Hatley's GAL during this matter.
21.

Hatley appealed to Supcrior Courl Jor trial in December 2008.

22.
The Honorable Cressie H. Thigpen presided over the Superior Court jury
trial on Hatley's motion to restore competency. The court never rendered a decision on
M1'. Hatley's motion to restore competency because Hatley died during jury selection
before the lrial on his motion to restore competency was concluded.
23.
Atler Hatley died, Attorney Russell dismissed Hatley's motion to restore
competency. Small did not seek Judge Thigpen's approval of or an order for his GAL
fee before the case was dismissed.
24.
After Hatley's motion was dismissed, Small submitted to the Hatley Estate
for payment his fee invoice for services he rendered to Hatley as GAL in Deccmber
2008.
25.
Thc fee Small sought to collect was $100.00 more per hour than the fee he
previously sought and accepted while serving as GAL for Hatley in the hearing bef()]'c
the Clerk in 2007.
26.
On 21 May 2009, Attorney Grant, counsel for the Hatley Estate
Administrator responded to Small's invoice by sending a letter to Small asking to meet
with Small to discuss settlement of SmuIrs claim for GAL fees, which the Halley Estate
Administrator thought was excessive.
27.

Small declined the Hatley Estate Administrator's request to meet.

28.
On 20 August 2009 and before the Hatley Estate Administrator submitted
any proposed fee for Small to the Clerk lor approval, Small filed a Complaint and Notice
of Hearing in District Court Case No. 09 CVD 3465 (the "Complain!").

-3-

29.
Pursuant to the Complaint, Small sought judgment against the Hatley
Estate, its Administrator and Beneficiaries individually and collectively for GAL fees
that Small claimed he was owed for his servise as GAL for Hatley during the December
200& appeal fTOm the Clerk's 2007 denial of Hatley's motion to restore competency.

30.
Small did not have any basis to seck payment of his GAL fees from the
heirs ofthe Hatley Estate individually.
31.
The Complaint against the heirs of the Hatley Estate was not warranted by
existing law or good faith argument for extension, modification or reversal of existing
law.
32.
fhvolous.

Small's District COUJ1 lawsuit against the heirs of the Hatley Estate was

33.
The Hatley Estate Administnltor (who was also an individual heir of the
estate) was served with the Complaint on 14 September 2009.
34.
Attomcy Grant represented the Hatley Estate and its administrator in
SmaJl's District Court lawsuit. The other defendants named in the Complaint (the
remaining Hatley heirs) were represented by Attorney Rogers.
On or about 23 September 2009, Attomey Grant filed a motion to dismiss
35.
the Complaint pursuant Rule 12(b)( I), (3) and (6). Attorney Rogers also filed a Rule
12(b)(6) motion to dismiss Small's claims against the individuaJ heirs of the Hatley
Estate. The time for Attorneys Grant and Rogers' clients to answer the Complailll had
not yet expired when they filed their motions to dismiss the Complaint. Pursuant to N.C.
Rule of Civil Procedure 12(a)( I la, the time for Attomeys Grant and Rogers' clients to
answer the complaint was extended until after the court luled on their Rule 12 motions.
36.
On 28 September 2009, Small, Attorney Grant and Al10rney Rogers
appeared in District Comt in response to a Notice of Hearing that Small served with the
Complaint.
37.
At the 28 September 2009 hearing, Smail announced in open eouli that
A ttorney Rogers was violating his ethical duties by failing to withdraw fi'om his
representation of the heirs of the Hatley Estate. Small contended that Attorney Rogers
was needed as a witness in Small's lawsuit against the Hatley Estate and its heirs.
38.
Attorney Rogers was willing to withdraw from his representation of the
heirs of the Hatley Estate if the Complaint was not dismissed. Attol11ey Rogers was
never ealJed as a witness in the case.
39.
Despite the fact that Attorneys Grant and Rogers' motions to dismiss were
timely filed, Small filed motions for entry of default and default judgment on 16 October
2009. When Small filed these motions, there was no basis in law or fact for Small's
motions for default and default judgment. Small's motions for default and default
judgment were frivolous.

-4-

40.
On 21 October 2009, Small, Grant and Rogers appeared before the
Honorable Charles E. Brown for hearing on the motions to dismiss Small's lawsuit filed
by Grant and Rogers. At the hearing, there was discussion about the propriety of having
Judge Thigpen consider Small's request for GAL fcc. However, Small did not agree to
seek approval /Tom Judge Thigpen nor did Small inform Grant or Rogers that he
intended to contact Judge Thigpen regarding payment of his GAL fee.
By order dated 6 November 2009, the Judge Brown dismissed the
41.
Complaint pursuaJJt to Rule 12 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure. After
Judge Brown dismissed the Complaint, Small asked Judge Brown to consider his
motiuns for entry of default and default jlldgment though they had becn rendered moot
by Judge Brown's dismissal orthe Complaint. Judge Brown denied Small's request.
42.
On 13 November 2009, Small filed an appeal /Tom dismissal of the
District Court case and t\'om the denial of his motions for entry of default and default
judgment. Small filed a calendar notice with the court and gave notice to AttDll1eys
Grant and Rogers that his appeal was sei for healing in Superior Court on 25 January
2010.
43.
Superior Court was not the proper court to hear Small's appeal of the 6
November 2009 order dismissing his complaint.
44.
At some time a11er the appeal of the Clerk's order dcnying Hatley's
Motion to Restore Competency was dismissed, Small submitted to Judge Thigpen ex
parle a one page document titled "Motion and Order for Payment of Guardian Ad Litem
Fees."
45.
Although the document Small submitted was captioned "Motion and
Order for Payment of Guardian Ad Litem Fees," Small did nOI sign the "motion." Also,
the Motion and Order falsely indicated thaI "this matter" came on betore Judge Thigpen
on 8 December 2008 ulOugh the issue of Smu])'s GAL fcc was not raised before Judge
Thigpen on 8 December 2008.
46.
Although Small knew that Ule fee he sought to collect pursuant to the
Motion and Order was disputed in his District Court lawsuit and the Hatley Estate
matter, Small did not send the Motion and Order to Judge Thigpen under cover of letter
that copied Attorneys Grant and Rogers, nor did Small inform or otherwise give
Attol11cys Grant and Rogers notice that he sent the Motion and Order to Judge Thigpen.
Granl and Rogers did not become aware of Small's Motion and Order until Smull
submitted it during a 22 Mareh 20 I 0 heming before Judge Crosswhite.
47.
Attomeys Grant and Rogers filed three motions for sanctions against
Small: (iJ on 16 November 2009 in the District Court case, (ii) on 14 December 2009 in
the District Court case, alld (iii) on 31 Deccmber 2009 in Superior Court where Small
purported to calendar a hearing on his notice of appeal.

-5-

48.
Small's appeal and Attorneys Grant and Rogers' 31 December 2009
motion for sanctions were added to the 25 January 201 0 Cabanus County Superior Court
Motions Calendar.
49.
On G January 2010, Small dismissed his appeal. However, Attorneys
Grant and Rogers' motion for sanctions remained 011 the 25 January 2010 calendllr for
hearing.
50.
A hearing on the issue of whether Small should be sanctioned was held
before the Honorable Joseph N. Crosswhite on 25 January 2010. Small did not appear in
court for this heming.
51.
Small was sanctioned by the Superior Court at the 25 January 2010
hearing before Judge Crosswhite.
52.
On 28 January 201 0, Attorney Grant hand delivered to Small a copy of his
letter to the Trial Court Coordinator enclosing the proposed order for sanctions against
Small.
53.
The written Order imposing sanctions against Small was entered on 9
February 2010. On this date, Attomey Grant mailed Small a stamped "filed" copy of the
order for sanctions issued by the Honorable Joseph N. Crosswhite.
54.

Small failed to timely comply with thc Judge Crosswhite's order for

sanctions.

55.
After the deadline to comply passed, Small filed motions for appropriate
relief and to set aside the order tor sanctions. The other parties filed a motion for
contempt based on Small's failure to comply with the order Jor sanctions. The hearing
on these motions was set for 22 March 2010 and continued to 25 Marell 2010.
56.
Judge Crosswhite denied Smal1's motion and Small was ordered to
comply with the court's order for sanctions.
Upon receipt of information about Small's conduct in the Hatley matter,
57.
The North Carolina State Bar opened grievance file 110. IOG0398.
58.
Small acknowledged receipt on or about 27 May 2010 of a copy of a
Letter of Notice notifying him ofthe allegations in file 1OG0398.
59.
The Letter of Notice informed Small that he was required to respond
within IS days.
60.
Small requested, and was allowed, approximately two additional months
in which to suhmit his response to the State Bar. Under the extended deadline Small's
response was due 6 August 2010.

- G-

61.
Small failed to submit a response to grievance file 10G0398 by the 6
August 1010 deadline. On 17 August 2010, the Office of Counsel sent Small a lettcr
infonning him that his response was late and reminding him that failure to respond to a
letter of notice may in itself [ann the basis for discipline.
62.

Small did not respond to the Office of Counsel's 17 Augnst 2010 letter.

63.
On 2 September 2010, the Office of Counsel sent a letter infom1ing Small
that if he did not rcspond immediately, tile 10G0398 would be reviewed by the
Grievance Committee without a responsc.
Small failed to submit his response to the Lcttcr of Notice until 22
64.
September 201 O.

Based on the record and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes
the j(ll1owing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
All parties arc before this hearing panel of the Discipl inary Hearing
Commission and the Hearing Panel has jUJisdiction over Defendant and over Ille subject
malter.
I.

2.
DelendanCs conduct, as set out ahove, constitutes grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By filing the motion to recuse the DA's Office without basis in law or
fact which impugned the integrity of the DA's Office, Defendant filed
a fiivolous motion and raised an issue therein Jilr which there was no
basis in fact or law in violation of Rule 3.1, used means that had no
substantial PUl1'OSC other than to cmbalTass or burden a third party jn
violation of Rule 4.4(a), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration ofjllstice in violation of Rlllc 8.4(d);
h. By filing the Complaint against the heirs of the Hatley Estate,
individually, seeking to collect a $175.00 per hour fce for his service
as GAL, Small made a frivolous claim in violation of Rule 3.1;
e. By asserting at the 28 September 2009 hearing that Attorney Rogers
was required to withdraw Ii-om his representation of the Hatley heirs
hecause he was a \vitness in the case, Small made baseless assertions
and used means that have no substantial pUJ1'ose other than to
embarrass, dclay or hurden a third person in violation of Rule 4.4(a);
d. By filing motions for entry of detault and default judgment betore the
time to answer the Complaint expired, Small made flivolous claims in

-7-

violation of Rule 3.1 and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule SA( d);
c.

By submitting the "Motion and Order for Payment of Guardian Ad
Litem Fees" ex parle to thc Honorablc Cressic H. Thigpen when he
knew the matter was being contested in both the estate matter and in
the lawsuit he filed, Small communicated ex parte with a judge in
violation of Rule 3.5(a) and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation for Rule SA(d);

f.

By failing to comply with the 9 February 2010 Order awarding
sanctions, Small knowingly disobeyed the mles of a tribunal in
violation of Rule 3.4(e); and

g. By failing to timely respond to the Letter of Notice in grievance file
IOG0398, Small knowingly failed to respond as required to a lawful
inquiry by a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b).
13ascd upon the foregoing Findings of Fact. and Conclusions of Law and the
evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby makcs by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant's misconduct in the Hallev case resulted in limited court
resolll'ees being wasted to consider Defendant's lrivololls motion.
2.
Defendant was sanctioned on 18 December 2008 for his frivolous filing in
the Halle), case.
3.
Despite this sanction, Defendant proceeded to make fTivolous filings in the
Hatley matter.
4.
Defendant was sanctioned on 9 February 20 I 0 for his misconduct in the
Hatley matter and sanctioned again on 5 May 20] O.
5.
Despite these sanctions. Defendant failed to acknowledge at the
disciplinary hearing the wrongful nature of his conduct.
6.
Ms. Furr and Ms. Ervin were vulnerable be<:uuse they lacked the legal
expertise to respond to Defendant's frivolous tilings without the assistance of a lawyer.
7.
Ms. FUIT and Ms. Ervin suffered harm as a result of Defendant's
misconduct in that they were required to advance legal fees to defend against the
fi'il'olous actions Defendant filed. Prior to this disciplinary proceeding, Defendant was
required by the court to reimburse Ms. Fun' and Ms. Ervin for these fees.

-8-

H.
Aller Defendant's misconduct, Ms. Fun and Ms. Ervin's opinion oftlle
legal profession was diminished.

9.
Defendant's failure to timely respond to the disciplinary process interfered
with the State Bar's ability to regulate attomeys and undennined the privilege of lawyers
in this Stale to remain self-regulating.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the faclors contained in 27
N.C.A.C. I B § .0114(w)(I), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes
that the following factors that warrant suspension of Defendant's law license are present:
u. intent of the defendant to commit acts where the hann or
potential harm was foreseeable;
b. circumstances renecting the defendant's lack of honesty,
trustworthiness, or intel,'Tity;
c. elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of the client:
d. the negative impact of tile defendant's actions on the client and
the public's perception ofthc profession;
e. the negative impact of the defendant's actions on the
administration of justice;

f.

the adverse eiTeet of defendant's conduct on third parties.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 113 § .01 14(w)(2), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes no
factors are present in this instance that would wan'ant disbarmcnt.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumcrated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(3), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes
that the following factors arc applicable in this malter:
a. a pattern of misconduct;
b. multiple offenses;
e. refusal to acknowlcdge wrongful nature of conduct;

-9 -

d. vulnerability of the victim;
c. imposition of other penalties or sanctions, to wit, the sanction
orders previously issued against Defendant by the courts.

4.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to his clients and other
parties to the proceeding, the public, the administration of justice and the profession and
potential significant harm to his clients.
5.
DcJendant's conduct caused hann to the legal profession by undcnnining
the public's trust and their confidence in lawyers and the legal system.
6.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser altematives and finds that a
censure, reprimand or admonition would he insuHieient discipline because of the hanll to
the administration of justice and the public caused by Defendant's conduct.
7.
The Hearing Panel finds that discipline Shmi of suspension would not
adequately protect the public because ofthc gravity of harms Defendant's conduct caused
to his clicnts, the public, the profession and the administration of justice.
g.
The Hearing Panel finds and concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by suspension of Defendant's law license.
Based upon the foregoing Findings ufFact Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the
Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The law license of Defendant, Benjamin S. Small, is hereby suspended for
two (2) years effective thiliy (30) days !i'om the date this Order of Discipline is served
upon him.
7
Defendant shall submit his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the State Bar no later than thirty (30) days following the date that this Order
is served upon Defendant.

3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124, the N01th Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4.
Detendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary ofthe State Bar within
tcn (10) days ot-the effective date of this Order of Discipline certifying that he has
complied with the wind down rule.

- 10-

5.
Within fifteen (15) days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant will
provide the State Bar with a street address (not 1'.0. box or drawer address) and mailing
address at which clients seeking retUnl of their files and records in Defendant's
possession or control may obtain such files and records and at which time the State Bar
may serve any notices 01' other matters upon him.
6.
All costs of this action are taxed to Defendant, including the costs of
Defendant's deposition and the deposition of Brandy L. Cook. Defendant shall pay the
costs and administrative fees of this proceeding within thilty (30) days of service of the
statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar.
7.
Defendant must show the following by cIear, cogent and convincing
evidence in addition to those requirements set out in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0l2S(b)(3) in
order to be reinstated to the practice of law at the conclusion of his active suspension:
a. That Defendant has completed fiflccn hours ofCLE; specifically five
hours of CLE devoted to professional responsibility, jive hours of CLE
devoted to civil procedure and five hours to CLE of Defendant's
choosing.
Signed by the Chair with the full knowledge and consent ofthe other hearing
I "' A

panel members, this the _I_'~, day of June, 2012.

M. H. Hood Ellis, Chair
Disciplinary Heming Panel

- 1I -

