NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IIG0897

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Benjamin Small,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 19,2012 the Grievance Committee of the NOlih Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by G. L.
Pursuant to Section .0013(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Heming
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. TIle Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hmm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievmlce Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chaimlan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
The State Bar sent a letter of notice regarding this grievance to you on October 6, 2011 by
certified mail. Service of this letter of notice was attempted on three dates. The letter of notice
was returned to the State Bar with the notation, "Return to sender - unclaimed -unable to
forward." The State Bar then sent the letter of notice by certified mail to you at another address,

43 Union Street South. The letter of notice was returned to the State Bar with the notation,
"Retum to sender - unclaimed - unable to forward."
The State Bar asked the sheriff to serve you with the letter of notice at your last known
address at 43 Union Street South. The sheriff served you with the letter of notice at 2239 St.
Jolm's Church Road on January 25, 2012. You did not respond to the letter of notice within
fifteen days of January 25, 2012. Our office wrote you at the St. Jolm's Church Road address on
March 6, 2012 and gave you an extension to respond until March 19,2012. The State Bar did
not receive a response from you on March 19.
The State Bar then asked your State Bar councilor to contact you. According to your
councilor, he called you but your telephone was out of service. Your State Bar councilor then emailed you about this grievance. TIle State Bar councilor stated that you said that you were
unaware of the grievance and you did not know about an extension to respond. Your State Bar
councilor told you to send your correct address and telephone number to the State Bar. He also
told you to call the deputy counsel assigned to the grievance. The deputy counsel did not hear
from you after you spoke with your State Bar councilor in April 2012. The State Bar then
subpoenaed you to apperu' at the State Bar office on June 20, 2012 to respond to the grievance.
You responded to the grievance by facsimile on June 7, 2012.
Your failure to respond promptly to this grievance violates Rule 8.1(b) and 8.4(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee tmsts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and thut you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordrulce with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bru' regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of$350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ;(,J,,;i..J.day of

a?d4d0~

Grievance Committee

MMH/lr

,2012.

