v.

CONSENT ORDER

DARRYL G. SMITH. Attorney,
Defendant
Defendant. Darryl G. Smith, was ordered to appear and show cause why the stay of the
suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline entered in this case on November 3,2016 should
not be lifted and the suspension activated. This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinaty Hearing Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, Richard V. Bennett,
and Tyler B. Morris pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB ยง .0118. Plaintiff, the North Carolina
State Bar, was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant was represented by Thomas R.
Sallenger. Defendant waives a fonnal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and
consent to the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this order and to the disposition
imposed. By consenting to the entry ofthls order, Defendant waives any right to appeal this
consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the pleadings and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by
the greater weight of the evidence the following

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On November 3, 2016~ the DHC entered a Consent Order of Discipline ("Consent
Order") finding that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct by violating the trust
accounting rules.
2.
The Consent Order suspended Smith's license to practice law for three years and
stayed the suspension for three years on condition that Smith comply with the requirements
specified in the order.
3.
The Consent Order provided that in order to remain eligible for a stay of the
suspension Smith was required, among other things, to:

State Bar v. Smith 16 DHC 28-SC
Consent Order on Show Cause

Page 1 of3

(a) J-Iave any and all accounts into which he has deposited client funds (hereinafter "trust
accounts") audited by a Certified Public Accountant within 90 days of the effective
date of this order. (These audits are referred to herein as "the CPA's initial audits").
i.

The CPA's initial audits must identify the beneficial owners of the
funds currently in Defendant's trust account and establish whether the
balance in the account is sufficiept to cover all client funds defendant
should be holding in trust.

ii.

Smith will provide the CPA's initial audit reports to the State Bar
within five days of receipt along with a proposed disbursement plan.

iii.

Smith will remedy any deficiencies identified in the CPA's initial
audits and will bring his trust account(s) into compliance with the Rules
of Professional Conduct within 30 days of receipt of the audit report.
Smith win submit proof of any remedial action to the State Bar and to
the CPA no later than 30 days after receipt of the CPA's report. Said
remediation shall include Defendant personally depositing funds in the
trust account to replenish any deficit in the account(s) and properly
disbursing entrusted funds [in accordance with other provisions in the
Order].

iv.

If the CPA determines that remedial action is required, the CPA will
provide to the Office of Counsel a fmal audit report certifying that
Smith's trust account(s) are in compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct no later than 30 days after receipt of the remedial
information from Defendant.

4.
The Consent Order further provided: Defendant shall disburse all funds in his
existing trust account to the beneficial owners within 30 days of notification that the State Bar
approves of the disbursement plan.
5.
On January 30, 2018, Plaintiff filed a motion fbr an order requiring Defendant to
show cause why his license should not be suspended for failure to provide the initial audit report,
failure to identify the beneficial ovvners ofthe funds held in the trust accounts, and failure to provide
Plaintiff with a proposed disbursement plan.
6.
On March 16, 2018, this matter was scheduled for hearing and it was agreed between
the parties that Defendant would comply with the conditions of the Consent Order and submit a
proposed disbursement plan.
7.
Defendant has now submitted a proposed disbursement plan which Plaintiff has
approved. This plan provides for the disbursement offunds to former clients and/or third parties as
identified by Defendant, but funds Defendant has identified as belonging to himself will remain in
trust pending further documentation and proof that Defendant is entitled to the funds.

State Bar v. Smith, 16 DHC 28-SC
Consent Order on Show Cause
Page20f3

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Darryl G. Smith, and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant failed to timely comply with the conditions of the stay of his
suspension, but has now submitted a proposed disbursement plan which Plaintiff has approved.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER

1.

The stay ofDefcndant's suspension shall remain in effect.

2.
All costs and administrative fees of this action are taxed to Defendant. Defendant
must pay the costs ofthis action within 30 days of service upon him of the statement of costs by
the Secretary.
3.
Defendant shall continue to comply with all conditions in the Consent Order and
shall timely provide the State Bar with documentation supporting his identification of the
beneficial owner(s) of the balance offunds in his trust account.

t(

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
___ day of January, 2019.

~c?~
Donald C. Prentiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

~.~~
Mary D.
stead, Deputy Counsel
Counsel for Plaintiff

Thomas R. Sallenge
Counsel for Defen t

State Bar v. Smith, 16 DHC 28-SC
Consent Order on Show Cause
Page30f3

