WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

Plaintiff

CONSENT
ORDER OF

v.

DISCIPLINE

JEFFREY D. SMITH, Altorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of N. Hunter Wyche . .II'" Chair, and members Donald C. Prentiss
and Bradley Lail. Jennifer A. Porter represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Del'endant, Jeffrey D. Smith, appeared 1'1'0 st'. Defendant stipulates and agrees to the
findings ()f fact and conclusions or law recited in this consent order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing findings offaet
and consents to the conclusions of law and entry or the order of discipline. Defendant
freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this consent order of
discipline.

Based lIpon the pleadings and the stipulated facts and with the consent of the
patties, the Hearing Panel tlnds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I.
Plainti ff~ the North Carolina State Bar (,'State Bar"), is a body duly
organized LInder the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the GellcmJ Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).

')
Defendant, Jeffrey D. Smith ("Smith"), was admitted to the Nort.h
Carolina State Bar in 1982 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law Iicenscd to practice in North Carolina. slll~ject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina. the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional ConJucl.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.

,he North Carolino Slate [JUI' v. .let/hi)' D. Smith
Consent Order of Discipline. 18 DIIC 26

Page 1 of'9

4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, NOlth Carolina.
5.
Defendant maintained an attorney trust account at BB&T, account number
ending with 3906 (hereinafter referenced as "the BB&T trust account").

6.
Defendant had previously maintained an attorney trust account at Wells
Fargo, account number ending with 2127, but in March 20]4 he closed the Wells Fargo
account and deposited the balance of $36,861.08 into his BB&T account (hereinafter
referenced as "the Wells Fargo funds").
7.

Defendant failed to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations of the
BB&T trust uccount, including from October 2015 through February 2017.
8.
Defendant failed to sign the reconciliation reports he provided to the State
Bar on February 14,2017, March 16,2017, May 16,2017, and June 15,2017.

9.

Defendant failed to conduct and create andlor maintain reports of the
required monthly and quarterly reviews for the fourth quarter of 20 16 and the first quarter

of2017.
10.

Defendant failed to identify the clients for whom he held entrusted funds

in his trust account.
a. Defendant failed to identify the clients to whom belonged the Wells Fargo
funds from March 2014 through May 2017.
b. From October 2015 through at least February 13,2017, Defendant failed
to identify the clients to whom belonged over $8,000.00 of funds in the
BB&T trust account, in addition to the Wells Fargo funds.

11.
Defendant began efforts to identify the Wells Fargo funds but as of March
2018 had still not identified the funds to a degree sufficient to allow the funds to be
properly disbursed.
12.
From October 2015 through December 2017, Defendant failed to disburse
funds identit1ed for five clients held in the BB&T trust account since October 2015, and
failed to complete disbursements for 26 outstanding checks dated from Febl11ary 5, 2013
to July 24,2014.
13.
On three occasions, in March, April, und May 2017, Defendant failed to
promptly deposit entrusted funds for M. Helms into the BB&T trust account.
14.
Tn March, April, and May 2017, Defendant disbursed funds from the
BB&T trust account for the benefit of M. Helms prior to the deposit of any funds for M.
Helms, thereby misusing other entrusted funds in those disbursements.

77Je North Carolina State Bar v. JefFey D. Smith
Consent Order of Discipline, 18 DHC 26

Page 2 of9

IS.
Defendant improperly disbursed to himself an old client balance which he
had identified as for client Mills. Upon the State Bar's inquiry, Defendant realized he
had been mistaken regarding the identification of the funds and reimbursed the trust
account.

16.
Defendant improperly disbursed to himself funds in the BB&T trust
account from two old outstanding checks for payment of costs for client Perez.
Defendant applied the funds to outstanding attorney's fees Perez owed. Defendant did
not have the client's permission to apply the funds intended to pay costs to any
outstanding attorney's fees. Defendant did not realize such permission was necessary.
Upon the State Bar's inquiry, Defendant reimbursed the trust account.
17.
Defendant failed to promptly reimburse his tmst account for a negative
balance he identified in May 2017. Defendant reimbursed his trust account in August
2017 after State Bar inquiry.
Based upon the consent of the patties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

a.

By failing to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his uttomey
trust account from Oct0ber 2015 through February 2017, and by failing to
sign reconciliation reports for reconciliations completed in and after
Febl1lary 2017, Defendant failed to reconcile his trust account as required
in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d);

b.

By failing to conduct and create andlor maintain repolts of the required
monthly and quatterly reviews for the fourth qUa1ter of 2016 and the first
quarter of2017, Defendant llliled to conduct required reviews in vioiation
of Rule 1.15-3(i);

c.

By failing to promptly deposit entl1lsted funds for client M. Helms and by
disbursing funds from the t111st account tor the benefit of M. Helms when
there \vere no funds for M. Helms in the trust account, thereby misusing
other clients' funds, Defendant failed to properly maintain entrusted funds
in violation of Rule US-2(a), failed to promptly deposit entl1lsted funds
into a trust account in violation of Rule 1.15-2(b), used entrusted funds for
the benefit of someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(k), and disbursed entl1lsted funds in a manner not
authOlized by or for the benefit ofthe client in violation of Rule 1. 15-2(n);

Tile North Carolil1a Stale Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Consent Order of Discipline, 18 DHC 26

Page30f9

d.

By improperly disbursing to himself funds held for Mills und Perez,
Defendant failed to properly maintain entrusted funds in violation of Rule
1.15-2(a), llsed entl11sted funds for the benefit of someone other than the
beneficial owner of the funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(k), and disbursed
entrusted funds in a manner 110t authorized by or for the benefit of the
client in violation of Rule 1.I5-2(n);

e.

By failing to identify all clients for whom he maintains funds in the BB&T
trust account, Defendant failed to properly identify entrusted funds In
violation of Rule 1.15-2(a);

f

By failing to promptly disburse funds in the BB&T trust account,
including failing to complete disbursements of outstanding checks frol11
several years prior, Defendant failed to timely disburse funds to which
clients were entitled in violation of Rule 1.15-2(n) and failed to act with
reasonable diligence in representation of the clients in violation of Rule
1.3; and

g.

By failing to promptly disburse funds upon discovery of a negative
balance, showing he had previously improperly disbursed more for that
client than he had in the BB&T ttust account for that client and thereby
having misused entmsted funds, Defendant failed to properly maintain
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a).

Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following;
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
By DHC Order of Discipline filed on September 18, 2015 in case
15 DHC 27, Defendant was found to have failed to reconcile his trust accounts for over
two years, failed to timely disburse funds for clients for over two years, and disbursed
funds for clients when he had no funds 01' insufficient funds for such clients in his tmst
account. Despite the discipline imposed against him in September 2015, Defendant did
not cure this misconduct. From October 2015 through February 2017, Defendant failed
to reconcile his trust account. As of December 2017 he had not completed disbursements
for clients for whom he had held nmds since at least October 2015. Additionally,
Defendant failed to promptly deposit entrusted funds from October 2015 through
December 20 I 7. In at least three instances, he delivered the hust account checks
disbursing the funds tor the client prior to depositing the funds for the client, resulting in
improper disbursements from the BB&T trust account on three occasions.
2.
In the September 2015 Order of Discipline, the DHC suspended
Defendant for two years and stayed the suspension for three years conditioned upon
compliance with the requirements in the Order. In November 2017, the DRC found
Defendant had failed to comply with the conditions of the September 2015 Order but
gave Defendant another opportunity to comply by extending the stay with additional

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Consent Order of Discipline, 18 DHC 26

Page 4 of9

conditions. In March 2018, the DBC found Defendant had failed to comply with the
conditions in the September 2015 Order and the November 2017 Order and activated the
suspension imposed in the September 2015 Order. Defendant may apply for a stay afl:er
serving one year of the activated suspension and showing compliance with the
reinstatement requirements stated ill the March 2018 Order.
3.
The violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct found in this Order
formed the basis for the activation of the sllspension imposed in the September 18, 20 I 5
Order, along with other deficiencies in Defendant's compliance WW1 the conditions for
the stay of the suspension. One such deficiency was Defendant's failure to fully and
accurately identify the clients to whom belong the Wells Fargo funds with sufficient
cOlToborating documentation to support disbursement of the funds.
4.
Defendant did not begin efforts to reconcile the BB&T trust account until
contacted by the State Bar in January 2017. During 2017, Defendant made substantial
efforts to reconcile the BB&T trust account.
5.

During 2017, Defendant began effolts to identify the Wells Fargo funds.

6.
When notified by the State Bar of concerns regarding the Mills and Perez
funds, Defendant promptly deposited those amounts back into the trust account along
with other amounts also being examined.
7.
Defendant.

There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of

8.
Conducting reconciliations of the trust account is the lynchpin of proper
maintenance and protection of entrusted funds.
9.
Allowing client funds to be improperly maintained or disbursed, even if
illadvcltently, places entrusted funds at risk and erodes the confidence clients place in
attorneys who handle their affairs. As a result, such conduct harms the profession as a
whole.
10.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
11.
The Hearing Panel has considered the suspension imposed in the
September 18,2015 Order of Discipline, the November 2017 order extending the stay of
suspension, the activation of the suspension in March 2018, and the conditions for
reinstatement in the September 2015 and March 2018 orders.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Consent Order of Discipline, 18 DHC 26

Page Sof9

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS WITH RESPECT TO DISCIPLlNE

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different f01111S of
discipline available to it. Tn addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.0116(f)(1) and concludes the following factors
walTant suspension of Defendant's license:
a.

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the 11a1111 or potential hann is
foreseeable, to wit: failing to take corrective action to ensure proper,
reconciling, maintenance, disbursement, and accounting for entrusted
funds; and

b.

Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession.

The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
2.
Admin. Code IB.0116(f)(2) and concludes no factors are present in this instance that
would warrant disbarment.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.c'
Admin. Code IB.OI16(f)(3) and concludes the following factors are applicable in this
matter:
a.

Prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify consequences of
misconduct in 2017;

d.

Multiple offenses;

c.

A pattern of misconduct;

f.

Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings; and

g.

Remorse.

Defendant's conduct, if continued by Defendant or tolerated by the Bar,
4.
poses significant potential harm to future clients.

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
Tile North Carolilla State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Consent Order of Discipline, 18 DHC 26

Page 6 of9

the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel fUlther concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.

6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that it
suspension is necessary for the protection of clients and the public. Conditions tor
reinstatement to active status and conditions during any stayed period of suspension are
appropriate to ensure compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the patties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Jeffrey D. Smith, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for hvo years.

1.
Defendant shall wind down his law practice and comply with all
provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.0128.

2.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking information
or return of files can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant
shall promptly retUll1 all files to his clients upon request.
3.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this
proceeding. Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding, as
assessed by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant must include
payment of the assessed fees and costs with any motion for stay of suspension or petition
for reinstatement.
4.
After the completion of one year of suspension from April 22, 2018,
which is the effective date of the activated suspension in 15 DHC 27, Defendant may file
a motion with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code
IB.O 118(c) to have the remaining period of suspension imposed by this Order stayed. If
a stay is granted, the remaining period of active suspension shall be stayed for three
years, and the order granting thc stay shall set out the applicable conditions of that stay.
5.
To be eligible to have the remaining period of suspension stayed after
completing the year of suspension identified above, Defendant must comply with the
requirements of 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B.O 118, and must show by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:

The North Caro/illa State Bar v. JejFey D. Smith
Consent Order of Discipline, 18 DHC 26

Page 7 of9

a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and timely complied with
all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code lR0128.

b.

That he has paid, or included payment with his motion, any costs and
administrative fees of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary.

c.

That he has complied with the requirements of 27 N.C. Admin. Code
IB.0129(b).

d.

That he has complied with the requirements for reinstatement in the
following orders entered in 15 DHC 27: the September 2015 Order
(requirements contained in paragraph 5 and its subparagraphs on pages 8
and 9 of the September 2015 Order); and the March 2018 Order
(requirements contained in paragraph 5 and its subparagraphs on pages 7
through 9 of the March 2018 Order).

e.

Any and all client ledgers produced by Defendant to the State Bar in
support of his application for stay or for any purpose shall show deposits
as positive numbers, disbursements as negative numbers, contain accurate
dates for deposits and disbursements, and have the entries in proper
chronological order with an accurate running balance.

6.

If Defendant is 110t granted a stay of any portion of the two-year
suspension, then before Defendant may be reinstated to active status he must prove
compliance by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence with the requirements of the
immediately-preceding paragraph 5.

7.
If Defendant is granted a stay of any portion of the two-year suspension
but that stay is subsequently lifted and any portion of the remaining suspension activated,
the period of suspension activated under this Order shall run consecutively to any period
of suspension activated in 15 DHC 27.

t:

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

~._ day of

.::rON E-

2018.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffi'ey D. Smith
Consent Order of Discipline, 18 DHC 26

Page 80f9

Agreed and consented to by:
,,,'.- •.•. ,..'"~. P-'"'-'--.......... }

"
.....-:?--------.

-jenrrtfe'FA. Porter

/,,,,~;:"Attorney for Plaintiff

Date

l~'
/0{/~/7 VJ
~

_ _ _ ~~/

Jeffrey D. SI ith (
Defendant

The North Caro/iJla Slate Bar v. JeJfi'ey D. S,nith
Consent Order of Discipline, 18 DHC 26

Page 9 of9

