WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLIN

)
IN RE THE MATTER OF THE PETITION)
FOR REINSTATEMENT
)
)
)
)
BOUNTIIANI VONGXAY
)

ORDER STAYING
SUSPENSION

With the consent of all parties, this matter was heard by telephone conference call
at 2:30 p.m. on September 11,2007 before a hearing committee composed of Tommy W.
Jarrett, Chair; Sharon B. Alexander and R. Mitchel Tyler. A. Root Edmonson
represented the N.C. State Bar. Alan M. Schneider represented the Defendant, Bounthani
Vongxay. The parties stipulate and agree to the following.
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
On May 13,2006, a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (hereinafter, "DHC") issued its Consent Order of Discipline in a
disciplinary case, file number 06 DHC 2 (hereinafter "Order").
2.
The Order suspended Vongxay's license to practice law for a
period of three years. The Order provided that, at any time after serving one year
ofthe active suspension of his license, the Defendant could file a petition seeking
a stay of the remaining period of his suspension upon compliance with the
conditions stated in the Order.
3.
On July 18, 2007, Vongxay submitted a petition requesting a stay
of the remaining portion of his active suspension and seeking reinstatement to
active status subject to the continuing conditions and requirements set forth in 06
DHC2.
4.
The Order required that Vongxay be in compliance with a number
of conditions to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.
5.
In his petition, Vongxay described the actions he had taken to
comply with the conditions of the Order with supporting documentation.

6.
petition.

The State Bar presented no evidence in opposition to Vongxay's

7.
Vongxay satisfactorily completed a law office trust account course approved
by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar;
8.
Vongxay satisfactorily cooperated with the Office of COlU1sei to identify and
appropriately disburse the balance of the funds in his trust accOlmt; although the State Bar
had to seek address infonnation from Vongxay after the petition was filed;
9.
Vongxay kept the North Carolina Membership Department advised of his
current business and home address;
10.
Vongxay responded to all communications from the North Carolina State
Bar within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication;
11.
Vongxay did not violate the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or any state during his suspension;
12.
Vongxay properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
tenns of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Sec..OI24 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules;
13.
Vongxay paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund Assessments
and complied with all Continuing Legal education Requirements on a timely basis as if still
. in practice during the period ofhis suspension
14.

Vongxay paid the costs assessed in 06 DHC 2; and

15.
Vongxay contracted with a licensed member ofthe North Carolina
State Bar who is in good standing to serve as his monitor and this monitor has
agreed to serve and has agreed to the requirements set forth in paragraph 5 of the
Order of Discipline imposed in the above captioned matter.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, and without any evidence
presented in opposition to the petition, the hearing committee enters the fonowing
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The petitioner, Bounthani Vongxay, has satisfied the conditions
established in the Order for a stay of his suspension and reinstatement to active
status, subject to the continuing conditions set forth in the Order.
2. Vongxay's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon
compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order.

2

BASED UPON the rmdings and conclusions stated herein, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER
1. The remaining active suspension of Vongxay' s license imposed by the Order is
hereby stayed and Vongxay is reinstated to the active practice of law.
2. The stay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions, and
requirements of the Order.
3. Vongxay's status as an active member of the North Carolina State Bar is
contingent upon his compliance with all of the remaining conditions set forth in the
Order.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
Hearing Committee members, this the

19 "day of

3

SFp-le1+1 "of,,-

2007.

