STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER
ACTIVATING
SUSPENSION

v.
JEFFREY D. SMITH, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was heard on March 15, 2018 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission (DRC) compos.e<LofFred M .. Mo.relock, Chair, .and
members Donald C. Prentiss and Christopher R. Bruffey, upon order issued by the DHC
to Defendant, Jeffrey D. Smith, to appear at a hearing regarding why the stay of the
suspension previously imposed by the Order of Discipline entered in this case should not
be lifted and the suspension activated. Jennifer A. Porter represented Plaintiff, the North
Carolina State B~. Defendant, Jeffrey D. Smith, appeared pro se.
At the he~g i!J..ft.!is 1U1l:tt;~~, .p~fen4~t~}~ff!"~Y P.: ..s..~!:t!t. (,,~mith"2, StipuJll:~(t to
the truth of the allegations·contained-in·the·State Bar's Motion-for Order·toAetivate
Suspension with respect to paragraphs 12, 15, 16, 19a, and 19b, which are included in the
findings offact in correspondingly numbered paragraphs below in this order.
Based upoidhe pleadings and the stipulated facts and with the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel finds by the greater weight of the evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On September 18, 2015, an Order of Discipline (hereinafter "the
September 2015 Order") was entered in this matter.
Thtd)epterriber 2015 Order imposed a two year Suspension stayeo fcir
2.
three years. The stay of the suspension was conditioned upon compliance with the
conditions stated in the September 2015 Order. The September 2015 Order went into
effect on October 31,2015,30 days following service.

3.
OllAugusr7;'20l7, tneSThteBat filed"a-Motion'-forOtder t<.Y Show·Cause;··---alleging Defendant had failed to comply with numerous conditions of the September
2015 Order. On August 9,2017, the DHC issued an Order to Show Cause to Defendant.

4.
On November 16,2017, a hearing was held pursuant to the Order to Show
Cause. Following the hearing, the DHC entered an order on November 30, 2017 finding
Defendant had failed to comply with various conditions of the September 2015 Order
(hereinafter "the November 2017 Order). The DHC extended the period of time during
which Defendant's suspension would be stayed and imposed additional conditions.
Smith has subsequently failed to comply with the conditions of the
5.
September 2015 Order and the November 2017 Order.
6.
On December 15, 2017, Smith e-mailed the State Bar. In the e-mail he
stated he was providing the November 2017 reconciliation with the bank: statements,
checks, ledgers, register, and signature page. He indicated that the documents had been
reviewed by NOlm Reid, the person he had designated to assist him pursuant to the
November 2017 Order.
7.
Under the November 2017 Order, however, Smith's reconciliation for
November 2017 was not due until December 31, 2017, to be provided with
reconciliations for October 2015 through November 2017.
8.
The content and organization of the documents Smith provided with his
December 15,2017 e-mail didnotcomplywiththerequirementsofparagraph2.b .• p.l1.
of the November 2017 Order, including as follows:
a. Smith did not provide a client ledger for all clients listed as having funds
in the trust account.
b. Smith did not provide his office ledger, for his administrative funds in the
trust account.
c. The docwnents provided were not in the order specified in the November
30,2017 Order.
9.
On December 15, 2017, the State Bar responded to Smith's e-mail. The
State Bar noted the above deficiencies. The State Bar expressly cautioned Smith that
each set of reconciliation documents needed to contain client ledgers for all clients with
funds in the trust account in the applicable month, and that it was not sufficient for him to
have previously provided an applicable ledger. The State Bar strongly encouraged Smith
and Mr. Reid to carefully review the November 2017 Order and to be very precise in
future submissions. The e-mail notified Smith that this was the last e-mail the State Bar
anticipated sending Smith noting deficiencies.
10.
On December 19, 2017, Smith provided a revised set of reconciliation
documents for November 2017. This set of documents complied with the content and
organization requirements of paragraph 2.b. of the November 2017 Order.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order Activating Suspension

Page 2 oflO

11.
On December 31, 2017, Smith provided sets of reconciliation documents
for October 2015 through October 2017. On January 3, 2018, Smith re-sent sets of
reconciliation documents for December 2015 through December 2016. In the January
2018 sets, Smith added deposit and wire documentation for December 2015 and January
2016, and wire documentation for March to November 2016 that had been omitted from
the prior submission.
12.
The documents Smith submitted on December 31, 2017 and January 3,
2018 failed to comply with the requirements of paragraph 2.b. of the November 2017
Order, as follows:
a. Failed to include client ledgers for all clients who had funds in the trust
account in the applicable month, showing all deposits and disbursements
per client through the end of the applicable month.
b. The majority of the client ledgers provided failed to comply with the
requirements of the November 2017 Order that the entries be in
chronological order and that deposits be shown with positive numbers and
disbursements be shown with negative numbers. This created the
inaccurate appearance of negative balances in both the running balances
and certain ending balances.
c. Certain client ledgers were inaccurate. Certain client ledgers contained
dates that made it appear that funds were improperly disbursed prior to
funds being deposited into the trust account for the applicable client. In
some instances, the underlying bank records revealed the dates on the
ledgers were inaccurate and there had been no improper early
disbursement. In other instances, however, the underlying bank records
revealed there had been improper disbursements, as discussed below in
paragraph 13.
d. Client balance lists failed to itemize the clients and amounts for clients
who had funds transferred from the Wells Fargo trust account to the
BB&T trust account, despite Smith having identified clients for most of
the funds in June 2017. Smith failed to make the requisite entries in the
software to 1) create client ledgers for each such client, and 2) move the
amount per client from the lump sum transferred funds ledger to the
individual client ledgers. Instead, the client balance lists provided with the
'reconciliations continued to list the lump sum transferred amount of
$36,861.08 attributed to a ledger titled "Wells Fargo Trust Acct Transfer."
e. Failed to accurately total only positive client balances in calculating the
client ledger balances for the October 2016 and June 2017 reconciliation
reports, and failed to enter any client ledger balance on the August 2016
reconciliation report.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order Activating Suspension

Page 3 of10

f. Failed to provide deposit documentation with the applicable reconciliation
deposits into the trust accOlmt in September and October
documents for
2017.

all

13.
The reconciliation documents Smith submitted revealed improper
handling of entrusted funds, in violation of Rule 1.I5-2(a), (b), and (n) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct, as follows:
a. Disbursement of funds for client M. Helms prior to the deposit of funds
for the client in the trust account on 3 occasions, in March, April, and May
2017.
b. Disbursements to Smith of an old client balance for Mills and funds from
voiding old outstanding checks for Perez. Smith was mistaken regarding
the identification and his entitlement to the Mills' funds. For Perez, Smith
inaccurately believed he could apply funds for costs for Perez to
outstanding legal fees owed by Perez. Smith has refunded these funds to
the trust account.
14.
The November 2017 Order required Smith to provide the State Bar by
january 15, 2018 with the information and d9cuments itemized in paragraph 1.e. of the
September 2015 Order for all funds identified on the spreadsheet Smith provided the
State Bar on June 26,2017 for the funds transferred from the Wells Fargo trust account to
the BB&T trust account. If Smith lacked any of the required documentation for a specific
identification of funds for a client, he was required to describe what was missing, what
actions he is taking to recover the missing documentation, and provide any and all
documentation he has that substantiates the identification offunds at issue.
15.
On January 22, 2018, Smith e-mailed the State Bar a list purporting to
identify a certain amount of the funds transferred from the Wells Fargo account to the
BB&T account. The list did not contain all of the information required by paragraph I.e.
of the September 2015 Order. The list also only purported to identify $19,267.41 of the
$36,861.08 of transferred funds, even though the spreadsheet Smith previously provided
the State Bar in June 2017 purported to identify $36,035.74 of the $36,861.08 of
transferred funds.
16.
Additionally, although Smith provided typed client ledgers for the
$19,267.41 of funds on the list he provided in January 2018 and some supporting
documentation, he did not always include all supporting documentation substantiating all
items on the applicable client ledger as required under paragraph I.e. of the September
2015 Order. For example, for T. Tonsmeire, outstanding check #15583, the bank
statement Smith provided showed the deposit and outgoit.1g wire but did not show the
other disbursements listed on the ledger. For A. Craver, outstanding check #11963, the
bank statement provided did not contain two of the checks listed on the ledger, only one
of which Smith identified as outstanding.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order Activating Suspension

P~ge

4 of 10

17.
As of the date of the hearing, Smith had not provided the State Bar with
any further information or documents identifying the funds transferred from the Wells
Fargo trust account.
18.
The November 2017 Order required Smith to comply with paragraph l.g.
of the September 2015 Order by January 31,2018 .. Paragraph l.g. of the September 2015
Order required Smith to disburse all funds in the trust account that could appropriately be
disbursed and to initiate escheatment for all funds that should appropriately be escheated.
Paragraph l.g. also required that, on the deadline date, Smith provide the State Bar with
documentation showing all such disbursement and escheatment actions along with
corresponding client ledgers. For any funds for which neither action was taken, Smith
was required to provide certain information per client regarding the proper recipient of
the funds, when the funds would be disbursed or escheated, and to provide client ledgers
for those funds.
19.
Smith has failed to comply with paragraph l.g. of the September 2015
Order. Focusing on the funds that were in the trust account when the September 2015
Order was entered, the status is as follows:
a. Of the 17 clients who were identified as having funds in the trust account
on the October 2015 client balance list provided with the October 2015
reconciliation, 5 were still listed with the same balances on the December
2017 client balance list provided with the December 2017 reconciliation.
b. The October 2015 Reconciliation Detail report lists 32 uncleared
outstanding checks ranging from February 5, 2013 to July 24, 2014
totaling $5,765.43. Of those 32 items, 26 still remained as uncleared
outstanding checks on the December 2017 report.
c. All of the funds transferred from the Wells Fargo trust accoUnt in March
2014 are still in the BB&T trust account, and cannot be disburseq pursuant
to the November 2017 Order until Smith provides the State Bar with the
required information and documentation. Smith's failure to provide the
required information and documentation for the transferred funds is
discussed in prior paragraphs herein.
20.
Additionally, Smith did not provide the informatiori and documentation
required under paragraph l.g. of the September 2015 Order on the January 31, 2018
deadline established in the November 2017 Order. As noted above, Smith disbursed the
balances for 12 clients shown on the October 2015 client'balance list between October
2015 and December 2017. Of the 12 clients whose funds from the October 2015 client
balance list were disbursed, client ledgers showing that action were provided for only 4.
21.
As of the date of the hearing, Smith had not provided the State Bar with
the information and documentation required by paragraph l.g. of the September 2015
Order.
The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order Activating Suspension

Page 5000

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant failed to comply with the above detailed conditions of the stay
of his suspension.
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS
1.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0118(a)(4), upon rmding by the
greater weight of the evidence that Defendant has violated conditions of the stay of the
suspension, the Hearing Panel may activate the suspension, allow the stay to remain in
effect, extend the tenn of the stay, and/or include modified or additional conditions for
the suspension to remain s~ayed.

2.
The conduct at issue in the September 2015 Order stemmed. from
Defendant's inattention to his trust account and his failure to fulfill his trust account
obligations. The evidence shows that there continue to be deficiencies in Defendant's
attention to his trust account and his compliance with his trust account obligations.
3.
Likewise, Defendant's disbursement of funds for client M. Helms before
having deposited funds into his trust account for M. Helms on three occasions in 2017
mirrors conduct for which Defendant was disciplined in the September 2015 Order, in
which the DHC found that on at least 9 occasions Defendant disbursed funds for clients
either in excess of the amount of funds in his trust account for the client or when no funds
were in the trust account for the client.
4.
Defendant's recent conduct demonstrates that he has failed to fully remedy
prior practices that violated the Ru1es of Professional Conduct and poses the same risk of
significant potential harm as was posed by his original conduct.
5.
Defendant provided no documents to the State Bar in 2016. Defendant
produced extensive documents to the State Bar thro,ughout 2017 upon numerous
promptings by the State Bar. At the time of the November 2017 hearing on the State
Bar's first motion to show cause, Defendant had not come into compliance with all
conditions of the September 2015 Order. Based on Defendant's extensive document
production and his statements of understanding and arrangements to come into full
compliance with the conditions of the stay of his suspension, the DHC did not activate
the suspension of Defendant's law license in November 2017 but instead extended the
period of stay and imposed additional conditions.
6.
Despite being given this second chance to come into full compliance with
the conditions of the stay of his suspension, however, Defendant has failed to do so.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jif.frey D. Smith
Order Activating Suspension

Page 6 oflO

THEREFORE, based upon the 'foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law,
and Additional Findings and Conclusions, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER
1.
The stay 'of Defendant's two year suspension is lifted and the two-year
suspension is activated. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code lROI28(c), this order and the
two-year suspension imposed herein are effective 30 days after service of this order upon
Defendant.

2.
Defendant shall wind down his law practice and comply with all
provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code tR0128.
3.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking infonnation
or return of fIles can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant
shall promptly return all fIles to his clients upon request.
4.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code lR0118(a)(4), Defendant is taxed with
the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding. Defendant shall pay the
administrative fees and costs of this proceeding, as assessed by the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant must pay the costs within 30 days of service upon him of
the statement of fees and costs by the Secretary.
5.
After the completion of one year of the activated suspension, Defendant
may apply to the Disciplinary Hearing Commission to have the remaining one year of
suspension stayed. To be eligible to have the remaining one year of suspension stayed,
Defendant must attach documentation to his application for stay showing by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and timely complied with
all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IR0128.

b.

That he paid any costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within 30 days after service of the statement of
costs upon him.

c.

That he has complied with the requirements of 27 N.C. Admin. Code
IB.0129(b) and the requirements for reinstatement in the September 2015
Order, contained in paragraph 5 and its subparagraphs on pages 8 and 9 of
the September 2015 Order.
... ......

d.

That he has properly identified the clients for whom the funds he
transferred from his Wells Fargo trust account to his BB&T trust account
belong and the proper recipients and disbursed the funds. Defendant shall
show this as follows:

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order Activating Suspension

Page 7 oflO

(1)
Defendant shall provide with his application for stay the
spreadsheet previously provided to him by the Office of Counsel, with all
funds identified that he can identify, and with all columns completed for
each identified amount of funds. Defendant shall provide on this
spreadsheet the names and addresses of all clients whose funds are
included in these transferred funds, the amount of funds being held per
client, the proper recipient(s) of the funds, the amount that should be
disbursed per recipient, and the address for each such recipient. Defendant
shall include with this identification complete, ~ccurate, and legible client
ledgers showing all deposits and disbursements for these clients in the
Wells Fargo trust account and the balance that was transferred to the
BB&T account. Deposits shall be shown as positive numbers and
disbursements as negative numbers, and all entries shall be in
chronological order per ledger. All client ledgers shall accurately show all
deposits and disbursements of funds for any and all clients with funds in
this transferred amount, the dates of such deposits or disbursements, the
check numbers associated with any disbursements, the amounts of all
deposits and disbursements, and any remaining balance, along with the
corresponding bank records showing the deposits and disbursements.
(2)
The State Bar shall have 30 days to review these documents and
note any disapproVal of proposed disbursements.
(3)
After 30 days, Defendant shall disburse the transferred funds to the
recipients identified on the spreadsheet or initiate any ~scheatment
proceedings that may be appropriate, with the exception of any amounts
for which the State Bar disapproved. Defendant shall promptly resolve
any concerns raised by the State Bar and proceed with disbursement of
those funds as approved by the State Bar.
(4)
Within 45 days after filing his application, Defendant shall
supplement his application for stay with documentation of the
disbursement of the transferred funds or initiation of escheatment as
applicable.
e.

That he has cured all deficits in his compliance set out .in this order,
including by completing the following:
(1)

Complying with the above paragraphs concerning the funds
transferred from the Wells Fargo trust account.

(2)

Providing corrected sets of reconciliations from October 2015
through October 2017, with each set containing the documents set
out in the November 2017 Order organized in the order set out in
the November 2017 Order, with all of the above-noted deficits
cured, including: (1) fixing the client balance totals on the threeway reconciliation reports for August 2016, October 2016, and

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order Activating Suspension

Page 8 oflO

June 2017; (2) adding any missing client ledgers or any other
missing documents, (3) correcting client ledgers so all show
deposits as positive numbers, disbursements as negative numbers,
contain accurate dates for deposits and disbursements, and have the
entries in proper chronological order, and (4) correcting the client
balance lists so each list itemizes per client the funds in the BB&T
trust account that were transferred from the Wells Fargo trust
account for each client.
The missing client ledgers that need to be added include those
identified in SC2 Exhibit 15 as well as the new ledgers that will be
created in conjunction with correcting the client balance lists to
show the amount in the BB&T trust account per client from the
transfer from Wells Fargo trust account.
(3)

Identifying the client to whom belong the fun,ds held for "Mills" Of
escheating the funds held for "Mills."

(4)

Obtaining permission from the client in the Hampton HomeslPerez
matter to apply the $91.00 in trust for costs against Defendant's
outstanding fee, or refunding the funds to the client, or, if the client
cannot be located, escheating as appropriate.

(5)

Disbursing the funds held for Roosevelt Broome and Larry Phillips
as substantiated in the documents Defendant provided to the State
Bar in March 2018 and providing the State Bar with client ledgers
that include all deposits and disbursements in the BB&T trust
account for each client, including these final disbursements.

(6)

Completing disbursements of all outstanding checks and providing
the State Bar with client ledgers that include all deposits and
disbursements in the BB&T trust account for each client, including
these final disbursements.

6.
Any and all client ledgers produced by Defendant to the State Bar under
any provision of this order for any purpose shall show deposits as positive numbers,
disbursements as negative numbers, contain accurate dates for deposits and
disbursements, and have the entries in proper chronological order.
7.
If Defendant is granted a stay of any portion of the activated two-year
suspension, the order granting the stay shall set out the length of stay and the applicable
conditions of that stay.
8.
If Defendant is not granted a stay of any portion of the two-year activated
suspension, then before Defendant may be reinstated to active status he must satisfy the
requirements of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0129(b), requirements contained in paragraph
5 of the "Order" section of this order, and the requirements for reinstatement in the

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order Activating Suspension

Page 9 ofl0

September 2015 Order! contained in paragraph 5 and its subparagraphs on pages 8 and 9
of the September 2015 Order.

~

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

~ day of ~tt\""

2018.

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order Activating Suspension

Page 10 oflO

