STATE OF NORTH CAROL

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER

v.
JEFFREY D. SMITH, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was heard on 16 November 2017 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members
Donald C. Prentiss and Christopher R. Bruffey, upon order issued by the DHC to
Defendant, Jeffrey D. Smith, to appear and show cause why the stay of the suspension
previously imposed by the Order of Discipline entered in this case should not be lifted
and the suspension activated. Jennrrer A. Porter represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina
State Bar. Defendant, jeffrey D. Smith, appeared pro se .
. Based upon the pleadings and the stipulated facts and with the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel finds by the greater weight of the evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On September 18, 2015, an Order of Discipline (hereinafter "the Order")
was entered in this matter. Defendant, Jeffrey D. Smith ("Smith") accepted service of the
Order on October 1, 2015.
2.
The Order imposed it two year suspension stayed for three years. The stay
of the suspensioil was conditioned upon compliance with the conditions stated in the
Order. The Order went into effect on October 31, 2015, 30 days following service.
3.
Smith has failed to comply with the. following conditions of the Order, in
the following manner.
a. Paragraph La. of the Order, beginning on page 5:

i.

This condition required Smith to provide the State Bar each month
with an accurare three-way reconciliation as described in the State Bar
Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook for all trust accounts maintained
by him, using the form prepared by the State Bar's Trust Account
Compliance Counsel. Smith was required to provide the three-way

reconciliation report, accurate client ledgers for all clients with funds
in the trost account(s) during that month, ledger for any personal funds
maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit card fees, his trost
account ledger, and the bank statements, cancelled checks, and deposit
slips for each month. These documents were due to the State Bar on
the 15th day of each following month - for example, the three-way
reconciliation for the month of January was due on February IS.
ii.

Smith's' first

three-way

reconciliation

with

the

associated

dOCUli'1.entation was due on Novell1ber 15, 2015, for the lllonth of
October 2015.
iii.

Smith provided no three-way reconciliation report or associated
documentation on November 15, 2015.

iv.

On December 16, 2015, the undersigned counsel talked with Smith by
telephol).e. Counsel guided Smith to where the required three-way
reconciliation form was located on the State Bar's website. Smith
stated he would get the overdue reconciliation to the State Bar within
the next few days.

v.

Smith provided no three-way reconciliation repOit or associated
documentation in December 2015.

vi.

Smith provided no three-way reconciliation reports or associated
documentation from the effective date of the Order in October 2015
through December 2016.

vii.

In JanUID'Y 2017, the State Bar communicated with Smith regarding his
failure to comply with this condition and set due dates to provide the
outstanding reconciliations and associated docum.ents.

viii.

Beginning in February 2017, Smith began providing reconciliation
documentation. The materials Smith provided were incomplete,
He did not use the requiTed State Bar three-way
however.
reconciliation form with all reconciliations and he did not provide all
of the required associated documentation, including the client ledgers,
the general ledger, and the deposit slips.

ix.

In April and May 2017, the State Bar communicated with Smith on
mUltipie occasions regarding items needed to come into compliance
with the Order's cOl)ditions.

x.

In April and May 2017, Smith provided partial responses but no fully
compliant three-way reconciliations with all required associated
documentation.

1. For eXIDllple, on April 19, 2017, Smith provided the State Bar with
three-way reconCiliations for January, February, and March 2017.
None included the required State Bar three-way reconciliation
The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

Page 2 of14

fonn. None included the required deposit slips. None included
complete client ledgers. None included a proper general ledger
with running balance that included an account balance carried over
from the prior month for the trust account or a total balance for the
trust account as of the end of the month.
2. On May 16,2017, Smith provided a tbree-way reconciliation for
April 2017. This reconciliation included the State Bar's fonn, but
it was signed only by his bookkeeper and not by him as required.
Tlus reconciliation also lacked deposit slips, client ledgers, and a
proper general ledger.
3. On May 23, 2017, Smith provided revised reconciliations from
September 2014 through April 2017. Smith provided the required
State Bar three-way reconciliation fonn for each month, but each
was signed only by his bookkeeper and not by Smith. These
reconciliations contained client balance lists with negaiive
balances, including differing client balance lists than had
previously been provided for January through April 2017.
Although the negative balances were noted on the three-way
reconciliation fonn as required, the required explanation and
cOrrective action . was not included with any of these
reconciliations. As of the April 2017 revised reconciliation report,
these negative balances remained outstanding. Additionally, these
revised reconciliations still lacked required supporting
documentation, including client ledgers, aproper general ledger,
and deposit slips.
4. On May 31, 2017, Smith provided the State Bar's three-way
reconciliation forms for September 2014 through April 2017
signed by both him and his bookkeeper.
5. On June 15,2017, Smith provided a three-way reconciliation for
May 2017. He provided the State Bar's fonn, but again it was
signed only by his bookkeeper and not by him.. He continued to
show an uncorrected negative balance. He provided no deposit
slips, no client ledgers, and no running general ledger.
6. This condition requires that the reconciliations Smith provides to
the State Bar be accurate. Due to the lack of required associated
documentation as well as the conflicting client balance lists, it is
unknown if any of the reconciliations provided are aCCln·ate.
b. Paragraph l.b. of the Order, on page 6:

i.

This condition required Smith to provide the State Bar each quarter
with a CPA audit of his trust accounts. The audit was required to
assess whether Smith had in his trust account the client funds he
shonld be maintaining for his clients at that time, as well as Smith's

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

Page 3 of14

compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3 of the North Carolina
Rules of Professional Conduct. The CPA's audit was required .to
include addressing the items on the form provided by the State Bar to
Smith. The quarterly audit reports from the CPA were due no later
than 30 days after the end of the quarter - for example, the CPA audit
for the first quarter of the calendar year (January, February, and
March) was due on April 30.
ii.

Smith provided no CPA reports from the effective date of the Order in
October 2015 through December 2016.

iii.

In January 2017, the State Bar communicated with Smith regarding his
failure to comply with this condition, provided the CPA report form in
electronic fillable form to Smith, and set due dates in February 2017
for Smith to provide the outstanding CPA reports.

iv.

Smith provided no CPA reports to the State Bar in February 2017.

v.

On April 26, 2017, Smith's CPA provided the State Bar with a CPA
report. The CPA report was only for the first quarter of 2017. The
only document provided by the CPA was the State Bar's form. The
CPA's responses on the State Bar form were deficient in the following
ways:
1. The CPA erroneously indicated Smith had no entrusted property in
his evaluation of compliance with Rules 1.15-2(a) U5-2(d), 1.152(k), 1.15-2(m), 1.15-2(n), 1.15,2(0), 1.15-2(P), 1.15-2(r), and
1.15-3(g). Since Smith malutained a trust account and handled
client funds, he had entrusted property.
2. The CPA failed to review any documentation to determine whether
Smith had complied with Rille 1.15-2(1) requiring a bank directive
on file instructing the bank to notifY the State Bar of any
instrument drawn on the trUst account agalust insufficient funds.
3. The CPA failed to distinguish between the two types of
reconciliations that Rule U5-3(d) required Smith to do, and failed
to assess whether Smith was conducting either' type of
reconciliation.
4. The CPA failed to assess whether Smith was providing the
accountings reqUired by Rule 1.15-3(e).
5. The CPA erroneously indicated that Rule 1.15-3(i) was not
applicablf;l and failed to assess whether Smith was conducting the
required monthly and quarterly reviews described in this rule.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

Page 4 of14

6. The CPA failed to do any assessment for the part of the form for
Rule 1.15-4.
ii.

In a letter dated May 8, 2017, the State Bar brought these deficiencies
to Smith's attention. The State Bar set a due date of May 30,2017 for
Smith to provide a corrected CPA report for the first quarter of 2017,
and a due date of June 30, 2017 for the CPA to provide the outstanding
reports for the prior quarters.

iii.

Smith did not provide any CPA reports by May 30, 2017 or by June
30,2017.

iv.

Smith's CPA provided the State Bar with a revised report for the first
quarter of2017 bye-mail on July 21,2017. The report noted several
deficiencies in Smith's compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and 1.15-3.
Paragraph I.e. of the Order, on page 6:

c.

i.

This condition required Smith to take remedial action within 10 days
of the date of any three-way reconciliation report or CPA audit that
revealed any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.152 or Rule 1.15-3, and to provide documentation showing the remedial
action to the State Bar within 2 days of the date of the remedial action.

ii.

The reconciliation reports that Defendant submitted to the State Bar·on
May 23, 2017 showed Defendant had negative client balances and a
resulting deficit in his trust account, including through April 30, 2017.
See SC Exhibit 3, three-way reconciliation form for April 2017. The
same negative balance was shown on the version of the April 2017
three-way reconciliation form that Defendant signed, which he
provided to the State Bar on May 31, 2017. See SC Exhibit 4. The
April 2017 three-way reconciliation reports indicated that Smith did
not have sufficient funds in his trust account for all client funds he
should have been maintaining at that time.

iii.

Smith did not take remedial action to cure the trust account deficit and
negative balances shown in the three-way reconciliation reports he
submitted to the State Bar in May 2017, nor did he provide any
documentation of remedial action to the State Bar.

iv.

On June 15, 2017, Smith submitted a three-way reconciliation report to
the State Bar for May 2017. This three-way reconciliation indicated
that as of May 31, 2017 he still had negative client balances and a
deficit in his trust account, with insufficient funds in his trust account
for all client funds he should have been maintaining at that time.

v.

As of the date of the filing of the State Bar's Motion for Order to
Show Cause, Smith had not provided the State Bar with any

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

PageS of14

documentation of remedial action taken to cure the trust account
deficit and negative balances shown in the three-way reconciliation
reports he submitted to the State Bar.
vi.

ill his July 21,2017 report for the first quarter of2017, the CPA noted
several deficiencies in Smith's compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and 1.153. Smith provided the State Bar with no evidence of remedial action to
cure the deficiencies noted by the CPA.

d. Paragraph I.e. of the Order, on page 6:
i.

This condition required Smith to identifY the clients to whom belonged
the funds Smith had transferred to his BB&T trust account fi'om his
Wells Fargo trust account upon closure of the Wells Fargo account.
This identification was due no later than January 31, 2016, three
months after the effective date of the Order. Smith was required to
include in this identification the names and addresses of all clients
whose funds were included in the transferred funds, the amount of
funds being held per client, the proper recipient(s) of the funds, the
amount that should be disbursed per recipient, and the address for each
such recipient. Smith was required to include complete, accurate, and
legible client ledgers for each client identified, with all client ledgers
accurately showing all deposits and disbursements of funds for the
client, the dates of such deposits or disbursements, the check numbers
associated with any disbursements, the amounts of all deposits and
disbursements, and any remaining balance, along with the
corresponding bank records showing the deposits and disbursements.

ii.

Smith did not provide the client identification and associated
information and documents required by this condition.

iii.

ill January 2017, the State Bar brought Smith's failure to comply with
this condition to Smith's attention, and set a deadline of March 31,
2017 for Smith to comply with this condition.

iv.

Smith did not provide the client identification and associated
information and documents required by this condition by March 31,
2017.

v.

ill a letter dated April 7, 2017, the State Bar brought Smith's failure to
comply with this condition by the extended deadline to Smith.'"
attention and set a deadline of April 30, 2017 for Smith to cure this
non-compliance.

vi.

On May 1, 2017, Smith e-mailed the State Bar a document on which

he provided some of the information required by this condition for a
fraction of the transferred funds.

The North Carolina State Barv. Jeffrey D.. Smith
Order

Page 6 of14

vii.

On May 2, 2017, 111e State Bar provided Smi111 wi111 an Excel
spreadsheet containing columns for all of 111e infonnation required by
this condition for Smith to use to supply all of the information required
by this condition.

viii.

On May 10, 2017, Smith provided an updated version of 111e State
Bar's spreadsheet on which he identified the clients to whom the
majority of111e transferred funds belonged. Smith failed to provide the
recipient addresses. Smith also failed to provide the client ledgers
with supporting bank documentation.

ix.

On June 26, 2017, Smi111 provided addresses for many ofthe recipients
he had previously identified. He had not identified the clients to
whom 111e remaining funds belonged. He did not provide the client
ledgers with supporting bank documentation.

x.

Additionally, although the actual amount of funds transferred from the
Wells Fargo trust account to the BB&T trust account in March 2014
was $36,861.08, Smith's revised reconciliations, provided on May 23,
2017, reduced this amount to $36,567.08 without expianation.

xi.

Without 111e client ledgers and supporting bank docwnentation,
Smith's identifications cannot be verified. Additionally, $825.34 of
the transferred funds remains unidentified, based on the spreadsheet
Smith provided to the State Bar.

e. Paragraph 1.f. of the Order, on page 7;

r.

i.

This condition required Smith to remedy any deficits in his trust
account, as established by his CPA or by the State Bar, no later than
four months after the effective date of the Order.

ii.

Although it was his bookkeeper who identified the negative client
balances and deficit in his trust account, rather than the State Bar or his
CPA, Smith still failed to remedy the deficit as discussed in more
detail under paragraph c above.

Paragraph log. of the Order, on page 7:
1.

This condition required Smith to disburse all funds in his trust account
that may appropriately be disbursed and to injtiate escheatuIent for all
funds that should appropriately be escheated no later than four mon111s
after the effective date of the Order. This condition required Smith to
provide the Office of CoUnsel with docwnentation showing all such
actions, with corresponding client ledgers. For any funds for which no
action was taken, Smith was reqnired to identify, per client, the funds
in his trust account, the proper recipient of such funds, and when
and/or under what circumstances those funds will be disbursed or
escheated, and provide the client ledger fur such client.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

Page 7 of14

ii.

Smith has not provided the State Bar with the information' and
documentation required by this condition,

iii.

Comparison of the client balance list Smith provided with his revised
October 2015 reconciliation, which was the last month his trust
account was frozen under the injunction then in place, and with the
client Jist Smith provided with his May 2017 reconciliation showed
that the vast majority of the funds held of October 31,2015 had not
been disbursed as of May 31,2017.

as

g, Paragraph I.n. of the Order, on page 8:
i.

This condition requires that Smith not violate any of the Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect during the period of the stay, Smith
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct during the stayed
suspension, including as set out below,

ii.

Rule 1.15-2(a) requires an attorney to identify, hold, and maintain
entrusted· funds separate from the attorney's property and to deposit,
disburse, and distribute the funds only in accordance with Rule 1.15,
Rule 1.15-2(n) requires an attorney to promptly payor deliver to the
client or to third persons as directed by the client any entrusted
property belonging to the client and to which the client is currently
entitled. Smith violated these rules as follows:

1. Smith provided the State Bar with information and documents after
the State Bar filed its Motion for Order to Show Cause by which
he identified the clients with negative balances and provided client
ledgers and documents establishing the time period during which
the overdisbursments occurred and establishing his reimbursement
of the trUst account. The overdisbursements occurred prior to
entry of the Order of Discipline, as did certain of the
reimbursements, Other reimbursements,· however, did not occur
until August 2017. The evidence establishes' that by failing to
remedy all negative balances in a timely manner, Smith failed to
properly maintain entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a),
2, Smith's failure to disburse funds held in his trust account since
October 2015 is a violation of Rule 1.15-2(n).

3. Smith'sfai/ure to identifY the clients for whom he held entrusted
funds in his trust account is in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a).
(a) Smith's failure to identifY the funds transferred from the Wells

Fargo trust account 'extended from the time the funds were
transferred in March 2014 through May 11, 2017 for the
majority of the transferred funds, and $825,34 was still
unidentified as of the last submission from Smith.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

PageS of14

(b) From October 2015 through at least February 13, 2017, Smith
had failed to identify the clients to whom belonged over
$8,000.00 of funds in his BB&T trust account, in addition to
the unidentified $36,861.08 transferred from the Wells Fargo
account. The reports Smith produced after February 27, 2017
identified most of that approximate $8,000 of client funds.
111.

Rule l.15-3(d) reqnires an attorney to conduct monthly and quarterly
reconciliations of his trust account, and to review, sign, and maintain
those repOlts. Smith was not conducting the required reconciliations
of his trust account from OQtober 2015 through February 2017.
Fnrthennore, he did not sign the reconciliation reports he provided to
the State Bar on February 14, 2017, March 16, 2017, May 16, 2017,
. and June 15, 2017.

iv.

Rule 1.15-3(i) reqnires an attorney to conduct certain monthly and
quarterly reviews and then create and maintain a report of each review
that describes the review and '!fly remedial action. According to the
CPA's reports, Mr. Smith had not done the required monthly or
quarterly reviews until the second quarter of 20 17.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant failed to comply with the above detailed conditions of the stay
of his suspension.
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS
1.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B.01l8(a)(4), upon finding by the
greater weight of the evidence that Defendant has violated conditions of the stay of the
suspension, the Hearing Panel may activate the suspension, may allow the stay to remain
in effect, may extend the tenn of the stay, and may include modified or additional
conditions for the suspension to remain stayed.
2.
The conduct at issue in the Order of Discipline entered in this case
stemmed from Defendant's inattention to his trust account and his failure to fulfill his
trust account obligations. The evidence shows that Defendant's attention to his trust
account and his compliance with his trust account obligations is still deficient. This
poses the same risk of significant potential harm as was posed by his original conduct.
3.
Defendant provided no documents to the State Bar in 2016 and throughout
2017 has not provided all documents required by the Order of Discipline.
4.
Although Defendant has not provided all documents required by the Order
of Discipline in 2017, nonetheless he has provided thousands of pages of records to the
The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

Page 9 of14

State Bar throughout 2017, including three different versions of reconciliations covering
the time periods of2012 through 2017. Defeudant's production included a vast amount
of documentation that was not required by the Order of Discipline. The differing
versions of reconciliations, the volllli1inous non-responsive documents, and the failure to
provide required documents and information have impaired the ability of the State Bar to
engage in the oversight designed by the Order. However, Defendant's extensive
document 'production is evidence of Defendant's attempts in 2017 to come into
compliance with the conditions of the stay of his suspension.
5.
Despite Defendant's current attempts, however, his recent reconciliations
submitted to the State Bar still lacked all required documentstion, and he still has not
come into compliance with the terms of the Order requiting the identification of all
entrusted funds and the disbursement of funds.
6.
Defendant reports having had difficulty understanding what he is required
to produce to the State Bar by the Order of Discipline and where his production has been
deficient, despite the numerous commuuications to him from the State Bar addressing
these topics.
7.
Defendant has identified a person knowledgeable of and experienced with
attorney trust account management who has agreed to serve as a compliance monitor to
assist him with compiling and providitig the State Bar with the documents and
information required by the Order of Discipline and this Order.
8.
The Hearing Panel fmds reason to believe that utilization of a compliance
monitor by Defendant may result in Defendant's compliance with the conditions of the
stay of his suspension.
THEREFORE, based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law,
and Additional Findings and Conclusions, the Heming Panel enters the following
ORDER

1.
The stay of Defendant's two year suspension is extended for an additional
three years, with a new ending date of October 31, 2021.
2.
follows:

The conditions for the stay of Defendant's suspension are modified as

a. By November 30, 2017, Defendant shall provide the State Bar with the
written agreement of an individual committing to serve as a compliance
monitor for Defendan1: and to fulfill the duties set out herein. The monitor
must be a person with experience with the management of attorney trust
accounts. The choice of monitor is subject to the approval of the State
Bar. The monitor must agree to gain an understanditig satisfactory to the
State Bar of what Defendant is required to produce to the State Bar under

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jif.{rey D. Smith
Order

Page 10 of14

ilietenns ofilie Order of Discipline and this Order, and to facilitate proper
and timely production of required documents to ilie State Bar. The
monitor shall act as an intc~ediary to ensure that what Defendant
produces to ilie State Bar is timely and consists of the pertinent documents
in ilie form and with ilie content r~quired. If the monitor cannot gain an
understanding of Defendant's obligations satisfactory to ilie State Bar,
ilien the State Bar will so notifY Defendant and Defendant shall make
alternate arrangements and provide a written agreement to ilie State Bar
from a new monitor wi1hin 10 days of ilie notice to Defendant' from ilie
State Bar. Likewise, if the chosen monitor becomes unable to continue
serving in this role, Defendant shall make alternate arrangements and
provide a written agreement to the State Bar from ilie new monitor within
10 days of notice to Defendant from ilie plior monitor. Defendant shall be
solely responsible for any expenses associated wiili this arrangement.
h. By December 31,2017, Defendant shall provide ilie State Bar with a set of
documents for each month from October 2015 to November 2017,
inclusive, wiili each set of documents containing ilie following, in ilie
following order:
1) A completed accm'ate North Carolina State Bar 1hree-way
reconciliation form signed by Defendant for ilie pertinent monili.
2) A general ledger, containing a beginning balance that clUnes over
ilie ending balance from ilie monili prior and contains in
chronological order an entry for every deposit and disbursement
from ilie trust account in ilie pertinent month and a running
balance.
3) A client balance list wiili total, identifYing all funds iliat should be
held in the trust account for clients in iliat month, identifYing each
client and the amount per client.

1. This list shall include entries per client of "any identifiable
funds in the amount transferred from the now-closed Wells
Fargo trust account to the current BB&T trust account on
March 26, 2014. To the extent the funds transferred from
the Wells Fargo trust account were funds from outstanding
checks issued in "client matters from the now-closed Wells
Fargo trust account, such funds shall be considered and
shown as a balance now being maintained for any such
client in Mr. Smith's current trust account unless and until
properly disbursed from ilie current trust account.
4) Accurate client ledgers for every client who" had funds in the trust
account in the pertinent month, including funds that were

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

Page 11 of14

transferred from the Wells Fargo trust account. Such client ledgers
shall contain entries for all deposits and disbursements per client
through the end of the applicable month, in chronological order,
with deposits shown as positive figures and disbursements shown
as negative figures, with a running balance, and shall be printed
from the same software system from which the client balance list
used in the reconciliation is printed.
5) An office ledger showing any funds belonging to Defendant used
to open the account or for account maintenance, containing entries
for all deposits, disbmsements, and transfers to client ledgers to
remedy prior deficits as applicable.
6) The bank statement, all cancelled checks, and all deposit slips,
deposit receipts, or other deposit documentation for the month.
c. The due date for the reconciliations and documents due under paragraph
La. of the Order of DisciJ?line is modified from the 15th day of each
subsequent month to the 20 day of each subsequent month.
d. Beginning with the reconciliation for December 2017 due on January 20,
2018 under paragraph La. on page 5-6 of the Order of Discipline and the
above modification, each reconciliation produced in accordance with
paragraph l.a. of the Order of Discipline shall contain the content detailed
in the preceding paragraph in the order set out in that paragraph, to wit:
1) A completed accurate North Carolina State Bar three-way
reconciliation form signed by Defendant for the pertinent month.
2) A general ledger, containing a beginning balance that carries over
the ending balance from the month prior and contains in
chronological order an entry for every deposit and disbursement
from the nust account in the pertinent month and a running
balance.
3) A client balance. list with total, identifying all funds that should be
held in the trust account for clients, identifying each client and the
amount per client.
'
I.

This list shall include entries per client of any identifiable
funds in the amount transferred from the now-closed Wells
Fargo trust account to the cmrent BB&T trust account on
March 26, 2014. To the extent the funds transferred from
the Wells Fargo trust account were funds from outstanding
checks issued in client matters from the now-closed Wells
Fargo trust account, such funds shall be considered and

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

Page 12 of 14

shown as n balance now being maintained for any such
client in Defendant's current trust account unless and until
properly disbursed from the current trust account.
4) Accurate client ledgers for every client who had funds in the trust
account in the pertinent month, including funds that were
transferred from the Wells Fargo trust account. Such client ledgers
shall contain entries for all deposits and disbursements per cliel1t
through the end of the applicable month, in chronological order,
with deposits shown as positive figures and disbursement shown as
negative figures, with a running balance, and shall be printed from
the same software system from which the client balance list used in
the reconciliation is printed.
5) An office ledger showing any funds belol1ging to Defendant used
to open the account or for account maintenance, containing entries
for all deposits, disbursements, and transfers to client ledgers to
remedy prior deficits as applicable.
6) The bank statement, all cancelled checks, and all deposit slips,
deposit receipts, or other deposit documentation for the month.
e. Defendant shall not disburse any funds from the amount transferred on
March 26, 2014 from the Wells Fargo trust account to his current trust
account until· he has provided the State Bar with the information and
documents itemized in paragraph I.e. of the Order of Discipline (page 6).
f. Paragraph 1.r. of the Order of Discipline (page 7) is modified to require
that Defendant shaIl remedy any deficit in his trust account within 10 days
of the notice to him of any such deficit from any source, and shall provide
the State Bar with documentation of his remedial action with 5 days of
such action.
g. By January 15, 2018, Defendant shall provide the State Bar with the
information and documents itemized in paragraph I.e. of the Order of
Discipline (page 6) for all funds identified on the spreadsheet he provided
the State Bar on June 26,2017: If he lacks any of the required
documentation for a specific identification of funds for a client, he shall
describe what is missing, what actions he is taking to 1"ecovel' the missing
documentation, and shaIl provide any and all documentation he has that
substantiates the identification of funds at issue.
h. By January 31, 2018, Defendant shall have complied with paragraph I.g.
of the Order of Discipline (page 7),

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

Page 13 of14

i. Paragraphs l.h. through l.p. of the Order of Discipline (pages 7-8) remain
in effect as originally written.
3.
Paragraph 3 of the Order of Discipline (page 8) is modified to reflect thst
the stay of the suspension is extended for three years, and that Defendant's obligations
under the Order of Discipline will continue until six years from the effective date of the
Order of Discipline absent the occurrences set out in that paragrap4.
4.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0118(a)(4), Defendant is taxed with
the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding.
5.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0118(a), the DHC will retain
jurisdiction of this matter until all conditions in the Ordet: of Discipline and this Order are
satisfied.

0.""""

Signed h(' the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
.....
:A!.<><-_dayof t>.~~
2017.

~

Disciplinary Hearing Panel

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order

Page 14 of14

