j~'5~'Trr8 1$

,f~
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

):;.'
,"
j:;l"J

s

..

q},

'~

BEFORE THE
HEARING COMMISSION
f<.1.'
~ OF THE
'&En~RTR: AROLINA STATE BAR
. ~ 15DHC27
fi'fs{ildff,IN

WAKE COUNTY

,n

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE

B;f'~'£e:l; tt%\~"<J

r

Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

JEFFREY D, SMITH, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M, Morelock, Chair, and members Donald C Prentiss
and Christopher R Bruffey, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § ,0114(h), Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A PorterDefendant, Jeffrey D, Smith ("Smith"), was represented by Eben Turner Rawls, IlL Both
Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed, Smith consents to entry of
this Order of Discipline and freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the
entry of this order,
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
Findings of Fact

I,
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code),
2,
Defendant, Jeffrey D, Smith ("Smith"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1982 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct3,
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties,

4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein. Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
5.
Defendant maintained an attorney trust account at BB&T, account number
ending with 3906. Defendant also maintained an attorney trust account at Wells Fargo,
account number ending with 2127.
6.
Defendant failed to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his
attorney trust accounts, including from January 2012 through June 2014.
7.
From January 2012 through June 2014, Defendant failed to timely
disburse all funds held in his trust account for clients, including for title insurance
premiums from real estate closings. Such instances include but are not limited to in
closings for clients JB, MB. RC, CG, DG, JH, MI, JK, HM. ZM, NS, MP, TS, AS, and
VM.
8.
On occasion from January 2012 through June 2014, Defendant disbursed
funds for clients either in excess of the amount of funds in the trust account for the client
or when no funds were in the trust account for the client. Such instances include but are
not limited to disbursements for clients TB. KC, HH, RL, ML, Nyuk, BT, Pike
Renovations, LLC, and DP.
9.
Defendant has disbursed funds on behalf of two clients, MI and TS, in real
estate transactions in such a manner that he no longer has available in his trust account
for these clients the full amount he should have for title insurance premiums as listed on
their respective HUD-I Settlement Statements.
10.
On August 5, 2014, Defendant disbursed check # 16991 for $750.00 from
his trust account made payable to "cash" attributed to client ZM.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions Of Law
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a.

By failing to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his attorney
trust account, Defendant failed to reconcile his trust account as required in
violation of Rule 1.15-3(d)(l) and (2);

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order of Discipline

Page 2 oflO

b.

By disbursing funds for clients either in excess of the amount of funds in
the trust account for the client or when no funds were in the trust account
for the client, Defendant failed to properly maintain entrusted funds in
violation of Rule I. I S-2(a), used entrusted funds for the benefit of
someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds in violation of Rule
I.lS-20), and disbursed entrusted funds in a manner not authorized by or
for the benefit of the client in violation of Rule 1.IS-2(m);

c.

By disbursing funds such that the funds remaining in the trust account for
the client are insufficient to complete the disbursements listed on the
HUD- I Settlement Statement, Defendant failed to properly maintain
entrusted funds in violation of Rule l.IS-2(a); and

d.

By making a check payable to "cash" from his trust account, Defendant
improperly drew an item on his trust account made payable to cash in
violation of Rule l.I5-2(i).

Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings Of Fact Regarding Discipline

I.
Had Defendant been conducting the requisite monthly and quarterly
reconciliations, he would have discovered the inappropriate disbursement issues itemized
above.
2.
Defendant has had a history of checks being returned for insufficient funds
in his trust accounts. Although there has been no evidence of misappropriation and
Defendant has provided sufficient explanations for each instance, each ofthese situations
should have highlighted to Defendant the need to reconcile his trust accounts and better
track the funds in his trust accounts. Respondent failed to take appropriate corrective
action, leading to the most recent insufficient funds notice that initiated the audit in this
case.
3.
Defendant has expressed remorse for his failure to properly maintain his
trust account and has cooperative with the State Bar investigator's efforts to identity the
funds in his BB&T trust account.
4.
In the course of the audit, the State Bar identified apparent deficiencies in
client balances in the trust account. Even while exploring whether some of the apparent
deficiencies might be due to bookkeeping errors rather than actual over-disbursements or
lack of funds, Defendant deposited personal funds into his trust account to make the
restitution necessary to allow client funds to be disbursed from his trust account for the
clients.
5.
6.
Defendant.

Defendant has no prior discipline.
There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order of Discipline

Page 3 ofl0

7.
Allowing client funds to be improperly maintained or disbursed, even if
inadvertent, however, places entrusted funds at risk and erodes the confidence clients
place in attorneys who handle their affairs. As a result, such conduct harms the
profession as a whole.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
8.

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OII4(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:

a.

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm 01' potential harm is
foreseeable, to wit: failing to take corrective action to ensure proper
maintenance of and accounting for entrusted funds; and

b.

Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception ofthe legal profession

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. IB §.OII4(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. IB §.OII4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Absence of a dishonest 01' selfish motive;

c.

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution;

d.

Multiple offenses;

e.

A pattern of misconduct;

The North Carolina Slate Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order of Discipline

Page 4 0[10

f.

Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings; and

g.

Remorse.

4.
Defendant's conduct, if continued by Defendant or tolerated by the Bar,
poses significant potential harm to future clients.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions
to avoid future significant harm or the potential for significant harm to clients. For the
protection of his clients and the public, it is necessary to monitor his trust account
management for a period of time in the form of a stayed suspension to ensure compliance
with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law licenses would not be
appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order Of Discipline

1.
Defendant, Jeffrey D. Smith, is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw
for two years. The two-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:

a.

Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar with an accurate three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar
Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook for all trust accounts maintained by
him. Defendant shall use the form prepared by the State Bar's Trust
Account Compliance Counsel, which will be provided to him by the
Office of Counsel, for this purpose. Defendant shall provide the three-way
reconciliation report, accurate client ledgers for all clients with funds in
the trust account(s) during that month, ledger for any personal funds
maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit card fees, his trust

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order of Discipline

Page 5 of10

account ledger, and the bank statements, cancelled checks, and deposit
slips for each month. These documents are due on the 15th day of the
following month - for example, the three-way reconciliation for the month
ofJanuary is due on February 15;

b.

Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA audit his trust accounts.
Defendant will be responsible for any associated costs. This audit shall
assess whether Defendant has in his trust account the client funds he
should be maintaining for his clients at that time, as well as Defendant's
compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3 of the North Carolina State
Bar Rules of Professional Conduct. The CPA's audit shall include
addressing the items on the form which will be provided by the State Bar
to Defendant. The quarterly audit reports from the CPA are due no later
than 30 days after the end of the quarter - for example, the CPA audit for
the first quarter of the calendar year (January, February, and March) is due
on April 30;

c.

If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit
reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule I.I5-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the
date of the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall
provide documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar
within 2 days of the date of the remedial action;

d.

Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel to
provide any information regarding his trust accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to
obtain information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a
trust account, by the deadline stated in the request;

e.

No later than three months after the effective date of this order, Defendant
shall provide the Office of Counsel with a document in which he identifies
the funds transferred to his BB&T trust account from his Wells Fargo trust
account upon closure ofthe Wells Fargo account. This identification shall
contain the names and addresses of all clients whose funds are included in
these transferred funds, the amount of funds being held per client, the
proper recipient(s) of the funds and the amount that should be disbursed
per recipient, and the address for each such recipient. Defendant shall
include with this identification complete, accurate, and legible client
ledgers (al1 client ledgers produced under any provision ofthis Order shal1
accurately show al1 deposits and disbursements of funds for any and al1
clients with funds in this transferred amount, the dates of such deposits or
disbursements, the check numbers associated with any disbursements, the
amounts of all deposits and disbursements, and any remaining balance,
along with the corresponding bank records showing the deposits and
disbursements);

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order of Discipline

Page 6 of 10

f.

No later than four months after the effective date of this order, Defendant
shall remedy any deficiencies in his trust account, as established by his
CPA or by the State Bar;

g.

No later than four months after the effective date of this order, Defendant
shall disburse all funds in his trust account that may appropriately be
disbursed and shall initiate escheatment for all funds that should
appropriately be escheated. On the last day of the fourth month after the
effective date of this order, Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel
with documentation showing all such actions, with corresponding client
ledgers. For any funds for which no action was taken, Defendant shall
identifY, per client, the funds in his trust account, the proper recipient of
such funds, and when and/or under what circumstances those funds will be
disbursed or escheated, and provide the client ledger for such client;

h.

Within the first year of the stayed period of suspension, Defendant shall
complete four hours of continuing legal education in the area of trust
account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar.
At least one such session shall be taken before the end of the next calendar
quarter (Le., by March 30, June 30, etc.) following the entry of this order
and at least one such session shall be the Trust Accounting Rules
Continuing Legal Education Program taught by the Trust Account
Compliance Counsel for The North Carolina State Bar. Defendant shall
provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE courses to the
State Bar within ten days of completing the courses. These four hours are
in addition to the continuing legal education requirements set out in 27
N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I, Subchapter D § .1518;

I.

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current physical business address (not a Post
Office box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notify the Bar
of any change in address within ten (10) days of such change;

j.

Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina
State Bar;

k.

Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated
therein with full and complete responses and all requested documentation;

I.

Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;

m.

Defendant will pay all membership, Client Security Fund, and any other
related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable deadline;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order of Discipline

Page 7 oflO

n.

Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the stay;

o.

Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the period of the stay; and

p.

Defendant paid the costs and fees of this proceeding taxed to him, as set
out below.

2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and fees.
Defendant shall pay the amount assessed within thirty days of service of the statement of
costs and fees upon him.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
3.
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to § .0 I 14(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC
retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a
motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the
stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would
otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of
the suspension and activate the two year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any
of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and
Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until
resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
4.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in § .01 14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing a petition pursuant to § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein as well as the
following requirements by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
a.

Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

b.

Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of
his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box),

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order of Discipline

Page 8 oflO

telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his
suspension;
c.

Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of the suspension;

d.

Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his suspension;

e.

Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding continuing
education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of his
petition for reinstatement;

f.

Defendant provided, with his petition, an accurate three-way reconciliation
as described in the State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook for all
trust accounts maintained by him at the time his suspension was activated.
Defendant shall use the form prepared by the State Bar's Trust Account
Compliance Counsel, which will be provided to him by the Office of
Counsel, for this purpose. Defendant shall provide the three-way
reconciliation report, accurate' client ledgers for all clients with funds in
the trust account(s), ledger for any personal funds maintained in the trust
account(s) for bank or credit card fees, his trust account ledger, and the
bank statements, cancelled checks, and deposit slips corresponding to the
reconciliation. The reconciliation will cover the 3 months immediately
preceding the activation of the suspension and will accurately reflect the
current status offunds and client funds in his trust account(s);

g.

Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;

h.

Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the suspension; and

i.

Defendant paid all costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.

6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .OI14(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay of
the suspension are satisfied.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order of Discipline

Page 9 ofl0

/'6

.J>igned by~kth the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
1 day of ~
,~2015.

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Agreed and consented to by:

Ira ~2-0IS-

l

nifer A. Porter
Attorney for Plaintiff

Date

Jeffr~th
Defendant

Date

Eben Turner Rawls, III
Attorney for Defendant

Date

,
The North Carolina State Bar v. Jeffrey D. Smith
Order of Discipline

Page 10 of10

