NOTE: THIS LINK RELATES ONLY TO JERRY M.

SMITH FORMERLY OF WINSTON-SALEM.
THIS LINK DOES NOT RELATE TO JERRY A. SMITH,
JR. OF HENDERSONVILLE OR JERRY N. SMITH OF
ATLANTA, GA. WHO HAVE HAD NO PROFESSIONAL
ASSOCIATION WITH JERRY M. SMITH.

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

~if~

/"~

,;!;

~;:'

\;;

'~_
<"(c':"'.

~;cQ'

:'JA.. '0~

BEFORE THE
NWb~CIP~. - RY HEARING COMMISSION
f-~VIO
'OS
OF THE
DIL~OJOR~ CAROLINA STATE BAR
10 DHC 26

'He

!J

.,)1.

<::

'y

-

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

V.
JERRY M. SMITH, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MAnER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of J. Michael Booe, Chair, Fred M. Morelock and
Karen B. Ray pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114 of the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Jerry M. Smith was represented by
Attomey Dudley A. Witt. Plaintiff was represented by Deputy Counsel Margaret
Cloutier. Defendant has agreed to waive a formal hearing in this matter and
both parties stipulate and consent to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant stipulates that he
waives any right to appeal this consent order or challenge in any way the
sufficiency of the findings by consenting to the entry of this order.

Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds, by
clear, cogent and convincing eVidence, the following

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a
body dUly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Jerry M. Smith (hereinafter "Smith" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 9, 1988 and is, and was at all
times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North

, '

Carolina, sUbject to the rUles, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina,
3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Winston-Salem, Forsyth County, North Carolina.
4, Between February 1, 2002 and December 29, 2009 Defendant
maintained a client trust account with SunTrust Bank, account number ending in
the digits 2737 (hereinafter the "SunTrust trust account").
5. Defendant used the SunTrust trust account as a general trust account
in which Defendant deposited and disbursed client funds.
6. On or about April 18, 2005 Defendant received funds on behalf of client
Helen Robertson in settlement of Ms. Robertson's personal injury claim.
7. From the funds received on behalf of Ms. Robertson, Defendant
retained in the SunTrust trust account approximately $40,000.00 for payment of
such sums as might be required by Medicare to reimburse it for funds paid by
Medicare on Ms, Robertson's behalf.
8. On or about August 28, 2006 Medicare notified Defendant of the
amount due Medicare on Ms. Robertson's behalf and requested immediate
payment of that amount.
9. The funds held by Defendant in excess of the amount of the Medicare
lien belonged to Ms. Robertson.
10. As of December 29,2009 Defendant had not disbursed to Medicare
any of the funds held on behalf of Ms. Robertson and had not disbursed to Ms,
Robertson any remaining funds in excess of the Medicare lien.
11. Ms. Robertson and/or her son made numerous efforts to contact
Defendant about the funds he held for Ms. Robertson but Defendant did not
respond to their inquiries.
12. On or about August 10, 2006 Defendant received funds on behalf of
client Charles Miller in settlement of Mr. Miller's personal injUry claim.
13. From the funds received on behalf of Mr. Miller, Defendant retained in
the SunTrust trust account apprOXimately $12,000.00 for payment of such sums
as might be required by Medicare to reimburse it for funds paid by Medicare on
Mr. Miller's behalf.

2

14. On or about November 18, 2006 Defendant requested Medicare to
notify Defendant of the amount due Medicare on Mr. Miller's behalf. Defendant
made no further efforts to determine the amount of the Medicare lien.
15. Some of the funds held by Defendant in excess of the amount of any
Medicare lien belonged to Mr. Miller.
16. As of December 29, 2009 Defendant had not disbursed to Medicare
any of the remaining funds held on behalf of Mr. Miller and had not disbursed to
Mr. Miller any funds in excess of the Medicare lien.
17. Mr. Miller's subsequent attorney made several efforts to contact
Defendant about the funds Defendant held for Mr. Miller but Defendant did not
respond to those inquiries.
18. As of December 2007 Defendant stopped practicing law and did not
deposit any more client funds into his SunTrust trust account.
19. As of December 29, 2009 Defendant held client funds in excess of
$62,000.00 in the SunTrust trust account, including the funds belonging to Ms.
Robertson and Mr. Miller.
20. As of December 20, 2009 Defendant had not appropriately disbursed
those funds held in trust on behalf of his clients.
21. Defendant did not prepare and keep client ledger cards reflecting
funds held in trust for his clients.
22. Defendant did not reconcile the SunTrust trust account at least
quarterly between February 1, 2002 and December 29, 2009.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Panel enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, Jerry M. Smith, and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. Defendant's conduct, as set out In the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. by failing to follow through in determining the amount of Mr. Miller's
Medicare lien and failing to properly disburse trust funds belonging to clients or

3

third parties, Defendant did not act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
b. by failing to respond to the inquiries of Ms. Robertson, her son and Mr.
Miller's attorney, Defendant failed to keep his clients reasonably informed about
the status of their matters and did not promptly cornply with reasonable requests
for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and (4);
c. by failing to timely disburse funds held on behalf of clients, Defendant
did not promptly payor deliver to the client entrusted property belonging to the
client or to third parties and to which the client or third parties were currently
entitled in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (rn);
d. by failing to properly disburse client funds remaining in his attorney
trust account when he stopped practicing law, Defendant did not take steps
reasonably necessary to protect the clients' interests in violation of Rule 1.16(d);
e. by failing prepare and maintain client ledger cards, Defendant failed to
maintain a ledger containing a record of receipts and disbursements for each
person from whom and for whom funds are received and showing the current
balance of funds held in the trust account for each such person in violation of
Rule 1.15-3(b)(5); and
f. by failing to reconcile his trust account at least quarterly, Defendant
failed to total and reconcile the account with the current bank balance each
quarter in violation of Rule 1.15-3(c).

Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by
clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. There is no evidence that any of Defendant's actions relating to his
trust account described in the Findings of Fact above were intentional
misappropriations but rather were the result of gross inattention to the status of
the account in general. However, such mismanagement in the handling of client
funds puts the entrusted funds at risk and erodes the confidence clients place in
attorneys who handle their affairs. As a result, such conduct hamrs the
profession as a whole.
2. Ms. Robertson receives Social Security retirement benefits. Because
of Defendant's delay in disbursing funds to Medicare for Ms. Robertson's benefit,
the U.S. Treasury sought reimbursement by deducting funds from Ms.
Robertson's monthly Social Security checks for a period of time. Defendant has

4

since fully reimbursed Medicare from the funds held in trust on behalf of Ms.
Robertson, including interest accrued that Defendant paid from his own funds.
3. Ms. Robertson and Mr. Miller both relied on Defendant to handle their
funds in a prompt and efficient manner. Defendant's lack of action and
communication about the status of their funds delayed resolution of their financial
matters and caused them anxiety over the uncertainty of the status of their funds.
3. Defendant's conduct reflects a pattem of misconduct in that the trust
account mismanagement occurred over a period of years.
4. Defendant has never been disciplined by the State Bar.
5. In this proceeding before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
Defendant fully and freely disclosed the facts and circumstances surrounding the
subject of this action and was cooperative in his participation.
6. Defendant has expressed remorse for his conduct.
7. Defendant did not act with a dishonest or selfish motive when he
engaged in the conduct described in the Findings of Fact above relating to his
trust account.
8. During the time of the actions described in the Findings of Fact,
Defendant was suffering from undiagnosed depression that contributed to
Defendant's inaction in handling entrusted funds. Since Defendant was initially
contacted by the State Bar regarding his conduct, Defendant has been under the
care of a psychologist and psychiatrist.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional
Findings Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel also enters the following

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline avaiiable to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the
factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant
suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession; and

5

(b) Defendant's actions impaired his clients' ability to achieve the goals of
the representation.
2. The Hearing Panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would
warrant disbarment.
3. The Hearing Panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
(d) Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
(e) Defendant's psychological condition contributed to his inaction in
properly distributing the funds in his trust account;
(f) Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and
cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
(g)

Defendant's remorse; and

(h) The VUlnerability of Defendant's clients.
4. The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand
or censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline
because of the gravity of the actual harm to his clients and the potential harm to
client funds. The Panel further concludes that such discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant and send
the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of
the Bar in this State.
5. For the nature and extent of Defendant's trust account violations and
the protection of the public, this Panel would consider an active suspension of
Defendant's license to practice law if it were not for the factors in Defendant's
favor, Defendant's recognition of the impropriety of his conduct and his
commitment to refrain from such conduct in the future. Given those
circumstances, the Hearing Panel finds and concludes that the public will be
adequately protected by suspension of Defendant's license, stayed for a period
of time with conditions imposed upon Defendant designed to ensure protection of

6

the public and Defendant's continued compliance with the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
6. Defendant has informed the hearing panel that he is not currently
practicing law and intends to apply for inactive status with the North Carolina
State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 10 § .0901. The intent of this Order of
discipline is to protect the public while Defendant is in practice. Therefore, it
would thwart the intended effect of the hearing panel's discipline if Defendant is
able to avoid complying with the conditions of the stay of this suspension
because he is not actively practicing law or is in inactive status. Furthermore, the
hearing panel recognizes that Defendant's potential transfer to inactive status
cannot occur until the January 2011 meeting of the North Carolina State Bar
Council.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law,
Additional Findings Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions Regarding Discipline,
and upon consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license of Defendant, Jerry M. Smith, is hereby suspended for
three years from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon him. The period
of suspension is stayed for three years contingent upon Defendant's continued
compliance with the follOWing conditions:
a. Defendant shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar, that Defendant has properly disbursed
the funds currently held in his trust account within thirty days of the service of this
order upon him. Upon disbursement of the entrusted funds, Defendant shall
provide to the State Bar an accounting of such disbursements within forty days of
the service of this order;
b. During the period of stayed suspension Defendant shall retain the
services of a Certified Public Accountant to review the status of any accounts into
which client or fiduciary funds have been deposited. Defendant shall deliver to
the Office of Counsel a report prepared and signed by the Certified Public
Accountant certifying that Defendant has reconciled each account with the bank
balance, that he has maintained client ledgers identifying all funds in each
account, and that Defendant is otherwise meeting all requirements of Rule 1.15-3
of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
c. Defendant shall submit such reports by each January 15, April 15, July
15, and October 15 during the period of stay. Defendant shall provide to the
certified public accountant the necessary information to satisfactorily prepare

7

such quarterly reports by their due dates. Defendant will be solely responsible
for all costs associated with the monitoring of his trust account(s);
d. Defendant will complete an accounting course, either a continuing legal
education course teaching trust accounting practices or other accounting course
with an emphasis on trust accounts and/or fiduciary funds, approved in advance
by the Office of Counsel. Defendant will complete the course within six months
of the service of this order upon him and will provide the Office of Counsel proof
of completion within ten days of completion of the course;
e. Defendant shall continue with all prescribed medical and/or psychiatric
treatments as determined by his current treating psychiatrist or mental health
professional. In the event Defendant determines it is necessary or appropriate to
change mental health care providers at any time, Defendant first shall submit the
name and credentials of his proposed treatment professional to the Office of
Counsel for approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Defendant will direct his treating mental health care professional to provide semiannual reports to the Office of Counsel describing in detail Defendant's current
treatment regimen, compliance, and prognosis or treatment plan for the next six
months. Such reports will be provided by each January 15 and July 15 during
the stay. Defendant may elect to have his treatment program supervised by the
North Carolina State Bar Lawyer Assistance Program (LAP). If he does so elect,
he will cooperate fully with LAP to develop an appropriate treatment plan under
the supervision of LAP, and will comply with the requirements of such treatment
plan. Within thirty days of service of this order upon him, Defendant will deliver
to the State Bar Office of Counsel written waivers and releases authorizing the
Office of Counsel to confer with Defendant's treating health care professional
and/or LAP for the purpose of determining if Defendant has cooperated and
complied with all requirements of the prescribed treatment plan. Defendant will
not revoke such waivers and releases during the period of stay. All expenses of
treatment and any reports provided to the Office of Counsel will be at
Defendant's sale expense;
f. Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions of
the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the stayed suspension;
g. Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for information by the
earlier of the deadline stated in the communication or within thirty days, as
required by Rule 8.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
h. Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements; and

i. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of his current home and business street (not P.O. Box)
addresses and telephone numbers.

8

,

.

2. This Order shall be effective on the date Defendant is served with this
Order. However, because Defendant intends to apply for a transfer to inactive
status as noted above, Defendant will not have to comply with conditions 1(b) (e) prior to January 31,2011. In the event Defendant successfully petitions for
and is transferred to inactive status with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to
27 N.CAC. 1D § .0901 by January 31, 2011, the suspension and the period of
the stay of the suspension imposed by this Order shall be tolled until Defendant
successfully petitions for and is transferred back to active status with the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.CAC. 1D § .0902, If Defendant is not
transferred to inactive status by January 31, 2011, the suspension and the period
of the stay of the suspension shall remain in effect, and Defendant shall be
subject to all accompanying conditions imposed by this Order until Defendant
successfully transfers to inactive status, at which time any remaining period of
the stayed suspension shall be tolled until Defendant's transfer back to active
status. Once Defendant returns to active status, the suspension, the period of
stayed suspension and all accompanying conditions imposed by this Order shall
once again go into effect for three years minus the time previously served by
Defendant prior to being transferred to inactive status. Nothing in this paragraph
shall serve to toll the requirement to disburse funds in Defendant's account as
provided in condition 1(a) above.
3. If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the provisions of
Paragraph 1 above at any point during the period of time the stayed suspension
is in effect, the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted or revoked
as provided in §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules.
4. If the stay granted herein is lifted or revoked or the suspension of
Defendant's license is activated for any reason, the DHC may enter an order
providing for such conditions as it deems appropriate and/or necessary for
reinstatement of Defendant's law license. Furthermore, before seeking
reinstatement of his license to practice law, Defendant must show by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied with each of the following
conditions:
a. Properly disbursed the funds held in his trust account within thirty days
of the service of this order and provided to the State Bar an accounting of such
disbursements within forty days of the service of this order;
b. Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the revocation order
suspending his law license;
c. Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules on a timely basis following the revocation order
suspending his law license;

9

d. Paid all due and owing membership fees, Client Security Fund
assessments and costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar and complied with
all continuing legal education requirements imposed by the State Bar.
5. Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary which shall be paid within thirty days of seNice of the notice of costs
upon the Defendant.
Signed by the Chair with the fUtl*rJ9wledge ajdJM#ent of the other
I(, day of ,1\
tJ!. ,2010.
members of the Hearing Panel, this

a

Q, fiJ,cf2M~
CONSENTED TO:

10

