BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
10G0622

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Robert M. Smith,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April21, 2011 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Alier considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probabie cause. Probable cause is defined 1I1 the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that alier a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a eomplaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused halm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this ease
and issues this reprimand to you. As ehainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented G.S. in a criminal case that was on the trial calendar for the week of 29
March 2010. On 30 March 2010, court staff contacted your firm to notify you that you and G.S.
needed to report to court for trial at 9:30 a.m. on 31 March 2010.

On 31 March 2010, neither you nor G.S. appeared in court for trial. You did not timely
notify the court of any eircumstances that made you (or your client) unable to attend court. By
order dated 15 April 2010, you were found to have engaged in indireet criminal contempt of
court for willful failure to appear at a duly notieed criminal trial. The court found that your
willful and unjustified failure to appear caused unnecessary burden to several witnesses and
"substantially delayed the business of this court." Your failure to appear in court and failure to
timely notify theeourt that you were unable to appear was in violation of Rule 3.4(e)knowingly disobeying an obligation under the rules of a tribunal.
In responding to the Grievance Committee regarding this grievanee, you made several
assertions that contradieted statements you made to the comi at the hearing on eontempt. You
also told the COImnittee that on the day you missed G.S.'s court date, you had been "diagnosed
with a bacterial infeetion of the stomaeh and ehest wall pyeloneplu·itis." Your medieal reeords
do not cOlToborate that assertion. Accordingly, the Committee found that you provided a
misleading response to the letter of notice in this file and thereby violated Rule 8.1 (a).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
1n accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bm· regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$100.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done m1d ordered, this the

;LdaYOf~

///

/ L.-a.

Ie-

/

r'J .A( . (/ / / '
_~'?,")L/_·-"~=---_-"'_=~

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

,2011.

