NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
llG0532

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Robert M. Smith,
Attomey At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 14,2011 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by N. P.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) ofIhe Discipline ,md Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Glievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable calIse. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member ofthe North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue vmious levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Conunittee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimarld is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct arld has caused harm or potential har'm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is nO\,\/ my duty to issue this reprimand.
N. P. hired you in May 2010 to handle several traffic cases in Wayne, Wilson and Greene
Counties. N. P.'s court date in the Wilson County case was June 18,2010. Neither you nor Ms.
P. appeared in court on June 18, and she was called and failed.

On April 23, 2011, Ms. P. was alTested for driving while her license was revoked as her
license had been revoked due to her failure to appear at the June 18 hearing. Ms. P. was alTested
and incarcerated for a brief time. According to Ms. P., she did not know that you had not
appeared in court on June 18 and she did not lmow that her driver's license had been revoked
until her an-est.
In your response to this grievance, you stated that you were on secure leave and that you
had faxed a motion to continue the case to the Wilson County Clerk of Court and the Wilson
County District Attorney's office. The State Bar Office of Counsel investigated this matter and
learned that there was no copy ofa motion to continue in the clerk's file and the DA's office had
no notice of a motion to continue the case. FurthelTl1ore, you could not produce any proof that
you had prepared a motion to continue.
The Grievance Committee found that your failure to appear in court on June 18 on Ms.
P.'s behalf violated Rule 1.3. The Grievance Committee also found that you failed to
communicate diligently with Ms. P. about the status of her case, in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3).
The Grievance Committee found as an aggravating factor that you had been reprimanded in 20 II
for neglect of a client's case.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand. that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be bendicial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession,
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
'.State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the -.</:.........._ day

of--,,-~"'_~-rt"_1~

.r ,

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

2011.

