NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
11G0524

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Timothy D. Smith,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRlMAND

On July 19,2012 the Grievance Committee of the NOlih Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by G. A.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justitying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written f011l1 of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential ha11l1 to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chai11l1an of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
On November 9,2010, Mr. A hired you to represent him in equitable distribution and
divorce matters. Mr. A wrote you on at least two occasions, March 3, 201 I and April 7,2011,
with inquiries about the status of his case. You did not respond to those letters. He also e-mailed
you about his case, but you failed to respond to the e-mails. You did not take any substantive
action in Mr. A's case until you received his grievance. Your failure to communicate adequately

with your client violated Rule 1.4(a)(I)(2). Your failure to attend diligently to Mr. A's legal
matters violated Rule 1.3.
You obtained a divorce for Mr. A. However, Mr. A did not Imow that he was divorced.
You claim that your office had sent Mr. A a copy of his divorce judgment. However, you were
unable to produce any proof that you had notified your client about the outcome of his case.
Your failure to communicate with your client violated Rule 1.4(a)( I )(2) and (3), and Rule 1.3.
Five months after the divorce was completed, you told the local grievance committee
investigator that you were still willing to work on the equitable distribution claim if Mr. A would
like. Once a divorce is finalized, the right to pursue equitable distribution is cut off. The
Grievance Committee was concemed that you violated Rule 1.1 when you finalized Mr. A's
divorce without detennining if you needed to file for equitable distribution.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

~ ~0:lay of ~¥fe,u::t;

Grievance Committee

MMHllr

,2012.

