NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12G0957

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Timothy D. Smith,
Attomey At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)
)

On October 23, 2014 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by A S.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented AS. in her domestic matters including issues of custody and visitation.
When A.S. was about to give birth and asked you a question about the father's right to visit the
newbom child, you dismissed the question as theoretical until the baby was bom and determined
that you did not need to answer the question. Over several months, AS.' requests for changes to
the consent order drafts were repeatedly disregarded or forgotten by either you or your paralegal.

You failed to reasonably consult with your client about the means by which her objectives would
be accomplished and failed to promptly comply with her reasonable requests for information.
Your communication failures in this representation are similar to those investigated in
11 G0524. This suggests a pattern of conduct that the Grievance Committee determined to be of
senous concern.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the /l.+""- day of ('Jovc.M..e,~

John N1. Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

,2014.

