STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

BEFORE THE
CIPLINARY HEARING

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER

v.
SEAN DAVID SOBOLESKI, and
JANE DEARWESTER SOBOLESKI,
Attorneys,
Defendants

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, David W. Long, and Tyler B.
Morris. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Margaret Cloutier.
Defendant Sean David Soboleski was represented by Robert B. Long, Jr. Defendant Jane
Dearwester Soboleski was represented by Dudley A. Witt and David B. Freedman.
Defendants waive a formal hearing in this mater. The parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order, and consent to the discipline
imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry ofthis order, Defendants knowingly,
freely, and voluntarily waive their rights to appeal this consent order or to challenge in
any way the sufficiency of the findings and conclusions herein.
Based on the foregoing and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General
Statutes, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Sean David Soboleski ("Soboleski" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on March 24, 2001, and is, and was at all times
I

referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
Defendant, Jane Dearwester Soboleski, now Jane Dearwester,
("Dearwester" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August
24,2001, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
4.
During some or all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Soboleski
and Dearwester were engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and
maintained a law office in Asheville, Buncombe County, North Carolina.
5.

Defendants were properly served with the summons and complaint in this

matter.
6.
From July 1,2012 through August 29, 2014, Defendants maintained three
attorney trust accounts: Home Trust Bank trust account ending in no. 1115 (hereinafter
"the general trust account"), Home Trust Bank trust account ending in no. 1412
(hereinafter" the real estate trust account"), and Mountain First Bank trust account
ending in no. 3575 (hereinafter "the Mountain First trust account").
7.
Defendants did not at least quarterly total the individual client balances
and reconcile those and the general ledger balance for each trust account to the bank
statement balance for each trust account as a whole.
8.
Defendants did not always maintain accurate client ledgers and did not
always record disbursements and deposits contemporaneously with the transactions.
9.
Defendants did not record on checks the client balances against which the
items were drawn.
10.
Defendants did not indicate on the face of checks made payable to them
the client balances from which the items were drawn.
11.
Defendants made electronic transfers from the trust accounts that did not
record the client balances from which the transfers were made.
12.
Defendants employed a disorganized and at times haphazard manner of
disbursing earned fees from clients' deposit for fees in Defendants' general trust account.
Combined with the lack of contemporaneous recording of transactions on the client
ledger cards, Defendants' methods of disbursing fees from the general trust account
resulted in mismanagement of individual clients' entrusted funds on many occasions.

2

13.
This mismanagement resulted in Defendants disbursing funds to
themselves from the general trust account attribntable as fees earned for specific clients
in excess of the fees earned at that time on a number of occasions. For example:
(a)

On February 18,2013, Defendants disbursed $525.00 to themselves
without recording the disbursement on the client ledger card. On March
15,2013, Defendants disbursed $737.50 to themselves, which erroneously
included the $525.00 already disbursed for the same activities.

(b)

On February 18,2013 Defendants disbursed to themselves $112.50. On
February 19,2013, Defendants disbursed $237.50 to themselves, which
erroneously included the $112.50 already disbursed for the same activities.

(c)

On or about February 21 and 27, 2013, Defendants recorded on an
adhesive note legal services performed for client Edwards and disbursed
the corresponding amount from Edwards' entrusted funds on that date;
however, on an invoice sent to the client, Defendants recorded that the
legal services had been performed on March 5, 2013, creating the
appearance that they had collected fees before the fees had been earned.

14.
This mismanagement also resulted in Defendants disbursing to themselves
amounts that were less than the fees they had earned at that time on multiple occasions.
15.
This mismanagement resulted in Defendants disbursing funds from the
general trust account for the benefit of clients in excess of the amounts deposited into the
account for those clients on a number of occasions. For example:
(a)

For client Gay, Defendants disbursed to themselves $336.25 in payment of
legal services on September 21,2012. At the time ofthe disbursement, .
client Gay had a balance in the general trust account of$186.25.
Defendants deposited $1,500.00 into the general trust account paid by Gay
on October 4,2012.

(b)

For client Rice, Defendants disbursed to themselves $700.00 in payment
oflegal services on March 30, 2014. At the time of the disbursement,
client Rice had a balance in the general trust account of $532.50.

16.
At the time Defendants made these overdisbursements, Defendants were
ho Iding the trust account earned fees that had not yet been disbursed to Defendants;
however, the overdisbursements exceeded the amount of earned fees. To the extent the
undisbursed earned fees were insufficient to rectify the overdisbursements, Defendants
failed to safeguard entrusted funds by using without authorization funds held in a
fiduciary capacity for other clients to fund the deficiencies.
17.
As of February 27, 2014, Defendants were obligated to hold in trust
$260.00 on behalf of client Turnip for the payment of costs to the North Carolina Court
3

of Appeals. Due to the mismanagement of the trust accounts, on or about February 20,
2014, Defendants disbursed $810.00 to themselves in payment of attorney fees from the
funds they held on behalf of Turnip. The $810.00 disbursement from the Turnip account
for payment of attorney fees depleted all the funds that had been deposited on behalf of
Turnip, including the funds Defendants were obligated to hold for payment of costs to the
North Carolina Court of Appeals.
18.
Despite attempts made by Defendants to rectify the problems in the
general trust account both before and after the State Bar's Letter of Notice sent to
Defendants, as of August 29, 2014, the balance in Defendants' general trust account was
less than the amount of entrusted funds Defendants were required to maintain for the
benefit of their clients due to Defendants' continued mismanagement of the trust account
and trust account records.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the DHC has
jurisdiction over Defendants and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendants' conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) in that Defendants
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)

By failing at least qualterly to total the individual client ledger balances
and reconcile those and the general ledger balances with the adjusted bank
statement bal~nces for each trust account as a whole, Defendants failed to
perform quarterly reconciliations of the trust accounts in violation of Rule
U5-3(d);

(b)

By failing to maintain accurate client ledgers, by failing to record on
checks the client balances against which the items were drawn, and by
making electronic transfers that did not record the client balances on
which the transfers were made, Defendants failed to maintain the
mininmm records required for general trust accounts in violation of Rille
U5-3(b);

(c)

By failing to identify on trust account checks payable to Defendants the
client balances from which the funds were drawn, Defendants failed to
indicate on an item payable to the lawyer the client balances from which
the item was drawn in violation of Rule 1.15-2(h);

(d)

By disbursing from the trust accounts more funds for clients than
Defendants held in the trust accounts for the benefit of those clients,

4

Defendants failed to properly maintain entmsted funds in violation of Rule
1.15-2(a), allowed another to benefit from entrusted funds in violation of
Rule 1.15-2G), and failed to properly disburse entrusted funds in violation
of Rule 1.15-2(m);
(e)

By disbursing funds to themselves from the general trust account
attributable as fees earned for providing legal services specific clients at a
time when Defendants had not yet earned those fees, Defendants failed to
properly maintain entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a), obtained
personal benefit from entmsted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2G), and
failed to properly disburse entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);
and

(1)

By failing to hold $260.00 in trust on behalf of client Turnip and by failing
to maintain in the general trust account all funds Defendants were
obligated to hold for the benefit of each client who should have had funds
in the accounts, Defendants failed to properly maintain entrusted funds in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(a), allowed another to benefit from entrusted
funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j), and failed to properly disburse
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m).

Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also fmds by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Although Defendants' failure to properly monitor, track, and safeguard
entrusted funds resulted in some funds being used for the benefit of someone other than
the beneficial owner of the funds, there is no evidence that Defendants knowingly or
intentionally misused entrusted client funds, there is no evidence that Defendants
intended to harm their clients, and there is no evidence of any dishonest motive on the
part of Defendants. The evidence shows the deficiencies resulted from Defendants'
failure to maintain client ledgers properly, failure to accurately track earned fees and the
disbursements of earned fees, and failure to properly reconcile their trust accounts
quarterly. Defendants demonstrated extreme recklessness in the handling of the funds
entrusted to them by their clients from which they could have foreseen that the
safeguarding of those funds was at risk.

2.
Defendants ultimately properly credited the full amount of each client's
entrusted funds against legal fees incurred despite instances in which Defendants
disbursed more funds for the benefit of specific clients than Defendants held for the
benefit of those clients thereby using funds held for the benefit of other clients to fund
those disbursements. Nevertheless, Defendants' conduct in over-disbursing entrusted
funds from their trust account caused potential significant harm to their clients whose

5

entrusted funds were used for the benefit of someone other than the beneficial owner of
the funds without their knowledge or consent.
3.
Defendants did not always ensure that the amounts transferred from the
trust account in payment of fees correlated to specific services performed on behalf of
their clients, at times resulting in fees being transferred from the trust account before the
fees were earned as described in the Findings of Fact. On at least one occasion,
Defendants were aware that they had disbursed to themselves more funds than they had
earned, yet they failed to take all of the steps necessary to prevent future instances.
Although Defendants hired an office manager in late 2012 and implemented timekeeping
software in an effort to better organize their accounting practices, their efforts were
insufficient to fully rectify the problems and they failed to implement all of the necessary
changes to ensure that entrusted funds were properly handled.
4.
Despite instances in which Defendants transferred funds to themselves in
payment of attorney fees before the fees were earned, the goals of the representations
were not hindered in that there were no instances in which Defendants received more
funds than were earned for the entirety of those clients' cases.
5.
Keeping accurate client ledgers and conducting quarterly reconciliations
are the lynchpins of proper trust account maintenance and protection of entrusted funds.
Defendants' continued failure to properly reconcile their trust account and failure to
maintain proper trust account records demonstrates a pattern of misconduct and
demonstrates Defendants' intent to commit acts in which the potential harm is
foreseeable.
6.
Defendants' conduct placed entrusted funds at risk and had the potential to
cause significant harm to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because
it shows their disregard for their duties as attorneys. Such erosion of public confidence in
attorneys tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a
whole. Confidence in the legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire
legal system.
7.
Defendants fully cooperated with the State Bar throughout the disciplinary
process, and were candid and forthright in their responses to the State Bar's inquiries.
8.
Both Defendants have substantial experience in the practice oflaw, each
having been licensed since 2001.
9.
Defendants acknowledge the wrongful nature of their conduct and are
genuinely remorseful for their misconduct.
10.
Defendant Soboleski has prior professional discipline. In July 2015,
Soboleski was reprimanded by the Grievance Committee for asserting a charging lien at
the outset of representation when no judgment or settlement existed and for using a

6

client's entrusted funds for payment of legal fees for an unrelated matter without the
client's permission.
II.

Defendant Dearwester has no prior professional discipline.

12.

Both Defendants enjoy a good professional reputation in their community.

13.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censnre, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also fmds by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes that the following factors are present:
(a)

Intent of the Defendants to commit acts where the harm or potential harm
is foreseeable; and

(b)

Negative impact of Defendants' actions on the public's perception of the
profession.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes that no factors are present that warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Prior discipline in the form of a Reprimand issued in 2015 to Defendant
Soboleski;

(b)

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

(c)

Pattern of misconduct;

(d)

Multiple offenses;

7

(e)

Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;

(f)

Remorse;

(g)

Good character and reputation among their colleagues; and

(h)

Degree of experience in the practice of law as both have practiced since
2001.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and fmds that a
public censure, reprimand, or admonition would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to Defendants' clients, and the potential significant harm
Defendants' conduct caused to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal
profession.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions and finds that
discipline short of suspension would not adequately protect the public, the profession and
the administration of justice for the following reasons:
(a)

The factors under Rule .01l4(w)(1) that are established by the evidence in
this case are of a nature that support imposition of suspension as the
appropriate discipline;

(b)

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendants committed and
would send the wrong message to attorneys and to the public regarding the
conduct expected of members ofthe Bar of this state; and

(c)

Protection of the public requires that Defendants not be permitted to
resume the practice oflaw unless and until they demonstrate that they
understand their obligations as attorneys.

6. Defendants' conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses significant
potential harm to future clients and to the profession.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The licenses of Defendants, Sean David Soboleski and Jane Dearwester,
are hereby suspended for three years, effective thirty days from the date of service of this
order upon them.
8

2.
Defendants shall submit their licenses and membership cards to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following the effective
date ofthis Order.
3.
Defendants shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule
.0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. As provided in
Rule .0124(d), Defendants shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar within ten days of the effective date of this Order, certifying that they have
complied with the wind down rule.
4.
Defendants shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding
as assessed by the Secretary, including the costs of all depositions and transcriptions of
depositions taken in this case, within sixty days of service of the statement of costs and
administrative fees upon them.
5.
Defendants are presently enjoined from handling entrusted funds by the
Wake County Superior Court. Within ninety days of this Order's effective date,
Defendants must petition the Wake County Superior Court seeking permission to
disburse all identified client funds existing in the trust accounts to the beneficial owner(s)
of the funds pursuant to the order of the court. Defendants shall diligently pursue the
petition and comply with any subsequent order of the Court.
6.
Within thirty days of the effective date ofthis Order, Defendants shall
provide the State Bar with addresses and telephone numbers at which clients seeking
return of files can communicate with Defendants to obtain such files. Defendants shall
promptly return all files to clients upon request.
7.
After six months of active suspension, each Defendant may apply for a
stay of the remaining period of their suspension upon filing a motion in the cause and
demonstrating by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that, in addition to complying
with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB
§.0125(b), the applicant Defendant has complied with the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of hislher current business and home addresses and notified the
Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

(b)

Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of Defendant's receipt of the communication or by the
deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner, and has
participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process
for any petition which was pending during the period of suspension;

9

(c)

(d)

That Defendant has petitioned the Wake County Superior Court seeking
permission to disburse all identified client funds existing in the trust
accounts to the beneficial owner(s) of the funds pursuant to the order of
the court, has diligently pursued the petition and has complied with any
subsequent order of the Court.
That at the time of his/her petition for stay, Defendant is current in
payment of all Membership dues, fees, and costs, including all Client
Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is
authorized to collect from himlher, and inclnding all judicial district dues,
fees and assessments;

(e)

That at the time of his/her petition for stay, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education (CLE)
hours, in reporting such hours or in payment of any fees associated with
attendance at CLE programs;

(t)

That during the active suspension that preceded the petition for stay,
Defendant has completed two hours of CLE in addition to the minimum
CLE requirement; the additional two hours shall be regarding trust
accounting and at least one of the two hours shall be a course taught by the
Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar;

(g)

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
ofthe United States or of any state or local government during hislher
suspenswn;

(h)

Defendant properly wound down his/her law practice and complied with
the requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124; and

(i)

Defendant has paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as reflected on
the statement of costs served upon Defendant by the Secretary of the State
Bar within sixty days of service of that statement upon Defendant.

8.
If either Defendant successfully petitions for a stay ofhislher suspension,
the applicable suspension of that Defendant's law license shall be stayed as long as that
Defendant complies and continues to comply with the following conditions:

(a)

Defendant is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees,
assessments and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments and
other charges or surcharges that the State Bar is authorized to collect from
Defendant, including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

(b)

That there is no deficit in Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE
hours, in reporting of such hours, or in payment of any fees associated
with attendance at CLE programs;

10

(c)

Within the first year of the stayed suspension, Defendant shall complete
three hours of CLE in the area of trust account management approved by
the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. At least one such session shall be
the Trust Accounting Rules Continuing Legal Education Program taught
by the Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the North Carolina State
Bar. Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of
the CLE courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the
courses. These three hours are in addition to the CLE requirements set out
in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1D § .1518;

(d)

During the stayed suspension, Defendant shall personally perform the
three-way reconciliations of all bank accounts into which are deposited
any funds which Defendnat is required to hold in trust for the benefit of
any client or third party using the reconciliation method described in the
State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook using the reconciliation form
provided therein. Defendant shall provide the three-way reconciliation
report and all appropriate supporting documentation to the Certified Public
Accountant (CPA) as provided below within fifteen days of the end of
each quarter;

(e)

Defendant shall engage the services of a CPA to audit his/her trust account
on a quarterly basis to ensure Defendant's compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct relating to trust accounts.
1.

The CPA must submit quarterly a written report to the Office of
Counsel concerning whether Defendant's reconciliations and trust
account records and activities comply with the Rules of
Professional Conduct, including but not limited to report of any
accounting irregularities and any deviation from the requirements
ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct, with a copy of the report sent
simultaneously to Defendant. The CPA's reports are due no later
than thirty days after the end of each quarter (each January 30,
April 30, July 30, and October 30 during the period of stay). It is
Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and
submits the reports as required herein;

ii.

If any of the CPA reports note any irregularities or deficiencies,
Defendant shall take all remedial action necessary to bring the trust
account into compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct
and shall provide proof of the remedial action and compliance to
the CPA and to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar within
fifteen days of the date of the CPA's report;

iii.

All CPA evaluations, reports, and services referred to herein will
be completed and submitted at Defendant's sole expense; and

11

iv.

Failure of Defendant to ensure the CPA submits any report
required by this Order shall be grounds to lift the stay and activate
the suspension.

(f)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or of any state or local government during hislher
suspension;

(g)

Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of
hislher current business address. Defendant shall notify the State Bar of
any change of address within ten days of such change. Hislher current
business address must be a street address, not a post office box or drawer;

(h)

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of receipt of such communication or by the deadline
stated in the communication, whichever is sooner;

(i)

Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition which is pending during any stay of the
suspension.

9.
If either Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions
of the stay of suspension provided in paragraphs 8 (a) - (i) above, the stay of suspension
may be lifted in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x).
10.
If either Defendant successfully petitions for a stay ofhislher suspension,
that Defendant's obligations governing the stay under this Order end after the applicable
period of the stay provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending
alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to
§ .0114(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Ru1es, the DHC retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion
or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of
the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise
have tenninated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the remaining portion of the suspension in whole or in part if it
fmds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension
and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until
resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.

11.
If either Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of his/her law
license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter revoked, that Defendant
must comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs 7(a) - (h) above and the provisions
of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 before seeking reinstatement ofhislher license to
practice law, and must provide in the petition for reinstatement clear, cogent and
convincing evidence showing compliance therewith.

12

12.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuantto 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x) throughout the period of the
suspension, any stay thereof, and until all conditions set forth in paragraph 7 above are
satisfied.
~

() Signed b Fwith the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of
,2016.
~
Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

5iJJilf·
Sean David Soboleski
Defendant ~

Robert B. Long, Jr.
Atto
for
endant Sob 1eski

fendant Dearwester

13

