BEFORE THE
Y HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
15 DHC 52 A-R

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

, :..1 ZIt
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

ORDER STAYING SUSPENSION

SEAN DAVID SOBOLESKI,
DefendantlPetitioner
THIS MATTER is before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, David W. Long and Tyler B. Morris
pursuant to a Petition for Stay filed by Petitioner Sean David Soboleski on April 6, 2018.
The State Bar did not file a response to the petition.
Based upon a review of the records ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission, the
Hearing Panel makes the fo]]owing:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Pursuant to a consent Order of Discipline filed in this matter on June 30,
2016, Soboleski was suspended from the practice of law for three years.
2.

The effective date of the Order of Discipline was August 18, 2016.

3.
The Order of Discipline provided that Soboleski would be eligible to seek
a stay of any remaining period of suspension after serving six months of active
suspension and upon compliance with conditions stated in the Order of Discipline.
4.
suspension.

As of April 6, 2018, Soboleski had served over 19 months of active

5.
Soboleski filed a verified petition on April 6, 2018 requesting a stay of the
remaining period of his suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status subject to
conditions and requirements set forth in the Order of Discipline.
6.
The Order of Discipline requires that Soboleski be in compliance with
conditions set out therein to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of suspension.

7.
In his verified petition, Soboleski certified that he has satisfied all of the
conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.
8.
After conducting an investigation of Soboleski's compliance with the
requirements set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0] 29(b) and the conditions in the Order of
Discipline, counsel for the North Carolina State Bar did not file an objection to
Soboleski's petition for stay of the suspension.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Sean David
Soboleski, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Soboleski has satisfied the requirements set forth in Rule .0129(b) and the
conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay of his suspension and reinstatement to
active status, subject to Soboleski's continued compliance with the conditions set forth in
paragraphs 8 (a) through (i) on pages 10-]2 of the June 30,20]6 Order of Discipline.
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
1.
Soboleski's April 6, 2018 Petition for Stay is ALLOWED, the balance of
the suspension of his law license is stayed, and he shall be permitted to resume practicing
law subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph 2 below.

2.
The remaining period of suspension of Soboleski's law license is stayed as
long as he continues to comply with the following conditions:
(a)

Soboleski is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees, assessments
and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments and other
charges or surcharges that the State Bar is authorized to collect from
Soboleski, including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

(b)

That there is no deficit in Soboleski's completion of mandatory CLE
hours, in reporting of such hours, or in payment of any fees associated
with attendance at CLE programs;

(c)

Within the first year of the stayed suspension, Soboleski shall complete
three hours of CLE in the area oftrust account management approved by
the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. At least one such session shall be
the Trust Accounting Rules Continuing Legal Education Program taught
by the Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the North Carolina State
Bar. Soboleski shall provide written proof of successful completion of the
CLE courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the courses.
- 2-

These three hours are in addition to the CLE requirements set out in 27
N.C. Admin. Code lD § .1518;
(d)

During the stayed suspension, Soboleski shall personally perfonn the
three-way reconciliations of all bank accounts into which are deposited
any funds which Soboleski is required to hold in trust for the benefit of
any client or third party, using the reconciliation method described in the
State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook and using the reconciliation
fonn provided therein. Soboleski shall provide the three-way
reconciliation report and all appropriate supporting documentation to the
Certified Public Accountant (CPA) as provided below within fifteen days
of the end of each quarter;

(e)

Soboleski shall engage the services ofa CPA to audit his trust account on
a quarterly basis to ensure Soboleski's compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct relating to trust accounts.

(f)

i.

The CPA must submit quarterly a written report to the Office of
Counsel concerning whether Soboleski's reconciliations and trust
account records and activities comply with the Rules of
Professional Conduct, including but not limited to report of any
accounting irregularities and any deviation from the requirements
of the Rules of Professional Conduct, with a copy of the report sent
simultaneously to Soboleski. The CPA's reports are due no later
than thirty days after the end of each quarter (each January 30,
April 30, July 30, and October 30 during the period of stay). It is
Soboleski's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and
submits the reports as required herein;

ii.

If any of the CPA reports note any irregularities or deficiencies,
Soboleski shall take all remedial action necessary to bring the trust
account into compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct
and shall provide proof of the remedial action and compliance to
the CPA and to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar within
fifteen days of the date of the CPA's report;

iii.

All CPA evaluations, reports, and services referred to herein will
be completed and submitted at Soboleski's sole expense; and

iv.

Failure of Soboleski to ensure the CPA submits any report required
by this Order shall be grounds to lift the stay and activate the
suspension;

During the period of stay and for any reportable quarter, if another lawyer
with whom Soboleski is associated is responsible for administration of
entrusted or fiduciary funds in a general or dedicated trust account, in lieu
of the provisions of paragraphs (d) and (e) above, Soboleski shall submit

- 3•

ch uarter an affidavit signed by him
to the Office of Counsel for eac? su rihe administration of any general
stating 1) that he is not responsible ~ signature authority over suc~
trust account(s), 2) that he does notf~:attorney so responsible. Durmg
e
trust account (s), and 3) the nar: :rtable quarter, if Soboleski is not
the period of stay and for any r p
tll'ned above does not have a
,h
nsible attorney as ou
'
bl
associated Wit a respo
dIed entrusted funds for any reporta e
trust account, and has not ~~
a a hs (d) and (e) above,
quarter, in lieu of the provISions of~:rg,Jnse' for each 5uch quarter an
Soboleski shall sub~lt to th,e O~~hat he does not maintain a general or
affidavit signed by him statmg
s not received or otherwise
dedicated trust account, and 2),that~e ~a defined in Rule 1.15-1 ofthe
handled any entrusted or fidUCiary n 5 as
North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
(g)

(h)

Soboleski shall not violate the Rules of Professional Condu~t o~!:::W~f
of the United States or of any state or local government dunng
Y
his suspension;
Soboleski shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business address. Soboleski shan notify the ~tate Bar of a~y
change of address within ten days of such change, HIS current busmess
address must be a street address, not a post office box or drawer;

(i)

Soboleski shall respond to aU communications from the State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of receipt of such communication or by the deadline
stated in the communication, whichever is sooner;

0)

Soboleski shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition which is pending during the stay of the
suspension,

3,
If Soboleski fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions of the
stay of suspension provided in paragraphs 2 (a) - (j) above, the stay of suspension may
be lifted in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § ,0118(a).
4.
Soboleski's obligations governing the stay under this Order end after the
applicable period of the stay provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to § .01 18(b) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC
retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a
motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the
stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would
otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of
the suspension and activate the remaining portion of the suspension in whole or in part if
it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the

- 4-

suspension and Soboleski's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will
continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
5.
The stay of the remainder of Soboleski's suspension is effective
immediately upon the filing of this Order.
Signed by the undersigned S!:~ith the knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Panel, the I)JC. of ~
Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-5-

