IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
94 CvS 454

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF DURHAM

FINESSE G. COUCH, Individually
and as Administratrix Of the
Estate of Carnell Simmons Couch
Plaintiff,
v.

ORDER DISCIPLINING
MARIA P. SPERANDO,
ATTORNEY FOR PLAINTIFF

DUKE UNIVERSITY,
Defendant.

This matter is before the Court on remand from the North Carolina Supreme
Court and pursuant to an Order of the ChiefJustice assigning the case to the
undersigned judge for purposes of assessing sanctions against Maria P. Sperando,
counsel for the plaintiff. The Court entered a written Order signed January 5, 2000,
setting the remanded issue for hearing on February 9, 2000, and the matter came on
to be heard in the Durham County Courthouse on that date. Present were the
plaintiff and other relatives ofthe deceased child; Keith Bishop, Maria Sperando,
and Willie Gary, counsel for the plaintiff; Vance Barron, counsel for Ms. Sperando;
and James B. Maxwell, counsel for the defendants.
The Court has reviewed the decision of the North Carolina Supreme Court, 351
N.C. 92 (1999), and the Court of Appeals, 133 N.C. App. 93 (1999), which
decisions are attached hereto and incorporated herein. The Court has heard the
evidence offered on behalf of Ms. Sperando and heard from counsel. The Court has
reviewed the file, including the briefs, portions ofthe trial transcript, and affidavits
tendered. Based on this record, the evidence, and the arguments of counsel, the
Court finds by clear and convincing evidence and concludes as follows:
BACKGROUND
1.

Maria P. Sperando graduated from Georgetown University School of Law in
1979. She was admitted to practice law in New York in 1980 and in Florida in
1987. She has engaged in the active practice oflaw during those years as a trial
lawyer. She heretofore has not been disciplined by the relevant bar authorities in

New York or Florida and has essentially practiced law without serious ethical or
professionalism questions arising.
2.

Upon motion, Ms. Sperando was admitted pro hac vice to appear on behalf
of the plaintiff in this case pursuant to N.C.G.S §84-4.1. In her motion she agreed to
submit to the jurisdiction and disciplinary authority of this Court and to comply with
all applicable rules, procedures, and laws.

3.

During closing argument on behalf of the plaintiff during the trial of this
medical negligence case, Ms. Sperando expressed to the jury her personal opinion
about the veracity of defense witnesses, saying that they were liars and otherwise
repeatedly used the words "lie," "lies," or "lied" in connection with defense
witnesses. These were not indirect references; in fact at one point Ms. Sperando
said to the jury "So you see, when I say a lie, okay, I want the record to reflect I
mean a lie." Trial transcript at page 1775. At another point she said, "[A]ll of these
physicians came up here and told lies. In your face lies." Trial transcript at page
1770. She also expressed her opinion that defense counsel had lmowingly offered
false testimony during the trial, calling this a "heavy accusation."! As the Supreme
Court said, Ms. Sperando's argument "included at least nineteen explicit
characterizations ofthe defense witnesses and opposing counsel as liars." Couch v.
Duke University, 351 N.C. at 93. Defense counsel made one objection to Ms.
Sperando's closing argument, which objectionwas overruled.

4.

After a verdict in plaintiffs favor, the defendants appealed. The North
Carolina Court of Appeals reversed as to one defendant ("PDC") on an unrelated
issue and affirmed the verdict as to defendant Duke University ("Duke"). However,
all three of the judges on the panel expressed concern over Ms. Sperando's closing
argument. Neither ofthe two judges voting to affirm concluded that the arguments
were proper or appropriate, and one judge dissented, calling Ms. Sperando's
argument "grossly improper."

5.

Duke appealed to the North Carolina Supreme COUli, where the only issue
related to Ms. Sperando' s closing argument. All six justices participating found that
Ms. Sperando's argument was grossly improper and all six justices agreed that the
trial cOUli erred by not sustaining the defendant's objection and by not intervening
I Among other things, Ms. Sperando said "[T]his is not a criminal trial where when you have a client and
you need to put him up on the stand as a witness and you know he is going to perjury himself, you have to
put him there .... This is a civil trial. You're not obligated to put on that stand anybody that you know is
going to lie. And we have taken all the depositions of these people and everything that they have said on
that stand and all the lies that they've told and they knew before they put their hands on the Bible that they
were going to tell those lies and they put them up anyway. That's heavy." Trial transcript at page 1770.

2

ex mero motu. Three justices concluded the error was prejudicial and voted to
remand the case for a new trial; three justices concluded the error was not
prejudicial and voted to affirm. The decision of the Court of Appeals was therefore
left undisturbed but without precedential value. The Supreme Court further
unanimously remanded the cause to the trial court for the determination of an
appropriate sanction for Ms. Sperando's violation of Rule 12 ofthe General Rules of
Practice and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
6.

Upon remand, the case was assigned to the undersigned judge by the Chief
Justice. The Court thereafter issued a written Order giving Ms. Sperando and all
other interested parties notice of the date and place of the hearing it would conduct
before imposing sanctions. At the hearing, Ms. Sperando was given a full
opportunity to present such evidence as she wished and she and her attorney and her
partner were given an opportunity to be heard, as were other attorneys for the
plaintiff and the attorney for the defendant.
APPROACH TO THE ISSUES

7.

In evaluating the evidence and imposing the requirements made herein, the
Court is acting pursuant to the Supreme Court's remand and its inherent authority
and duty to discipline attorneys, to protect itself from impropriety, to protect the
public, and to safeguard the administration of justice. See, e.g., In Re Hunoval, 294
N.C. 740,744 (1977); State v. Spivey, 213 N.C. 45 (1938); In re Paul, 84 N.C.App.
491,499-500, cert. denied, 319 NC 673 (1987), celio denied, 484 US 1004 (1988).
The Court's inherent power is not limited or bound by the technical precepts
contained in the Rules of Professional Conduct. Swenson V. Thibaut, 39 N.C.App.
77,109 (1978), cert. denied and appeal dismissed, 296 N.C. 740 (1979). The
Court has therefore considered all relevant matters. The COUli further considers the
question of sanctions to be in large part discretionary and has weighed and balanced
the facts in its discretion. Finally, the Court notes that out of state attorneys do not
have a right to practice in this state's courts without meeting the state's bar
admission requirements; rather it is a privilege and is subject to the sound discretion
of the Court. In re Smith, 301 N.C. 621, 629 (1981); N.C.G.S. §84-4.2.

8.

The Court has considered the character and clarity of the rules Ms. Sperando
violated; the repeated number of the violations; whether the violations were
intentional, knowing, reckless, negligent, or inadvertent; the fact that defendant's
one objection was overruled by the trial court; Ms. Sperando's duty to be familiar
with applicable laws and procedures; her lack of other disciplinary or ethical
problems; other aspects of Ms. Sperando's conduct at the trial of this matter; the
3

nature, extent and credibility of Ms. Sperando's remorse for her conduct as
expressed by her testimony before the Court on February 9,2000 and the Court's
observations of her during that testimony; the actual and potential harm to the
parties resulting from Ms. Sperando's conduct; the actual and potential harm to the
justice system from Ms. Sperando's conduct; the risk of and need to protect the
public, the court system, witnesses, and litigants from future violations by Ms.
Sperando; the damage to Ms. Sperando's reputation already imposed by the
appellate decisions in this case, and all other facts found from the evidence as
reflected in this Order. 2
9.

In January 1997 when this case was tried, attorneys in North Carolina were
bound by the Rules of Professional Conduct (hereinafter "RPC"). Those Rules were
substantially reorganized in July 1997 with the adoption of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct (hereinafter "RRPC"), but the substance of the Rules related
to this matter remained, for the most part, the same.

1O.

The Court does not discipline or sanction attorneys lightly and has made
every effort to evaluate appropriate sanctions fairly. There is no advocate against
Ms. Sperando's position. Counsel for the defense made clear at the February 9
hearing that the defendant never filed a motion for sanctions and never sought
sanctions. The Court has undertaken a substantial amOlmt of its own research and
has prepared its own Order.
FINDINGS REGARDING MISCONDUCT

11.

Calling witnesses liars in closing argument has long been prohibited by the
North Carolina courts. 1:1&, State v. Locklear, 294 N.C. 210, 217 (1978). Counsel
may not employ closing argument as a device to place before the jury incompetent
and prejudicial matters by expressing his or her own knowledge, beliefs and
opinions. State v. Allen, 323 N.C. 208 (1988), vacated on other grounds, 494 U.S.
1021 (1990). This conduct was grossly improper, Couch v. Private Diagnostic
Clinic, 351 N.C. 92 (1999), and violated, inter alia, Rule 12 of the Rules of Practice
and RPC 7.6(c) and RPC 1.2(d).

12.

Counsel may not attack the integrity of defense counsel in closing argument.
State v. Vines, 105 N.C. App. 147 (1992). "A trial attorney may not make
uncomplimentary comments about opposing counsel, and should 'refrain from
2 It mayor may not be appropriate to consider the prophylactic effect sanctioning Ms. Sperando might have
on inappropriate conduct by other lawyers. To the extent that is appropriate, it is a goal that has already
been fully met by the Supreme Court's decision. This Court therefore has not considered this in any way.

4

abusive, vituperative, and opprobrious language, or from indulging in invectives.
State v. Sanderson, 336 N.C. 1, 10(1994). Indeed, the Supreme Court has held that
an attorney who merely implies in closing argument that opposing counsel
knowingly put forth false testimony should be sanctioned. State v. Rivera, 350 N.C.
285,290-291 (1999)("This Court shall not tolerate, and our trial courts must not
tolerate, comments in court by one lawyer tending to disparage the personality or
performance of another. Such comments tend to reduce public trust and confidence
in our courts and, in more extreme cases, directly interfere with the truth-finding
function by distracting judges and juries from the serious business at hand. We
admonish our trial courts to take seriously their duty to insure that the mandates of
Rule 12 are strictly complied with in all cases and to impose appropriate sanctions if
they are not.") Ms. Sperando's conduct in expressing during closing argument her
opinion that defense counsel had knowingly offered false testimony during the trial
was grossly improper, Couch v. Private Diagnostic Clinic, 351 N.C. 92 (1999), and
violated, inter alia, Rule 12 of the Rules of Practice, RPC 7.2(a)(l) and 7.6(c), and
RPC I.2(d).
III

13.

14.

By making these closing arguments, Ms. Sperando further violated RPC 6(a)
[RRPC 1.1]. The Court recognizes that a lawyer who makes a good-faith effort to
be prepared and to be thorough will not generally be subject to professional
discipline for a simple mistake, and that a single error made in good faith is not
usually indicative of a violation ofthe duty to represent a client competently.
Comment 7 to RRPC 1.1; see Comment 5 to RRPC 1.3 ("Conduct sufficient to
warrant the imposition of professional discipline is typically characterized by the
element of intent or scienter manifested when a lawyer knowingly or recklessly
disregards his or her obligations."). The trial judge testified that Ms. Sperando's
conduct at trial was generally acceptable and unremarkable, and the Court's review
ofthe record before it reflects that plaintiffs counsel presented a case well-prepared
on the merits. It is clear that in many ways Ms. Sperando is a talented advocate.

Nonetheless, there are several facts that reflect a serious lack of thoroughness
and preparation. First, when Ms. Sperando accepted representation in this case, she
had a duty to provide competent representation and to adequately prepare. RPC
6(a); see, ~., Rorrer v. Cooke, 313 N.C. 338, 341 (1985). "Competent
representation means the legal knowledge, skill, thoroughness, and preparation
reasonably necessary for the representation," RPC 6(a)(I), and assumes a basic level
offamiliarity with applicable rules, statutes, and case law. Any attorney admitted to
practice pro hac vice in the trial of a case should make at least some basic inquiry
into the state's rules and practices. All of the evidence suggests that Ms. Sperando

5

made no inquiry at all into the propriety of her closing argument before she
undertook it and the Court so finds. 3
15.

16.

Second, even without making any inquiry, a competent attorney reasonably
should have known that the argument Ms. Sperando made about opposing counsel
was almost certainly improper. As to those comments, the Court does not accept
Ms. Sperando's testimony that she acted "in good faith." No lawyer should ever
make such personal and totally irrelevant accusations about opposing counsel in
closing argument. This is the case whether the accusation is true or false, whether it
is supported by the evidence or not, whether opposing counsel objects or not,
whether the trial court intervenes or not, and whether the lawyer truly believes it or
is just grandstanding. There is nothing credible before the Court that would justifY a
belief that such remarks about opposing counsel were appropriate. While it is not
as "bad" to unknowingly break a rule as it is to knowingly break a rule and the
Court has given that some weight, ignorance of the law is no real excuse. A
competent and ethical attorney who gave the matter even passing attention would
have suspected that such an argument was almost certainly improper even without
researching the issue. Ms. Sperando said what she meant to say, knowing it was a
"heavy accusation," to use her own words. This misconduct was reckless.

As to Ms. Sperando's comments about witnesses, the Court accepts Ms.
Sperando's testimony that she did not intentionally violate her professional and
ethical responsibilities. The Court further recognizes that a lawyer is allowed to
argue the facts about a witness's credibility to the jury. Nonetheless, the rules she
broke in this case are well-established and well-publicized in North Carolina.
Moreover, in her home state of Florida, cases have been reversed when prosecutors
went too far in calling witnesses liars during closing argument. 4 The Florida Rules
of Professional Conduct are quite similar in relevant part to the North Carolina
Rules. For example, Florida Rule 4-3.4(e) states that a lawyer shall not state a
personal opinion as to the justness of a cause or the credibility of a witness. While
this failure to prepare is not as egregious as the violation concerning her opinions of
defense counsel, she nonetheless should have made some inquiry into North

If she had made such an inquiry. she would have Imown the arguments were improper. and then the
sanction would be for knowing or intentional misconduct.
4 The Court has not attempted an exhaustive review of relevant Florida authorities. A survey does reveal
that while Florida takes a slightly different approach to this issue than North Carolina, there are limits and
constraints on calling a witness a liar in closing argument. See, ~., Ruiz v. State, 743 So.2d 1,5-6
(Fla.S.Ct. 1999); Craig v. State, 510 So.2d 857, 865 (Fla.S.Ct. 1987); Mills v. State, 507 So.2d 602
(Fla. S.C!. 1987); Pacifico v. State, 642 So.2d 1178, 1183-84 (Fla.App. 1994); Bass v. State, 547 So.2d 680
(Fla.App. 1989).
3

6

Carolina practice before undertaking her argument and she should have lmown that
her closing argument was improper. Her failure to do so was reckless.
17.

Third, it appears that the issue decided by the Court of Appeals against the
plaintiff (the "PDC issue" as reflected at 133 N.C.App. at 102-104) also arose as a
result of Ms. Sperando' s lack of familiarity with North Carolina law. The Court of
Appeals found that she "misunderstood the legal consequences" oftaking a
dismissal against PDC and that she "should have been on notice of the pitfalls."

18.

Finally, in her closing argument Ms. Sperando referred to medical doctors
who testified as expert witnesses as" my girl" and "girlfriend," language that would
offend many people and is generally improper. See Rule 12, General Rules of
Practice; see State v. Sanderson, 336 N.C. at 12 (improper during cross-examination
to refer to a female expert witness as a "gal").

19.

While Ms. Sperando's comments about defense witnesses might not, and her
problems with the dismissal ofPDC and her demeaning language concerning expert
witnesses would not, alone be sufficient to support a finding of lack of adequate
preparation, when considered together with each other and with the egregious
violation related to her remarks about defense counsel, the Court is convinced there
has been a violation ofRPC 6(a)(2).

20.

Ms. Sperando did not report defense counsel to the State Bar for allegedly
knowingly offering false testimony. To lmowingly offer false testimony violates the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct, see RPC 7.2(a)(5) [RRPC 3.3(a)(4)], and is
among the most serious of violations, subjecting an attorney to disbarment or
suspension of his license. See State Bar v. DuMont, 304 N.C. 627, 629 (1982);
State Bar v. Talman, 62 N.C.App. 355,366 (1983). A lawyer who has knowledge of
such serious misconduct and fails to report it does herself violate RPC 1.3(a) [RRPC
8.3].

21.

Ms. Sperando did not violate RPC 1.3(a) by her failure to repmi defense
counsel. The record before the Court indicates that defense counsel did not offer
false testimony. The Court has reviewed plaintiff's appellate briefs. In these briefs
Ms. Sperando explained in detail the evidence she claimed supported her statements
in closing argument. 5 The Court has reviewed those briefs and all attached pages of
the trial transcript and is satisfied that the evidence presented at trial does not justifY
Ms.Sperando's vituperative claim that defense counsel knowingly offered false
5

Ms. Sperando stated at the February 7 hearing that she was responsible for the appellate briefs in this case.

7

testimony. The record reflects that defense counsel called expert witnesses to the
stand who had different opinions from experts presented by the plaintiff; defense
counsel called fact witnesses to the stand who recalled things differently from fact
witnesses called by the plaintiff; and defense counsel called witnesses to the stand
who were impeached about various parts of their testimony. The same can be said
of plaintiffs counsel and indeed is true in most trials that take place - conflicting
evidence and credibility issues are the reasons for trials. Without more, this is not
even "offering false testimony," much less "knowingly offering false testimony."
Based on this record Ms. Sperando did not have knowledge that false testimony had
been offered. She may have believed it, but she did not "have knowledge" of it, as
required by RPC 1.3(a) before reporting is necessary.6
??

The Court finds no violation ofRPC 1.3(a) and thus will not sanction Ms.
Sperando for violating that RPC. That said, Ms. Sperando's comments concerning
opposing counsel were obviously reprehensible. The comments themselves, her
other inaction, and her testimony on February 9 about this issue raise several
concerns.

23.

While the Court does not doubt that Ms. Sperando actually holds the opinion
she expressed, the Court is disturbed by her willingness to attribute malignant and
corrupt motives to defense counsel based on the record in this case. It shows an
unfortunate readiness to demonize opposing counsel rather than to treat opposing
counsel with respect as a fellow professional.

24.

It is also disturbing that she was willing to make such a "heavy accusation"
in closing argument, where defense counsel could not ethically respond, and has not
been willing to make the accusation in a forum where defense counsel could
respond. For example, she could have objected outside the presence of the jury to
the admissibility of the supposedly perjured testimony. She could have but did not
report defense counsel to the State Bar. Under either scenario, defense counsel
could respond to the accusation and the merits of the accusation could be decided. 7
The fact that the trial judge did not, to the Court's knowledge, report defense counsel to the State Bar or
himself take any disciplinary action is further support, if any is needed, for the conclusion that the
accusation was unfounded, Neither did the appellate courts take any action against defense counsel, though
Ms. Sperando repeatedly argued to them that defense counsel had called witnesses to testifY whom he Imew
would not tell the truth. g,g" Plaintiff Appellee's Brief to the Supreme Court at p. 14-15.
7 The Rules of Professional Conduct do allow an attorney with knowledge of another lawyer's violation to
report the conduct to "other appropriate authority." RPC 1.3(a); cf, RRPC 8.3 (attorney may report a
violation to "the court"). Arguably Ms. Sperando did this by making her accusation in the judge's presence.
The Court would have difficulty finding that making this kind of accusation in closing argument to tile jury
constitutes informing the Court, especially when Ms. Sperando did not offer this as the reason she did not
report defense counsel to the State Bar. In any event, the Court is not finding a violation ofthis Rule.
6

8

25.

Finally, Ms. Sperando gave as her reason for not reporting defense counsel to
the State Bar that she "just wouldn't do that" and that she did not wish to get another
lawyer "in trouble." This testimony is troubling in a number of ways. First, it
reflects a fundamental failure to recognize her obligations as a member of a selfgoverning proiession. See RPC 0.1, ~~14-16 and RRPC 0.1, ~~13-15; Lunsford,
"Rookie ofthe Years," North Carolina State Bar Journal, Vol. 5, Issue 1, at page 33
("Self-regulation is a cornerstone of our profession. It is the key to our
independence as a practicing bar.") Second, it demonstrates an unwillingness to
comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct. Finally, her testimony on this issue
was not credible on its face and Ms. Sperando was not credible when she offered
this testimony. A lawyer who publicly accuses defense counsel in open court in
front of a j ury and judge of knowingly offering false testimony almost by definition
is willing to get that lawyer in trouble. The Court thinks it much more likely that
Ms. Sperando did not report defense counsel because it did not occur to her or
because she knew the accusation was not supported by the evidence. Either way,
the Court is concerned by Ms. Sperando's lack of candor with the Court on this
topic. As a result of all of these concerns, the Court does not have confidence in
Ms. Sperando's ability to "exercise sensitive professional and moral judgment
guided by the basic principles underlying the Rules [of Professional Conduct]."
RPC 0.1 113.

26.

Ironically enough, rejecting Ms. Sperando's opinion on this point works in
Ms. Sperando's tavor, in the Court's view. Had the Court agreed with Ms.
Sperando's opinion and otherwise found that Ms. Sperando did violate RPC 1.3(a)
by failing to report defense counsel when she should have, more serious sanctions
would be required, possibly including a long term or even permanent prohibition
against representing clients in North Carolina pro hac vice. "A code of silence may
be appropriate for organized criminals and malpracticing professionals in other
disciplines, but [lawyers] cannot survive it." Lunsford, "Rookie ofthe Years," North
Carolina State Bar Journal, Vol. 5, Issue 1, at page 33.

27.

The Court has read the appellate briefs written by Ms. Sperando on behalf of
the plaintiffs. The Court has considered those briefs as reflected in this Order.
Because the Court perceives the remand from the Supreme Court to direct that the
Court sanction Ms. Sperando for her conduct before the Superior Court, the Court
has not specifically considered whether in the appellate briefs Ms. Sperando
committed additional violations ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct or
otherwise behaved unprofessionally. As to this question, the Court makes no
findings one way or the other.
9

28.

The Court has considered the fact that defense counsel objected only once
during Ms. Sperando's closing argument and that the trial court overruled the
objection. While these facts have some mitigating value, they have little to do with
whether Ms. Sperando violated her ethical and professional responsibilities. This is
not a case where an attorney was goaded into an ethical violation by an adversary's
unethical conduct or by ajudge's bias. Lawyers are obligated to follow the rules
governing professional conduct at all times, and the fact that a lawyer is not
"caught" or stopped the first time she violates those rules does not excuse a second
violation. Perhaps in the world of sports it is acceptable for an athlete to commit a
foul in "reliance" on a referee's tendency not to call fouls, all toward the ultimate
goal of winning the game, but that is not acceptable for lawyers. A lawyer has a
duty to do more than "win the game." Lawyers hold a special public trust and have
a duty to uphold the administration of justice. They are required to "play fair." This
duty cannot be avoided by failing to be familiar with the rules or by blaming the
referee or the other side for not stopping the violation. See RPC 0.1, ~16 ("Every
lawyer is responsible for observance of the Rules of Professional Conduct."); RPC
0.2, ~2 ("Compliance with the rules ... depends primarily upon understanding and
voluntary compliance, secondarily upon reinforcement by peer and public opinion,
and finally, when necessary, upon enforcement through disciplinary proceedings.");
E.g., Dondi Properties Corp. v. Commerce Savings and Loan Association, 121
F.R.D. 284, 287 (N.D.Tex. 1988). It was Ms. Sperando's duty and responsibility to
be sure she follows North Carolina ethical and professional requirements while she
is in a N0l1h Carolina courtroom. This is not a duty that she can delegate, nor can
she rely on someone else to stop her when she goes too far.
HARM RESULTING FROM MS. SPERANDO'S CONDUCT

29.

Closing arguments like the one made by Ms. Sperando in this case have
serious negative consequences. They reduce public confidence in the legal system
by encouraging public perceptions that lawyers are nothing more than name-callers
and playground bullies and by encouraging public perceptions that lawyers are
corrupt. They encourage disrespectful behavior in the courtroom. They undermine
public confidence injury verdicts. They victimize witnesses who are unable to
respond and are unable to hold the speaker accountable for the accusations. They
distract juries from the seriousness oftheir duties. They place opposing counsel in a
position of choosing between violating ethical and professional rules himself by
responding to irrelevant personal accusations or seeming to accept slanderous
accusations detrimental to his client by failing to respond. They are unfair to the
opposing party.
10

30.

As noted by the Supreme Court of Hawaii in Office of Disciplinary Counsel
v. Breiner, 969 P.2d 1285 (Haw. 1999), "Courts are places for the dispassionate
examination of evidence and the neutral consideration of arguments regarding the
requirements ofthe law. They are our society's alternative to the brute force of the
police state, the street brawl, and the violence of a domestic dispute. When we
speak of maintaining the integrity of the legal profession and the dignity of the
courts, we do not intend that attorneys be reduced to obsequious sycophants in order
to avoid offending the fragile sensibilities of judges. To the contrary, we merely
require that the members of a learned profession, who are privileged to serve as
officers of the court, act in accordance with the time-honored traditions that
experience has taught us are necessary to protect the office ofthe court and the
process of justice from devolving into the barroom brawl." Ms. Sperando's
conduct undermined the dignity of the courts and the integrity of the legal
profession.

31.

In this case, Ms. Sperando' s conduct has affected her own client. Her client
testified at trial that the case was not about money; it was about holding the
defendant accountable. Yet because of the conduct of Ms. Sperando, four appellate
court judges have stated in published decisions that the defendant did not get a fair
trial, thus at least partially depriving plaintiff ofthe vindication she sought from the
jury's verdict. Moreover, the appeal to the Supreme Court was based exclusively on
Ms. Sperando's misconduct, resulting in a delay in [mal resolution ofthis case
which can be laid solely at Ms. Sperando's feet. The potential harm to her client
was even greater; the case came perilously close to having to be retried, solely
because of Ms. Sperando's misconduct.

32.

Ms. Sperando's misconduct also caused harm to the defendant and defense
counsel. Counsel could not ethically and professionally respond in kind to Ms.
Sperando's accusations, possibly leaving an implication that defense counsel agreed
with or accepted the accusations, to his client's possible detriment and in damage to
his own reputation. It casts a pall over the fairness ofthe verdict and caused the
defendant to incur significant expense to pursue an appellate remedy. It may well
have prevented the defendant from raising other issues on appeal.
REMORSE

33.

In open court and under oath at the February 9 hearing, Ms. Sperando
acknowledged her errors and apologized to the Court, to the citizens of North
Carolina, and to Judge Tillery, the trial judge. Upon inquiry from the Court she
apologized to her clients. Upon further inquiry from the Court and with hesitation
II

using careful language, she apologized to defense counsel "for the way in which I
said what I said."
34.

Ms. Sperando appears to be sincerely remorseful for her grossly improper
conduct in repeatedly expressing during closing argument her opinion that defense
witnesses lied.

35.

The Court is not satisfied that Ms. Sperando is sincerely remorseful for her
grossly improper conduct in accusing defense counsel of knowingly offering false
testimony during closing argument.

36.

Remorse is obviously a factor entitled to some weight. It is important
primarily, however, because a person who is remorseful understands her mistakes
and is unlikely to commit future violations. In this case, as in many situations,
statements of remorse unaccompanied by action are not particularly meaningful. To
put it in the vernacular, it is not enough to talk the talk; one must walk the walk. In
this case, Ms. Sperando has done little to nothing to walk the walk. The Court
knows of no actions Ms. Sperando has taken to reduce the possibility of future
violations; there is no evidence, for example, that she has on her own iilltiative
attended continuing legal education courses or otherwise attempted to educate
herself about North Carolina law and practice. Moreover, the briefs filed with the
appellate courts written by Ms. Sperando reflected no recognition of any problems
at all with Ms. Sperando's conduct and are almost militantly defiant. For example,
in her briefto the Supreme Court, Ms. Sperando stated: "[I]t was COUCH's duty to
apprise the jury that DUKE was deliberately trying to mislead them." PlaintiffAppellee's Brieffiled September 8, 1999, at p. 30 (emphasis in original). There are
numerous other similar kinds of statements in which Ms. Sperando defended her
closing argument. Ms. Sperando did not even apologize to defense counsel until
the day of the hearing on sanctions, and then only halfheartedly. Ms. Sperando's
remorse appeared when the case was remanded for a hearing on sanctions by the
Supreme Court - that is, when she had no real choice. The appellate briefs alone
would support a finding that Ms. Sperando is not remorseful one bit.
ANALYSIS OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

37.

"[A] Superior Court, as part of its inherent power to manage its affairs, to see
that justice is done, and to see that the administration of justice is accomplished as
expeditiously as possible, has the authority to impose reasonable and appropriate
sanctions upon errant lawyers practicing before it. Sanctions available include
citations for contempt, censure, informing the North Carolina State Bar ofthe

misconduct, imposition of costs, suspension for a limited time ofthe right to
practice before the court, suspension for a limited time of the right to practice law in
the State, and disbarment." In re Robinson, 37 N.C. App. 671, 676 (1978). An outof-state attorney's pro hac vice admission is subject to the discretionary authority of
the trial court at all times. N.C.G.S. 84-4.2.
38.

N.C.G.S. §84-28 provides that an attorney admitted to practice pursuant to
N.C.G.S. § 84-4.1 is subject to discipline by the State Bar if she violates the Rules
of Professional Conducted in force at the time ofthe act. The legislature thus
expects an attorney admitted pro hac vice who has violated the Rules to be
disciplined. The statute further discusses five forms of discipline and the standards
for imposition of each kind of discipline. These requirements are binding on the
State Bar when it imposes discipline. While the Court's inherent authority is not
limited by the standards ofthis statute, see Beard v. North Carolina State Bar, 320
N.C. 126, 129-130 (1987), the statute does provide some guidance.

An admonition, which Ms. Sperando contends is appropriate, is imposed "in
cases in which an attorney has committed a minor violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct." NCGS §84-28(c)(5). A reprimand is issued in "cases in
which the attorney's conduct has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or members ofthe public." NCGS §8428(c)(4). A censure is issued when an attorney has violated one or more Rules and
"has caused significant harm or potential hann to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession or members of the public, but the protection of the public
does not require suspension of the attorney's license." NCGS §84-28(c )(3).
Suspension and disbarment, by implication, are reserved for those cases where
protection of the public is needed. The statute further authorizes the State Bar to stay
a suspension upon reasonable conditions and to impose reasonable conditions
precedent to reinstatement.

39.

40.

The Court has considered many possible sanctions in this case, some
mentioned in this Order and others not. The Court has weighed those sanctions in
light of all of the evidence and the Court's duty to protect the public and the
administration of justice. The Court has considered whether lesser sanctions and
shorter time frames would be sufficient and has determined that they would not.
The Court has further considered additional sanctions and longer time frames but in
view of Ms. Sperando's apology in open court, the serious effect the decisions ofthe
appellate courts have no doubt already had on her reputation and career, the other
mitigating factors reflected in this Order, and the other requirements of this Order,
the Court finds that further sanctions would be unduly harsh and would serve no
13

reasonable purpose. The Court has further considered a different mix of sanctions
and time frames and fmds that the sanctions imposed, taken together, are appropriate
under all the circumstances.
41.

The Court has considered whether an admonition is a sufficient sanction and
finds that it is not, under all the facts and circumstances.

42.

The defendants have suggested that Ms. Sperando be required to pay their
attorneys' fees on appeal. The Court has reviewed the affidavit submitted by the
defendant concerning its fees. There is no evidence before the Court that these fees
were not incurred or that they were unreasonable. The Court finds that the
attorneys' fees incurred by the defendant on appeal of this case were reasonable;
those fees total almost $190,000. A substantial issue before both the Court of
Appeals and the only issue before the Supreme Court was whether Ms. Sperando
had broken the rules in her closing argument, which Ms. Sperando did not concede
and indeed strenuously contested, and, if she did, whether the defendant should
receive a new trial. Thus, most of defendant's attorneys' fees on appeal were
incurred as a direct result of Ms. Sperando's unethical and unprofessional behavior.
As a result of the defendant's work on appeal, serious violations of North Carolina's
ethical and professional requirements were brought to the Court's attention, which is
in the public interest.

43.

The Court finds it appropriate to require Ms. Sperando to reimburse the
defendant for its attorneys' fees for the appeal to the Supreme Court and, in part, on
remand. The Court will require Ms. Sperando to pay to the defendant the sum of
$53,274.50, which the Court finds to be the minimum amount spent by the
defendant on attorneys' fees related to proceedings before the Supreme Court and
this Court in connection with Ms. Sperando's misconduct. s While it might well be
appropriate to order Ms. Sperando to pay some of the defendant's attorneys' fees
related to post trial motions and the subsequent appeal to the Court of Appeals, the
The Court has reviewed the affidavit ofNiccolo Ciampi and attached bills. As to the bill of Maxwell,
Freeman & Bowman, the Court has included those fees incurred after May 4, 1999 which are clearly
associated with the appeal and has excluded all fees incurred before that date and those fees after that date
which are not clearly associated with the issues raised by Ms. Sperando's conduct. As to the bill of
Robinson, Bradshaw, & Hinson, the Court has only included the fees from May, June, and July 1999
associated with preparing the appellate briefs at the Supreme Court level. For other months, the bills do
not allow the Court to easily determine tlle fees associated witll Ms. Sperando's misconduct as opposed to
fees incurred related to other issues. Therefore the Court has not included any of those fees. In other
words, the Court has not included any fees related to issues such as post-judgment interest, execution on the
jUdgment, and other matters that would have occurred even absent Ms. Sperando's misconduct and has not
included any fees which the Court could not easily and clearly determine were related to Ms. Sperando's
8

misconduct.

14

Court in its discretion will not do so, in light of other sanctions and requirements
imposed by this Order and in view of the substantial sum the Court is ordering her to
pay. The Court has also considered further reducing the amount it requires Ms.
Sperando to pay because the defendant only objected once at trial and did not
ultimately prevail on its argument for a new trial. Under all the circumstances,
however, the Court finds Ms. Sperando should pay the amount set forth above.
44.

Ms. Sperando was aware before the hearing that defendant was asking for its
attorneys' fees and did not offer any evidence of her personal financial situation.
The Court therefore has not been able to take that into account in requiring Ms.
Sperando to pay some of defendant's attorneys' fees. If Ms. Sperando wishes the
Court to re-examine this part of its Order in light of her personal financial situation,
she may submit an affidavit detailing her liabilities, assets, income, fees received or
to be received as a result of this case, and any other relevant financial information
no later than April 28, 2000. The affidavit shall be filed with the Clerk with a copy
to the Court in chambers and to all parties. Upon filing such affidavit, that part of
the Order requiring Ms. Sperando to pay part ofthe defendant's fees will be stayed
pending further Order ofthe Court but the rest ofthe Order will remain in effect.

45.

It also seems appropriate to the Court that Ms. Sperando should be
responsible to her client for all costs associated with the appeal to the Supreme
Court. The plaintiff in this case has not made any suggestions regarding an
appropriate sanction and has not asked for anything. Nonetheless, it is obvious that
the plaintiff is one ofthe victims of Ms. Sperando's conduct and the Court has
considered possible sanctions in this light. Other than requiring Ms. Sperando to
personally pay the plaintiffs costs related to the appeal to the Supreme Court, under
all the circumstances no other sanction related to the plaintiff will be imposed.

46.

Because the Court is requiring Ms. Sperando to reimburse the defendant for
some of its expenses and to reimburse the plaintiff for some of her costs and because
those costs and expenses are substantial, the Court will not impose a fine or any
other financial sanction.

47.

This Order constitutes an Order of Discipline and Ms. Sperando shall report
it as such when asked or required by rule or law.

48.

The Court has the authority to advise other courts of disciplinary action taken
against an attorney. See State v. Spivey, 213 N.C. 45, 48 (1938). It is appropriate to
notifY the State Bar of Florida and the State Bar of New York of the Supreme
Court's decision and ofthis Order.
15

49.

The Court has no reason to think that Ms. Sperando will again call witnesses
liars or accuse defense counsel of knowingly offering false testimony during her
closing argument, so the Court is not concerned that the particular violations which
occurred in this case will occur in the future. However, the Court does have serious
concerns about Ms. Sperando' s continued representation of clients in North
Carolina. As noted above, she repeatedly and recklessly violated clear North
Carolina rules without any inquiry into whether her conduct was appropriate. She
has not passed the bar exam in North Carolina or made any other sort of showing
that she has a basic familiarity with North Carolina law. She has shown by her
conduct that she does not adequately educate herself about North Carolina law
before representing clients in a North Carolina courtroom. Presence of North
Carolina co-counsel did not prevent the violations. There is nothing before the
Court to show that she has taken any steps on her own initiative to prevent future
violations, inadvertent or otherwise. The appellate briefs reflect that even after Ms.
Sperando was aware of North Carolina law governing expressions of opinion in
closing argument, she did not acknowledge even a potential problem with her
conduct, giving rise to a concern that she in the future will disregard North Carolina
rules when she does not agree with them or when it does not suit her purposes to
follow them. She is hesitant to comply with RPC 1.3(a), now RRPC 8.3, and does
not appreciate her obligations as part of a self-governing profession. Her testimony
and her conduct further demonstrate that she does not fully understand or appreciate
the problems caused by improperly accusing another lawyer of corrupt behavior and
that she does not treat opposing counsel with respect.

50.

This Court has the inherent power and duty to discipline lawyers for
unprofessional conduct. In Re Hunoval, 294 N.C. 740, 744 (1977). This power is
"based upon the relationship of the attorney to the court and the authority which the
court has over its own officers to prevent them from, or punish them for, committing
acts of .... impropriety calculated to bring contempt upon the administration of
justice." In re Burton, 257 N.C. 534, 542-43 (1962); N.C.G.S. §84-4.2.

51.

The statutory requirements an out of state attorney must meet for admission
pro hac vice are minimal. She must file a motion containing or accompanied by her
name, address, bar membership number and "status as a practicing attorney in
another state" which grants reciprocal privileges to North Carolina attorneys, a
statement by the client, a statement that the attorney will represent the client until
the matter is concluded, will be "subject to the orders and amenable to the
disciplinary action" of the General Court of Justice and the North Carolina State
Bar, and has associated with a North Carolina attorney who will also appear in the
16

case. N.C.G.S. §84-4.1. The out-of-state attorney does not have to pass the bar
exam or indeed make any showing of competence in or knowledge of North
Carolina law. Essentially, North Carolina is willing to accept an out-of-state
attorney on trust and willing to presume the attorney will meet her professional and
ethical obligations. By her conduct, Ms. Sperando has violated that trust and
rebutted that presumption.
52.

In this case, the Court finds that a short-term but complete suspension of Ms.
Sperando's ability to practice law in North Carolina is appropriate as a sanction and
that it is also necessary to prevent future acts of impropriety, to protect the public
and to safeguard the administration of justice. In view of all the facts and
circumstances and after weighing lesser sanctions and alternatives, the Court
believes Ms. Sperando should not be representing clients in North Carolina courts at
this time and for a period of one year.

53.

The permission previously granted to Ms. Sperando to represent the plaintiff
in this case should be revoked. N.C.G.S. §84-4.2. This will not prejudice the
plaintiff as there are virtually no disputed issues left in the case and she has other
counsel of record available to protect her interests. Ms. Sperando is hereafter
prohibited from appearing on behalf of the plaintiff in this matter.

54.

Ms. Sperando has filed an affidavit reflecting that she presently represents
parties pro hac vice in three cases pending in North Carolina state court. It is
appropriate to require her to provide a copy ofthis Order and attachments to her
clients in those pending cases. It is further appropriate to require Ms. Sperando to
move to withdraw from representation in those cases and to prohibit her from
offering anything in opposition to her motion.

55.

Normally a party has a right to have competent counsel of his or her own
choosing, and under certain circumstances when an attorney is admitted pro hac
vice, the client has a substantial right affected when the attorney is thereafter
disqualified. Goldston v. AMC. 326 N.C. 723, 726-727 (1990). There is no such
right, however, when counsel is not competent or has otherwise acted in a manner
inconsistent with his or her ethical and professional duties. In this case the highest
authority in the state, the N0l1h Carolina Supreme Court, has unanimously declared
that Ms. Sperando violated the Rules of Professional Conduct and made a grossly
improper closing argument. Moreover, the Goldston standard is to be applied by an
appellate court in deciding if an interlocutory appeal is appropriate and is not
particularly apt when an attorney is before the Court for discipline or when the
Court is acting pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-4.2. Cf., State Industries, Inc. v. Jernigan,
17

No. 5D99-3352 (Fla.App. January 28,2000).9 Finally, the Court doubts that any
judge who had been aware of Ms. Sperando's misconduct in this case would have
granted a discretionary motion to appear pro hac vice in the fIrst place.
56.

In any event, assuming that the clients do have a substantial right at issue
here, it is not an unqualifIed right that must be observed to the exclusion of all other
concerns and issues of importance and it is not a right that handcuffs the Courts
from removing attorneys who have violated ethical and professional rules or who
present a risk of future violations. The State Bar, for example, routinely disbars and
suspends attorneys for violation of ethical rules without regard to the potential
negative effect on clients. See Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar, Section .0124. Indeed, one of the reasons for suspension or disbarment is the
protection of clients, potential clients, and the public. A Court in a judicial
disbarment can order an attorney disbarred immediately and is not even required to
give the attorney time to wind down her practice. In Re Delle, 336 N.C. 543, 549
(1994). Even assuming that the clients in these three cases would want Ms.
Sperando to continue to represent them once they are aware of Ms. Sperando's
misconduct and the fIndings and terms of this Order, the right of a party to counsel
of choice does not outweigh the interests of the court system in protecting itself
from impropriety, in the fair and efficient administration of justice, in the protection
ofthe public, and in the enforcement of its own rules and laws. No party has a right
to have counsel who will not follow the rules and who cannot be relied upon to
comply with our state's ethical requirements. By her own conduct, Ms. Sperando
has shown that she has forsaken the trust without which an unlicensed out-of-state
attorney cannot appear in our courts.

57.

Despite the Court's view that it does not have to make an individual
determination in each case as to the need for withdrawal, the Court has considered
the information available. As to one ofthese cases, Ms. Sperando has clearly been
only tangentially involved 10 and there are several other attorneys involved in the
9 In State Industries. Inc. v. Jernigan, the Florida Court of Appeal for the Fifth District affirmed the trial
court's revocation of the authority of an Illinois attorney to appear on behalf of a defendant in a product
liability case. During a deposition, the Illinois attorney repeatedly called plaintiffs' counsel a liar. The
appellate court stated that "The decision as to whether to grant pro hac vice status to an out-of-state
attorney is within the sound discretion of the trial court..... Likewise in our view is the decision to revoke
the privilege once given." The Court further held that "It is not necessary that in order to revoke pro hac
vice credentials that a trial judge fmd that the conduct in question amounted to an ethical violation under
the Florida Rules of Professional Conduct. Nor must the court await conduct that would require a mistrial
or justiry a reversal on appeal in order to act. A trial court may revoke the status of pro hac vice whenever
it appears that counsel's conduct during any stage of the proceeding ... adversely impacts the
administration of justice." The Court concluded that calling opposing counsel a liar on the record does
adversely affect the administration of justice.
10 She has been involved so little she initially forgot to inform the Court about this case.

18

case so that her client is unlikely to be prejudiced by her withdrawal. In the other
two cases, Ms. Sperando's clients do have other counsel of record. The Court also
notes that the North Carolina attorney involved in each ofthose two cases pursuant
to N.C.G.S. §84-4.1(5) is the same attorney as in this case and that the involvement
ofthis attorney did not prevent the violations at issue here; it therefore cannot be
presumed that his involvement would prevent violations in other cases. The courts
before which those cases are pending can continue the case ifnecessary or otherwise
deal with any issues arising from Ms. Sperando's withdrawal. Finally, Ms.
Sperando is a member of a fIrm with several attorneys, at least one of whom has
experience in medical negligence cases.
58.

Balancing the myriad offactors supporting temporary suspension against the
right of individual litigants to counsel of choice and assuming such a right exists in
this case, the Court is convinced that a temporary suspension is appropriate and
necessary.

59.

From today's date until one year after the date the last motion to withdraw is
allowed or Ms. Sperando's representation of clients in North Carolina courts
otherwise ceases, Ms. Sperando shall not appear in a North Carolina state court on
behalf of a client except to the extent necessary to withdraw. For the same period of
time she shall not move to appear pro hac vice in a North Carolina case.

60.

After this suspension is over, she shall, for the next fIve years, attach to any
Motion to be admitted pro hac vice fIled in North Carolina state court a copy ofthis
Order and its attachments and an affIdavit showing compliance with this Order. She
shall further not attempt to have any such Motion heard in chambers and shall
arrange for the Motion to be heard in open court with notice to other parties.

61.

Before fIling any motion in North Carolina state court to be admitted pro hac
vice, Ms. Sperando shall complete at least twenty-four hours of continuing legal
education specifIcally related to trials and litigation in North Carolina and at least
twelve hours of continuing legal education specifIcally related to ethics and/or
professionalism in a litigation practice in North Carolina.
In the Court's discretion, it is therefore ORDERED that:
l. Maria P. Sperando is hereby censured for grossly improper conduct during a

trial that violated the General Rules of Practice and the North Carolina Rules of
Professional Conduct.

19

2. This Order is an Order of Discipline against Maria P. Sperando and she shall
report it as such when asked or when required by law or applicable rule.
3. The pennission previously granted to Maria P. Sperando to represent the
plaintiff in this case is hereby revoked.
4. Maria P. Sperando shall pay to the defendant Duke University the sum of
$53,274.50 within sixty days of the date of this Order as a sanction and to partially
reimburse Duke for the fees it incurred as a result of her unprofessional and
unethical conduct.
5. Maria P. Sperando shall pay to the plaintiff, Finesse Couch, Administratrix, the
costs incurred by the plaintiff in defending the appeal of this case in the North
Carolina Supreme Court within sixty days ofthe date of this Order.
6. Maria P. Sperando shall move to withdraw as soon as practicable from any cases
pending in North Carolina state court in which she represents clients. She shall
attach to each Motion a copy ofthis Order and its attachments and provide a copy to
her clients. She shall not speak to the Court in opposition to the Motion.
7. Maria P. Sperando is prohibited from representing clients in North Carolina
courts from today's date until one year after the date the last motion to withdraw is
allowed or her representation of clients in North Carolina state court otherwise
ceases. During this time she shall not move to appear pro hac vice in a North
Carolina case.
8. At the end of this period of suspension, Maria P. Sperando may move to
represent clients in North Carolina courts pro hac vice, subject to the requirements
ofNCGS §84-4.1 and upon compliance with the following additional tenns: She
shall attach to any such Motion filed for the next five years a copy of this Order and
its attachments and an affidavit showing compliance with all aspects of this Order,
and she shall before filing such a motion complete twenty-four hours of continuing
legal education specifically related to trials and litigation in North Carolina and
twelve hours of continuing legal education specifically related to ethics or
professionalism in a litigation practice in North Carolina. She shall further not
attempt to have any such Motion heard in chambers and shall arrange for the Motion
to be heard in open court with notice to other parties.

20

9. The Clerk of Court of Durham County shall provide a certified copy of this
Order and its attachments to the State Bar of North Carolina, the State Bar of Florida
and the State Bar of New York.
10. Maria P. Sperando shall file an affidavit with supporting documentation
showing compliance with every term of this Order by May 31, 2000. Such
supporting documentation shall be detailed and specific and shall include copies of
checks, letters, certified mail receipts, filed Motions and Orders, etc. The original
affidavit and supporting documents shall be filed with the Clerk and Ms. Sperando
shall provide a copy to the Court. For those actions required by this Order that
cannot be completed by May 31, 2000, Ms. Sperando shall set forth the status of her
efforts to comply in her affidavit and she shall file supplemental affidavits every
thirty days until compliance is total.
11. The Court retains jurisdiction of this matter to enter such Orders as may be
necessary to ensure compliance and enforcement. Failure to comply with the terms
of this Order could result in further sanctions and in civil and/or criminal contempt
proceedings.
12. Should Maria P. Sperando or any other party file Notice of Appeal from this
Order or any other Order related to the issue remanded by the Supreme Court, the
appealing person shall provide a copy of the Notice of Appeal to the Court in
chambers. The Court will then consider appointment of counsel to defend its Order.
13. The Trial Court Administrator in Durham County is directed to provide a filed
copy ofthis Order to Maria Sperando, to other counsel of record for the plaintiff, to
counsel of record for Ms. Sperando, and to counsel of record for the defendant.

This 31st day of March, 2000.

Catherine C. Eagles
Superior Court Judge Presiding

21

IN THE SUPREME COURT

92

COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC
[351 N.C. 92 (1999)J

Based on the foregoing and the entire record in this case, we cannot conclude as a matter oflaw that the sentence of death was excessive or disproportionate. We hold that defendant received a fair trial
and capital sentencing proceeding, free of prejudicial error.
NO ERROR.
Justice FREEMAN did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

FINESSE G. COUCH, INDIVIDUALLY, AND AS ADMINISTILI\.TRIX OF'THE EsrATE OF' CARNELL

SIMMONS COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC

AND

DUKE UNIVERSITY

No. 255.'1.99
(Filed 5 November 1999)

Trials- argument of counsel-characterizations of witnesses
and counsel as liars-gross impropriety
The trial court erred by not sustaining defendant's objection
and by failing to intervene ex mero motu to correct the grossly
improper jury argument by plaintiffs counsel that included nineteen explicit characterizations of the defense witnesses and
opposing counsel as liars. However, where one Justice did not
participate in the consideration or decision of this case, and the
remaining six Justices are equally divided on the issue of whether
this error was prejudicial to the appealing defendant, the decision of the Court of Appeals is left undisturbed and stands without precedential value.
Appeal pursuant to N.C.G.S. § 7A-30(2) from the decision of a
divided panel of the Court of Appeals, 133 N.C. App. - , 515 S.E.2d
30 (1999), affirming in part and reversing in part a judgment entered
3 March 1997 by Tillery, J., in Superior Court, Durham County. Heard
in the Supreme Court 13 October 1999.

:1'

COURT

IN THE SUPREME COURT

STIC CLINIC

COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC

Jl

[351 N.C. 92 (1999)[

record in this case, we can,ntence of death was excesfendant received a fair trial
f prejudicial error.

I

Gary, Williams, Parenti, Pinney, Lewis, McManus, Watson &
Sperando, by Maria P Sperando, pro hac vice; and Keith A.
Bishop, for plaintiff-appellee.
Maxwell, Preeman & Bowma.n, PA., by James B. Maxwell; and
Robinson, Bradshaw & Hinson, PA., by Everett J. Bowman,
Lawrence C. Moore, III, and John M. Conley, for defendantappellant Duke University.

the consideration or deci-

PER CURIAM.

-

Justice Freeman did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case. The remaining sLx members of the Court are of the
opinIon that plaintiffs counsel, Ms. Maria P. Sperando, engaged in a
grossly improper jury argument that included at least nineteen
e);:plicit characterizations of the defense witnesses and opposing
counsel as liars. The trial court did not sustain defendant's inItial
objection to this jury argument, nor did the trial court thereafter
intervene ex mero motu to correct the grossly improper argument.

RATRLX OF THE ESTATE OF CARNELL

.'IC

93

AND

DUKE UNIVERSITY

)9)

All members of the Court are of the opinion that the trial court
erred by not sustaining defendant's objection and by not intervening
e:r mero motu. Justices Lake, MalTIn, and Wainwright believe that the
error was prejudicial to the appealing defendant and would vote to
grant a new trial. Chief Justice Frye and Justices Parker and Orr are
of the opinion that the error was not prejudicial to the appealing
defendant and would vote to affirm the result reached by the Court
of Appeals. Accordingly, the decision of the Court of Appeals is left
undisturbed and stands without precedential value. See, e.g., Hayes
v. Town of Fairmont, 350 N.C. 81, 511 S.E.2d 638 (1999); James v.
Rogers, 231 N.C. 668, 58 S.E.2d 640 (1950).

terizations of witnesses
lriety
ning defendant's objection
lOtu to correct the grossly
,ounsel that included nine,e defense witnesses and
Nhere one Justice did not
:ision of this case, and the
led on the issue of whether
aling defendant, the decilisturbed and stands with-

Furthermore, this Court, being of the opinion that plaintiffs
counsel's conduct violated Rule 12 of the General Rules of Practice
for the Superior and District Courts and was not in conformity with
the Rules of Professional Conduct, remands this cause to the trial
court for the determination of an appropriate sanction.

2) from the decision of a
N.C. App. - , 515 S.E.2d
1 part a judgment entered
rt, Durham County. Heard

The decision of the Court of Appeals is affirmed without precedential value.

o

AFFIRMED.

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS

)F APPEALS

COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC

LE v. MORRIS

[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999))

)0 (1999)1

136 F.2d 562, 563 (5th Cir. 1943)).
miary interest in an administraate that dispute. See Tumey v.
,7). Further, the pecuniary inter/ "appearance of evil" must be
n. of Pilot Mount., 149 N.C. 120,
xe, whenever an individual has
'oceeding or there is a reasonidual should not adjudicate that

)sition of the Board would make
, Board was not wholly disintermembers had apparent interests
was married to a firefighter who
)f his two certifications. Further,
'ho is a firefighter and faces the.
,ld that the trial court correctly
conflict with respect to this matling does not leave respondents
~ the five members can still vote
m can be convened.
ents contend that Judge Dmvns
~arding the conflict of interest
t of interest did exist, this argurrot address it.

meur.

93

FINESSE G. COUCH,
SI~I.MONS

SITY,

INDMDUALLY AND AS ADMINISTRATRD: OF THE ESTATE OF CARNELL

COUCH, PLAJNTIFF'V. PRIVATE DLA.GNOSTIC CLINIC AND DUlCE UNIVER-

DEFENDMI"TS

No. COA97-1540
(Filed 4 May 1999)

1. Trials- argument of counsel-veracity of witnesses-no
prejudicial error
There was no prejudicial error in a medical malpractice
action where plaintiffs counsel argued that defense witnesses
were lying. The only objection was to a reference which was not
alone sufficiently prejudicial to entitle defendants to a new trial
and, although the statements may have been improper and the
court should have given a cautionary instruction, the statements
were not of such gross impropriety as to entitle defendants to a
new trial. Given the convincing evidence presented at trial supporting defendants' negligence, any effect on the jury's verdict
was harmless.

2. Agency- hospital and doctors-substantial evidence
The trial court did not err in a medical malpractice action by
denying defendant-Duke University's motion for JNOV on the
issue of whether any of the treating physicians was an agent of
Duke. Considering the evidence in the light most favorable to the
nonmoving party, there was substantial evidence of the existence
of an agency relationship.
3. Trials- Rule 60 motion-excusable neglect-voluntary dismissal-willful act
The trial court erred in a medical malpractice action by allowing plaintiffs counsel to reinstate the Private Diagnostic Clinic as
a defendant on a Rule 60 motion following a voluntary dismissal
based upon plaintiffs counsel's mistaken belief that an employeremployee relationship existed between all treating physicians
and defendant-Duke. The voluntary dismissal was a carefully considered decision. a trial strategy, and thus constitutes a deliberate
willful act precluding relief under Rule 60. The fact that the legal
consequences of the action were misunderstood by plaintiff's
attorney is not material.
Judge WALJ..'ER concurring.
Judge GREENE concurring in part and dissenting in part.

94

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS
COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC
[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)1

i

i

Appeal by defendants from judgment entered 3 March 1997 by
Tillery, J., in Superior Court, Durham County. Heard in the Court of
Appeals 22 September 1998.

Gary, Williams, Parenti, Finney, Lewis, McManus, Watson &
Sperando, by Maria P Sperando and Keith A. Bishop, for
plaintiff-appellee.
Maxwell, Freeman & Bowman, PA., by James B. Maxwell, and
Robinson Bradshaw & Hinson, PA., by Everett J. Bowman,
Lawrence C. Moore, III, and John M. Conley, for defendantsappellants.
WYNN, Judge.
Defendants Duke University and the Private Diagnostic Clinic
appeal from a jury detennination that their medical practice negligence caused the death of ten-year-old Carnell Simmons Couch-son
of plaintiff Finesse G. Couch.
Individually and as administratri., of Carnell's estate, Ms. Couch
initiated this action agalnst Duke, the Private Diagnostic Clinic, and
Dr. Delbert R. Wigfall-an Assistant Professor of Pediatric and Acting
Chief of the Division of Nephrology at Duke. She alleged that those
medical providers negligently: (1) failed to examine, assess, and treat
Carnell in an appropriate and timely manner and, (2) failed to appropriately diagnose the extent and urgency of Carnell's condition.
In her complaint, Ms. Couch characterized Duke as a private university operating a private hospital for the treatment of persons in
need of medical care and attention and the Private Diagnostic Clinic
as a professional organization of physicians who practice medicine at
Duke. The complaint further alleged:

At all times relevant to this action Dr. Wigfall, the attending
physician and all other physicians under his control, supervision
and guidance who rendered treatment, were agents of Duke [and
the Private Diagnostic Clinic] and that all acts and omissions of
Dr. \\~gfall and all other physicians rendering treatment ... were
perfonned within the scope of their agency as agents and representatives of Dul(e [and the Private Diagnostic Clinic].
Although defendants denied in their answer that Dr. Wigfall and
all other physicians were acting within the course and scope of an
agency relationship with Duke at the time they rendered treatment to

•.
.,
'.i"

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS
?PEALS
TIC CLINIC

95

COUCH v. PRrvATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC
[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)1

0)1

entered 3 March 1997 by
:nty. Heard in the Court of

.wis, kleMan·us, Watson &
md J(eith A. Bishop, Jar
by James B. Maxwell, and
., by Everett J. Bowman,
vI. Conl.ey, Jar deJenda.nts-

, private Diagnostic Clinic
~eir medical practice negliUTIell Simmons Couch-son
Carnell's estate, Ms. Couch
ivate DiaanostiC Clinic, and
b
dA . d
'ssor of Pediatric an
CtlIlo
iuke. She alleged that those
o examine. assess, and treat
iller and, (2) failed to approof Carnell's condition.
,rized Duke as a private unithe treatment of persons m
.he Private Diagnostic Chmc
illS who practice medlcme at
Dr. Wigfall, the attending
1der his control, supel"\'1SlO n
11., were agents of Duke [and.
\at all acts and omissions of
.endering treatment ... were
agency as agents and repre)iagnostiC Clinic I·

Carnell, they ~dmitted that the Private Diagnostic Clinic is a professional organization of physicians who practice medicine at Duke.
Moreover, defendants admitted that Dr. Wigfall is a member of the
Private Diagnostic Clinic practicing at Duke "and as such is employed
by [Duke] to carry out those duties."
The day following the commencement of trial on 6 January 1997,
Ms. Couch "by and through her ... attorney of record" filed.a written
"Notice of Voluntary Dismissal with Prejudice" against Dr. Wigfall and
the Private Diagnostic Clinic. Five days into the trial after six witnesses had testified, Ms. Couch's counsel attempted to have it stipulated "that the doctors who read the x-rays, and who treated Carnell
on the 4th through the 15th [of December], and before, were employees of ... [Duke]."
Defendants' counsel responded that these physicians "were ...
partners in the Private Diagnostic Clin.ic, at Duke practicing medi cine
at the medical center." Further, he stated that the physicians were
employed as professors or faculty members tn the Department of
Pediatrics at Dul{e. However, he would not stipulate that the physicians were employed by Duke "as treating physicians."
Concerned that she had prematurely dismissed the Private
Diagnostic Clinic as a defendant, Ms. Couch's counsel orally moved
under Rule 60Cb) for relief from the judgment tn order to reinstate the
Private Diagnostic Clinic. In support of this motion, counsel
e}':plained that she thought that oniy Dr. Wlgfall was an employee of
Duke at the ttn1e they rendered treatment to Carnell. Ms. Couch's
counsel admitted that "it was a mistake, it was an honest mistake that
we made," based on the statements of defendants' counsel and the
allegation in the answer, that these physicians were employees of
Duke. At another point in the record, Ms. Couch's counsel told the
trial court that she entered the dismissal "because I wanted to just
have everythtng real clean and have one defendant."

1

. answer thar. Dr. Wigfall and
the course and scope of an
Ie they rendered treatment to

Despite defendants' objection to Ms. Couch's motion, the trial
court reinstated the Private Diagnostic Clinic as a defendant.. In its
written order allowing the reinstatement of the Private Diagnostic
Clinic, the trial court found that in dismissing the Private Diagnostic
Clinic, Ms. Couch's counsel "acted in the good faith belief that an
employer-employee relationship between all treating physicians and
[Duke]" existed. Additionally, it found that: (1) Duke and the Private
Diagnostic Clinic had not been prejudiced and (2) "the plaintiff was
not at fault ... and played no role in her counsel's decision to remove

96

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS
COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC
[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)1

[the] Private Diagnostic Clinic as a named defendant." Therefore, the
trial court concluded that "the belief of counsel relative to the admissions of [Duke] was an inadvertent mistake and the actions taken ...
were excusable neglect."
At trial, the evidence showed that on 4 December 1991, Ms.
Couch brought Carnell, who previously had been diagnosed "ith
nephrotic syndrome 1 with minimal change disease, to Duke's emergency room after he began experiencing symptoms including
swelling, decreased urine output, and shortness of breath. After performing a number of tests on Carnell, including a chest x-ray, the
medical .personnel diagnosed his condition as a relapse of his
nephrotic syndrome, treated him with several drugs, and discharged
him to the care of his parents.
On 10 December 1991, Carnell was agaln brought to Duke's emergency room complaining of a shortness of breath, coughing, and vomiting. This time, however, he was admitted to the hospital and given
numerous tests including chest x-rays and two electrocardiograms
("EKGs"). An initial x-rayon 10 December 1991 led to a diagnosis of
pneunlDnia, but the second x-rayon 14 December 1991 was reported
to reveal that his lung anomaly had begun to resolve.
Further, the fIrst EKG on 13 December 1991 was characterized as
"a very strange looking EKG" suggesting that this test be repeated.
The second, however, was interpreted as normal. Thereafter, on 15
December 1991, Carnell was discharged from Duke.
While at home on 13 February 1992, Carnell died. An autopsy
established the cause of death as in situ pulmonary artery thrombosis, meaning that one or more blood clots had developed and
blocked the main artery leading from the heart to the lungs. Some of
the blood clots were determined to be months old, while others were
years old.
At the close of all of the evidence, Duke moved for a directed verdiet on the grounds that there was insufficient evidence of negligence
on its part. The Private Diagnostic Clinic's motion was based in part
on the trial court reinstating it as a defendant. The trial court denied
both motions.
1. Generally characterized, nephrotic syndrome is a condition in which the kidneys leak protein that \vQuld normally stay In the blood stream and as a result there is
a tendency for Quid to accumulate abnormally within the body. The condition is funher
characterized by intervals of remission punctuated by flare-ups or swelling of the
abdominal and genital areas, and associated discomfort.

~\
•

OPEALS
rIC CLINlC

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS

97

COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC
{133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)1

I) I

defendant." Therefore, the
msel relative to the admis, and the actions taken ...
,n 4 December 1991, Ms.
had been diagnosed with
, disease, to Duke's emering symptoms including
tness of breath. After pereluding a chest x-ray, the
:ion as a relapse of rus
"a1 drugs, and discharged

Subsequently, the jury determined that the medical doctors who
treated Carnell were agents of Duke and that Carnell's death was
caused by the negligence of both the Private Diagnostic Clin:ic and
Duke. Damages were assessed at $2,501,150.00. Defendants moved
for judgment notwithstanding the verdict (JNOV) wruch the trial
court den:ied.
On appeal, defendants contend that the trial court committed
reversible error by: (1) permitting Ms. Couch's counsel to engage in a
grossly improper jury argument during trial, (2) deny:ing Duke's
Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict, and (3) allowing
Ms. Couch's counsel to reinstate the Private Diagnostic Clin:ic as a
defendant. We address each of these seriatim.
I.

n brought to Duke's emerIreath, cough:img, and vomto the hospital and given
i two electrocardiograms
1991 led to a diagnosis of
,ember 1991 was reported
.0 resolve.
1991 was characterized as
hat this test be repeated.
lonnal. Thereafter, on 15
m Duke.
Carnell died. An autopsy
pulmonary artery throm~Iots had developed and
,art to the lungs. Some of
.hs old, while others were
moved for a directed vernt evidence of negligence
notion was based in part
nt. The trial court denied
5

a condition in which the kid-

! stream and as a result there is
e body. The condition is further

,y flare-ups or sv.-elling of the
L

[1] }'irst, defendants assert that the trial court abused its discretion
in allowing the jury argument of Ms. Couch's counsel which conta:ined various references to the veracity of defense witnesses.
Specifically, defendants point to counsel's comments that: (1) "There
is notrung worse than a liar because you can't protect yourself from a
liar.... [T]hese people, and all the doctors that they paraded in here
who told you lie, after lie, after lie"; (2) "They lied to your face, blatantly. They didn't care. They tried to make fools of everybody in the
courtroom"; (3) "In your face lies"; (4)" ... they Imew before they put
their hands on the Bible that they were going to tell those lies and
[Defendants' attorney] put them up anyway. That's heavy. That's a
heavy accusation"; (5) "Well, I don't know what you call it. but that's a
lie. That's not even-that's not shading the truth ... How is that not a
lie? How is that not a lie?"; (6) "So you see, when I say a lie, okay, I
want the record to reflect that I mean a lie"; (7) "Now let me ask you
this, how do you think that they intend to get out from under all these
lies?"; (8) "This is another blatant lie"; (9) "When they parade these
witnesses in one after another and ]jed to your face. I mean, they
were not even smooth about it."

It is well established in North Carolina that "[c]ounsel have wide
latitude in mak:ing their arguments to the jury." State v. Miller, 271
N.C. 646, 659, 157 S.E.2d 335, 346 (1967). Further, the control of counsel's arguments "must be left largely to the discretion of the trial
judge," State v. Johnson, 298 N.C. 355, 369, 259 S.E.2d 752, 761 (1979),
because the trial judge

'sees what is done, and hears what is sa:id. He is cognizant of all
the surrounding circumstances, and is a better judge of the lati-

98

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS
COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC

,

[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)[

tude that ought to be allowed to counsel in the argument of any
particular case.'

State v. Thornpson, 278 N.C. 277, 283, 179 S.E.2d 315, 319 (1971)
(quoting State v. Barefoot, 241 N.C. 650, 657, 86 S.E.2d 424, 429
(1955)). Therefore, "the appellate courts ordinarily will not review
the exercise of the trial judge's discretion [regarding jury arguments]
unless the impropriety of counsel's remarks is extreme and is clearly
calculated to prejudice the jury in its deliberations." Johnson, 298
N.C. at 369,259 S.E.2d at 761; see also Thornpson, 278 N.C. at 283,179
, S.E.2d at 319 (stating "lilt is only in extreme cases of the abuse of
privilege by counsel, and when this is not checked by the court, and
the jury is not properly cautioned, [the appellate courts] can intervene and grant a new trial." ).
"Jury argument, however, is not without limitations." State v.
Sanderson, 336 N.C. 1, 15, 442 S.E.2d 33, 42 (1994). " 'The trial court
has a duty, upon objection, to censor remarks not warranted by either
the evidence or the.law, or remarks calculated to mislead or prejudice
the jury.' " Id. (quoting State v. Britt, 288 N.C. 699, 712, 220 S.E.2d
283,291 (1975)). Moreover, " '[i]f the impropriety is gross it is proper
for the court even in the absence of objection to correct the abuse e.T
meTa rnotu.' " Id. (quoting Britt, supra,).

I'
~,

Defendants in the case sub judice objected only to the first of
these arguments which was: "There is nothing worse than a liar
because you can't protect yourself from a liar.... [T]hese people, and
all the doctors that they paraded in here who told you lie, after lie,
after lie." This comment alone is not sufficiently prejudicial to entitle
the defendants to a new trial. Therefore, we must determine whether
counsel's other references to defense witnesses' veracity constituted
gross improprieties entitling defendants to a new trial because of the
court's failure to correct them ex rnera motu.
In North Carolina, "[ilt is improper for a lawyer to assert his opinion that a witness is lying." Sta,te v. Locklear, 294 N,C. 210, 217, 241
S,E,2d 65, 70 (1978), However, the mere fact that counsel makes such
an argument does not automatically establish that the argument is
grossly improper so as to require a new trial when the trial coun
does not intervene ex rnem 'I11.Otu. See State v. Solomon, 340 N,c' 212,
218-20,456 S,E.2d 778, 782-84 (1995) (holding that the trial court did
not abuse its discretion bO
, ' failing to intervene e,y mem motu to prevent closing argument by the prosecutor that the defendant lied during his testimony); State u. Noell, 284 N,C, 670, 696, 202 S,E.2d 750,

Ilfr",":Wi
"

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS
>PEALS

COUCH

rIC CLINIC

V.

99

PRrvATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC
[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)1

1)1

sel in the argument of any
79 S.E.Zd 315, 319 (1971)
.) 657 86 S.E.2d 424, 429
,
,
.
VIew
ordinarily Wlll not re
·ury arauments]
[redardingJ
b
.b
xtreme and is clearly
k s IS e.
998
rberations." Johnson, ~~ son, 278 N.C. at 283,179
re~e cases of the abuse of
t checked by the court, and
.. ~o] can mterappellate cow. ~
.thout limitations." State v.
I 42 (1994). " 'The trial court
. I
t warranted by eIther
. dice
.ar (s no .
lated to mislead or preJu
C. 699, 71Z, 2Z0 S.E.2d
88 N
. .
..
oper
)fO riets is grosS It IS pr
cti~n to correct. the abuse ex
objected only to the first .of
. nothing worse than a liar
'a liar.... [T]hes e people, and
ld ou lie after lie,
re who t.o y . . '
ntitle
'ficiently prejudIcIal to e
e must determine whether
,w
,
.r" constituted
·itness es veraCI'J
f the
; to a new trial because 0

767 (1974) (holding that solicitor's statement during closing that
defense witnesses have lied was merely a question which was submitted to the jury for its determination when it made its rmdings and
returned its verdict), vacated in part on otheT grou.nds, 428 U.S. 902,
96 S.Ct. 3203, 49 L.Ed.2d 1205 (1976); State v. Jordan, 49 N.C. App.
561, 569, 272 S.E.2d 405, 410 (1980) (holding that prosecutor's statements regarding his opinion as to the truthfulness of a defense witness, considering the evidence against the defendant, did not reach
the level of the grossly improper statements which would require the
trial court to correct them ex mero motu.).
In fact, the existence of overwhelming evidence supporting the
jury's verdict notwithstanding improper characterizations regarding
the veracity of witnesses' statements has been sufficient in some
cases to prevent the imposition of a new trial. See e.g. State v. Sexton,
336 N.C. 321, 444 S.E.2d 879 (1994) (holding that statements to the
jury made by the prosecutor asserting that a defense witness was
lying was improper, but considering all the facts and circumstances
revealed·in the record which showed overwhelming evidence against
the defendant, such statements did not constitute a prejudicial error);
17wmpson, 278 N.C. at 277, 179 S.E.2d at 315 (holding that solicitor's
statements to the jury that the defense witnesses were lying were not
sufficient to warrant a new trial in view of the overwhelmillg evidence of guilt against the defendant). Therefore, to determine
whether counsel's argument in this case was grossly improper, we
must examine the argument in the context in which it was given and
in light of the factual circumstances to which it refers. See State v.
Ocasio, 344 N.C. 568, 580, 476 S.E.2d 281, 288 (1996).
Here, several trial witnesses (including some of Duke's witnesses) testified that the x-rays on December lith and 14th revealed
an enlarged pulmonary trunk and pulmonary arteries. Nonetheless,
Duke neither reponed nor evaluated this diagnosis.

'In,Dtn.

rt his opinror a lawyer to as~~O .017 241
ckleoT 994 N.C. -1 akes
,- , h
sue
e
, fact that couns m ment is
stablish that the argual court
ew trial when he tn C 919
340N . . ~-,
,tale v. Solomon, .
rt did
widing that the tnal cou . remeTa mot.u to P
ltervene eX·
r d duro
or that the defendantE'~d 750.
N.C. 670, 696, 202 S.'·~
'

,

1 ...

t.

Further, one month prior to the filing of this suit, Dr. Chen, a
Duke cardiopulmonary radiologist, along with three other Duke
phYsicians wrote a published article concluding that at the time of the
x-rays, Carnell more likely suffered from a blood clot rather than
pneumonia. Additionally, there was other evidence presented that
Carnell's lung difficulties were not related to pneumonia, but instead
due to a blood clot.
Given the convincing evidence presented at trial supporting the
defendants' negligence, we find that the jury argument had a harmless

100

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS
COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC
[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)1

effect, if any on the jury's verdict. Although these statements may
have been improper to the extent that the trial court should have
given a cautionary instruction, we are unable to conclude that they
were of such gross impropriety to entitle the defendants to a new
trial. See State v. Vines, 105 N.C. App. 147, 412 S.E.2d 156 (1992)
(holding that the prosecutor's argument attacking the integrity of
defense counsel was of such gross impropriety as to justify ex mero
motu correction; however, in light of the strong and convincing case
against the defendant we could not hold that the prosecutrix's
improper comments were sufficiently prejudicial as to require a new
trial). Thus, we reject defendants' first assignment of error.
II.

[2] Ne}"1:, Duke argues that the trial court erred in denying its motion
for JNOV because there was no competent evidence that "any of the
treating physicians alleged to have been negligent was an agent of
Duke."
A motion for JNOV is treated as a renewal of the motion for
directed verdict. See Ma'intenance Equip. Co. v. Godley Builders, 107
N.C. App. 343. 353, 420 S.E.2d 199, 204 (1992); N.C. Gen. Stat. § lA-I,
Rule 50(b)(1) (1990). Thus, a movant cannot assert grounds on a
motion for JNOV that were not previously raised in the directed verdict motion. See Lassiter v. English, 126 N.C. App. 489, 492-93, 485
S.E.2d 840, 842 (1997) (holding that a party must have made a
directed verdict motion at trial on the specific issue which is the basis
of the JNOV).
Because Duke never asserted this agency argunlent as a grounds
for its motion for directed verdict, it has no standing to raise this
issue in its motion for JNOV. Seeid. However, we will address the
merits of its argument on this point.
Preliminarily, it is noted that we do not read the Supreme Court's
holding in the Smith case to mean that all physicians who practice
medicine at the Duke Medical Center do so as agents of the Private
Diagnostic Clinic. See Smith v. Duke Univ., 219 N.C. 628, 14 S.E.2d
643 (1941) (physicians employed by Duke University, as professors,
are not necessarily employees of Duke University at the time they
render treatment to a patient at the university hospital). Instead, the
relationship between the Private Diagnostic Clinic, Duke, and the
physicians at the Medical Center is subject to change and must necessarily be detennined based on the evidence presented in each case.

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS

\.PPEALS

101

COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC

STIC CLINIC

[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999))

99)]

The trial court in deciding a JNOV motion must determine
whether the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-moving
partY is sufficient to take the case to the jury. See Norman Owen
Tl11cking, Inc. v. Morkos/d, 131 N.C. App. 168, 506 S.E.2d 267, 270
(199S). "The motion should be denied if there is more than a scintilla
of evidence supporting each element of the non-movant's clain1." Id.
(citing Ace Chem'ical Corp. v. DSI Transports, Inc., 115 N.C.App. 237,
242,446 S.E.2d 100, 103 (1994)). In other words, the motion should be
denied if there exists substantial evidence or " 'such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to suppOrt a
conclusion.' " Cobb v. Reitter, 105 N.C. App. 218, 220 , 412 S.E.2d 110,
III (1992) (quoting State v. Smith, 300 N.C. 71, 7S-79, 265 S.E.2d 164,
169 (19S0)).

Judh these statements may
th~ trial court should have
nable to conclude that they
Ie the defendants to a new
147 412 S.E.2d 156 (1992)
t a~acldng the integrity of
}priety as to justify ex mero
strong and convincing cas,e
10ld that the prosecutnx s
ejudicial as to require a new
5signrnent of error.

t eITed in denying its motion

mt evidence that "any of the
n negligent was an agent of

fo~ A

. renewal of the motion
). Co. v. Godley BuUders, 101 . ,
1992); N.C. Gen. Stat. § lA-I,
cannot: assert grounds on a
;ly raised in the directe~ ver~
~6 N.C. App. 489, 492-90, 48D
a partY must have made a
ecific issue which is the basIS
seney argunlen[ as a ~roun~s
las no standing to rruse this
.owever, we will address the

not read the Supreme Court's
t all physicians who practIce
o so as agents of the Pnvate
019
N' .C. 628 14 S.E.2d
•
...
Tn1,V.)
Ike University, as professors,
, University at the time they
versit\' hospital}. Instead, the
nosti~ Clinic, Duke, and the
,ject to change and must necdence presented in each case.
J

•
\II'

Admittedly, the testin10ny in the subject case is somewhat conflicting as to the exact relationship between Duke and those persons
employed as professors, who also treat patients (includlng the reading of x-rays) at the Medical Center. There is some testimony that
would support the conclusion that all such persons are rendering
treatment as agents of the Private Diagnostic Clinic, not Duke, but
that conclusion is not mandated on this record.
As previously stated, Duke admitted in its answer that the Private
Diagnostic Clinic is a professional orgffi1ization of physicians who
practice medicine at the Medical Center and that Dr. Wigfall is a
member of the Private Diagnostic Clinic practicing at Duke "and as
such is employed by [Duke] to carry out those duties."
Moreover, witness testimony at trial supports the existence of
an agency relationship between Duke and some of the persons rendering treatment to Carnell, including those who evaluated his x-rays .
For instance, Dr. Cindy Miller, who interpreted the 14 December 1991
x-ray, testified she was employed by Duke as an Assistant Professor
of Pediatric Radiology and in that capacity, she assisted "the cUnlcians ffi1d residents in the interpretation of [x-rays]." Dr. Mark IGiewer
testified that he was employed by Duke as an Associate Professor of
Radiology in its Department of Pediatric Radiology and in that capacity, "read and interpret[ ed] some x-rays" of Carnell which had been
taken on 14 December 1991.
Dr. Catherine Wilfert-Katz testified that she was "employed by
[the] Medical Center" and "associated with" the Private Diagnostic
Clinic at the Medical Center. Dr. Wilfert further testified that "'Within
the framework of the Medical Center," she serves "as a consult for

102

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS
COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC
[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)[

infectious disease problems," and in this capacity, she received a
consultation request from Dr. Wigfall regarding Carnell.
Considering this evidence in the light most favorable to the Ms.
Couch, the nonmoving party, we conclude that there was substantial
evidence of the existence of an agency relationship between Duke
and Carnell's treating physicians. Accordingly, the trial court did not
err in denying Duke's motion for JNOV.

nI.
[3] Finally, the Private Diagnostic Clinic contends that the trial court
erred in allo\Ving Ms. Couch to reinstate Private Diagnostic Clinic as
a defendant, when her counsel, as a trial strategy, deliberately dismissed the Private Diagnostic Clinic as a defendant. We agree.

Rule BOCh}(l} of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure provides that upon a proper showing, "a court may relieve a party or his
legal representative from a final judgment, order, or proceeding ...
[because of a] [mJistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect." N.C. Gen. Stat. § lA-I, Rule 60 (b)(l) (1990). A voluntary dismissal with prejudice constitutes a fmal judgment \Vithin the meaning
of this Rule. See Car·te'r 'V, Clowers, 102 N,C. App. 247, 252-53, 401
S,E,2d 662. 665 (1991); but see Wright, Miller and Kane, Fedeml
Pmctice and Procedu,Te: Civil, 2d § 2858 (voluntary dismissal does
not give rise to relief under Rule 60Ch})'
Whether conduct constitutes "excusable neglect" presents a conclusion of law, fully re\iewable on appeal. See Jones-Onslow Land
Co. v. Woolen, 177 N,C, 248, 98 S,E. 706 (1919); Thomas J';1. McInnis
& _4ssoc" Inc. v, Hall, 318 N.C, 421, 425, 349 S.E.2d 552,555 (1986). If
"excusable neglect" exists, it is within the discretion of the trial coun
to allow or deny the Rule 60(b}(l) motion and that decision will not
be disturbed on appeal unless the trial court has abused its discretion, Seeid.
Although negligence and carelessness can support Rule 60(b}(I)
relief, it is only when such neglect or carelessness is excusable. See
Pioneer In'V, Servs, Co. v. Brunswick Assocs, Ltd, POT/neTsh'ip, 507
U.S, 380, 113 S.Ct. 1489 1231. Ed.2d 74 (1993) (construing a federal
statute using the term "excusable neglect"). The determination of
whether a particular act of negligence or carelessness is "excusable"
requires consideration of any relevant circumstance, including: (1)
"the danger of prejudice to the adverse party"; (2) "the length of any
delay caused by the neglect and its effect on the proceedings"; (3)

.,1
1&\,',,'

PPEALS
rIC CLINIC

»)1

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS

103

COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC
[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999) 1

capacity, she received a
'ding Carnell.
most favorable to the Ms.
that there was substantial
,lationship between Duke
Igly, the trial court did not

lmends that the trial coun
rivate Diagnostic Clinic as
strategy, deliberately disefendant. We agree.
les of Civil Procedure promay relieve a party or his
, order, or proceeding ...
surprise, or excusable
1) (1990). A voluntary disgment within the meaning
i.C. App. 247, 252-53, 40]
Yliller and Kane, Federal
(voluntary dismissal does
e neglect" presents a conSee Jones-Onslow Land
Jl9); Thomas M. McInnis
) S.E.2d 552, 555 (1986). If
iscretion ofthe trial court
and that decision will not
1rt has abused its discre:an support Rule 60(b)(1)
essness is excusable. See
es. Ltd. Partnersh'ip, 507
193) (construing a federal
"). The determination of
Lrelessness is "excusable"
:umstance, including: (1)
ty"; (2) "the length of any
on the proceedings"; (3)

"the reason for the neglect, including whether it was within the reasonable control of the moving party"; and (4) "whether the moving party acted in good faith." 12 Moore's Federal Practice, 3rd,
~ 60.41[I][aJ; see McInnis, 318 N.C. at 425,349 S.E.2d at 555.
Deliberate or willful conduct cannot constitute excusable
neglect, 12 Moore's Federal Practice, 3rd, § 50.41[I][c][iiJ, at 60-88,
60-89 (3d ed. 1998), nor does inadvertent conduct that does not
demonstrate diligence, Id. at § 60Al[l][cJ[iiJ, at 50-89. Thus, mistakes
of legal advice or mistakes of law are not within the contemplation of
Rule 60(b)(l). See Phifer v. Travellers'Ins. Co., 123 N.C. 405, 31 S.E.
715 (1898); Engleson v. Burlington Northern R.R. Co., 972 F,2d 1038
(9th Cir. 1992); Federal Practice and Procedure § 2858 ("ignorance
of law" is not grounds for Rule 60(b) relief).
In this case, t.he trial court granted Rule 60(b)(I) relief on the
basis that Ms. Couch's counsel's "inadvertent mistake" in dismissing
the claim against the Private Diagnostic Clinic, constituted "excusable neglect. "2 Our review of the record reveals that the voluntary dismissal of the Private DiagnostiC Clinic and Dr. Wigfall was a carefully
considered decision, a trial strat.egy, and thus constitutes a deliberate
willful act precluding relief under Rule 60 (b )(l). The fact that the
legal consequences of the action were misunderstood by Ms. Couch's
attorney is not material. See Cashner v. Freedom Stores, Inc., 98 F,3d
572, 575 (lOth Cir. 1996). In any event, if the dismissal were held to
constitute neglect, it would not be "excusable" because (1) Duke
never admitted (in its answer or otherwise) that Carnell's treating
physicians were its agents for the purpose of rendering treatment;
and (2) Ms. Couch had signed a hospital form wherein she aclmowledged that the treating physicians were not acting as employees of
Duke, but as independent contractors.
Furthermore, Ms. Couch's attorney should have been on notice of
the pitfalls of proceeding against Duke based on a claim that its professors were Duke's agents at the time they were treating patients at
the hospital. See Smith, supra. 219 N.C. at 628, 14 S.E.2d at 643.
Therefore, the voluntary dismissal of the Private Diagnostic Clinic,
2. HistOrically, it has been the excusable neglect of the party, not the attorney,
which justifies relief under Rule GO(b)(1). See Kirby v ..4.slieuille Conlracting Co" 11
N.C. App. 128, 131, 180 S.E.2d 407, 409 (1971). Nonetheless, attorney neglect can also
constitute grounds for relief under Rule 60 (11)(1), if the client has been diligent in cornmunicaling with his attorney and is not otherv.'ise at fault. Sec Nor!ou v. Sawyer, 30
N.C. App. 420, 424, 227 S.E.2d 148, 152 (1976); Pi(Jnee1~ Sl1pnI, 507 U.S. at 396,123 L.
Ed.2d at 90 (arramey negligence can constitute excusable neglect).

104

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS
COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOS'rIC CLINIC
{133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)1

was not subject to being set aside under Rule 60Cb)(I) and the trial
court erred, as a matter of law, in reinstating the Private Diagnostic
Clinic into the lawsult. 3
In summary, the granting of Ms. Couch's Rule 60 motion is
reversed and judgment entered, against the Private Diagnostic Clinic
pursuant t.o the jury verdict, is vacated. Because there was substantial evidence that Carnell's treating physicians were agents of Duke
and these physicians were in fact negligent., the trial court's denial of
Duke's motion for JNOV is affirmed.

Private Diagnostic Clinic-Reversed.
Duke-Affirmed.
Judge WALKER concurs in a separate opinion.
Judge GREENE concurs in part and dissents in a separate
opinion.
Judge WALKER concurring.
My research indicates that the majority of cases to reach our
appellate courts regarding arguments of counsel which referred to
the veracity of witnesses were criminal cases. In most of these cases,
our courts have held that counsel's arguments regarding a witness
lying was not sufficiently prejudicial to warrant a new trial. I would
decline to impose a standard more restrictive in civil cases than in
criminal cases. While I e}"press my concern that counsel's argument
may have \~olated our Rules of Professional Conduct, our Supreme
Court has stated that ethical transgressions by counsel do not always
constitute "legal error" and "legal error" does not entitle a defendant
to a new trial unless it is prejudicial. Sta.te 'V. Sa.nders, 303 N.C. 608,
3. This Courfs holding in Carter, supra, 102 N.C. App. at 247, 401 S.E.2d at 662
does not require a different result. In that case, the attorney dismissed, with prejudice,
his complaint against Clowers and Deeney. Id. The attorney had intended to dismiss
Clowers with prejudice and Deeney without prejudice. In effect, the attorney never
intended to dismiss the action against Deeney with prejudice. Id. The trial court found
that the attorney had entered the Deeney dismissal by "mistake and inadvertence" and
allowed an amendment of the notice of dismissal. Id.
By contrast, in the case sub judice, :-'ls. Couch's attorney intended to dismiss
the claim against the Private Diagnostic Clinic and made that decision after some
deliberation.

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS

'PEALS

105

COUCH v. PRIVATE DIAGNOSTIC CLINIC

rIC CLINIC

[133 N.C. App. 93 (1999)1

'11

281 S.E.2d 7, cert. denied, 454 U.S. 973, 70 L. Ed. 2d 392 (1981). I agree
the trial judge dId not commit prejudicial error in overruling defendant's lone objection and in not intervening ex mero motu in the
remainder of the argument.

tule 60(b)(1) and the trial
ing the Private Diagnostic

uch's Rule 60 motion is
, Private Diagnostic Clinic
,cause there was substanians were agents of Duke
. the trial court's denial of

Judge

I dissents in a separate

I

I

_,It
I

I

ty of cases to reach our
Dunsel which referred to
'so In most of these cases,
ents regardIng a "itness
Tant a new trial. I would
ive in civil cases than in
I that counsel's argument
iI Conduct, our Supreme
by counsel do not always
,s not entitle a defendant
IJ. Sanders, 303 N.C. 608,
App. at 247, ..WI S.E.2d at 662
mev dismissed, with prejudice,

orn~ey had intended to dismiss

:. In effect, the attorney never
udice. Jd. The trial court found
mistake and inadvertence" and

arramev intended to dismiss
nade thai decision after some

i

concurring in part and dIssenting in part.

I believe Plaintiff's closing jury argument contained grossly
improper comments, and therefore would grant Dulce a new trial .

I
I
Ipinion.

GREENE

In jury argument, a lawyer is not to determine matters of credibility and announce that opinion to the jury, as that is the prerogative
of the jury. State v. Locklear, 294 N.C. 210, 218, 241 S.E.2d 65, 70
(1978). Thus a lawyer's expression of her opinion to a jury that a witness is lying is a "step out of bounds" and the trial court is obliged to
act ex mem motu and inunedIately "correct the transgression." Id.;
Sta.te v. Miller, 271 N.C. 646, 659, 157 S.E.2d 335, 345 (1967)
(improper for lawyer to assert his opinion that a witness is lying); cf
State v. Noell, 284 N.C. 670, 202 S.E.2d 750 (1974) (dIstrict attorney's
argument that "I submit to you, that. they have lied to you" was
proper), vacated on other grounds, 428 U.S. 902, 49 1. Ed. 2d 1205
(1976); Stat.e v. Do.vi,s, 291 N.C. 1, 229 S.E.2d 285 (1976) (argument
that "The State would argue and contend to you that [defendant's] testimony was nothing but the testimony of a pathological liar," was
proper); State v. Solomon, 340 N.C. 212, 456 S.E.2d 778 (statement
that defendant was "lying his head off" was not improper because witness had admitted on the stand that he had lied), cert. denied, 516
U.S. 996, 133 1. Ed, 2d 438 (1995); State v. Tyler, 346 N.C. 187, 485
S.E.2d 599 (statement that defendant put his "hand on the Bible and
told about 35,000 whoppers" dId not require trial court to intervene ex
mera motu because comment does not "equate to the type of specific,
objectionable language referring to defendant as a liar"), cert. denied,
U.S. - , 1391. Ed. 2d 411 (1997).

In this case, Plaintiff's counsel repeatedly e>:pressed her unequivocal opinion that various witnesses for defendants had lied on the
witness stand. She even suggested that defendants' counsel lmew
they were going to lie before they were placed on the "itness stand
and "they put them up anyway. That's heavy. That's a heavy accusation." Indeed it is! These comments were grossly improper and the
trial court erred in overruling defendants' objection to them. To the
extent there was no objection, the trial court erred in not intervening
to immediately and ex mero motu stop the argument. The magnitude

106

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS
SWAN QUARTER FARMS, INC. v. SPENCER
[133 N.C. App. 106 (1999)[

of this eITor entitles Duke to a new trial. See LoclcleaT, 294 N.C. at
218, 241 S.E.2d at 70 (granting defendant a new trial).
I fully concur with the remainder of the majority's opinion.

SWAN QuARTER FARMS. INC., PLAINTIFF v. ROGER A. SPENCER AND WiFE, DOROTHY
C. SPENCER; BENJAMIN CAHOON AND WIFE, MELANIE S. CAHOON; AND
JEFFREY D. GIBBS AND WIFE, JENNIFER S. GIBBS

No. COA98·740
(Filed 4 May 1999)

1. Estoppel- piercing corporate veil-clean hands

The trial court did not err by refusing to pierce the corporate
veil in an action to determine possession of a tract of land where
defendant contended that the trial coan should have disregarded
plaintiff's corporate form to determine the true nature of the parties and their interests and should not have granted summary
judgment for plaintiff. Defendants were aware of the defects in
the title when they purchased the property, used the defects in
the title as leverage in negotiations, and may not resort to equitable principles. Equity is for the protection of innocent persons
and is a tool used by the court to intervene where injustice would
otherwise result.
2. Deeds- real property-bona fide purchaser for value
The trial court did not err in an action concerning possession
of land by determining that one of defendants' predecessors in
title was not a bona fide purchaser for value without notice of any
defects in the chain of title where a 1969 deed was presumptively
invalid on its face and an inquiry by the purchaser would have disclosed that the conveyance was not open and above board.
3. Adverse Possession- ejectment claim-determined in
prior action
An ejectment action was not barred by an adverse possession claim where the issue of adverse possession had been
raised, argued, and determined by the Court of Appeals in a prior
action.

