STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

;~?
(J)

"")
II]..,

'f~.~'

WAKE COUNTY

,9 ('

,..,. i

IN THE MATTER OF THE PETITION FOR
REINSTATEMENT TO ACTIVE STATUS
FROM DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS
OF:

ORDER RESTORING MEMBER TO
ACTIVE STATUS

JOAN ELIZABETH SPRADLIN,
PETITIONER

This matter was heard on 20 February 2018 by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Allison C. Tomberlin, Chair, N. Hunter Wyche, Jr., and
Christopher R. Bruffey upon a petition of Joan Elizabeth Spradlin seeking to be restored to
active status as a member of the NOlih Carolina State Bar. Petitioner, Joan Elizabeth Spradlin,
represented herself. Leanor Bailey Hodge appeared as counsel for the North Carolina State
Bar.
Based on the petition and the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Joan Elizabeth Spradlin ("Spradlin") was admitted to practice law in North
Carolina on 20 August 1993 and actively engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North
Carolina in Buncombe County, North Carolina, until being transferred to disability inactive
status.
2.
By Consent Order filed 20 March 2008, Spradlin was transferred to disability
inactive status pursuantto 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.01l8(g)1.
3.
Spradlin's transfer to disability inactive status was based upon a diagnosis of
bipolar disorder.
4.
In 2008, Spradlin was under the care of her primary physician, Dr. Craig Mills,
and neurosurgeon, Dr. Patrick Lillard.
5.
From 2008 through 2014, Spradlin also received care from various mental
health groups.
6.
In or about mid-20 13, Spradlin, under the supervision of her then treating
physician's assistant, began the process of weaning from medication for treatment of bipolar
disorder.
7.
After December 2013, Spradlin continued the process of weaning fi'om
medication for treatment of bipolar disorder under the supervision of Dr. Mills, her primary
physician.

1 Now

codified as 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0122(b).

Page 1 of2

8.
As ofJuly 2015, Spradlin had completely stopped taking medication for
treatment of bipolar disorder.
9.

Spradlin appears to have been symptom free for at least the past two years.

10. Although Spradlin has been continuously under the care of her primary care
physician annually, Spradlin was not seen at regular intervals by a medical professional
within each year during this period in which she appeared to have been symptom free.
11. Spradlin has worked as a seasonal tax prepareI' since 2008.
12.

Spradlin has managed a tax office for tax seasons 2015 and 2016.

13. Spradlin is also a ballroom dance instructor and hosts ballroom dance
competitions.
14. Spradlin has supported herself financially without the assistance of disability
payments since mid-20I7.
15.
State Bar.

Spradlin has not been the subject of any grievance complaints filed with the

16. In November and December 2017and February 2018, Spradlin was seen by Dr.
Belinda Boscardin.
17. Spradlin was referred to Dr. Boscardin by Cathy Killian ofthe North Carolina
State Bar Lawyers Assistance Program.
18. Dr. Boscardin is a North Carolina licensed clinical psychologist in Asheville,
NOlth Carolina.
19. After evaluating Spradlin, Dr. Boscardin concluded that Spradlin may have
been misdiagnosed with bipolar disorder.
20.

Dr. Boscardin believes that Spradlin likely suffers from episodic depression.

21.

Dr. Boscardin believes that Spradlin is very healthy and functional.

22.

Dr. Boscardin has no concems about Spradlin retuming to the practice of law.

23. It is necessary for the protection of the public for Spradlin (i) to comply with all
treatment prescribed by any treating physician or psychologist, solely at Spradlin's expense,
(ii) to meet with Dr. Boscardin quarterly solely at Spradlin's expense, and (iii) to authorize
Dr. Boscardin to submit a written repoli to the Office of Counsel after each quarterly visit
solely at Spradlin's expense and ensure that such repolts are promptly submitted.

In re: Spradlin Reinstatement, 17 RD 1
Page 2 of4

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All patties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction of Petitioner, Joan Elizabeth Spradlin.

2.
Spradlin is no longer disabled within the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code
lB.Ol 03(19) and is fit to resume the practice of law.
3.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0129(d), the hearing panel may impose
reasonable conditions on a lawyer's reinstatement from disability inactive status when it
concludes such conditions are necessary for the protection of the public.
4.
The conditions set fOlth in paragraph 23 of the Findings of Fact above are
reasonable and necessary for the protection ofthe public.

5.

Spradlin should be transferred from disability inactive status to active status.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER
1.
Joan Elizabeth Spradlin's license to practice law in North Carolina is returned
to active status upon the following conditions:
a. Spradlin complies with all treatments prescribed by any treating physician
or psychologist for one year following entry of this order, these
treatments will be solely at Spradlin's expense;
b. Spradlin meets with Dr. Belinda Boscardin once a quarter for the next
year following entry of this order, with the cost for such meetings borne
solely by Spradlin (the first such quarterly meeting will be held three
months from the date ofthe hearing in this matter);
c. Spradlin authorizes Dr. Boscardin to provide to the Office of Counsel a
written report after each quarterly visit as required in subparagraph b
above;
d. Spradlin cooperates fully with Dr. Boscardin to ensure that the reports of
each visit are submitted to the Office of Counsel within 15 days of the
visit; and
e. Each of Dr. Boscardin's repotts affirmatively states that Spradlin is
complying with all treatment recommendations and Dr. Boscardin has no
concerns regarding Spradlin's ability to continue in the practice of law.
2.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofth1s matter
until all conditions listed in paragraphs a through e above are satisfied.
In re: Spradlin Reinstatement, 17 RD 1
Page 3 of4

3.

Petitioner shall bear the costs of this proceeding.

A

Signed b!t!..-:C~ with the consent ofthe other Hearing Panel members this the
-lJdayof
~
,2018 .

AII~hair

.
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

In re: Spradlin Reinstatement, 17 RD ]
Page 4 of4

