NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

/\~~~~J~f~

BEFORE THE
""~l .. DIsdli¢) ARY HEARING COMMISSION OF THE
,.~\~
?;?, ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
~
OC\'~
.~, 16BSR2AND 10 DHC 33

tii

.'

,. ,,,,'b.'C

11'_

f\\t\) \,.. , .
)rION
) c'~,?

IN RE MATTER OF THE P
FOR REINSTATEMENT FRO
SUSPENSION OF:
PORTER W. STAPLES

ill ~,
q

'dIll tl

!~11

)
¥i\

'~'~.'

..

ORDEROFREINSTATEMENT

)
)

On October 5, 2016, a hearing panel ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair; N. Hunter Wyche, Jr.; and Jane B. Weathers heard
the above referenced matter pursuant to 27 NCAC I B, Sec. 0.1 25(b). F. Lane Williamson
represented Petitioner Porter W, Staples ("Staples") and Margaret Cloutier represented the North
Carolina State Bar. Pursuant to 27 NCAC IB, Sec..01 25(b)(3), Staples had the burden of
proving by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has satisfied all of the elements
qualifYing him for reinstatement.
Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing panel makes, the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Effective June 22, 2011, Staples was suspended from the practice oflaw for a
period ofthree years in N.C.S.B. v. Staples, 10 DHC 35. The Order of Discipline provided that,
after the three year active suspension, he may apply for reinstatement upon demonstrating
compliance with certain enumerated conditions set forth in the Order of Discipline. The
underlying facts leading to the suspension are set forth more fully in the earlier Order of
Discipline.

, 2.
Staples retired from the active practice of law on September I, 2006. At that
time, he maintained a trust account with Bank of Asheville (now First Bank): This account,
bearing an account number ending In 9324, was used for short term trust deposits related
primarily to real estate transactions.
3.
Following his retirement, his partner continued to use this trust account for a
period oftime, although Staples did not use the account at all following his 2006 retirement. The
situation regarding the mistaken wire transfer into this account in 2004 that gave rise to the Order
of Discipline did not come to light until August of 2008, after Staples retired and stopped using
the account.
4.
Staples has attempted to obtain records of the trust account in order to determine
whether the funds remaining in the account are the property of any client or third party. Staples'
I

fonner partner no longer has any records of the trust account and First Bank cannot provide
records of the account prior to Staples' retirement in 2006.
5.

There is no evidence that the funds still in the trust account belong to any client.

It is possible that the funds remaining in the account are traceable to the mistaken wire transfer.

6.·
While the disciplinary order finds in paragraph 15 that "as of August 31, 2007,
there was only $4,959.57 in the trust account," as of the time ofthe entry ofthe Order of
Discipline, an account statement from the time of the entry of the order in 2011 that was
introduced into evidence reflects a balance 0($3,462.00. This difference presumably reflects
trust account activity when Staples' fonner partner utilized the account. The current balance is
$3,450.79. The twelve dollar difference is due to service charges for the account incurred prior to
Staples having the bank stop imposing these charges. Staples has not disbursed these funds.
7.
Staples also maintained a trust account with Branch Banking & Trust Company
bearing an account number ending in 4808. Staples used this account for funds held on a longer
tenn.basis. Staples liquidated and closed this account in January of2014 by depositing funds
with the Clerk of Court that had been held in escrow for one particular transaction since 1999,
and by returning to himself the funds that were used to open the account. Documents relating to
the closing of this account were introduced into evidence.
8.
The aggrieved party, Randolph Romeo, who suffered the financial loss of the
$81,578.96 thai was mistakenly wired to Staples' trust account, has been fully reimbursed for his
loss. A receipt from Mr. Romeo for this reimbursement was introduced into evidence.
9.
Staples failed to timely comply with the order of discipline in several other
respects, including the following:
(a) He did not file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within
10 days of the effective date of the order, certifying compliance with the wind down
rule, Sec. 0.124(b) of the North Carolina State Bar and Discipline and Disability
Rules;
(b) He did not provide the North Carolina State Bar with his current address;
(c) As set forth above, he did not timely disburse all client or fiduciary funds held in the
trust accounts nor did he provide the State Bar with contact infonnation of all persons
or entities for whose benefit he held funds in trust; and
(d) He did not pay the costs and administrative fees of the disciplinary proceedings
assessed against him until May 25, 2014, shortly before filing a previous
reinstatement petition in 2014.
10.
At the time of the entry of the order of discipline in 201 I, Staples had been retired
for approximately five years, and had no active practice. He also did not intend at that time to
ever resume the active practice of law.
2

II.
Staples testified at the hearing that he did not believe it was necessary to comply
with the wind down provisions because at the time he did not have any practice to wind down
and did not intend to seek reinstatement. He also testified that while he had sufficient funds to
pay the costs, it would have been a stretch for him financially to do so.
12.
Staples in 2014 paid the costs of the proceeding, closed the Branch Banking &
Trust Company trust account and filed prQ se a reinstatement petition.
13.
Following his suspension, Staples has not engaged in conduct constituting the
unauthorized practice of law or that would constitute a violation of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
14.
Within one year of filing the current reinstatement petition, Staples attended a
program of 15 hours of CLE approved by the Board of Continuing Legal Education.
BASED UPON the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT, the panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
Although Staples did not comply with the conditions for reinstatement set forth in
the Order of Discipline in a timely manner, Staples has subsequently substantially complied with
the conditions, save and except final disbursement of the funds remaining in the First Bank trust
account having an account number ending in 9324.
2.
It cannot be determined with certainty who is entitled to the funds remaining in
said trust account, although it appears that the funds do not belong to any client of Staples or to
any third party.
.
3.
The hearing panel has the power pursuant to NCAC IB, Sec..0125(d) to impose
reasonable conditions on Staples' reinstatement where such conditions are necessary for the
protection of the public.
4.
Despite Staples' lack of timely compliance with the provisions in the Order of
Discipline, but in light of the absence of a dishonest or selfish notice on behalf of Staples, and
that there has been no evidence of misappropriation of client funds or harm to clients, the hearing
panel in its discretion deems it appropriate to allow reinstatement of Staples' license to practice
law.
5.
However, the history of Petitioner's poor compliance with the trust account rules
and the conditions set forth in the Order of Discipline gives rise to a concern by the hearing panel
as to Staples' compliance going forward.

3

6.
The hearing panel therefore deems it appropriate to condition Staples'
reinstatement upon strict compliance by him with certain conditions that the hearing panel finds
to be necessary for protection of the public, as set out below.
WHEREFORE, BASED UPON the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, the hearing panel makes the following:

ORDER
I.
Staples is reinstated to the active practice of law in North Carolina as of the date
of entry of this Order, subject to strict compliance by Staples with the following conditions:
(a) Staples shall properly maintain and reconcile all trust accounts. Staples shall supply
an affidavit to the State Bar within 30 days from the hearing date, stating that he' has
employed a certified public accountant who, at least quarterly for one year, will
review Staples' three-way reconciliations to ensure his compliance with the
requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Staples shall ensure that the CPA
submits quarterly reports to the State Bar certifying such review and compliance;
(b) Staples shall forfeit the funds remaining in the First Bank trust account to the Client
Security Fund, and thereafter close said account within 30 days from the hearing date;
and
'
(c) The costs ofthis hearing are taxed against Staples, and he shall pay the costs within
30 days after the statement of costs is served upon him.
2.
Should Staples fail to strictly comply with any of the foregoing conditions, then
the State Bar may apply to the chair of the hearing panel for an order summarily revoking
Staples' reinstatement to the active practice oflaw in North Carolina.
Signed by the undersigned Chair of the Hearing Panel with the full knowledge and
consent of the other members of the panel this ~f-\jay of October, 2016.

Fred M. Morelock, Chair

4

