WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PlaintijJ
v.

HOLLY C. STEVENS, PAULINE E.
MAKIA, CARMEN J. BATTLE, and
JAMIE FAYE NEWSOM. Attorneys,

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
FOR
HOLLY C. STEVENS

Defendants

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary I-Iearing
Commission composed of the Chair, Sharon B. Alexander, and members Harriett Smalls
and Joe Castro. Jennifer A. Porter represented PlaintilT, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant Holly C. Stevens (hereinafter Defendant Stevens or Stevens) was not
represented, did not make an appearance in this matter, and did not file any written
submissions in response to Plaintiffs Motion for Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law,
and Order of Discipline.
This order pertains only to the claims concerning Defendant Holly C. Stevens and
resolves only those claims. The term "parties" in this order refers to the State Bar as
Plaintiff and Holly C. Stevens as Defendant.
On PlaintiJrs motion, default was entered against Defendant Stevens. Based
upon the pleadings and admissions pursuant to 27 N,C. Admin. Code Chapter 1.
Subchapter B, § .0114(1) and Rule 8(d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, the Hearing
Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, mld the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.

Defendant Stevens was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1998.

and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in
North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
Stevens was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set,
and the matter came before the Heming Panel with due notice to all parties.
4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Stevens was
engaged in the practice ofJaw in the State of North CmoJina and maintained a law office
in Fayetteville, Cumberland County, North Carolina.
5.
Begilming in about the year 1999, Stevens established a law oflice in
Fayetteville, North Carolina. Beginning in about 1999 or 2000, Stevens began closing
real estate transactions that involved Maurice Jenkins ("Jenkins"). Jenkins purported to
be a real estate investor and someone who marketed properties to others for rental
property investments.
6.
From about 2000 through 2007, Jenkins engaged in fraudulent practices in
his real estate transactions, including the following:
a. same day "flips" where propeliy was transfelTed trom an owner to
Jenkins, or an entity associated with him, and immediately transferred to
the ultimate buyer, with the funds loaned to the ultimate buyer being used
to fund the transfcr from the initial owner to Jenkins;
b. purchases disguised as refinances, where buyers obtained what purported
to be refinance loans, the proceeds of which were used, however, for the
buyers to purchase the properties at issue;
c. arranging for money from closings that should have been disbursed to pay
off prior deeds of trust on properties or for other purposes to instead be
disbursed for Jenkins' benefit: and
d. bOlTowers not paying the amounts listed on the HUD-I Settlement
Statements as due from the borrower at closing, with such amounts instead
being deducted from sales proceeds otherwise due to the seller, contrary to
the intent of the lenders.
7.
Jenkins was convicted of one count of bank fraud, in violation of
18 U.S.c. § 1344, on November 3,2009.
8.
Stevens closed real estate transactions involving Jenkins and these
fraudulent practices between 2000 and 2006, including the transactions listed in
Exhibit A to the Complaint filed in this matter. The transactions listed in Exhibit A
provide examples of the conduct described herein and are not an exclusive Jist of
transactions in which this conduct OCCUlTed.

2

9.
follows:

In these transactions, Stevens assistcd Jenkins in his fraud, including as

a. creating I-IUD-l Settlement Statements that contained false information
and/or that failed to accurately portray the true nature of the transaction;
b. conveying false inf01111ation about the transactions to the lenders;
c. manipulating the timing of submission of preliminary opinions of title to
hide f1ips;
d. placing false owner information on preliminary opinions of title;
e. failing to collect funds due from bonowers as identified on the HUD-I
Settlement Statements; and

f.

disbursing funds contrary to the inf01111ation on the HUD-I Settlement
Statements for Jenkins' benefit.

10.
Stevens' non-attorney staff assisted Stevens in the execution of the above
listed conduct.
11.
Stevens also participated with Jenkins in the purchase and sale of
properties by and through The Eddie Peyton Group, LLC, an entity in which Stevens had
an ownership interest, including transactions involving the above identified fraudulent
practices.
12.
In addition to assisting Jenkins' commission of criminal conduct, Stevens
knowingly provided false information to lenders insured by thc Fcderal Dcposit
Insurancc Corporation (FDIC) for thc purposc of influcncing the Icndcrs' actions and
thcrcby cngagcd in criminal conduct in violation of 18 U.S.c. § 1014.
Based upon thc foregoing Findings of Fact, the I-Iearing Panel enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
1.
All the partics are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
and the Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Holly C.
Stevens, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant Stevens' conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N,C. Gcn. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), for engaging
in conduct in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct in eIIect at the time of her
actions as follows:
a)

By knowingly failing to collect funds due li'om borrowers, failing to pay
off prior deeds of trust, preparing I-IUD-I Settlement Statements
3

containing inaccurate infoffilation and/or that failed to accurately portray
the true nature ofthe transactions, providing inaccurate infonnation to the
lenders about the transactions, and disbursing funds contrary to the
HUD-I Settlement Statements in order to bene lit Jenkins and/or hersell:
Stevens engaged in, and assisted Jenkins in engaging in, criminal conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, misrepresentation, and deceit in violation of
Rule 8.4(a), (b), and (c); and
b)

By failing to receive and disburse funds as represented on the HUD-l
Settlement Statements, Stevens failed to appropriately maintain and
disburse entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (m).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel hereby Jinds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Banks are not normally thought of as vulnerable entities. Nevertheless.
banks rely upon the closing attorney to ca11'y out the closing in an ethical, lawful, and
proper manner. These institutions are particularly vulnerable to the conduct of attomeys
that circumvent or facilitate others in the circumvention of safeguards employed to avoid
fraud.
2.
Stevens' obligation as closing attorney was to produce an accurate HUD-l
Settlement Statement for each transaction, to ensure that funds were received and
disbursed as authorized by the lender ffild to follow the lender's closing instructions.
3.
Accurate HUD-l Settlement Statements are necessary for the system of
finance in real estate to function. Lenders rely upon the HUD-I Settlement Statements to
accurately reflect the receipt and disbursement of funds in real estate closings. Stevens'
preparation and submission of HUD-I Settlement Statements that she knew did not
accurately show the receipt and disbursement of funds and Stevens' failure to receive and
disburse funds as reflected on the HUD-I Settlement Statements evaded the safeguards
relied upon by the lenders.
4.
Stevens not only participated in the Jenkins' fraudulent schemes as closing
attorney, but also as buyer and seller.
5.
Stevens knowingly provided false infonnation to lenders insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for the purpose of influencing the lenders'
actions ffild thereby engaged in criminal conduct in violation of 18 U.S.c. § 1014.
Violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1014 is a felony offense.
6.
Stevens engaged in conduct involving misrepresentation and deceit over a
substantial period of time.

4

7.
Clients are entitled to attorneys they can trust. Stevens, by engaging in
conduct involving misrepresentation and deceit over a substantial period of time, has
shown herself to be untrustworthy. When an attorney violates that trust, it hanDs the
public and the profession.
8.

Stevens has no prior disciplinary record conceming her license to practice

law.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following additional
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DlSCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the I-Iearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors wan-ant suspension or disbarment
of Defendant's license:
a) Intent of Defendant to cause the resulting harm or potential harm;
b) Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the hmm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
c) Circumstances rellecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness,
or integrity;
d) Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession;
e) Defendant's actions impaired her clients' ability to achieve the goals of
the representation; and
f)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Ol14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors warrant disbarment.
a) Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and
b) Commission of a felony.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. lB §.OlI4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;

5

b) Defendant's dishonest or selfish motive;
c) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
d) Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
e) Defendant's refusal to acknowledge wrongful natme of the conduct;
f)

The vulnerability of Defendant's clients; and

g) Degree of experience in the practice of law.
4.
Stevens' conduct, involving misrepresentation and deceit over a
substantial period of time, resulted in significant harm to her clients and the profession
and posed potential significant harm to the public that may have sought to retain her or
those who may have dealt with her in other capacities. When an attorney violates the
trust clients and others should be able to have in attorneys, it harms the public and the
profession.
5.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
6.
The I-Iearing Panel has considered all lesser f0ll11S of sanctions available to
it and tlnds that disbarment is the only appropriate discipline in this case, for the
following reasons:
a) Stevens committed misdeeds involving moral turpitude and violations of
the public trust. including ti'audulent conduct, material misrepresentations,
and deceit. Misconduct involving misrepresentations and deceit are
among the most serious that an attorney can commit. Such offenses
demonstrate that the offending attorney is not trustworthy. Clients are
entitled to have trustworthy attorneys;
b) The factors under Rule .OI14(w) that are established by the evidence in
this case are of a nature that support imposition of disbamlent as the
appropriate discipline;
c) Entry of an order imposing lesscr discipline than disbannent would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the olTenses committed by Stevens, would
be inconsistent with discipline issued in prior cases involving similar
misconduct, and would send the IVrong message to attorneys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the North Carolina
State Bar; and
d) The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that Stevens
not be pell11itted to resume the practice of law until she demonstrates the

6

following: that she has refonned; that she understands her obligations to
her clients, the public, and the legal profession; and that permitting her to
practice law will not be detrimental to the public or the integrity and
standing of the legal profession or the administration of justice.
Disbarment is the only discipline available that requires an attorney to
make such a showing before he or she may be reinstated.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel
hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant, Holly C. Stevens, is hereby DISBARRED tl'om the practice of
law in North Carolina.
2.
Defendant shall submit her license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provIsIons contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall tile an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
she has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
The costs of this action are taxed to Defendant. Defendant must pay the
costs within 30 days of service of the statement of costs upon her.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members. this the
day of
cn:h
2011.

m

Sharon B. Alexander, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

7

