THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISBARMENT

v.
THEOPHILUS O. STOKES, IIJ, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER coming before the undersigned Chair of The Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DHC) pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. iB § .0117(d) upon an affidavit of
surrender of license executed by Theophilus O. Stokes, III ("Stokes") dated February 27,
2012 and filed with the Chair of the DHC on February 28,2012.
Based upon the pleadings and the record, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, TheophiIus O. Stokes, III ("Stokes"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1984, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.
3.
The North Carolina State Bar filed a formal complaint against Defendant
on October 22,2010 and an amended complaint on January 5, 2011. The complaint, as
amended, contains a First Claim for Relief that includes allegations that Defendant
participated in fraudulent check exchanges with T.R. and that Defendant was convicted
for two misdemeanor offenses of receiving stolen goods, which were checks from T.R.
The conduct set out in the First Claim for Relief of the pending complaint constitutes
violations of Rule 8.4(a), (b), and (c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and as such
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84.28(b)(2).
Additionally, Defendant's conviction constitutes grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84·28(b)(1).

4.
Defendant has indicated his consent to disbannent by filing an affidavit
with the Chair of the DHC. The affidavit meets all requirements set forth in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .0117(a)(I), (2), (3), (4) and (d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0108 provides that the Chair ofthc DHC has the power
and duty to enter orders disbarring members by consent.
2.
27 N.C.A.C. I B § .0117(d) states that the Chair of the DHC will accept
the surrender and issue an order of disbarment upon detennination that an affidavit of
surrender filed pursuant to this subsection meets the requirements set out in 27 N.C.A.C.
JB § .0117(a)(I), (2), (3), (4).
3.
Defendant's affidavit meets all requirements set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.01l7(a)(J), (2), (3), (4) and (d) and the facts upon which the affidavit is predicated
warrant Defendant's disbarment.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following
ORDER

1.
accepted.

The surrender of the license of Theophilus O. Stokes, III is hereby

2.
Theophilus O. Stokes, III is DISBARRED from the practice of law in
North Carolina.
3.
The effective date of this order is the date of the filing of this order with
the clerk of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. The effective date of the disbarment
under this order is made retroactive to January 12, 20 II.
4.
Theophilus O. Stokes, III shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .0117(c) and § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and shall
surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.

2

5.
Defendant.

The costs of this action and administrative fees are taxed against

Thisthe

~

day

Of_~~-=-~~1-_ _--" 2012.
Disciplinary Hearing Commission

3

£liriS'Z5'?I~'~
({-'-?)~}..
('\,"-v
1t '.y ~~~':
~'\\ l)

STATE OF NO.RTl-l CAROLIt'

s::

WAKE COUNTY

fE8;>

"":1

BEFORE THE
'~CIP t -, ARY HEARING COM,MISSION
<.t$"/)
G,j
OF THE
/)ftC
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IODHC37

;;; I'll

i~,;:
v,p

-; c;'i /THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE

~~~

Plaintiff

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF
LAW LICENSE

v,

THEOPHILUS 0, STOKES, 1lI, Attomey,
Defendant

Theophilus 0, Stokes, Ill, being iirst duly swom, deposes and says as follows:
1, I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina,
2, My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, It is not the result of coercion or
duress, I am fuBy aware of the implication of submitting my resignation,
3, j am aware that there is pending a complaint against me before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission, with a First Claim for Relief that includes allegations that I
participated in fi'audulent check exchanges with T.R, and my conviction for two
misdemeanor offenses of receiving stolen goods, which were checks from T,R,
4, I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the First Claim for Relief in the
pending complaint is predicated are true,
5, I am submitting my resignation because I know that I could not successfully defend
against these disciplinary charges,
This the~7f~ay of February 2012,

hilus 0, Stokes,

&lJ.aa fJ. fJruJ-jf-,

IJ[

I,
Notary Public of the County of fitUi /f,br/state of
North Carolina, certify that Theophilus 0, Stokes, III personally appeared before me this day, was
sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of his own personal knowledge,
and executed t.he foregoing Affidavit.

'77

~,,,vtLp~v(-?;g

Donna f' Pruitt
NOTARY PUBUC
Gumord C<lunty
State of North CaroJln

This the0_ day of February 2012,

-

-4J A

Notary Pubhc

4."

-

"

,

My

C~~.,!,j:,j-"n.{;)(plr?s((-!

My CommIssIon xplres:

U-

I

f;/7b I

fl'T

