STATE OF NORTH CAR

BEFORE THE COUNCIL

WAKE COUNTY

ORDER OF DISBARMENT
JACK B. STYLES

TI-IIS MATIER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0117(a) of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules upon tender of an affidavit of surrender of license executed by Jack B.
Styles ("Styles") on April 14,2016 and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on April 14,
2016.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Jack B. Styles misappropriated funds entrusted to
him in a fiduciary capacity in violation of Rules 8.4(b); 8.4(c) and l.l5-2m of the Rules of Professional
Conduct. Jack B. Style's conduct is grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
WHEREFORE, upon motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the following Order:
1.

The tender of sun'ender of license of Jack B. Styles is hereby accepted.

2.

Jack B. Styles is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina.

3.

Styles shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Styles shall surrender his license
and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along
with the affidavit required by § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules within
ten days after the expiration of the wind-down period provided under § .0117(e).

4.

The administrative fees and costs of this action are taxed against Styles.

5.

Styles shall comply with the reinstatement provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I,
Subchapter 13, § .0125 and as a condition precedent to reinstatement shall reimburse all
misappropriated fiduciary funds in the amounts and to the recipients determined by the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission upon consideration of his petition for reinstatement.

6.

Within IS days of the effective date of this Order Styles shall provide the State Bar with an
address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can communicate
with Styles and obtain such tiles.

7.

Styles shall promptly return client files in his possession, custody, or control to clients
upon request, within 5 days of receipt of such request.

8.

Styles will be deemed to have received any such request 3 days after the date such request
is sent to Styles if the request is sent to the address Styles provided the State Bar pursuant
to the preceding paragraph.

Done and ordered this the 22 nd day of April, 2016

~~d=. ..J:'.!C.lfVt 1~
Margaret
Hunt, President
The North Carolina State Bar

2

\1 \') 1475is>
...
1~(9 BEFORE THE COUNCIL

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA ~\\

~

,0)

WAKE COUNTY

CO

~~

If'

APR 2016 NOIf

fiLED DHC

-,.

OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BAR
16 BCS .;(

Jack B, Styles, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1,

I desire to surrender and hereby tender my license to practice law in NOlih Carolina,

2,
My surrender is freely and voluntarily rendered, and is not the result of coercion or
duress, I am fully aware ofthe implications of submitting my resignation,
3,
I am aware that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar regarding allegations
that I misappropriated at least $84,542,50 of fiduciary funds,
4,

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are

tme,
5,
I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them,
This is the

Be.

JiL~ay of ~1'~1

,2016,

I,
'oecccv S, CQ.,(Y'"O \ 1, Notary Public of
the County of
Ct.'((\e t+
, State of NoV't-\-1
Y\ CA..,
, certify that Jack B, Styles
personally appeared before me this day, was sworn,
attested that the foregoing Affidavit is tme and accurate
of her own personal knowledge, and executed the
foregoing Affidavit.

to.,XO II

This the

8

hI,l+-II.day of----'A'-4p'-'Y'_i_\ _" 2016,

~C.LCIJ ,£. c.~
Notary Public
My commission expires:
\Q

REBECCA S. CARROll
NOTARY PUBLIC
HARNETT COUNTY, N.C.
My Commlssl<ln Explres 10-03-2018.

/3/ :2.C> I e
I

