I·

. \},$i~'Y

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, Z ~[j1]?~
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER

DENNIS H. SULLIVAN. JR., Attorney,
Defendant

Deitmdant, Den1)is H. Snllivan, was ordered to appear and show calIse why the
stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline entered in this case on 20 April
2012 should not be lifted and the suspension activated. This matter was considered by a
Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Beverly T. Bcal,
Chair, N. Hunter Wyche, Jr., and Warren G. McDonald pursuant to 27 .N.C. Admin. Code
IB § .0114(x). Plaintiff: the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Cannen H.
Bannon. Defendant was represented by Alan M.Schneider. Defendant w!jives a formal
hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and ,consent to the findings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this order and to the disposition imposed. By consellting to
the entry of this order, Defendant waives any tight to appeal this consent order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the pleadings and the Consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
tinds by the greater weight of the evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
On 20 April 2012, the DHC entered a consent order of discipline finding
that Defendant violated the Rule.s of Professional Conduct by failing to timely
individual income tax returnS and failure to timely pay state and federal income taxes
from 200$ through 200.9.

me

2.
The 20 April 2012 Order of Discipline suspended Sullivan's license to
practice law for three years and stayed the suspension for five yeal's on condition that
Sullivan comply with the requirements specified in the order.

State Bar v. Sullivan, 12 DHC 1
COllsent Order 011 Show Cause
Page 10fSBt'e

3.
The Order of Discipline provided that in order to remain eligible for a stay
oftbe suspension Sullivan was required. among other things, to:
(a) Refrain from violating the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States Or of any state;
(b) Pay all taxes due to the IRS Of the NC Department of Revenue;
(cl Within len days of receipt, provide the State Bar's Office of Counsel
copies of all concspondence concerning his tax obligations sent to or
received by him from any taxing authority;
(d) Timely comply with all State Bar membership and CLE requirements; and
(e) Respond to all communications fro:i:111he No1'th Carolina State Bar withi.n
30 days of receipt or by the deadline. stated in the communicati(lll,
whichever is sooner.
4.
When Sullivan paid employees of his law firm. he was required by law to
withhold funds from the employees' paychecks (0 pay federal income taxes.
5.
Sullivan did not pay federal withholding taxes for his law fiml'S
employees as required by law during several quarters 1n2012, and throughout 2014.
6.
In August 2012, the IRS :filed a tax lien against Sullivan's law firm,
Sullivan & Wagoner, LLP, for unpaid employee withholding taxes in the amount of
$3,545.84- for the tax period ending 31 March 2012. In 22 October 2012, the IRS filed a
tax lien against the finn for unpaid employee withholding taxes in the amount of
$2,371.03. for the tax period ending 30 June 2012. SulliValY did not provide the Office of
Counsel With copies of these liens.
7.
In November 2012, Sullivan received a letter from the n~s approving his
request to pay Sullivan & Wagoner's outstanding employee withholding tax liability
(which totaled in excess of $16,000.00) in installments. Sullivan did not provide the
Office of Counsel with a copy of this letter.
8.
In September 2015, Sullivan received a letter from the IRS approving hiS
request to pay Sullivan & Wagonel"s outstanding withholding iaxliability for (ax year
2014 in installments, Sullivan did not provide the Office OfCowlsel with a copy ofth1s
letter.
9.
Sullivan did not provide the Office ()f COlJnsel any other correspondence
from the IRS regarding his delinquency in remitting employee withholding taxes.
10.
On 4 April 2016, the State Bar's CLE Department sent Sullivan an invoice
for $138.00 in feesfor·CLE he completed in 2015. The invoice provided that the amo,l11t

Slate Bar v. Sullivan, 12 DHC 1
Consent Order on Show Cause
page20f~

specified was due upon receipt. Sullivan did not pay the invoice or otherwise respond to
this commUlucation n'om the CLE Department within 30 days.
11.

On 6 .lilly 2016, the State Bar's CLE Department sent Sullivan another
invoice tor the $138.00 he owed. The invoice again provided that this amo\mt was due
Sullivan did riot PllY the invoice or otherwise respond to this
upon .receipt.
conmnU1ication from theCLE Department within 30 days.

12.
The invoices relereneedin Paragraphs 10 and 11 Were filed wlopened by
Sllllivan'.s secretary. The first actual knowledge he had of them Was upon receipt of the
resttlting Notice to Show Cause for non-payment. The invoke Was paid prompily upon
Sullivan's X<lceipt ofthe Notice.
13.
Sullivan enjoys an excellent reputation in the community and amongst
feIlow members ofthe Bar for his skills as an attorney,
14.

S11llivan has accepted responsibility fo], his actions atld isremorserul.

Based UpOll the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LA Vi

1.
An parties an: properly before the Hearing Pallel and the Panel has
jUl'isdktionover Defendant, Dennis H. Sullivan, Jr., and over the subject matler of this
proceeding.
2.
Sullivan's failure to pay over employee wiillholding taxes as required by
law was in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
as follows:

Sullivan failed to comply with the conditions ofthe stay of his suspension

(a) By violating the Rules of Professional Conduct and the laws of the United
States governing employee withholding taxes;
(b) By failing to pay all taxes due to the IRS;
(c) By failing to provide the Office of Counsel copies of all cOlTespondence
conceming his tax obligations sent to or received by him from theIRS;
4.
These violations warrant lifting tbe stay and activating of a pOltion of
Sullivan's sllspension.
5,
The five-year stay period inlhe Order of Discipline expires in April 2017.
However, in light of the violations described above, the protection of the pUDlic reqnil'es

State Bar v. Sullivan, 12DHC J
Consent Order all Show Cause
Page 3 01'5

that SullIvan be

SUbject -to

an aUUluoual Pl;:rtO(J

U1. 111U1J1lUI tllg <=the! Ul.;.- ~~l V\,..;.')

£t_ p\'-l_lVl".l

y}

active suspension but betore he is permitted to re(ul'l1 to the unrestricted practice oflaw,
Based UpOll the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
consent of the 'parties; the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER
1.
The slay of DefendanCs suspehsion is llftedand the susPension previously
imposed is activated, With the consent of the parties, this order and the suspension
imposed herein are effeotive 60 days after entry ofthi8 order.
2,
All oosts and admini.strative fees of this action are taxed (0 Defendant.
Defendant mnst pay the costs of this aclion prior to t1ling any motion for asta), or
petition for reillstatemctlt.
3.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North C"rolinfj State Bar no later than 60 dUys following the date that this Order is
served ItpOll him, During that 60 day period, Defendant shall comply with the wind
down provisions contained in Rule .0124 of the NotthCaroiina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules,
4.
After no less than one year of active suspension, Defendant may apply to
have the remainder of the thrce year suspension stayed by tiling a motion in the cause
demonstrating compliance \~ith the requirements of Rule .012S(b) of the North Carolina
State Bar Disciplinc alld Disability Rules and the requirements' Jar reinstatement
contained in paragraph 3 (and its subparagraphs) on page 6 of the Order of Disci pline. In
addition, to be eligible for a stay, Defendant must show by clear, cogent, and convincin/,\
evidence that he complied with each of the tollowing conditions during the period of
active suspension:
(a) Defendant shall pay all taxes, penalties, interest and estimated taxes due to
the IRS or the NC Department of Revenue, or timely arrange to pay his
tax liability pursuant to an installment payment plan with the applioable
taxing authority;
(b) Defendant shall timely make all payments due u!lder any payment plans
with the IRS or the NC Department of Revenue; and
(c) Within ten days of receipt 01' transmission, Defendant shall provide the
State Bar's Office of Counsel copies of "II correspondence c0l1oerni11g his
tax obligations that he sends to Or rcceiws from any taxing anthority.
5,
Defendant may file a motion in the cause seeking a stay of the remainder
of the suspe1lsion up to 30 days prior to completing one year of active suspension bnt

Stllle Bar v. Sullivan, 12 DHC 1
Consent Order on Show Cause
Page 4 of5

shall not be pcnnittedto resume practicing until he has served at least one year of active
suspension.

6.

If any portion of the three yeal' suspension is stayed, Defendant's active

status for the remainder of the three-year period shall be subject to. and con\ingent upon
complial]Ce with, the terms of the stayed sllspension set forth in paragraph -1 and its
subparagraphs on pages 4-5 of the Order of Discipline.

7.

If Defendant is not reinstated

m;tive status prior to the expiration of the
three year suspensionpetiod, then before Defendant may be reinstated to active status he
must satisfy the requirements of Rule .0125(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Disciplil1e
and Disability Rules and all requiremelllS Jor Xclnstatementcontained In paragraph 3 and
its subparagraphs on p\lge 6 of the Order of Discipline,
.
(0

Signed by the. Chair with the consent of the other !-fearing Panel members, this the
~_. day of January, 2017.

~

Beverly T. Beal, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

~IJ~, .. ~
Ca!'hlen Hoyme Bannon
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
COllnsel for Plaintiff

D ~?'~
enOlS.

.

U

Ivan,' f •.

Defendant

~-~.~~

Alan M. Schneider

Counsel for Defendant

Stale Bar v. Sullivan 12 DHC 1
Consent Order on Show Cause
Page 50f5

