~ \~ \\ 1213 11;:

~:r~

1'1\'0

t

STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN .

.

WAKE COUNTY

FfUfJ&lJPlC

NOV2fll4. L
IJl5cIP '"

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION

85 RTH

CAR~I:: STATE BAR
13 DHC 11

Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
v.

DAVlD C. SUTTON, Attomey,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was heard May 5-9, June 9-11, July 18, September 16-18, and October
22-23,2014 by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred M.
Morelock, Chair, Irvin W. Hankins, III, and KarenB. Ray pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114 of
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. Catmen Hoyme Bannon and Mary
D. Winstead represented Plaintiff, the North Carblina State Bar. Defendant represented himself.
On 8 August 2014, after hearing all evidence and at'gument regarding the Rule violations
alleged in the complaint, the Hearing Panel entered Corrected Findings and Conclusions
regarding Defendant's violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
The 8 August 2014 Corrected Findings and Conclusions are restated herein as follows
(through paragraph (q) below):
Based upon the pleadings and evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper patiy to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of Title 27 of the NOlih Carolina
Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, David C. Sutton ("Defendant"), was admitted to the NOlih Carolina
State Bar in 200 I and is, and was at all times refel1"ed to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in NOlih Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of NOlih Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.

-1-

3.
Defendant was properly served with process and received due notice of the
hearing in this matter.
4.
During all or pmi of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of NOlih Caroliha and maintained a law office in
Greenville, Pitt County, North Carolina.
5.
Defendant represented the plaintiff, Barbara Pollard, in a civil action against
Michelle Pollard, Pitt County file number 08 CVS 52.
6.

Attorney Kathryn P. Fagan represented Michelle Pollard in the action.

7.

On May 13,2011, Ms. Fagan took the plaintiffs deposition.

8.
An intern accompanied Defendant to the deposition in order to observe how
depositions are conducted.
9.
During Ms. Fagan's eXalllination of the plaintiff, Defendant repeatedly interrupted
the questioning, answered the questions Ms. Fagan posed to Mrs. Pollard, cautioned his client
about how to answer the questions posed by Ms. Fagan, and asked questions of his client
10.
During the deposition, Ms. Fagan asked Mrs. Pollard whether she knew if her son
and Michelle Pollard had a house together. Mrs. Pollard responded, "Yes. Well, as fm' as I know,
both of them's nallle was on.it." Ms. Fagan then asked, "How about cars?" Defendant interrupted
the examination and questioned Mrs. Pollard in the following exchange:
MR. SUTTON: Do you even know that? Do you know if both their nallles were
on the deed, Mrs. Pollard?
[MRS. POLLARD]: No.
MR. SUTTON: Have you ever seen the deed?
[MRS. POLLARD]: No.
MR. SUTTON: Then you don't know that either, do you?
[MRS. POLLARD]: I don't know.
11.

Defendant intelTupted Ms. Fagan's questioning of Mrs. Pollard as follows:
[MS. FAGAN]: ... What - - do you recall ifit was a couple of weeks after that she
called you or what, just if you remember?
[MRS. POLLARD]: I can't remember.
[MS. FAGAN]: But it wasn't two months?
MR. SUTTON: Objection. Did you ever say she called you?
-2-

[MS. FAGAN]: Was it --MR. SUTTON: Did you ever say she called you?
[MS. FAGAN]: David, I'm --MR. SUTTON: Did you ever say she called you?
[MS. FAGAN]: I'm asking the questions.
MR. SUTTON: I am asking this one. Did you ever --12.
During the deposition, Ms. Fagan questioned Mrs. Pollard regarding the timing of
a conversation between two individuals and inquired whether the conversation occurred about a
month after Mrs. Pollard's son died. Mrs. Pollard responded, "I'm not sure." Ms. Fagan said,
"Okay" and Defendant interjected and said: "I am and it ain't. It was over a year."
13.
Defendant interrupted again when Ms. Fagan was questioning Mrs. Pollard about
.
her response to interrogatories regarding contact-with Teresa Thompson:
MR. SUTTON: If it will speed this along, I talked to Teresa Thompson after Mrs.
Pollard met with the district attorney \lnd Dwight Ransome and determined that
she had failed the polygraph because Teresa Thompson was interviewed. That's
the first time I was aware that Teresa Thompson had any involvement in this case.
I can see by your questions your plan is to blame it all on Teresa Thompson. I
don't know how you are going to do it, but go ahead.
14.

Defendant intelTupted and answered the question again in this exchange:
[MS. FAGAN]: Well, he [Sutton] had talked to Teresa Thompson, who kind of
got this whole thing going?
MR. SUTTON: Objection. And by the way, that ain't true, but go ahead.

15.
During the deposition, Defendant intenupted Ms. Fagan's direct examination
numerous times by cautioning Mrs. Pollard before she responded to questions with admonitions
such as, "if you know" or "if you remember."
16.
At one point during the deposition, Ms. Fagan explained to Defendant that she
objected t6 him telling his client what Ms. Fagan was saying. Mrs. Pollard interjected, "Well I
appreciate him under - - explaining to me what he wants you to hear. I mean what he wants me
to answer."
17.
During the deposition, Defendant interrupted Ms. Fagan's questioning with the
following remarks:
[MS. FAGAN]: And she.would ask him to go get her, you know, cigarettes or get
her whatever it is that she needed?
-3-

MR. SUTTON: Let's all listen carefully. This is the clue to the case. This is the
most relevant question - [MS. FAGAN]: He's being sarcastic.
MR. SUTTON: - - that I've ever heard in my life. And this is why we're here for
two hours and fifteen minutes to find out the real reason Michelle asked him to go
get the cigarettes. Go ahead, Mrs. Pollard. Do the best you can with that one.
18.
Defendant insulted opposing counsel during the deposition telling her that Mrs.
Pollard was "not used to dealing with people like" her.
19.
After the deposition concluded, Defendant, in the presence of his client, the cOUli
repOlier, and a law student, made tude and inappropriate remarks to Ms. Fagan which included
commenting to Ms. Fagan that she needed a sexual partner and suggesting that her client might
fulfill that role.
20.

Defendant admitted that it was his intent, in making the comments, to offend Ms.

Fagan.
21.
Although Defendant asselied that he was "justifiably angry," he admitted that he
"lashed out at opposing counsel" and described his conduct towards Ms. Fagan as "tude and
inappropriate" and "boorish behavior."
22.
On or about August 3, 2011, Ms. Fagan :filed a Motion to Change Venue in 08
CVS 52 based on pretrial publicity. In the motion, Ms. Fagan alleged that her client had "been
vilified in a website known as 'justice4Stacey' which was sponsored by Plaintiffs counsel,
David Sutton and his cousin, Robert Sutton."
23.
On or about August 15, 2011, Defendant :filed an affidavit in 08 CVS 52 (the
wrongful death action referenced in paragraph 5 above) in response to the motion in which he
swore: "I did not 'sponsor' any website, contrary to Ms. Fagan's motion. The website referred to
by Ms. Fagan was designed and set up by a web designer chosen by a Pollard family member.
Plaintiff, Barbara Pollard, was responsible for expenses related to the website."
24.

Defendant was involved in discussions and meetings about setting up the website.

25.
The purpose of the website was to solicit and identify witnesses and to obtain
information regarding the death of Stacey Pollard, the son of Defendant's client, Barbara Pollard.
26.
Defendant was the initial registrant and administrator of the website which was
registered on July 11, 2007.
27.

Defendant paid the domain registrar for the website to be registered.

28.
Defendant was identified as the contact person on the website and his name,
address, telephone number, and email address were listed. As a result, Defendant received
numerous phone calls and correspondence from visitors to the website.
-4-

29.
A passcode was required to post material to the website. Defendant had the
passcode and posted some documents on the website.
30.

Defendant was involved in the decision to take the website down.

31.
Defendant never specifically billed Barbara Pollard to be reimbursed for the
website expenses.
32.
Although Defendant has contended that he was reimbursed by his client for the
cost of registering the website, he did not produce any documents in response to a request for
production of all documents reflecting payments by him in connection with the justice4stacey
website and his efforts to obtain reimbursement from Ms. Pollard. At this hearing, Defendant
testified that he did not produce the documents because he did not have them.
33.
In May 2011, R. Brantley Peck, Jr. was representing the plaintiff, Billy Wayne
Langston, Jr., in a domestic case against Rita L. Langston, Beaufort County file number 11 CVD
50.
34.
35.

Defendant represented Rita L. Langston in the action.
On May 11,2011, Defendant took the deposition of Leo Donahue Lee.

36.
During the deposition ofMr. Lee, Mr. Peck noted an objection and Defendant and
Mr. Peck engaged in the following colloquy:
MR. SUTTON: What's your objection?
MR. PECK: I made it.
MR. SUTTON: What is it?
MR. PECK: I don't have to tell you.
MR. SUTTON: Do you know yourself?
MR. PECK: I do.
MR. SUTTON: What is it?
MR. PECK: I'm not going to be belittled by you. If you want to continue the
deposition37.
Defendant intelTupted and made the following comment to Mr. Peck: "Sir, you
couldn't get any littler if you tried."
38.

During the deposition, Defendant made the following comments about Mr. Peck:
a.

"He objects like a tick."

-5-

b.

" ... he likes to hear himself say objection."

39.
On May 10 and May 11, 2011, Mr. Peck took the deposition of Defendant's
client, Rita L. Langston, in 11 CVD 50.
During the deposition, Defendant directed the following remarks to opposing
40.
counsel, Mr. Peck:
a. "Motion to strike in a deposition? Do you have an ego problem?"
b.

"What he's done is criminal and if you're approving of it, you're complicit in it."

c. "If there's any advice given to him, it's complicity to theft."
41.
At one point during the deposition, counsel engaged in a discussion about how
long the deposition had lasted. Mr. Peck stated that he had deposed Ms. Langston for two hours
and Defendant responded, "That's a damn lie."
42.
During the deposition of Ms. Langston, Defendant told his client how to answer
certain questions and responded to questions posed to Ms. Langston.
43.
In the following excerpt from Mr. Peck's examination of Ms. Langston,
Defendant responded to a question Mr. Peck posed to the deponent as follows:
[MR. PECK]: Was that back in October of20l0?
MR. SUTTON: Uh-uh.
[MS. LANGSTON]: Not to my knowledge.
44.
In the following excerpt from Mr. Peck's examination of Ms. Langston,
Defendant interrupted the questioning and made a statement:
[MR. PECK]: You told me you hadn't filed. I'm saying did you provide those
records to your accountant?
[MS. LANGSTON]: No, sir.
[MR. PECK]: Okay.
MR. SUTTON: And those would have been all 2010 records, which wouldn't
explain why Wayne quit going to the accountant and never did anything for the
2009 records before they separated.
45.
Defendant intelTUpted Mr. Peck's examination with. his own statements and
questioning in the following exchange:
[MR. PECK]: Did you get a copy of that foreclosure proceeding?

-6-

[MS. LANGSTON]: Umm - - when did - - I got one, you remember 'cause I got
served and I was like, "What is this?"
MR. SUTTON: Right after the domestic violence protective order. You got it out
of the mail; you didn't know anything about it. And I promptly turned it around
and sent it to - [MS. LANGSTON]: Him.
MR. SUTTON: - - Mr. Peck.
[MR. PECK]: Okay.
[MS. LANGSTON]: That's when I got it.
MR. SUTTON: With a letter saying we don't know anything about this; would
you have your client get back and explain. And then, rather than do that, he
attempted to negotiate a side deal with my client MR. PECK: Objection.
MR. SUTTON: -- to somehow settle the stuff. And I think - I guess, the
property's gone. I don't know what happened to it.
MR. PECK: Objection as to his characterization.
MR. SUTTON: Do you know what happened to it?
[MS. LANGSTON]: No, I'm not sure.
46.
In the following excerpt from Mr. Peck's examination of Ms. Langston,
Defendant interrupted Mr. Peck's questioning and questioned his client:
[MR. PECK]: Okay. Now, Ms. Langston, on - - approximately how many rental
properties does R & L have?
[MS. LANGSTON]: Hand me your list and 1'11-MR. SUTTON: Do you know?
[MS. LANGSTON]: I don't know right - MR. SUTTON: Then you don't know.
[MS. LANGSTON]: I don't lmow.
47.
In the following excerpt from Mr. Peck's examination of Ms. Langston,
Defendant interrupted Mr. Peck's questioning and questioned his client:

-7-

[MR. PECK]: Okay. When did you first become aware that some
properties did not have any insurance on them?

of the rental

[MS. LANGSTON]: I found out when Buddy Hanis called me.
[MR. PECK]: When was that?
[MS. LANGSTON]: It was -MR. SUTTON: After the fire?
[MS. LANGSTON]: Yeah, 'cause I mentioned it to you and I called you
aftelwards. It was after that fire ....
48.
During Mr. Peck's questioning of Ms. Langston, Defendant supplied Ms.
Langston with answers and then intenupted the questioning prior to Ms. Langston answering Mr.
Peck's question during the following exchange:
[MR. PECK]: Is this the only evidence that you say you have about the wasting of
assets is the $2000 spent on the trip to Alabama?
[MS. LANGSTON]: I mean, I'm sure he has spent several- [MR. PECK]: That - - your attomey's writing certain things down and handing
those to you, is he not?
[MS. LANGSTON]: Uh-huh.
MR, SUTTON: You want me to state them out loud. I can tell you everything she
and I have talked about in regard to the evidence.
[MR. PECK]: Okay.
[MS. LANGSTON]: When he - -when -[MR. PECK]: Ms. Langston, just let me say, do you have any other evidence of
him wasting assets - - allegedly wasting assets ... ?
MR. SUTTON: She has lots more. We're going to take a break and come back
and fully answer that question for you. You're not going to get in the deposition
that she doesn't have any more, because she doesn't remember it right now. If you
want her to answer it, we'll take a break and come back and answer it.
[MR. PECK]: I would like for her to answer what she recalls now, before - MR. SUTTON: Would you like to talk with me before answering that?
[MS. LANGSTON]: Yes.

-8-

MR. SUTTON: Okay. Let's take a break, okay. We'll malce sure we have a
thorough answer when we come back.
49.
remarks:

During the deposition, Defendant interrupted the questioning with the following
[MR. PECK]: So, investments carry risk; don't they?
[MS. LANGSTON]: Yes, sir.
MR. SUTTON: No. We have investments that don't. We've discovered them.
We're going to be rich.

50.
Defendant abruptly left the deposition with his client on May 11,2011 before Mr.
Peck had completed his examination of Ms. Langston.
51.
Although Defendant later asselied that his reason for leaving the deposition was
connected with his wife's illness, he did not make Mr. Peck aware· of any such reason at the time
he and his client abruptly left.
52.

Defendant did not file a motion to terminate or limit the deposition.

53.
In May and June 2012, Jeffrey L. Miller was representing Billy Wayne Langston,
Jr. in 11 CVD 50.
54.

Defendant continued to represent Rita L. Langston in 11 CVD 50.

55.
On May 2,2012, in a hearing on the plaintiffs motion to prevent waste of marital
and separate property pending equitable distribution, Defendant represented to the presiding
judge that R & L Investment Homes, LLC had been dissolved by the North Carolina Secretary of
State because Mr. Langston had forged documents, stating, "Yes, your Honor, and the Secretary
of State just annulled the entity because he forged three of' em that say something different." .
56.
At the time Defendant made this statement to the court, Defendant knew the
North Carolina Secretary of State had issued a Celiificate of Administrative Dissolution of R &
L Investment Homes, LLC for failure to file an annual report.
57.
Defendant's representation to the couli that R & L Investment Homes, LLC had
been dissolved by the North Carolina Secretary of State because Mr. Langston had forged some
documents was false.
58.
Defendant testified in this DHC hearing that he did not believe. Mr. Langston had
forged the corporate documents, and that he (Defendant) shouldn't have told the trial court that
Mr. Langston did so.
59.
agreement.

On June 6, 2012, the paliies in 11 CVD 50 entered into a mediated settlement

-9-

60.
The following day, on June 7, 2012, Defendant appeared before Beaufort County
District Court Judge Michael Paul and accused Ml'. Miller of slipping a handwritten provision
into the mediated settlement agreement after Defendant had signed it and without Defendant's
knowledge 01' approval.
61.
Prior to Defendant signing the mediated settlement agreement, the mediator had
pointed out the handwritten provision to Defendant and Defendant agreed to the provision.
62.
Defendant's statement accusing Ml'. Miller of slipping the handwritten provision
into the mediated settlement agreement after Defendant had signed it and without Defendant's
knowledge or approval was false and Defendant knew at the-time he made the statement that it
was false.
63.
In July and August 2012, Defendant represented a client during a murder trial
presided over by the Honorable Phyllis Gorham in Greene County Superior Court, State ofNorth
Carolina v. Aaron Brown, Jr., file number 09 CRS 50159.
64.
During the course of the trial Defendant spoke disrespectfully to the judge at a
bench conference and Judge Gorham admonished Defendant about engaging in disrespectful
behavior toward the court.
65.
Subsequently, at another bench conference on August 1,2012, while the jury was
present in the courtroom, Defendant grimaced at Judge Gorham and in an angry tone of voice
accused Judge Gorham of allowing the prosecutor to get inadmissible evidence to the jury.
66.
Defendant's conduct prompted Judge Gorham to declare a recess in the trial and
give the jury a break so that she could address Defendant's conduct.
67.
During the in-chambers discussion about Defendant's conduct, Defendant stated:
a) "And I do think if I was angry, I am sorry that I was angry and I expressed it. I'm not going to
deny that I was." and b) "you said that I appeared disrespectful and I had a grimace and I am
trying to explain that I was upset and the reasons that have gone into my upset."
68.
Rule 12 of the North Carolina General Rules of Practice for the Superior and
District Comis provides: "Counsel are at all times to conduct themselves with dignity and
propriety ... Counsel should yield gracefully to rulings of the court and avoid detrimental
remarks both in court and out. He should at all times promote respect for the court."
69.
Defendant represented Jonathan DavenpOli in connection with several matters
related to disputes arising out of a previous business relationship between Davenport and Billy
Roughton.
70.
Roughton purchased J&B Management Services, Inc. tla Alliance Nissan
(hereafter "J&B") from Davenport in 2008, and subsequently alleged that during the period fi'om
2001 through 2008 when DavenpOli was a director and president of J&B, Davenport had
misappropriated and embezzled numerous assets of J&B.

- 10 -

71.
Davenport.

Roughton was represented by attorney Norman W. Shearin in his disputes with

72.
Shearin, on behalf of Roughton and J&B, wrote a memorandum to the Pasquotank
County District Attorney dated August 8, 2011 which outlined Roughton's allegations of
criminal wrongdoing against Davenport. The Pasquotank County District Attorney's Office
charged Davenport with crimes related to these allegations.
73.
In connection with the criminal cases against DavenpOli, the Pasquotank County
Sheriff s Department took possession from Davenport of several items of personal property,
including a boat and a trailer. This propelty was ultimately stored at a location occupied by a
business called Clown 'N Around.
74.
Some of the property that was stored at Clown 'N Around was also the subject of
civil litigation: Gateway Bani, filed an action against Davenport and other defendants alleging
that they had defaulted on a promissory note. In connection with that litigation, Gateway Bank
asselied that they had a lien on the boat and trailer.
75.
In late October 2012, the State dismissed some-but not all-of the criminal
charges against DavenpOli. Defendant then sought to have the property released to Davenport.
76.
On November 7, 2012, Defendant accompanied DavenpOlt to Clown 'N Around
in an effOlt to retrieve the property.
77.
Defendant video-recorded the events that occurred when he and Davenport went
to Clown 'N Around, including a conversation with Pasquotank County Sheriffs Department
Investigator Sam Keith about the release of celtain propelty to Davenport. During that recorded
conversation, Investigator Keith stated that he was not authorized to release the propelty, and
Defendant responded by referencing the NOlth Carolina statute on embezzlement by a public
officer and saying the law "makes this a Class C felony by the sheriff."
78.
Investigator Keith, to whom Defendant's accusation of felonious conduct was
directed, was the investigating officer and was named as the witness on several indictments
against Davenport that were still pending at the time of the video-recorded conversation.
79.
Investigator Keith testified that he perceived Defendant was trying to intimidate
him during their encounter at Clown 'N Around.
80.
Defendant, or someone acting at Defendant's direction, posted the video
referenced in paragraph 77 on YouTube, an internet platform on which videos are publically
disseminated.
81.
Defendant, on behalf of Davenport, sent a demand letter dated November 8, 2012
to Roughton and the Pasquotank County Sheriff.
82.
In the demand letter Defendant accused Roughton and the Sheriff of conspiring to
violate Davenport's rights and engaging in malicious prosecution, and demanded $3 million to
settle what Defendant opined was a claim of over $10 million.
- 11 -

83.
Defendant did not send a copy of the letter to SheaTin nor did he obtain Shearin's
consent to connnunicate directly with Roughton.
84.
At the time Defendant sent the demand letter, he was aware that Shearin
represented Roughton in the dispute with Davenport regarding J&B. Specifically, at the time he
sent the demand letter:
a. Defendant had reviewed discovery materials provided by the State in Davenport's
criminal cases. Those discovery materials contained email correspondence reflecting
that Shearin represented Roughton in connection with matters related to Davenport
and their prior business association;
b. Defendant's co-counsel had received the memorandum prepared by Shearin
referenced in paragraph 72, above, and had discussed it with Shearin;
c. Defendant was aware that Roughton was the complaining witness in DavenpOli's
criminal cases and that Shearin had filed motions to quash on behalf of Roughton in
connection with those criminal cases;
d. Defendant had been infOlmed by his co-counsel in DavenpOli's criminal cases that if
they asked Roughton for anything, they were likely to get an objection from Norm
Shearin;

e. Less than a month prior to sending the demand letter, Defendant had contacted
Shearin's office tq inquire whether Roughton was being deposed in the Gateway
Bank case, and during that call had noted his expectation that Shearin would resist
any effort to depose Roughton in that litigation.
85.

Defendant did not send a copy of the letter to the Pasquotank County Attorney.

86.
At the time he sent the demand letter, Defendant was in connnunication with the
Pasquotank County Attorney on behalf of Davenport.
At the time Defendant sent the demand letter, he knew that the Pasquotank
87.
County Attorney was confelTing with the Sheriff about Davenport's demands.
88.
Roughton's allegations of wrongdoing by DavenpOli while he served as director
and president of J&B, the cl:iminal charges against Davenport, the dispute over the propeliy
stored at Clown n' Around, and (tangentially) the Gateway Bank case were interrelated.
89.
Defendant represented Norman Shackley on a misdemeanor charge of
impersonating a law enforcement officer (State v. Shackley, Pitt County file number 13 CR
50988). Shackley was convicted after a March 7, 2013 trial and gave notice of appeal to superior
court.
90.

JinmIy Hughes was a witness for the State at Shackley'S March 7, 2013 trial.

- 12 -

91.
On March 12, 2013, Defendant issued a subpoena to Hughes. The subpoena
directed Hughes to appear in Pitt County District Court on March 14, 2013 at 9:00 a.m. and to
produce "cell phone records (including incoming and outgoing calls and text messages) for
[Hughes's phone number] from December 22, 2012-March 10, 2013."
92.
In response to the subpoena, Hughes appeared in court with the subpoenaed
records and waited all day. At approximately 4:45 p.m., Defendant approached Hughes and
retrieved the cell phone records. Hughes was not called to testify nor did he observe any comi
proceeding related to Shackley taking place on March 14, 2013.
93.
Within a week after he obtained Hughes's phone records, Defendant called a
number shown on Hughes's phone bill at approximately 10:00 p.m. A female acquaintance of
Hughes-who Defendant did not know-answered the phone.
94.
Defendant did not ask the recipient of his phone call for her name. He asked
whether she lmew anything about "Ample Storage," the location at which Shackley had
impersonated a law enforcement officer, and she indicated she did not.
95.
Thereafter during the phone conversation, Defendant made a number of asseliions
about Hughes, including that Hughes had "hit on" Shackley's wife, who "had big boobs" and ran
a prostitution website.
96.
At the end of the phone conversation, the recipient of the call told Defendant to
"be more patiiculal' when you call someone at 10:00 at night" because she usually would be
asleep at that hour.
97.
Immediately after the phone conversation, Hughes's acquaintance called Hughes
and repOlied-atllong other things-that Defendant had referenced Hughes' preference for bigbreasted women, and his interest in a "prostitute."
98.
In July 2013, Defendant was representing a client charged with misdemeanor
child abuse. The case was scheduled to be heard on July 10, 2013.
99.
On July 2-3, 2013, Defendant communicated with the District Attorney's office in
an effort to get the child abuse charge dismissed, but was informed that the DA's office would
not dismiss the charges.
100. On July 3, 2013, after the communication with the District Attorney's office
described above, Defendant left a voicemail message for the investigating officer in the child
abuse case, Pitt County Sheriffs Department Detective Nikki Dolenti.
101. In his message to Detective Dolenti, Defendant said: "I understand that you know
more than the kid's, uh, doctor and a DSS worker who said it wasn't abuse. So I ain't gonna beat
around the bush. I don't lmow what you're doing. You obviously don't lmow what the hell
you're doing. So I'm just gonna whip your ass real bad next week unless you get your ass down
there and you get this case dismissed. And do your job and have some sense."

- 13 -

1-

102. Detective Dolenti did not have authority to dismiss the charge against
Defendant's client. Only the District Attorney's office could dismiss the charge.
103. The tone and content of Defendant's voicemail for Detective Dolenti was
threatening, insulting, and intimidating.
104. Defendant filed a petition for adoption on behalf of Laura Deans and her husband,
Eric Deans. The adoption matter was scheduled to be finalized on or about July 24, 2013.
105.

Defendant knew that the adoption was important to Mr. and Mrs. Deans.

106. Mr. and Mrs. Deans agreed to pay Defendant $1,000.00 for representation in the
adoption, but they did not enter into a written fee agreement, nor was there a specific agreement
regarding whether they would pay the fee while the case was pending or at the time the adoption
was complete.
.
107. On July 4,2013, Defendant left Mrs. Deans a voicemail message in which he
infOlmed her that her father (the Sheriff of Pitt County) had Defendant arrested the previous
night and that as a consequence, Derendant was going to "have to treat this like a regular case
now."

108. Defendant stated that he needed to be paid and that if MrS. Deans could not do
that, she needed to find other counsel.
109. In the voicemail, Defendant also made gratuitous and disparaging C011l11lents of a
sexual nature about Mrs. Deans' father, her stepmother, and the Pitt County District Attorney.
110. Defendant's C011l11lents to Mrs. Deans about her father and stepmother and the Pitt
County District Attorney were malicious and vindictive.
111. In a telephone conversation with Mrs. Deans later that day, Defendant recounted
the circumstances surrounding his arrest. Defendant repeatedly stated that he was "mad as hell." '
112. Mrs: Deans asked Defendant what she should do regarding the adoption case.
Defendant did not explain to Deans the current status and next steps in her case, instead making
clear that his i11l11lediate concern was being paid.
113. Defendant was equivocal about whether he intended to continue representing
Deans, telling her, "I need to get paid and if you can't do that your dad can intimidate some other
lawyer."
114. After the phone conversation on July 4, 2013; Defendant did not take any further
action on Deans' behalf in the adoption matter nor did he have any further communication with
Laura or Eric Deans about finalizing the adoption.

- 14 -

Based on the record and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and tl1is tribunal has jurisdiction
over Defendant, David C. Sutton, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Sutton violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time ofthe conduct as follows:
(a)

By erigaging in the following conduct during the deposition wl1ile Ms. Fagan was
conducting her examination of the plaintiff: intenupting Ms. Fagan's questioning,
testifYing, cautioning his client prior to her answering Ms. Fagan's questions,
asking questions of his client, and sarcastically c011l1llenting on Ms. Fagan's
questions, Defendant engaged in conduct intended to disrupt a tribunal in
violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(b)

By making rude and inappropriate C011l1llents about Ms. Fagan after the deposition
had concluded in the presence of the court reporter, his client, and a law student,
Defendant, in representing a client, used means that have no substantial purpose
other than to embarrass, delay, or burden a third person in violation of Rule
4.4(a);

(c)

By swearing in an affidavit submitted to the court that he did not sponsor the
website and that another person was responsible for the expenses of the website
when in fact he was the initial registrant and administrator of the website and paid
for the registration, Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fi'aud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in. violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(d)

By making rude and disparaging C011l1llents to and about Mr. Peck during the
depositions, Defendant· engaged in conduct intended to disrupt a tribunal in
violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4), in representing a client, used means that have no
substantial purpose other than to emban'ass, delay, or burden a third person in
violation of Rule 4.4(a), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the admi11istration
of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(e)

By engaging in the following conduct during Ms. Langston's deposition while
Mr. Peck was conducting his examination' of Ms. Langston: intenupting Mr.
Peck's questioning, testifYing, asking questions of his client, and sarcastically
commenting on Mr. Peck's questions, Defendant engaged in conduct intended to
disrupt a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4), and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

- 15 -

(f)

By abmptly leaving Ms. Langston's deposition with the deponent prior to the
completion of opposing counsel's questioning without filing a motion to terminate
the deposition, Defendant knowingly disobeyed an obligation under the mles of
the tribunal in violation of Rule 3.4(c), engaged in conduct intended to dismpt a
tribunal in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(g)

By falsely representing to the COutt that the Secretary of State had dissolved the
LLC because of forgelY, Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(h)

By falsely stating to the COutt that opposing counsel had inserted a handwritten
provision in a settlement agreement after Defendant had signed it and without his
knowledge or approval, Defendant knowingly made a false statement of material
fact to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(I), engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fi'aud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4(d);

(i)

By being disrespectful to the judge during a jury trial after having been wamed by
the COutt about his conduct, Defendant knowingly disobeyed an obligation under
the mles of the tribunal in violation of Rule 3.4(c), engaged in conduct prejudicial
to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d), and engaged in conduct
intended to dismpt a tribunal by engaging in undignified or discourteous conduct
that is degrading to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B);

G)

By impugning the integrity of the investigating officer in DavenpOlt's pending
criminal cases and accusing the Sheriffs Depmtment of a criminal act in a video
posted online, Defendant used means in representing a client that had no
substantial purpose other than to embarrass or burden a third person in violation
of Rule 4.4(a);

(k)

By sending the demand letter to Roughton when he knew that Roughton was
represented by Shearin in the ongoing dispute between Davenport and Roughton,
Defendant communicated about the subject of the representation with a person he
knew to be represented by another lawyer in the matter in violation of Rule 4.2(a);

(I)

By sending the demand letter to the Sheriff without promptly delivering a copy of
the letter to the County Attorney when he knew that the Sheriffs Depmtment was
represented in the matter, Defendant communicated about the subject of the
representation with a person he knew to be represented by another lawyer in the
matter in violation of Rule 4.2(a) and (b);

(m)

By contacting an acquaintance of a witness late at night and talking to her about
the witness's intimate life, including asselting the witness had "hit on" a woman
with "big boobs" who was involved in prostitution, Defendant used means in
- 16 -

representing a client that had no substantial purpose other than to embarrass or
burden a third person in violation of Rule 4.4(a);
(n)

By leaving a profane, abusive, and tln'eatening message for the investigating
officer in a client's criminal case in which he stated that that he would "whip [her]
ass real bad" unless she had the case against his client dismissed, Defendant used
means in representing a client that had no substantial purpose other than to
embarrass or burden a third person in violation of Rule 4.4(a), and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administmtion of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(0)

By tln'eatening to discontinue representation just before the adoption was to be
finalized and by unilaterally imposing a condition of immediate payment when
the existing agreement with Mr. and Mrs. Deans did not specifY the timing of
payment of attorney's fees, Defendant attempted to intentionally prejudice his
client during the course of the professional relationship in violation of Rule
8.4(a);

(P)

By not explaining to Mrs. Deans the current status of the matter and what steps
she would need to take to finalize the adoption without his assistance, Defendant
failed to take steps to the extent reasonably practicable to protect a client's
interests upon termination of the representation in violation of Rule 1.16(d), failed
to comply with a reasonable request for infol1nation in violation of Rule 1.4(a),
and failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit a client
to make informed decisions about the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
and

(q)

By making gratuitous and malicious statements to Mrs. Deans about members of
her family and the District Attorney, Defendant used means that had no
substantial purpose other than to embarrass or burden third persons in violation of
Rule 4.4(a).

Following the 8 August 2014 entry of the findings and conclusions set forth above, the
Hearing Panel heard evidence on September 16-18, and October 22-23, 2014 regarding what
discipline should be imposed. Following the presentation of all evidence and argument
regarding discipline, and prior to adjourning the proceeding on 23 October 2014, the Hearing
Panel made the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
The Hearing Panel specifically rules that the DHC has subject matter jurisdiction
over this action and all claims asserted herein.
2.
The exercise of authority by the NOlih Carolina State Bar in bringing this action
pursuant to Chapter 84 of the NOlih Carolina General Statutes, the administrative rules of the
State Bar, and the Rules of Professional Conduct does not violate Defendant's rights under the
constitution and laws of the United States or the constitution and laws of the State of North
Carolina.
- 17 -

3.
The entry of this Order and imposition of discipline by the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission pursuant to Chapter 84 of the Nmih Carolina General Statutes, the administrative
rules of the State Bar, and the Rules of Professional Conduct do not violate Defendant's rights
under the constitution and laws of the United States or the constitution and laws of the State of
North Carolina.
4.
Defendant's previously denied motions to 'dismiss this action, which Defendant
renewed at the conclusion of all evidence, should be, and are, denied.
Based upon the pleadings, all other filings in the record, the foregoing findings and
conclusions, and all evidence presented in this matter, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 through 114 above are incorporated as if fully
set f01ih herein.
2.' Defendant became a member of the Florida Bar in 1990; and has been licensed to
practice law in N O1ih Carolina since 2001.
3.
Defendant received a Letter of Warning from the Nmih Carolina State Bar's
Grievance Committee in 2011, but he has no prior professional discipline.
4.
Although no prior disciplinary action has been· taken against Defendant, the
pattern of misconduct exemplified by the specific instances set forth in this order began no later
than 2008 and continued through 2014. During that period, Defendant not only engaged in a
pattern of repeated similar acts of misconduct, but also engaged in a wide variety of misconduct.
5.
Defendant has argued that the allegations of misconduct against him were the
result of animosity by certain Pitt County lawyers and judges arising out of Defendant's
pmiicipation in a politically unpopular case in 2008. This contention is belied by the fact that
Defendant's established pattern of misconduct was not confined to Pitt County. It occurred in
multiple counties, before multiple judges, and with opposing counsel from various pmis ofN01ih
Carolina:
a. Kathryn Fagan, the lawyer whose mistreatment by Defendant is described in
findings of fact 5 through 21 above, is from Dare County.
b. Brantley Peck, the lawyer whose mistreatment by Defendant is described m
findings of fact 33 through 52 above, is from Beauf01i County.
c. Defendant was abusive in his communications with Mike Cox, the Pasquotank
County Attorney involved in the Davenp01i matter referenced in findings of fact
69 through 88, above. Defendant was belligerent and condescending to Cox,
calling him an "idiot" on more than one occasion [Plaintiff's Exhibit #75(C)]
and referring to an assertion he made as "asinine" [Plaintiff's Exhibit #75(B)]. In
- 18 -

other con'espondence, Defendant told Cox he "should be ashamed of [himself!"
and threatened to report him to the State Bar. [Plaintiff's Exhibit #75(F) & (H)]
d. Defendant was also abusive in his communications with Norm Shearin, the
lawyer who represented Billy Roughton in the Davenport matter referenced in
findings of fact 69 through 88, above. When Shearin expressed his disapproval of
Defendant's decision to send the demand letter directly to his client, Defendant
refe11'ed to Shearin's communication as "Gestapo tactics" and accused Shearin of
being unethical. [Plaintiff's Exhibit #76(B)] In c011'espondence to Kevin Rust,
another lawyer working with Shearin, Defendant accused Rust of being
"purposefully misleading" and suggested he might repOli him to the State Bar.
[Plaintiff's Exhibit #76(C)] Shearin and Rust practice law in Wake County.
e. The case of State v. Brown, referenced in findings of fact 63 through 68 above,
was prosecuted by Greene County ADA Mike Muskus and presided over by
Superior Court Judge Phyllis Gorham of New Hanover County. In addition to
Defendant's disrespectful cOUliroom behavior described above, Defendant
accused Judge Gorham of bias and accused Muskus of misconduct and of
intentionally misleading the jury. [Plaintiff's Exhibit #60, pp. 635, In. 1-3 & In.
20-23, p. 1079, In 15-16, & p. 1340, In 4; Muskus trial testimony]
f.

Defendant was defense counsel in the 2008 Hertford County murder trial of State
v. Oakes. During the course of the proceedings in Oakes, Defendant was
repeatedly admonished by Superior Court Judge William C. Griffin, Jr. about his
disruptive and disrespectful conduct in the cOUliroom.! [Plaintiff's Exhibits
#203 (Oakes motion hearing tmnscript), p. 26, In 7-9: "I will not tolerate
your talking back to the Court and arguing to the Court"; #261 (testimony of
Judge Griffin in Highsmith recusal hearing), p. 35, In 17-18: "I asked them
repeatedly not to violate the rules," p. 29, In 9-10: "it became obvious he had
no respect for me at all"]. In the Oakes case, Defendant accused Hertford
County District Attorney Valerie Asbell of misconduct, sought to disqualifY her
entire office ii'om prosecuting the case, and-in the presence of the jury-accused
Asbell of lying. [Plaintiff's Exhibits #201 (Motion to Remove Prosecutor) and
#206 (Oakes transcript), p, 1963, In 9-10: "we don't think she's telling the
truth"]

g. In 2008, Defendant was belligerent and threatening to Wayne County Assistant
District Attorney Mike Ricks during an exchange about a criminal case in which
Defendant represented the accused. During that confrontation, Defendant was
visibly angry and profane, accused Ricks of being "mentally ill," and called Ricks
a "fucking Nazi." Also during that confrontation, Defendant said to Ricks "I am
telling you this son, and I can call you son because that's what you deserve to be

I Several years later, Judge Griffin was caHed as a witness in an unrelated proceeding and gave sworn testimony
about Defendant's courtroom conduct, including his behavior in the Oakes case. Defendant cross-examined Judge
Griffin in that proceeding. Because Judge Griffm was deceased at the time of the hearing in this case, his prior
swom testimony was admitted into evidence.

- 19 -

called, if I didn't have a bar license, you would be a greasy spot on that table."
[Plaintiff's Exhibit #290; trial testimony of Mike Ricll.:s]
6.
Defendant's threat to "whip" Detective Dolenti's "ass" if she did not comply with
his demands (described in findings of fact 98 tluough 103 above) exemplifies a reCutTent pattern
in Defendant's practice of law. When Defendant believes someone with whom he interacts
professionally is wrong about the facts, the law, procedure, or a matter of judgment, he demands
instant redress. If the person with whom he disagrees does not immediately capitulate,
Defendant tln'eatens to harm that individual iu some way. This tactic has been directed towards
law enforcement, court personnel, witnesses, clients, judges, and other attorneys. The credible
evidence supporting this finding includes:
a. District Attomey Kimberly Robb stated to Defendant during her testimony:
"[Y]ou got very angry with me because I didn't do what you wanted me to do in
the case, which is typically what happens. I tell you no, you get loud and angry,
. and then you start threatening me with lawsuits or motions or all kinds of
sanctipns." [Defendant's Exhibit #132 (excerpt of DHC trial transcriptRobb testimony), p. 94]
b. In response to a professional email fi'om Assistant Pitt County Attorney Lisa
Overton in which she stated she had filed an objection to a subpoena issued by
Defendant's co-counsel, Defendant said: "If you know any law and have any
sense of faimess and decency, you will concede the point as I have established
here beyond any shadow of a doubt ... I hope this email and the motion for Rule
11 Sanctions and the motion to compel which follow will make you a better
lawyer." [Plaintiff's Exhibit #272]
c. When Defendant took umbrage at Judge Griffin's effort to confirm that
Defendant's absence fi'om court was due to a bonafide medical problem, he sent
a letter to Judge Griffin, copied to the Judicial Standards Commission, in which
he stated "I am currently considering what legal action to take" and requested that
Judge Griffin "step aside from all judicial matters involving me-without the
need to litigate this in open couti." [Plaintiff's Exhibit #204 (letter to Judge
Griffin)]
d. As indicated in findiugs of fact 104 through 114 above, Defendant refused to
provide his client, Laura Deans, with any information about the status of her case
unless she complied with his demand for immediate payment. [Plaintiff's Exhibit
#100(B) (recorded conversation with Deans); Deans trial testimony]
e. Kay Brown, the Pitt County family court coordinator, described Defendant's
behavior towards her as "aggressive" and "intimidating." When Defendant
became upset about Brown's scheduling of one of his cases, he accused her of
dishonesty. [DHC trial transcript excerpt-testimony of Kay Brown p. 18, In
2-4, p. 12, In 5-8]

- 20-

f.

When Defendant learned that the opposing party in a domestic case had
improperly spent marital assets, he blamed opposing counsel, attorney Bill Hill,
claiming that Hill had "promised" his client would not spend the money. In
reaction to what he claimed was a breach of that "promise," Defendant went to
Hill's law office uninvited, shouted profanities at Hill, called him a liar, slammed
his fist on Hill's. conference room table, and said to Hill, "I'm going to have to
leave now because I'm so mad I might just hit you." [Plaintiffs Exhibit #314
(Hill deposition transcript), pp. 20-22; Hill trial testimony] Defendant
thereafter sent several profane and abusive faxes to Hill's office, one of which
posed the question "What the fuck have you done to fix it so it doesn't go out that
your word ain't wOlih shit?" [Plaintiffs Exhibit #291]

7.
A lawyer should use the law's procedures only for legitimate purposes and not to
harass or intimidate others. Defendant regularly uses threats of litigation as a mechanism of
intimidation to attempt to force others to comply with his demands. For example:
a. When attorneys Shearin and Cox did not comply with Defendant's demands on
behalf of Davenport, Defendant indicated his intent to sue them, and asked each
of them "who will your lawyer be?" [Plaintiffs Exhibits #76(D) (email to
Shearin), & #7S(H) (email to Cox)]
b. When the Greenville Police Department would not immediately release to
Defendant guns and ammunition collected by law enforcement from Defendant's
client, Defendant called the ADA handling the case and threatened to sue the
Greenville Police Chief, saying "As soon as I finish this beer, I'm going to slap a
lawsuit on him." In a subsequent email to the ADA, Defendant stated "I sued
[M]ohammed ... I told [S]aheeb I would do it by 5 but I was 40 minutes late ... I
AM HAVING FUN NOW! Is [A]hmed having fun now?" The names
"Mohammed," "Saheeb," and "Ahmed" used in the email were ethnic references
to the Chief of Police, whose name is Hassan Aden. [Saunders trial testimony;
Plaintiffs Exhibit #294 (email to Saunders)]
c. When Defendant disagreed with the Pitt County Sheriffs Office about whether he
was required to go through the security checkpoint to gain access to the Pitt
County cOlliihouse, he wrote a note to a sheriffs sergeant which said "YOUR
OFFICE WILL BE SUED IF the Bullshit doesn't stop." [Plaintiffs Exhibit #284
(handwritten note)]
d. Prior to the 2008 trial in State v. Lopez, wherein Defendant represented the
accused, Defendant threatened to sue the ADA who was prosecuting the case if
the charges against Lopez were not dismissed. [Defendant's Exhibit #132
(excerpt of DHC trial transcript-Robb testimony), p. 8, In 7-8: "If he didn't
get the case dismissed that he was going to sue me."]
e. When Defendant believed that he had been wronged in various ways by attorney
Matt Jackson, he wrote an email to Jackson's employer stating "If Matt will
comply with my desires ... I will not take legal action against him or repOli him

- 21 -

to the bar." Several days later, Defendant wrote another email to Jackson's
employer stating "I WILL FILE SUIT AGAINST YOU AND YOUR FIRM
THIS MONDAY IF YOU DON'T TAKE ACTION TO STOP MATT."
[plaintiff's Exhibit #297 (emails to Darren Day)]
8.
During the pendency of this State Bar proceeding the Defendant filed suit in the
United States District Court, Eastern District of North Carolina (5:14-CV-243-BR) against the
N01ih Carolina State Bar, the Bar prosecutors, the hearing panel, an investigator, counsel for the
Bar and the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. This lawsuit sought money damages, declaratory
and injunctive relief based upon Defendant's allegations that his civil rights had been violated.
On September 12, 2014 this lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice by the Honorable W. Earl
Britt, Senior U.S. District Judge, pursuant to Rule 12(b)(6) of the Rules of Civil Procedure.
9.
During the pendency of this proceeding the Defendant filed suit in Wake County
Superior Court (14 CVS 11854) against the N01ih Carolina State Bar, the President of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, and the Chair of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission, again seeking declaratory judgment, monetary damages and injunctive
relief. This action was dismissed by the Honorable Robe1i H. Hobgood, and the Defendant's
motion for a preliminary injunction was denied.
10.
Additionally, during the pendency of this proceeding and on September 9, 2014
the Defendant filed a Petition for Writ of Prohibition in the N O1ih Carolina Comi of Appeals
seeking to bar the Disciplinary Hearing Commission from conducting the hearing against the
Defendant. Tins writ was denied on September 24, 2014 by the Clerk of the North Carolina
Court of Appeals.
11.
Societal order depends in large measure on respect for the rule of law and
deference to the decisions of our comis. To maintain this respect and deference, litigants,
witnesses, jurors, and the general public must have faith in the integrity and impatiiality of our
system of justice.
12.
Defendant intentionally engaged in conduct that foreseeably undelmines public
faith in the legal system, including making allegations of judicial bias as a regular practice: The
evidence presented in this case included seven motions to recuse or disqualify judges filed by
Defendant over a period of approximately five yeat·s. [Plaintiff's Exhibits #205 (Motion to
Recuse, State v. Oakes), #230 (Motion to Recuse, State v. Lopez), #252 (Motion to Recuse,
State v. Taft), #253 (Motion to Recuse, State v. Brantley), #260 (Motion to Recuse, State v.
Highsmith), #274 (Motion to Disqualify, State v. Sutton), #298 (Motion to Disqualify,
Yongue v. Yongue)]. No evidence was presented tending to show that the judges who were the
subjects of those motions had a disqualifying bias. At least four of those motions were
determined to be without merit. [Plaintiff's Exhibits #207 (COA opinion re: Oakes); #251
(transcript of hearing on motion to recuse in State v. Langley), p. 106, In. 14: "I find as fact
that Judge Duke has indicated or presented no bias against the Defendant [and] that there
has been no violation of any ... Canons of the Code of Judicial Conduct by Judge Duke";
#264 (Order on Motion to Recuse in Highsmith), ~7: "Sutton has failed to demonstrate
objectively that the grounds for disqualification actual (sic) exist."; #298(A) (order in
Yongue)]
- 22-

13.
Defendant's unwa11'anted attacks onjudges' impartiality and the basic integrity of
the court system appear calculated to destroy confidence in the judicial process. In ruling on a
motion to disqualify :filed by Defendant, District COUli Judge Gwynett Hilburn stated, "The tone
of the motion convinces the undersigned that counsel almost celiainly has convinced his client
that the COUli will not be fair." In her order, Judge Hilburn noted, "It is disheartening to appear
to reward counsel for making the motion he has made. It is more important, however, that all
pmiies feel confident that they have been treated fairly." [Plaintiff's Exhibit #298(A) (order in
Yongue)]
14.
Defendant publically displayed abject disrespect for the judiciary, including in
open court with members of the public present. Defendant's misconduct in State v. Brown,
described in fmdings of fact 63 through 68 above, is just one instance among many. Perhaps the
most egregious examples of disrespectful conduct occUlTed in the 2008 Pitt County trial of State
v. Lopez, during which Defendant told Superior Court Judge Rusty Duke in open court in the
presence of the public to "wipe the smirk off [his] face." [Plaintiff's Exhibits #232
(transcript), p. 475, In. 19; & #232(F) (audio recording)]. In the presence of the Lopez jury,
Defendant said to Judge Duke, "You're trying to skew things like you have the whole trial
Judge." [Plaintiff's Exhibit #231 (transcript of closing arguments), p. 1333, In. 14] Also in
the presence of the jury, Defendant impugned opposing counsel, saying "I move for a mistrial
due to the heinous mischaracterization of evidence and to, quite frallkly, the smmi aleck remarks
and smirks of Kimberly Robb, the prosecutor." [Plaintiff's Exhibit #231 (transcript of closing
arguments), p. 1331, In. 5] It is especially damaging to public perception of the legal system
when an officer of the court publically denigrates the integrity of the system and demeans its
participants.
15.
On at least one occasion, Defendant's undignified, disrespectful, and abusive
behavior in the cOUliroom during trial had a direct impact on the jury. Following a mistrial iil the
Pitt County homicide case of State v. Adams, wherein Defendant represented the accused, jurors
spontaneously expressed concerns about Defendant's unprofessional conduct to the presiding
judge. [Judge Dul,e's trial testimony]
16.
Defendant habitually violated both the letter and the spirit of Rule 12 of the
General Rules of Practice for the Superior and District Courts in North Carolina governing
"Courtroom Decorum."
,17.
Defendant's disruptive and provocative conduct in the cOlu1room directly
interferes with the ability of a cOUli to perform its fUllction. As former Superior Court Judge
William Griffin said about Defendant's behavior, "every motion-every commotion, I might
add-was directed at causing the judge to do something to commit error. And the judge had to
sit and bite his tongue to get the work of-,the business of the COUli done." [Plaintiff's Exhibit
#261 (Judge Griffin's testimony at Highsmith recusal hearing), p. 29, In. 13] In his
testimony before this tribunal, Judge Duke described similar difficulties in conducting the
business of the court due to Defendant's disruptive courtroom behavior.
18.
Defendant's habitual lack of cOUliroom decorum also jeopardized the public's
faith in the judicial process. As Judge Griffin explained, "The Rules serve a purpose: To
maintain decorum and order and to give the public the appearance that we are conducting
- 23 -

business in a rational manner. And the conduct that I saw from Mr. Sutton from time to time, I
don't see how the public could get that impression at all." [Plaintifrs Exhibit #261 (Judge
Griffin's testimony at Highsmith recusal hearing), p. 24, In. 15]
19.
Defendant's noncompliance with Rule 12 persisted up through and including the
hearing in this disciplinary case, wherein Defendant shouted at witnesses, repeatedly accused
opposing counsel of misconduct, and laughed audibly and rolled his eyes in response to adverse
rulings by the Hearing Panel.
20.
In this case, Defendant did not respond fully and completely to the State Bar's
discovery requests and did not comply with this tribunal's order compelling him to produce
certain documents requested by the State Bar. Defendant also did not provide a witness list to
opposing counsel prior to the disciplinary phase of the hearing, as ordered by the DHC. Nothing
in the record tends to show that Defendant's non-compliance with rules and orders of this
tribunal was a good faith mistake or the result of excusable neglect. It undermines the
administration of justice when attomeys do not comply with the rules and orders of a tribunal.
21.
The gratuitous and disparaging comments of a sexual nature referenced in the
preceding findings of fact 19, 95, 97, and 109 above, are part of a larger pattern of conduct by
Defendant whereby he uses graphic sexual commentary to embalTass and/or demean others in
professional contexts. In a 2008 deposition of an opposing patty, Defendant refelTed to the
deponent's breast augmentation surgery on at least six occasions, calling it a "boob job" and at
times accompanying the verbal reference with hand gestures. In that same deposition, Defendant
repeatedly referred to the witness's sexual relationship with a third party as "screwing."
[Plaintifrs Exhibit #223, p. 58, In 6; p. 59, In 2; p. 59, In 9; p. 86, In 8-10; p. 265, In. 13-17;
p. 215, In. 12; pp. 204-205]. Similarly, in a 2013 email to a Pitt County ADA, Defendant
included an irrelevant aside in which he refelTed to a potential witness "wearing a strap on green
dildo." [Plaintifrs Exhibit #294; testimony of Jay Saunders]
22.
An attomey's duty to persuasively advocate for his client is qualified by his duty
of candor towards the tribunal. Accordingly, lawyers must always be honest and forthright with
the tribunal. It is unacceptable for a lawyer to be anything less than completely candid with the
court. As indicated in conclusions of law 2(c), 2(g), and 2(h) above, on multiple occasions,
Defendant made false statements to the tribunal in violation of his fundamental obligation as an
officer of the court.
23.
Attomeys as officers of the COUlt have a duty to avoid conduct that undermines
the integrity of the adjudicative process. When an attorney makes false statements to the COUlt, it
causes significant harm to the profession and the administration of justice. Although much of the
resulting harm is due to the intangible erosion of judges' and lawyers' ability to rely on another
attomey's word, sometimes the impact on the administration of justice is more concrete: For
exatnple, due to the controversy sUlTounding Defendant's false accusation against Miller (set
fotth in findings of fact 59 through 62 above), the Beaufott County District COUlt now records
all administrative proceedings. [Plaintifrs Exhibit #2(deposition of Judge Paul), p. 10, In 1525: "up until that case ... and the conflict in that case ... [w]e had never recorded
administrative sessions in this district ... we now record all of them"]

- 24-

24.
In representing clients, Defendant often elevates form and procedure over
substance or prioritizes gamesmanship over resolution of disputes. This approach tends to
prolong litigation" thereby creating a significant risk of increased costs for the parties, and the
risk that justice for litigants may be delayed or denied. This phenomenon was reflected by the
credible testimony of multiple witnesses in this matter, including:
a. Attorney Bill Hill, who noted "it seemed to take significantly longer to try
anything with him than other lawyers with that kind of case." [Plaintiff's Exhibit
#314 (deposition of Bill Hill), p. 32]
b. District Attorney Kimberly Robb, who stated that Defendant's involvement in the
Lopez case "made the trial last two times longer than it needed to," and observed
that whenever Defendant is involved in a matter "it is unduly burdensome; it's
aggravating; you know you're going to have to put ten times the amount of work
in . . . just for motions and other things that he has - or emails that you will
receive from him." [Defendant's Exhibit #132 (excerpt of DHC trial
transcript-Robb testimony), p. 8, In 19-20, p. 19, In 18-23]
c. Attorney Jeff Miller, who explained that Defendant causes proceedings to be
protracted and creates "side-issues." [Miller trial testimony]
d. FOlmer District Court Judge Joe Blick, who recalled that a particular hearing over
which he presided and in which Defendant represented one of the parties was
supposed to take an afternoon, but it took sixty hours of court time. [trial
testimony of Judge Blick]
e. Pasquotank County Attorney Mike Cox, who-in response to Defendant's
demands-filed a motion seeking to resolve the dispute related to the release of
the property referenced in finding of fact 73 above. Due to Defendant's insistence
that the matter be addressed urgently, Cox proposed calendaring the motion in a
neighboring county. Defendant did not respond to Cox's proposal regarding
calendaring, but appeared in court on the day of the hearing and challenged
venue. Under cross-examination, Cox addressed Defendant about his decision to
wait until the day of the hearing to challenge venue by saying "you pulled the rug
out from underneath me." [DHC trial transcript excerpt-testimony of Mike
Cox p. 9, In 25 to p. 11, In 1; p. 35, In 10-19 ("you pulled the rug out from
underneath me"); p. 35, lu 23 to p. 36, lu4 ("If you were going to play games
there was nothing I could do about it")]
25.
The disparagement and accusations by Defendant set forth in conclusions of law
2(d), 2(h), and 20) above are part of a pattern of conduct in Defendant's professional life. Judge
Gorham stated to Defendant during the course of the State v. Brown proceedings, "You are just
one of the most accusatory people I think I have ever heard come before a court." [Plaintiff's
Exhibit #60 (Brown trial transcript), p. 1081, In 24 to p. 1082, In. 1; p. 1337, In 17-22]
Defendant persistently accuses lawyers, judges, and others who disagree with him of unethical
behavior and dishonesty based on umeasonable and unsupported beliefs, speculation,
supposition, and assumption. Judge Gorham also said to Defendant: "[Y]ou make a lot of
- 25 -

assumptions and I'll put that on the record that you've made a great deal of assumptions ... in
all your recitations." [Plaintiff's Exhibit #60, p. 1081, p. 1340, In 19-22] Defendant's regular
practice of making such unfounded accusations and ad hominem attacks causes significant harnl
to the legal profession and denigrates the profession in the eyes of the public.
26.
Consistent with tins pattern, Defendant has made incendiary and unsupported
allegations against opposing counsel, adverse witnesses, and members of the Hearing Panel in
multiple filings in this disciplinary case. Specifically,
a. Defendant accused Plaintiff s counsel of vindictive prosecution [Motion to
Disqualify State Bar, 5/21/13], misconduct [Motion for New Trial, 7/29/14],
and suborning peJjury. [Defendant's "Motion to Dismiss or in the Alternative
to Stril{e the Testimony of Witnesses Kimberly Robb, Jeffrey Miller, Kay
Brown, Sheriff Neil Elks, Judge Russell Duke, and William Hill," 10/2/14]
b.

Defendant filed multiple motions alleging bias and seeking to disqualify the DHC
Hearing Panel, all of which were without merit. [Motion to Disqualify DHC
Chairman, 4/24/14; Petition to Disqualify DHC Panel, 6/9114; Motion to DHC
Chair (Michael) to Replace DHC Panel and Consider Defendant's Motion for
New Trial, 8/1/14]

c. Defendant accused at least four of the witnesses against him in tlris disciplinary
proceeding of giving intentionally false testimony. [Motion to Dismiss, 10/2/14]
27.
Defendant's allegation of felonious conduct by the Pasquotank County Sheriffs
Depmiment described in findings offact 77 through 79 above was not an isolated instance. With
some frequency, Defendant's unfounded allegations against his adversm'ies take the form of
accusations of criminal conduct. Defendant:
a. Accused the Senior Resident Superior COUli Judge in Pitt County of felony false
imprisonment. [Plaintiff's Exhibit #251 (transcript of recusal motion hearing
in Langley), p. 36, In 13-17; Defendant's testimony in DHC hearing]
b. Accused one or more members of the Greene County Clerk of COUli's staff of
felonious alteration of court documents. [Plaintiff's Exhibit #64]. The court
found that the Clerk's staff engaged only in unintentional procedural errors.
[Defendant's Exhibit #71 (order setting aside Greene County contempt)].
c. Accused a Greenville Police Officer of multiple instances of perjUly (a felony) in
connection with one of Defendant's client's cases. [Plaintiff's Exhibit #296
(email to ADA Jay Saunders)]
d. As indicated above, accused four of the State Bar's witnesses ofpeJjury, and Bar
counsel of suborning perjUlY, both felonious acts. [Defendant's "Motion to
Dismiss or in the Alternative to Strike the Testimony of Witnesses Kimberly
Robb, Jeffrey Miller, Kay Brown, Sheriff Neil Elks, Judge Russell Duke, and
William Hill," 10/2/14]
- 26-

28.
Defendant's tendency to prolong and complicate adversarial proceedings, coupled
with his proclivity for baselessly accusing his adversaries of wrongdoing, interferes with
opposing counsel's ability to effectively and efficiently represent their clients' interests. The
credible evidence supporting this finding includes: Several lawyers who testified in this case
noted that they were unable to communicate with Defendant about legal matters in which he was
involved because Defendant was so demeaning and/or acrimonious. [excerpt of DHC
transcript-testimony of Norm Shearin, p. 25, In 7-12; testimony of Kathryn Fagan ("I
could not communicate with you without you bullying and demeaning me")] One lawyer
observed that Defendant "pick[sI the hardest way possible of doing things" [Saunders trial
testimony].and another said that Defendant's involvement in a case made representing his client
"much more difficult than it should be." [excerpt of DHC transcript-testimony of Mike
Cox, p. 21, In 9]
29.
Over approximately the last six years, multiple judges-including Judge Griffin,
Judge Dulce, and Judge Gorham, referenced above-have admonished Defendant about his
improper, unprofessional, and unethical behavior. In 2012, Superior Court Judge Wayland J.
Sennons, Jr., found that Defendant had "largely brought the controversy between him and Judge
Duke upon himself by his repeated failure to abide by Rule 12 of the General Rules of Practice."
[Plaintiff's Exhibit #264, Conclusions of Law ~9] Judge Selmons directed Defendant to
undergo a period of mentoring with the Director of the Chief Justice's Commission on
Professionalism in an effort to conform his behavior to professional standards. While that
experience should have assisted Defendant in complying with.the Rules of Professional Conduct,
Defendant did not reform in response to mentoring. Instead, his pattern of disrespect and
intimidation towards participants in the justice system continued unabated, as evidenced by the
misconduct described in conclusions of law 2(i) through 2(q) above.
30.
Defendant left the profane and abusive voicemail for Detective Dolenti and
engaged in misconduct related to his client, Laura Deans, in 2013 after the initial disciplinary
complaint in this case was filed against him.
31.
By unilaterally imposing a condition of immediate payment from Deans as a
prerequisite to continued representation, Defendant acted out of self-interest and to the detriment
of his client.
32.
By refusing to provide information as requested by Deans about the status of her
adoption, Defendant intentionally created a foreseeable risk of halm to Deans. Defendant knew
that Deans was emotionally invested in the outcome of the adoption but was unfmniliar with the
legal process, and therefore was vuluerable. As a result of Defendant's actions, Laura Deans
experienced anxiety and emotional distress due to unceliainty about the status of her adoption
case. [Deans trial testimony]
33.
In November 2013, while this disciplinary case was pending, Defendant was
alTested after refusing to pass through the metal detector or submit to law enforcement search at
the Pitt County Courthouse security checkpoint. During this incident, Defendant circumvented
courthouse security measures and disregal'ded directives from law enforcement in the presence of
members of the public. This conduct-which was plarmed by Defendant-needlessly diverted

- 27-

law enforcement resources away :!i'om protecting and serving the people of Pitt County.
[Plaintiff's Exhibit #285 (incident report); trial testimony of Captain Marsal]
34.
There has been substantial media coverage of Defendant's conduct, including
public broadcast of his abusive voicemail to Detective Dolenti and news stories about the
courthouse security incident described above. Publicity sUlTOunding a lawyer's abusive and
profane degradation of law enforcement and disregard for courthouse security debases the legal
profession and demeans the justice system in the eyes of the public.
35.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to public perception of the
profession by reinforcing the negative stereotype that lawyers are antagonistic and combative,
and by diminishing the public's expectation that attorneys will conduct themselves with dignity
and adhere to the Rules of Professional Conduct. [Plaintiff's Exhibits #270(C) (Daily Reflector
article), #286(A), (B), (D), (E), & (F) (media reports re: courthouse security incident);
Testimony of Jeff Miller & Kimberly Robb]
36.
Defendant's responses to State Bar grievance inqumes, filings in the DHC,
testimony and argument during the disciplinary hearing, and federal and state collateral actions
filed by the defendant, reflect a pervasive tendency to blame others for his misconduct rather
than acknowledging wrongdoing.
a. In a letter to the State Bar regarding the deposition misconduct described in
findings of fact 33 through 52 above, Defendant explained that he had been angry
because Peck "lied" to him and changed the location of the depositions without
telling him. [Plaintiff's Exhibit #42, pp. 12-13] Defendant also insinuated that
Peck had encouraged a witness to disregard a subpoena. [Plaintiff's Exhibit #42,
p. 14,7]
b. In letters to the State Bar regarding the deposition misconduct described in
findings of fact 5 through 21 above, Defendant accused Fagan of "blatant
harassment" of his client and stated that he was "justifiably angry." [Plaintiff's
Exhibits #11 & #12]
c. Defendant attempted to deflect attention away from his false statement about
Miller set forth in conclusion of law 2(h) above by arguing that Miller, in adding
the handwritten provision to the settlement, had improperly attempted to
circumvent a court order. [Plaintiff's Exhibit #53, p. 1; DRC trial transcript
excerpt-cross-examination of Miller, pp. 47-50]
d. In a letter to the State Bar regarding the allegations against him in the Davenport
matter, Defendant said "Roughton and [attorney Kevin] Rust should be the ones
being investigated." [Plaintiff's Exhibit #78(C)]
e. Defendant explained the abusive voicemail he left for Detective Dolenti by saying
that a "dumbass deput[y] ... made a bogus child abuse charge against a really
nice woman." [Plaintiff's Exhibit # 100(B) (audio recording of phone call with
Deans)]
- 28-

f.

Defendant believed his treatment of Laura Deans was justified because, in his
opinion, her father-the Sheriff-had somehow acted improperly in connection
with Defendant's arrest. [Plaintifrs Exhibit #100(B) (audio recording of phone
call with Deans): "he asked me to help you out then he does this shit to me";
"what is wrong with your dad ... ?"; "I saw your dad last night. He lied •..";
"I'd like to get paid, if you want me to finish it, provided your dad doesn't
have me arrested any more"]

g. Rather than addressing his own profane, belligerent, and tln'eatening outburst in
attorney Bill Hill's office, Defendant repeatedly insinuated that Hill engaged in
misconduct. [Plaintifrs Exhibit #314 (Hill deposition transcript); crossexamination of Hill; Defendant's trial testimony]
37.
Defendant has demonstrated utter disdain for self-regulation 'of the legal
profession, refelTing to these disciplinary proceedings as "nothing more than a Nazi show trial"
[Defendant's Response to Motion for Adherence, 10/20114] and a "travesty of justice".
[Defendant's Motion to DHC Chair (Michael) to Replace DHC Panel and Consider
Defendant's Motion for New Trial, 8/1114] Defendant taunted other lawyers about reporting
his conduct in the Davenport matter to the State Bar, sending an email which said "hows
repOliing me to the state bar working out for you and shearin? NOT TOO GOOD!" [Plaintifrs
Exhibit #75(E)] Defendant has not, however, hesitated to use the State Bar's disciplinary
authority as a tool to threaten other attorneys when he deems it strategically advantageous. For
example:
a. In a 2008 letter to an ADA assigned to prosecute Defendant for contempt of court,
Defendant demanded dismissal of the case and stated "The only reason I have not
already filed a grievance is that you have not proceeded in court yet." [Plaintifrs
Exhibit #240 (letter to Bowman)].
b. In an email to Pasquotank County Attorney Mike Cox regarding the Davenpoli
matter, Defendant wrote: "If you don't dismiss that baseless motion to 'return
property' by noon tomorrow, I will file a motion for Rule 11 sanctions and report
you to the bar." [Plaintifrs Exhibit #75(H)]
c. In a letter to Cox and a Pasquotank County ADA, Defendant wrote: "If I were
half as big a jerk as Shearin, I'd file bar grievances against both of you for taking
legal positions that are the polar opposite of your verbal and written positions."
[Plaintifrs Exhibit #75(F)]
d. In an email to attorney Kevin Rust related to the DavenpOli matter, Defendant
wrote: "I'll have to look at the ethics rules again, but I may now actually be under
an obligation to report you to the State Bar." [Plaintifrs Exhibit #76(C)]
38.
There is no indication that Defendant has taken ownership of his misconduct or its
consequences. He has not acknowledged violating the Rules of Professional Conduct, expressed
remorse, or shown any insight regarding his lack of professionalism. In his testimony during the
discipline phase of this case, Defendant maintained that he didn't do anything wrong, has

- 29-

nothing to apologize for, and will continue to conduct himself in the same manner if permitted to
continue practicing law.
39.
Defendant has a reputation as a tenacious and often effective advocate for his
clients. Many of Defendant's former clients and family members believe that Defendant is a
person of honesty, integrity, and good character. The majority of the members of the legal
community who participated in this proceeding described Defendant as a bully. [e.g., DHC trial
transcript excerpt - Muskus cross-examination, p. 6, In 22-23 (describing Defendant's
manner and tone as "loud and bullying"); Plaintiff's Exhibit #314 (Hill deposition
transcript), p. 34,ln 7-16 ("reputation of being incredibly difficult to deal with . . .
attacking other lawyer personally ... if they're doing something he doesn't like"); Fagan
testimony ("I could not communicate with you without you bullying me"); Miller testimony
(describing Defendant as "bullying"); Saunders trial testimony (Defendant's way of doing
things "makes everyone around [him] tense ... sometimes fearful"); testimony of Sheriff
Elks -"I felt like you were bullying me around"); trial testimony of Brown, Robb]
40. Defendant has demonstrated that, in retaliation for perceived wrongs, he is willing
to breach his duty of loyalty to clients and former clients by disclosing confidential information
and/or attempting to prejudice their interests. This willingness to breach his duty of loyalty
creates a significant risk of harm to clients. Defendant's treatment of Laura Deans, described in
findings of fact 104 tln'ough 114 above, evidences this willingness, as do the following:
a. During his cross-examination of Kathryn Fagan in this hearing, Defendant
questioned Fagan about an instance in which she had previously sought legal
advice fi'om him. The subject matter of the prior consultation between Fagan and
Defendant was not relevant to these proceedings. Through his questioning,
Defendant disclosed the nature of the matter about which Fagan had consulted
with him in an apparent effort to embarrass her.
b. When a former client received a mass email from Defendant's office notifYing
evel'yone in their address book of a change in contact infornlation, she responded
to all recipients expressing dissatisfaction about Defendant's representation. In
response, Defendant replied to all, disclosing confidential information about the
client, accusing the former client of "fraud," saying she was "obviously a
disturbed person" and othelwise publicly maligning her character. [Plaintiff's
Exhibit #34, p. 4 (5/30/11 email)]
c. After Laura Deans reported to the State Bar the misconduct set forth in findings of
fact 104 tln'ough 114 above, Defendant notified Deans and her husband of his
contention that they owed him attorneys fees by faxing correspondence to
Deans's father, Sheriff Neil Elks, via a fax machine that was used by employees
of the Sheriffs Office. The faxed documents revealed the fees purportedly owed
by Deans and her husband, and the nature of the legal matters in which Defendant
had provided services. [Defendant's Exhibit #19 (faxes to Deans c/o Elks)]
41.
Defendant's approach to the practice of law is totally at odds with the professional
standards of North Carolina lawyers. The majority of the attorneys who testified in this matter
- 30-

expressed that Defendant's unprofessional and unethical behavior was unprecedented in their
experience. [E.g., trial testimony of Fagan, Peck, Cox, Ricks,Dnke, Brown, Elks, Robb, &
Miller]

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law, and Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel
makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §
.Ol14(w) of the Discipline and Disciplinary Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
2.
The Hearing Panel concludes that the following factors fi-om § .01l4(w)(1),
which are to be considered in imposing suspension or disbarment, are present in this case:
(a)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;

(b)

Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, tlUstworthiness, or
integrity;

(c)

Elevation of Defendant's own interests above that of the client;

(d)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession;

(e)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice;

(h)

Effect of Defendant's conducfon third parties; and

(i)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

3.
The Hearing Panel concludes that the following factor from § .01l4(w)(2), which
requires consideration of disbarment, is present in this case: Acts of dishonesty,
misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.
4.
The Hearing Panel concludes that the following factors from § .01l4(w)(3),
which are to be considered in all cases, are present in this case:
(a)

The absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

(b)

Selfish motive;

(c)

A pattem of misconduct;

- 31 -

(d)

Multiple offenses;

(e)

Bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by intentionally failing to
comply with rules or orders of the disciplinary agency;

(f)

Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of conduct;

(g)

Character or reputation;

(h)

Vulnerability of victim;

(i)

Degree of experience in the practice of law; and

G)

Issuance of a letter of wa11ling to Defendant within the three years immediately
preceding the filing of the complaint.

5.
The factors identified above which are aggravating in natnre outweigh the factors
which might tend to mitigate Defendant's misconduct.
6.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censme, suspension, and disbarment.
7.
Defendant's persistent patte11l of misconduct up through and including his actions
in this disciplinalY proceeding indicate that Defendant is either unwilling or unable to confOlm
his behavior to the requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Defendant refuses to
acknowledge the wrongfulness of his conduct and stated that he does not intend to modify his
behavior. Accordingly, if Defendant were permitted to continue practicing law, he would pose a
significant risk of continued harm to clients, the profession, the public, and the administration of
justice.
8.
The Hearing Panel finds that admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be
sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the halm to the administration of justice and to the
legal profession in the present case. Furthermore, the Panel finds that any sanction less than
suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant,
would not adequately protect the public, and would send the wrong message to att011leys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
9.
Notwithstanding repeated prior walnings about the impropriety of his conduct and
an attempt to reform his behavior through mentoring, Defendant exhibits escalating misconduct
and a wholly umepentant attitnde. Accordingly, the protection of the public requires that
Defendant be required to demonstrate rehabilitation and reformation before he may be permitted
to resume practicing law.
10.
The Hearing Panel finds and concludes that the public can only be adequately
protected by an active suspension of Defendant's law license, with reinstatement to the practice

- 32-

of law conditioned upon a showing of reformation and other reasonable conditions precedent to
reinstatement.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions of Law
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the folloyving:
ORDER

1.
Defendant's motions to dismiss this action, which were previously denied and
which Defendant renewed, are again denied.
2.
Defendant's license to practice law in the State ofNOlth Carolina is suspended for
five years, beginning 30 days fi'om the date of service of this order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretmy of the
NOlth Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon Defendant.
4.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124. As provided in § .0124(d), Defendant shall file
an affidavit with the Secretary of the NOlth Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective
date of this order, certifying he has complied with the wind down rule.
5.
The administrative fees and costs of this action, including deposition costs and
digital forensic expert costs, are taxed to Defendant. Defendant must pay the costs of this action
within 30 days of service upon him of the statement of costs by the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar.
6.
After tln'ee yem's of active suspension of his license, Defendant may apply for a
stay of the remaining period of suspension upon filing a verified petition with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that, in
addition to complying with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules, Defendant has complied with the following conditions:
(a)

That Defendant has reformed and presently possesses the moral qualifications for
admission to practice law, and that permitting the Defendant to resume the
practice of law will not be detrimental to the integrity and standing of the legal
profession, the administration of justice, or the public interest;

(b)

That during the period of active suspension, Defendant has: (1) participated in and
successfully completed a structured program of anger management treatment
(which may include inpatient services) approved by the Office of Counsel in
consultation with the director of the North Carolina State Bar's Lawyers
Assistance Progrmn; (2) submitted to any clinical evaluation associated with that
program; and (3) complied with all recommendations of the treatment provider(s)
- 33 -

for that program, including participation in and successful completion of any
other clinically-indicated treatment, such as ongoing aftercare or ongoing
therapeutic recommendations. In addition, Defendant must demonstrate that
during the period of active suspension he has:
1.

11.

Submitted to the North Carolina State Bar's Office of Counsel
quarterly written repOlis from the angel' management treatment
provider regarding Defendant's pmiicipation in, and compliance with,
the program. The reports shall be due each January I, April I, July 1,
and October 1 throughout the period of suspension.
That within 30 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant
executed a written waiver and/or release authorizing the North
Carolina State Bm' Office of Counsel to confer with his anger.
management treatment provider for the purpose of determining if
Defendant has cooperated and complied with the treatment progrmn,
and that Defendant did not revoke such release/authorization during
the period of suspension.

All expenses of such treatment and reports shall be borne by Defendant.
(c)

That Defendant understands the then current Rules of Professional Conduct;

(d)

That Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Depmiment
advised of his current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any
change in address within ten days of such change;

(e)

That Defendant has responded to all communications fi'om the North Carolina
State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and has participated in good faith in the
NOlih Carolina State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition received
after the effective date of this Order;

(f)

That Defendant has not engaged in the unauthorized practice of law during the
period of suspension;

(g)

That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States or any state or local government during his suspension other
thml minor traffic violations;

(h)

That Defendant paid the costs of this action within 30 days after service of the
statement of costs;

(i)

That Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
requirements of §.0124 of the NOlih Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules; and

- 34-

G)

That Defendant otherwise complied with the requirements of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§.0125(b).

If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay, the suspension of Defendant's law
7.
license shall be stayed as long as Defendant complies and continues to comply with the
following conditions:
(a) That Defendant keeps the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised
of his current business and home addresses and notifies the North Carolina State Bar
of any change in address within ten days of such change;
(b) That Defendant responds to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar
within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner, and palticipates in good faith in the North Carolina State Bar's
fee dispute resolution process for any petition received during the period of the stay;
and
(c) That Defendant does not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or any state or local government during the period of the stay, other
than minor traffic violations.
8.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
provided in paragraph 7(a) - (c) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in §
.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
9.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of his law license or if some
pmt of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must comply with
the conditions set out in paragraphs 6(a) - G) above and the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0125 before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law, and
must provide in his petition for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence showing his
compliance therewith.
10.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the suspension, any stay
thereof, and until all conditions set fotth in paragraph 6 above are satisfied.
~ne~ Chair with the

day of

V\l
•

consent of the other hearing panel members, this the

,2014 .

F~
Disciplinm-y Hearing Panel
- 35 -

