BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTl-I CAROLINA STATE BAR
IIGOl32

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Richard J. Tanlcer,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 14,2011 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by A. W.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that ailer a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing beforc the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a c1icnt, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In early 2010, you represented Ms. W.'s husband, C. W., in a child custody action. In
March 20 10, you spolce with a judge relative to your client getting custody of the children so that
they would remain in North Carolina. You gave no notice to the opposing party that you were
going to approach the judge and discuss the merits of the matter. On March 5, 2010, the judge
signed an ex parte order giving custody of the children to your client. The judge had second

thoughts about signing the ex parte order that you had presented him. The judge told you that he
would file a corrected order voiding the ex parte order that he had entered. A corrected order
dated March 6, 2010 was signed by the judge. In your response to this grievance, you indicated
that the judge took "sole responsibility for the order having been signed" and he recused himself
fi'om hearing any other matters between the parties.
The Grievance Committee found that you improperly sought and obtained the ex parte
order, in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(3). The Grievance Committee was concerned that you seemed
to place the "sole responsibility" for the ex parte order on the judge, when you approached him
abont signing the order. The Grievance Committee did take into consideration in issuing this
reprimand that you seem to acknowledge your wrongdoing by stating that you should have
contacted Ms. W.'s lawyer before seeking the ex parte custody order fi'om the judge.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

_~ day Of_~=,=:";:1'~:!:::::'
,JL:::=-__" 2011.
~~=:::::::~~~._---Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

