BEFORE THE
CIPLINARY I-IEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

STATE OF NORTH

WAIW COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ROBERT M. TALFORD, Attorney,
Defendant

I

1

FINDINGS OF FACT.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1
I

This matter was heard on May 30,2008 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Con~missioncomposed of M. Ann Reed, Chair, and members John
Breclcenridge Regan and Michael J. Houser. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff,
the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Robert M. Talford, appeared and represented
11imselfp1-ose. Based upon the pleadings, the stipulations of the parties, and the evidence
introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincillg evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, tlle North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of Nortli
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
Defendant, Robert M. Talford ("Defendant"), was admitted to the Nortli
2.
Carolina State Bar in 1976, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in Nortli Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During the times relevant hereto, Defendant was actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Charlotte,
Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
Defendant was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was
4.
set, and the matter came before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.
John B. Allen, Jr. ("Allen") retained Defendant on or about September 22,
5.
2003 to represent him in a workers' conlpensation claim. Allen and Defendant entered

into a written fee agreement in which Allen agreed to pay Talford a contingent fee
of one-third of Allen's total recovery in the case, subject to approval by the North
Carolina Industrial Commission.
Allen had begun receiving weelcly temporary disability payments £rom his
6.
employer shortly after he was injured on the job on September 20,2003. After Allen was
released back to work in April 2004, Defendant drafted a letter to the employer's adjuster
presenting his case for Allen and seeking a settle~nentoffer.
During the represelltation, Defendant communicated with the employer's
attorney on Allen's behalf regarding Allen's claim.
7.

Allen discharged Defendant in a letter dated December 1,2004 and aslced
8.
that Defendant release Allen's file to him by December 6,2004.
Defendant did not provide Allen's file to Allen by December 6,2004 or at
9.
any time thereafter.
In response to Allen's Decenlber 1, 2004 letter, Defendant wrote a lette~
10.
dated December 10, 2004 to the Industrial Commission aslcing for permission to
withdraw as attonley of record for Allen.
Defendant did not file a notice of appearance on Allen's behalf with the
11.
Industrial C o m n i s s i o ~and
~ did not notify the Industrial Commission of his representation
of Allen at the outset of the representation or before his discharge by Allen. The first
notice Defendant gave to the Industrial Commission of his representation of Allen was
after his discharge when he sent the Industrial Commission his letter dated December 10,
2004 aslcing for permission to withdraw.
12.
In the December 10,2004 letter Defendant aslced that the Commission
enter an order awarding attorney's fees to Defendant of one-third of Allen's temporary
disability payments since April 21,2004 and one-third of Allen's permanent impairment
rating.
At the time of Defendant's December 10, 2004 letter to the Industrial
13.
Commission, Allen's case had not been resolved by consent or determined by hearing
before the Industrial Conmission.
14.
At the time of Defendant's December 10, 2004 letter asking for payment
of one-third of Allen's permanent impairment rating, Allen's final entitlement to benefits
had not been detennined, nor had the Industrial Commission found Allen had a
pennanent impairment entitling Allen to compensation.
15.
Under Defendant's contingent fee contract with Allen, if the Industrial
Commission had awarded Allen benefits for a permanent impairment during Defendant's
representation of Allen, then Defendant would have been entitled to a fee of one-third of
those benefits if approved by the Industrial Commission. Allen discharged Defendant,

however, before the event on which that fee was contingent - namely, obtaining benefits
for a permanent impaimlent - occurred.
16.
Because Defendant was discharged by Allen before the contingency
occurred, a i y entitlement Defendant would have had to a fee for any benefits later
awarded for a permanent impairment would have been under a r/rrantui,z illel-uit theory
The amount of fee in qrm~ztur~z
nrel-zrit is the reasonable value of the
17.
services rendered. At the time of Defendant's discharge, Allen's status, ability to work,
a ~ medical
d
condition were contested. Additionally, at the time of Defendant's discharge
significant work remained to be done in the case, including mediation and the hearing.
Given the status of the case at the time of Defendant's discharge, the reasonable value of
Defendant's services would not have entitled him to the fill1 contractual one-third fee of
any eventual award to Allen of benefits for a pennalent impairment under qzmrztrrm
nzel.trit.

During tlie representation, Defendant solicited and Allen loaned
18.
Defendant certain sums so Defendant could pay personal expenses. Defendant did not
provide Allen wit11 any documentation of the loan, of the terms of the loan, or of the
terms of repayment of the loan. Defendant did not advise Allen orally or in writing to
consult an illdependelit attorney regarding making these loans to Defendant. Allen did
not give infonned consent in writing to the terms of the loans and Defendant's role in the
transactions.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the Coinmittee
1.
has jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat.
84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as follows:

(a)

By soliciting and receiving loails from Allen for his personal use
that were not documented in writing, for which the tenns of
repayment were not described in writing, for which Allen did not
provide informed consent in writing, and for which Defendant did
not provide written notice to Allen that Allen sliould co~lsultwith
another attonley about the transactions, Defendant entered into a
business transaction with his client without fully disclosiiig to his
client tlie temis of the transaction in writing, without advising his
client in writing of the desirability of seeking independent legal

counsel, and without obtaining his client's informed consent in
writing in violati011of Rule 1&a);
(b)

By seeking from the Industrial Con~missiona fee of one-third of
Allen's temporary disability payments since April 21,2004 and
one-third of Allen's permanent impaimlent rating when Defendant
was not entitled to receive one-third of Allen's total recovery and
which would have constituted a clearly excessive or illegal fee if
collected, Defendant charged an illegal or clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule 1.5(a); and

(c)

By failing to provide Allen's file after Allen terminated
Defendant's services, Defendant failed to surrender papers and
property to which the client is entitled upon termination in
violation of Rule 1.16(d) and failed to promptly comply with
reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upoil the
evidence and arguments presented at the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the
hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

2.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Prior disciplinary offenses, to wit: a11 admonition issued on March
27, 1996 and a reprimand issued on October 20,2003;

b.

Dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

Refusal to aclcnowledge the wronghl nature of his conduct;

e.

Substantial experience in the practice of law; and

f.

Indifference to malung restitution,

Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
a.

3.

Remoteness of the 1996 admonition.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factor.

4.
Defendant's conduct resulted in potential significant ham1 to his client.
Defendant did not provide any services to or representation on behalf of Allen in the
workers' compensation case after December 3 1,2004. Defendant did not ensure that the
order he thought was required for his withdrawal was issued so that Allen could have
another attorney represent him. Defendant further attempted to block a successor
attorney from representing Allen by failing to turn over Allen's file to Allen or Allen's
new attorney. Defendant's misconduct could have left Allen without representation in a
disputed workers' compensation case in which mediation and a hearing had yet to occur.

Defendant's effort to collect a fill1 one-third fee of Allen's total recovery
5.
had the potential, if successful, of hindering payment to, and tllus retention of, a
successor attorney. This conduct caused furtller potential significant ham1 to Allen.
The failure of Defendant to put the loan terms in writing, to advise Allen
6.
in writing to consult with another attorney, and to obtain Allen's informed consent in
writing to loans which Defendant has failed to re-pay lias also caused potential significant
hanll to Allen.
The hearing committee has considered lesser sanctions and finds that
7.
discipline short of suspension would not sufficiently protect the public for the following
reasons:
a.

Defendant has engaged in multiple violations of the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct concerning this client and his misconduct
was not the result of a mistalte, nor did it appear to be an
aberration; and

b.

Defendant elevated his own financial interests over the best
interests of his client and his conduct caused potential significant
harm to his client.

After consideration of all of the above factors, the hearing committee finds
8.
that a censure is insufficient to protect the public.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
Defendant, Robert M. Talford, is hereby suspended from the practice of
1.
law in North Carolina for one year, beginning 30 days from the date of service of this
order upon Defendant. The effective date of this order is 30 days from the date of service
of this order upon Defendant.

Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
2.
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
3.
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, 5 .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down nlle.
The costs of this action, including administrative costs and all costs
4.
allowed by statute, are taxed to Defendant. Defendant shall pay the costs of this
proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within 30 days of service of the statement of
costs upon him.
Afler serving 60 days of the active suspension of his license, the
5.
remaining period of Defendant's suspension shall be stayed, subject to the terms of this
order. Defendant's law license shall be restored to active status on the 61" day following
the effective date of this order, with Defendant's active status contingent upon continued
conlpliance with the terms of this Order concerning the stay of the remainder of his
suspension. The remainder of Defendant's suspension will be stayed so long as
Defendant complies with the following conditions:
a.

The Defendant will respond to all letters of notice and requests for
infonnation from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline
stated in the communicatio~~;

b.

The Defendant will advise the Bar in writing of all address changes
within 10 days of the change;

c.

The Defendant will timely comply with his State Bar continuing
legal education recluirements and will pay all fees and costs
assessed for continuing legal education and all fees and costs
assessed by the membership department of the State Bar by the
applicable deadlines;

d.

The Defendant will not violate the laws of any state or of the
United States: and

e.

The Defendant will not violate any provision of the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct.

If Defendant fails to comply wit11 any of the conditions for the stay of his
6.
of his law license may be lifted
suspension in this Order, then the stay of the s~~spension
as provided in 5 .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.

The Disciplinary Hearing Cominission will retain jurisdiction of this
7.
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Adinin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, $ .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules t l ~ o u g l ~ othe
u t period of the
stayed suspension.

the other hearing committee rnen~bers,

,2008.

Disciplinary Hearing Committee

