BEFORE THE
RY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17DHC 12

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT

v.

ORDER

DOUGLAS J. TATE, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of David W. Long, Chair, and members Richard V. Bennett and Christopher R.
Bruffey, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I, Subchapter B, §
.0114(h). Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Maria J. Brown. Defendant,
Douglas J. Tate, was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Defendant waives a formal hearing in
this matter, and both parties stipulate and consent to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant consents to entry of this
order of discipline and freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
Defendant, Douglas J. Tate ("Defendant" or "Tate"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in February 1989 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations,
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of
North Carolina.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process, and the matter carne before the
Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
4.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Defendant was engaged in the
practice oflaw in Asheville, Buncombe County, North Carolina.

5.

From 2000 to 2007, Defendant was an associate with the law firm of McGuire,
Wood & Bissette, P.A. Defendant became a partner in 2007. Defendant ceased practicing law in
January 2016 and resigned his position with the finn effective 30 April 2016.
6.
As an attorney member of the finn, it was Defendant's responsibility to open
client records within the finn's client management system for any client for whom he undertook
representation.
7.
The finn's conflict check system relied upon client records being opened in the
firm's client management system.
8.
The finn's standard billing arrangement was to require clients to pay advance fees
which were deposited into the finn's trust account, held as a security deposit during the
representation, and billed against if necessary.
9.
As an attorney member of the finn, it was Defendant's responsibility to ensure
that any check for advance fees from a client were deposited into the finn's trust account.
10.
As an attorney member of the firm, it was Defendant's responsibility to prepare
and send monthly invoices to his clients.
11.
Defendant failed to comply with the above responsibilities with regards to
numerous clients, who were unknown to the finn, including as set out in more detail below.
12.

In 2009, Client A retained Defendant to handle a business dispute.

13.
In September 2013, Defendant stopped communicating with Client A and failed
to respond to Client A's telephone calls.
14.
In 2013, Client B hired Defendant in conjunction with a property damage matter.
At the time she retained Defendant, she had already negotiated a settlement but wanted
Defendant to prepare a release to ensure she was protected from future claims.
15.

Defendant did not provide Client B with a release.

16.
Defendant last contacted opposing counsel in the matter
contacted Client B in 2014.

ill

2013 and last

17.
Client C hired Defendant to handle an eviction and paid Defendant's $500.00
advance fee by check.
18.
Defendant did not deposit the check into the fum trust account but instead left it
in his client me.
19.
Defendant did not complete work on the matter and failed to respond to multiple
telephone calls from Client C.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Douglas J. Tate
Consent Order ofDiscipJine

Page 2 of 12

20.
In June 2014, Client D hired Defendant to assist him with a creditor claim in a
bankruptcy matter.
21.
Defendant received a copy of the bankruptcy plan, pursuant to which Client D's
claim would be paid no more than $0.22 on the dollar, rendering Client D's $173,764.72 claim
worth a maximum of approximately $38,000.00.
22.
Client D told Defendant at the outset of the representation that he needed to keep
the costs of the representation as low as possible. Defendant acknowledged this.
23.

Defendant sent invoices to Client D for June and July 2014.

24.

Defendant did not provide Client D with invoices for August or September 2014.

25.
On 28 October 2014, Client D learned that, since 1 August 2014, Defendant had
billed additional fees totaling more than one-half of Client D's maximum recovery on the claim.
26.
Defendant's failure to provide Client D with invoices deprived Client D of the
opportunity to decide how his objectives would best be met before incurring extensive legal fees.
27.
Client D addressed the billing issue With Defendant on 27 May 2015. Defendant
told Client D he would review the past billing and talk with Client D about adjusting the charges ..
28.
Defendant never spoke with Client D about the bills and only communicated once
more with Client D.
29.
In addition to Client D, Defendant failed to send regular billing invoices to
numerous other clients. By April 2015, Defendant had essentially stopped sending invoices to
any of his clients.
30.
Client E hired Defendant in July 2015 to handle an eviction of Client E's tenant
and paid Defendant's $1500 advance fee by check.
31.
Defendant did not deposit the check into the firm trust account but instead kept
the paper check in his client file.
32.
After ascertaining that it would not be possible to obtain a summary eviction on
Client E's behalf, Defendant failed to take additional steps to complete the matter.
33.

Defendant stopped communicating with Client E and stopped returning her calls.

34.
When Client F hired Defendant, she gave him a check for the advance fee.
Defendant failed to deposit this check into the firm trust account and instead kept the paper
check in the client ftle.
35.

Defendant stopped communicating with Client F in October 2015.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Douglas J. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 3 of12

36.
Client F called Defendant multiple times in October 2015, and Defendant did not
return her calls.
On 30 October 2015, Defendant's assistant forwarded to Defendant an email from
37.
Client F in which Client F asked Defendant to respond.
38.

Defendant never responded.

39.
During the month of November 2015, Client G tried numerous times to reach
Defendant, and Defendant failed to respond to Client G's inquiries.
40.
When Defendant left practice in January 2016, his firm discovered that he had
failed to open proper client records in the firm's client management system for a large number of
matters he had taken on.
41.
Where Defendant had not opened a client record in the firm's system, he had not
performed a conflict check for that client or matter.
42.
In at least seven of these matters for which Defendant had failed to open a proper
client record, he kept an advance fee check in the paper file he maintained.
43.
From August 2012 until July 2015, Defendant had direct supervisory authority
over paralegal Margaret Harmon.
44.

Defendant failed to adequately supervise Harmon.

45.
Unbeknownst to Defendant, Harmon held herself out as an attorney while
working on various matters for Defendant.
46.
Harmon performed work for other attorneys, and the matters she handled for
Defendant were the only matters in which she held herself out as an attorney.
47.
For instance, on 5 March 2013, Harmon sent a letter enclosing a summons and
complaint to Scott Cook in the matter of Shepherd v. Cook, Buncombe County Civil District
Court file no. 13 CV 00145.
48.
The letter said: "As attorney for McGuire, Wood & Bissette, P.A., I hereby serve
you with the enclosed Summons and Complaint pursuant to the laws of the State of North
Carolina."
49.

Harmon signed her name to the letter.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel, and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
The North Carolina State Bar v. DouglasJ. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 4of12

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By ceasing communication with Client A and failing to respond to Client A's
inquiries, Defendant failed to keep the client reasonably infonned about the status
of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to comply promptly with
reasonable requests for infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

(b)

By failing to complete work on Client B' s matter and ceasing communications
with Client B, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing a
client in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to keep the client reasonably informed
about the status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

(c)

By keeping the advance fee checks of Client C, Client E, Client F, and others in
his client files, Defendant failed to promptly deposit entrusted funds into a trust
account in violation of Rule 1.15-2(b) and failed to manage entrusted funds in
accordance with Rule 1.15 in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a);

(d)

By failing to complete work on Client C's matter and failing to respond to Client
C's inquiries, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing a
client in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to comply promptly with reasonable
requests for infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

(e)

By failing to provide Client D with invoices reflecting that Defendant had billed
additional fees totaling more than $25,000 in two months, failing to follow up
with Client D about the past bills, and communicating only once with Client D
from May 2015 to January 2016, Defendant failed to reasonably consult with the
client about the means by which the client's objectives were to be accomplished
in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2) and failed to keep the client reasonably infonned
about the status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

(1)

By ceasing to send invoices to his clients, Defendant failed to keep the clients
reasonably infonned about the status of their matters in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3);

(g)

By failing to complete work on Client E's matter, ceasing communications with
Client E, and failing to respond to Client E's inquiries, Defendant failed to act
with reasonable diligence in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3, failed
to keep the client reasonably informed about the status of the matter in violation
of Rule 1.4(a)(3), and failed to comply promptly with reasonable requests for
infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

(h)

By failing to maintain adequate communication with Client F and Client G,
Defendant failed to failed to keep clients reasonably infonned about the status of
their matters in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

(i)

By failing to open proper client records for numerous clients, thereby failing to
ensure a lack of conflict in the representations, Defendant failed to act with
reasonable diligence in the representation of clients in violation of Rule 1.3; and

The North Carolina State Bar v. Douglas J. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 5 of 12

G)

By failing to adequately supervise Harmon, Defendant failed to make reasonable
efforts to ensure that the nonlawyer's conduct was compatible with his
professional obligations in violation of Rule S.3(b).

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The fmdings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 49 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
discipline.

Defendant has been practicing law for 26 years and has no prior professional

3.
During the time period relevant to this matter, Defendant was suffering from
severe depression that contributed to Defendant's misconduct. Defendant was receiving
treatment for his depression throughout the time period described in the complaint. Defendant's
ongoing treatment did not help him perceive that he was becoming increasingly unable to fulfill
his professional obligations or take steps to prevent harm to his clients.
4.
In neglecting the matters of multiple clients, failing to communicate with multiple
clients, and failing to complete multiple matters for which he had been retained, Defendant failed
to fulfill his obligations and duties to his clients. Defendant's conduct caused significant
frustration for these clients and impaired their ability to achieve the goals of their representations
by causing unnecessary delay in their cases. In this way, Defendant's conduct had the potential
to cause significant harm.
S.
Defendant's failure to deposit entrusted funds into his firm's trust account as
required by the trust accounting Rules had the potential to cause significant harm to his clients.
The checks could have been lost or stolen, and, to the extent the firm remained unaware of the
funds the clients had already paid, the clients would not get credit from the firm for those funds.
Each of the checks found in Defendant's files has been properly disposed of such that the clients
did not suffer harm.
6.
There is an absence of any evidence that Defendant intended to harm his clients or
that he exhibited a dishonest or selfish motive.
7.
Defendant has acknowledged his conduct violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct and is remorseful for his actions.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above, the additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

The North Carolina State Bar v. Douglas J. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 6 of 12

I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonus of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumer,ated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors warrant consideration of suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of
the profession; and
(b) Impainuent of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation.
2.
The Hearing Panel concludes that none of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .01 14(w)(2) of the RuIes and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar are present in this
case.
,
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B §.0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) Effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;
(d) Remorse; and
(e) Defendant's degree of experience in the practice of law.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and fmds that a censure,
reprimand, or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the potential significant
harm to clients caused by Defendant's conduct.
5.
Although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to warrant more than a censure,
it does not wan-ant an active suspension of his license.
6.
A stayed suspension of Defendant's law license is wan-anted because entry of an
order imposing less severe discipline wouId fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
misconduct and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters
the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
1.
The law license of Defendant, Douglas J. Tate, is hereby suspended for one year,
effective from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon him. The period of suspension is
stayed for two years as long as Defendant complies and continues to comply with the following
conditions:

The North Carolina State Bar v. Douglas J. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 7 of 12

(a) Within 10 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall provide a copy
of this order to the Clerk of the Supreme Court of South Carolina in connection
with his pending application for admission to the bar of that state and comply with
all directives they issue related to this order or the misconduct at issue in this
order;
(b) Within 30 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall make
arrangements to be evaluated by a psychologist or psychiatrist approved in
advance by the Office of Counsel. The evaluator shall undertake a comprehensive
evaluation, at Defendant's sole expense, to assess whether Defendant has any
physical, mental, psychological, behavioral, cognitive, or emotional condition or
disorder that affects his professional judgment, performance, or competence, and
shall recommend appropriate treatment for any condition or disorder identified;
(c) Within 10 days after the evaluation is completed, Defendant shall provide to the
State Bar a written certification under oath by the evaluating clinician describing
the results of hislher independent comprehensive evaluation of Defendant and
setting forth his/her recommendations regarding treatment. The evaluation must
be completed and the evaluator's certification submitted to the State Bar rio later
than 90 days from the effective date of this order;
(d) Defendant shall comply with all treatment recommendations of the evaluating
clinician and any additional treatment recommendations of his treating clinicians
until such time as a modality of treatment is no longer necessary as determined by
his treating clinician;
(e) Defendant shall provide written releases to the Office of Counsel, authorizing all
clinicians from whom he receives any treatment during the period of stayed
suspension to communicate with the Office of Counsel and to release to the
Office of Counsel records relating to his treatment;
(f) Defendant shall ensure that each clinician from whom he receives any treatment
during the period of stayed suspension generates quarterly written reports to the
State Bar setting forth: (i) a description of Defendant's participation in and
compliance with treatment, (ii) the clinician's opinion as to whether Defendant
has any physical or mental impairment, or other condition or illness, that could
adversely affect his ability to practice law; and (iii) the clinician's
recommendations, if any, regarding ongoing treatment. The reports shall be
provided to the Office of Counsel on January 30, April 30, July 30, and October
30 during the period of stayed suspension. Defendant is responsible for ensuring
that the reports described herein are timely submitted. Defendant shall be solely
responsible for the costs of treatment and any additional charges assessed for
preparation of the quarterly reports;
(g) Defendant shall arrange for an active member in good standing of the North
Carolina State Bar who has been approved by the Office of Counsel and practices
in the county of Defendant's practice to serve as Defendant's practice monitor for
The North Carolina State Bar v. Doug/as J. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 8 ofl2

any North Carolina matters undertaken by Defendant. The monitor shall: (i) meet
with Defendant monthly to review Defendant's North Carolina cases; (ii) provide
supervision to ensure that Defendant timely and completely handles client matters
in North Carolina; and (iii) provide written quarterly reports of this supervision to
the Office of Counsel on the following dates as they occur during the duration of
the stay of the suspension: January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. If
Defendant is not handling any North Carolina matters during any given month,
the practice monitor shall still meet with Defendant for the purpose of certifYing
that Defendant is not handling any North Carolina matters, and the monitor shall
report Defendant's certification to the Office of Counsel in accordance with the
reporting procedure described above. Defendant will be solely responsible for the
cost, if any, charged by the monitor for providing supervision and/or generating
quarterly reports. Failure to ensure that the reports required herein are timely
submitted shall be grounds for lifting the stay and activating the suspension;
(h) Defendant must submit to the Office of Counsel the name of the proposed
monitor within 15 days after the effective date of this order. Upon approval, and
within 30 days after the effective date of this order, Defendant must submit to the
Office of Counsel a letter from the approved monitoring attorney confirming his
or her agreement to perform the duties outlined above. Defendant's failure to
timely submit the name of a proposed monitor will not toll or excuse
noncompliance with Defendant's obligations under this Order to meet monthly
with a monitor and to ensure the monitor provides quarterly reports;
(i) Defendant shall meet at least monthly with the practice monitor, to whom he shall
either (1) certify that he is not currently handling any North Carolina matters or
(2) report the status of all cunent North Carolina clients and provide copies of any
court filings for the monitor's review. Defendant shall provide any other
information or· documentation deemed necessary and requested by the monitor.
Defendant's first meeting with the monitor must occur within 30 days after the
effective date of this order;

G) Should it become necessary to replace the practice monitor, Defendant shall
immediately notify the Office of Counsel and shall provide the name of a
proposed alternate monitor for approval. Defendant's failure to timely submit the
name of a proposed replacement monitor will not toll or excuse noncompliance
with Defendant's obligations under this Order to meet monthly with a monitor
and to ensure the monitor provides quarterly reports;
(k) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current contact information, including his current business and
home addresses (not a P.O. Box) as well as his current telephone number(s), and
shall notify the Bar of any change in address 01' telephone number within 10 days
of such change;
(I) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State Bar

and shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
The North Carolina State Bar v. Douglas J. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 9 oft2

State Bar, including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance
Program, within 15 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
.
communication, whichever is sooner;
(m)Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements, and Defendant shall pay all fees and costs assessed
by the State Bar by the applicable deadline;
(n) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective
date of this Order;
(0) Defendant shall timely pay the costs and administrative fees of this action as

described below; and
(P) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the

United States or of any state or local government during his suspension.
2.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
provided in paragraph l(a) - (n) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x).
3.
If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is
activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law, Defendant
must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he has complied with each of the
following conditions:
(a) Defendant submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order lifting the
stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
(b) Defendant complied with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124 of
the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following the order lifting the stay
and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
(c) Defendant provided written releases to the Office of Counsel, authorizing all
clinicians from whom he received any treatment during the period of active
suspension to communicate with the Office of Counsel and to release to the
Office of Counsel records relating to his treatment;
(d) Defendant continued to comply with any treatment recommendations of his
treating clinician(s) until such time as a modality of treatment is no longer
necessary as determined by his treating clinician;
(e) Defendant demonstrated that, at the time of his petition for reinstatement,
Defendant does not have any physical or mental impairment of other condition or
illness that significantly impairs his professional performance, judgment, or
competence;
The North Carolina State Bar v. Douglas J. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 10 of12

(f) Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of
his current business and home addresses, as well as his current telephone number,
and notified the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within 10 days
of such change;

(g) Defendant responded to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications fi'om the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
IS days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and has participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;
(h) Defendant promptly accepted all certified mail sent to him by the State Bar;
(i) That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment
of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect
from him, and including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;
G) That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in reporting
of such hours, or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;
(k) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during his suspension;
(1) Defendant has paid the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the Secretary of the State
Bar; and
(m)Defendant has complied with any other conditions deemed necessary for
reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel pursuant to the order lifting the stay
of the suspension of Defendant's law license.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary which Defendant shall pay within thilty days of service of the notice of costs
upon Defendant.
5.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct discovered
or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct addressed in this Order.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspension.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Douglas J. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 11 of12

~ig'il(ld~e

day of

(V\.

Chair with the consent of the other he ing
,2017.

I members, this the

~tt

David W. Long, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

~

•

Attorney for Plaintiff

----..
Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

The North Carolina State Bar v. Douglas J. Tate
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 12 of12

