STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA. • .
,.., ;,-

WAKE COUNTY

,"

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF mSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILENO .• IICVSI7149
• ,J . '_'.

THE NORTH CAROLINA .sTATE
BAR,
., -I _ _ ,. _ _ ._ _

~_~"'

-

Petitioner
v,

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

JOHN E, TATE, JR., Attorney,
Respondent

THIS MATTER was considered by the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court
of Wake County upon the tender of surrender of the law license of Jolm E, Tate, Jr. The
State Bar was represented by Jelmifer A, Porter. Jolm E. Tate, Jr. was represented by
Ronald G, Blanchard,
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, Jolm E. Tate, Jr. (hereinafter "Tate"), and the consent of the parties, the
Court makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I,
Tate was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1980 and is, and was
at aU times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina,
subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina,
2,
During aU of the periods relevant hereto, Tate was engaged in the practice
oflaw in Hendersonville, Henderson County, North Carolina.
3,
Tate is aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding
allegations that he misappropriated approximately $120,000,00 of client funds and used
those funds for his personal purposes without authorization to do so from the beneficial
owner of the funds.
4.
Tate desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in North Carolina,
5,
Tate's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, It is not the result of
coercion or duress, Tate is fully aware ofthe implication of submitting his resignation,

6.
Tate aclmowledges that the material facts upon which the investigation is
predicated are true.
7.
Tate has submitted his resignation because he Imows that if disciplinary
charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could not
successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court malces the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
By misappropriating client funds, Tate engaged in criminal acts that
reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in
violation of Rille 8.4(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
2.
Tate misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
3.
The courts of this State have the inherent authority to talce disciplinary
action against attomcys licensed to practice law in N0l1h Carolina.
4.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person ofJohn E. Tate, JI'. and of the
subject matter of this proceeding.
5.

Tate has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
I.
John E. Tate, Jr. is DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North
Carolina. This disbannent is effective 30 days from entry of this order by the co1l11.

2.
Tate shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124.
3.
Tate shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
expiration of at least five (5) years from the date of entry of this order.
4.
Tate's law license shall not be reinstated lmtil he has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125.

5.

The costs of this action are taxed against Tate.

Done and Ordered tllisVday of

~,~

e

Superior Court Judg

CONSENTED TO BY:

J e~i.fer A. Porter
~eputy Counsel, North Carolina State Bar
~~

F

Attorney for Petitioner

~
respondent

f

~~1#-f
6hard

ltEorney for &espondent

,2012.

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY
,--:

,,.

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
,,' FILENO.: IICVSI7149
,.

:.':

'.>~;

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, "
--1' -

Petitioner" .

,-----..

_- .. -_.

AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER OF
LAW LICENSE

v.
JOHN E, TATE, JR., Attorney,
Respondent

John E. Tate, Jr., being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
I. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of sUbmitting my resignation.

3. I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations
that I misappropriated approximately $120,000.00 of client funds and used those funds
for my personal purposes without authorization to do so from the beneficial owner ofthe
funds.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successflilly defend
against them.
Thjs the {} day of February 2012.

~---. Tate, Jr.

-..Lu.,ruo', lJ

HeaJetprJ()

I,
f!.t-tv"l.-,))I
ublic of the County of
,State of North
Carolina, certify that John E. Tate, J~t onally appeared before me this day. was sworn, attested that the
foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing
Affidavit.

~tJlf'U&.14'--~' 2012.

rnmission Expires:-,,-'q-'::.---f.'=!..-""-_

