r'

,

t
. _.

,

-~

-

~

c2<t ( C).6

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRffiVANCECO~TTEE

WAKECOUN"TY

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

0'4010'80'

IN THE MATTER OF

I

ZephY\' R. Teachout
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

RBJ.>RtMAND

On April 14, 20'0'5 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0013(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar1 the prievance Committee condl1cted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it) inqluding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee fopnd probable Cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as '''reasonable caUse to
believe that a 1llember of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary aytion."

I

The rules' provide that after a finding of propable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint artd a hearing before the Disciplinary He!)ring
Commission ~re not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline dejlending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravl\ting or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or[a cens~re to t~e respondent ~tt~r~ey..,

...

.

. A reprrmand IS a wntten :form of dlsclplme more~~hous than art' admOiVtIon ls~ued III
cases m whICn art attorney has VIOlated one or more prOVlSlons of the Rules of ProfeSSIonal
Conduct and *as caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, ofja member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
'rhe Gtevance Committee was of the opinion that a censure IS not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina Stat~ Bar, it i~ ~Q~ my. duty ~o issue. this reprimand, and I am certain: that you will
understand fullY the Spltlt Ill, which tins duty IS performed.
On Fe?rUary 6, 20'0'2 the Indigent Defense Services Commission (IDS) appointed you to"
represent death tow inmate Elri¢o Darnell Fowler (Fowler) in the preparation and filing of a
motion for appropriate relief challenging Fowler'S conviction Of first degree murder and sentence
of .",th.
',pomled to """ '" ,oeond ,h.i< in Fowl,,', ",' ",d IDS .ppointed

YOr "'''

I

I
I
I,
I

!.

91 71b! 2133 3931 6446 5499

,!

Stephen Greenwald, a member of the New York bar was appointed first chait. You and
Greenwald investigated the case and filed a motion for appropriate telieffor Fowler in a timely
manner in .Mecklenburg County Superior Court on Nov. 12,2002.
In December 2002, you moved out of North Carolina. You failed to inform the court and
opposing coUilsel of your new address and contact information, in violation bfRule 8.4(d) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct. On Aug. 12,2004, the court allowed you to withdraw as
Fowler's attorney and new counsel was appointed to represent him.
There :Was no evidence that Fowler's case was prejudiced as a result of your misconduct,
not did your client complain to the State Bar. Your conduct in this matter is also mitigated by
the fact that YQu have no prior discipline and exhibited a cooperative attitude during the Aug. 12,
2004 hearing and toward the Bat;s proceeding.

I

y ou at~e hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. the Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you; and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from' adherehce to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In acco.rdance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State'Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to. any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are, hereby taxed to you.
.J.

(J"- , t J-"¥'~4,-\-":"':" "':>" '~' 2005

Done and ordered, this the Xday Of _ _

I
RB/lr

I

~90

