BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
II DHC 1
V(.iI'

TI-IE NORTH CAROLINA

(

ST~Tl§:- If 7., \~c
Plaintiff

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

SAMUEL F. THOMAS, III, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on April 29, 2011 before a I-Iearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, Steven D. Michael, and
members .T. Michael Booe and Dr. Charles 1. Ganett,.Tr. William N. FalTell, .Tr.
represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant appeared pro se.
Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated facts, and the evidence introduced at the
hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff~ the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
Defendant, Samuel F. Thomas, III (hereinafter "Defendant or Thomas"),
was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 29,2008 and is, and was at all
times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in NOlih Carolina, subject
to the rules, regulations, mld Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
7

3.
During the times relevmlt herein, Defendant actively engaged in the
practice oflaw as ml associate with the finn of Dm'yl G. Davidson, Sr., P.C. (hereinafter
"the firm") which maintained a law office in the city of Statesville, Iredell County, NOlih
Carolina.
4.
Defendmlt, as an associate, was a salaried employee of the film and had no
fee sharing arrangement with the finn. All fees, including those fees generated from
1

Defendant's court appointed clients or from clients developed by Defendant, belonged to
the finn.
5.
In or about February 2010, while employed with the firm, Defendant was
contacted by Criscelda Boyd in regards to a criminal matter.
6.
Ms. Boyd informed by letter Defendant that she would send a retainer
payment to his attention in the form of a $700.00 money order.
7.
Ms. Boyd later sent a retainer payment in the form of a $500.00 money
order made payable to Defendant by letter addressed to Defendant at the office address of
the iirm. The money order was received on Monday, February 22, 2010 and was placed
on the Defendant's desk by the firm's office manager.
8.

Defendant cashed the $500.00 money order on Tuesday, February 23,

2010.
9.
Defendant retained the proceeds of the money order for his own personal
use and benefit. The proceeds ofthe money order were not submitted to the firm as
required by Defendant's employment agreement and the finn's office policy.
10.
Defendant also failed to notify the firm that Ms. Boyd was a client of the
firm as required by office policy.
11.
Defendant's employment with the finn was terminated on Sunday,
February 28, 2010 because of his misappropriation of the money order and the failure to
show Ms. Boyd as client.
12.
Defendant called Mr. Daryl G. Davidson aller receiving the letter of
termination bye-mail and stated that the reason he took the money order was that "I had
to pay bills."
13.
cashed it.

Defendant was an agent of the iirm when he received the money order and

14.

The money order and the proceeds derived there from were the property of

the firm.
15.
Defendant took the money order, which belonged to the finn, and
converted the proceeds to his own personal use and beneiit.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, Samuel F. Thomas, III, and the subject matter.
2

2.
Defendant" s conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), for engaging in conduct
in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his actions as
follows:
a.

By misappropriating funds belonging to the finn, Defendant committed a
criminal act that reflects adversely on the lawyer's honesty,
trustwOlihiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule
8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4 (c); and

b.

By failing to notify the firm that he had received $500.00 from Ms. Boyd,
Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fi-aud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments presented at the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the
Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant was deceptive in his response to the State Bar's Letter of
Notice in this matter. The Defendant indicated to the Bar that he "attempted to repay the
office by money order for the full amount of $500.00 with a letter of apology and
remorse" when in fact he only tendered $200.00 to the firn1.
2.
Defendant advised the Bar in his response to the letter of notice that he
would like to educate young attorneys "about the temptations that come about", clearly
demonstrating his intent and knowledge of wrongdoing at the time of the
misappropriation.
3.
After Defendant was terminated for the misappropnatlon, rather than
returning the $500.00 to the finn, he used a portion of the money to get his own law
office stalted.
4.
The firm received notice of an initial claim for unemployment benefits
from the Employment Security Commission by Defendal1t who was seeking
unemployment benefits. The finn responded to this claim advising that Defendant was
terminated for embezzlement fi'om the finn. Defendant denied malting a claim for
unemployment benefits with the Employment Security Commission.
5.
After Defendal1t was terminated fi'om the firm, the firm received calls
from various individuals looking for Defendant. One caller told the office manger she
had retained Defendant to handle a traffic ticket for her husbal1d and that she had paid

3

him at the courthouse. The office manager had neither recollection of this client nor any
record of this client.
6.
Members of the local bar and local judicial officers were aware of
Defendant's termination from the finn and the circumstances surrounding the
termination.

7.

Defendant's misconduct had a negative impact on the operation of the

firm.
8.
Defendant refused to aclmowledge the wrongful and intentional nature of
his misconduct, characterizing his conduct at various times as "a poor decision", "a very
unwise decision", and "a foolish mistake".
9.

Defendant failed to appreciate the seriousness of his misconduct.

lO.
Defendant has sufficient life experiences and experience in the practice of
law to tmderstand that taking property that does not belong to you is wrongful and there
are consequences for such misconduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and upon the evidence and arguments presented at
the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DlSCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. Tn addition, the I-Iearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:

a.

A dishoncst or seltish motive;

b.

Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of the conduct; and

c.

Sufficient experience in the practice of law to lmow that his conduct was
wrongful and to understand the nature and consequences of it.

2.
The Hearing Pm1el has also considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .Oll4(w)(l) and (2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Cm·olina
State Bar and concludes thc following factors wmTant disbarment of Defendant:
a.

Circumstances reflecting the Defendm1t's lack of honesty, trustwolihiness,
or integrity in addition to the misappropriation;

b.

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the public's perception of the
profession;
4

c.

Effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties, specifically his employer;

d.

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and

e.

Misappropriation or conversion of assets to which the Defendant was not
entitled.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser forms of sanctions available to
it and finds that disbarmcnt is the only appropriate discipline in this case, for the
following reasons:
a.

Defendant committed misconduct involving theft and deceit. Misconduct
involving theft and deceit is among the most serious that an attorney can
commit. Such misconduct demonstrates that the offending attorney is not
trustworthy. The public is entitled to have trustworthy attorneys and
should be able to assume that all lawyers are trustWOlihy;

b.

Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than disbannent would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant ,
would be inconsistent with discipline issued in other cases involving
similar misconduct, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and
the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the North
Carolina State Bar; and

c.

The protection of the public and the legal profession reqUIres that
Defendant not be permitted to resume the practice of law until he
demonstrates the following: that he has reformed; that he understands his
obligations to his clients, the public, and the legal profession; and tl1at
pellnitting him to practice law will not be detrimental to the public or the
integrity and standing of the legal profession or the administration of
justice. Disbarment requires an attorney to make such a showing before
he or shc may be reinstated.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of
Fact RegaTding Discipline, and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing conm1ittee
hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant. Samuel F. Thomas, III, is hereby DISBARRED from the
practice of law in North Carolina.
)
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina Statc Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.

5

3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provIsIOns contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
The costs and all administrative fees of this action are taxed to Defendant.
Defendant must pay the costs and administrative fees within 30 days of service of the
statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar.
Signed;l:y the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
thisthe 7?:4Iayof"Tu"-"'G
.
2011.

~-U

en D. Michael, Chair
Disciplinary I-Iearing Panel

6

