BEFORE THE
!NARY HEARING COMMISSION

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT
ORDER or DISCIPLINE

v.
BRADLEY S. TISDALE, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair, and members Irvin W. Hankins, III
and Karen Ray pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0114(11}. Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant,
Bradley S. Tisdale ('Tisdale") was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Both Plaintiff and
Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this
Consent Order and to the discipline imposed. Tisdale has freely and voluntarily
stipulated to the foregoing findings offact and consents to the conclusions oflaw and
entry of the Order of Discipline. Tisdale freely and voluntarily waives any and all right
to appeal the entry of this consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations offact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

l.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Bradley S. Tisdale ("Tisdale"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 2003, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Tisdale was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Fl'anklin, Macon County, North Carolina.
4.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
5.

Tisdale's law practice included closing real estate transactions.

6.
From about November 2003 through January 2010,'Tisdale utilized First
Choice Closing, Inc. (FCC), owned and operated by N.F., a non-attorney, to prepare for
and to conduct real estate closings for him. Tisdale gave N.F. signatory authority for his
real estate trust account.
7.
closings.

N.F. prepared all documents for the closings and wrote the checks for the

8.
Tisdale reviewed the closing documents, reviewed the title searches,
signed all title certifications, and participated in some of the closings.
9.
Tisdale was generally not involved in the day-to-day operations pertaining
to the real estate closings or to the real estate trust account. Tisdale did sometimes
respond to specific inquiries from lenders or clients regarding their closings.
10.
Tisdale did not conduct monthly or quatterly reconciliations of his real
estate trust account.
II.
Tisdale did periodically ask N.F. for monthly bank statements and
quarterly trust account reconciliations.
12.
N.F. showed him documents purporting to be balanced monthly bank
statements and quarterly reconciliations of the trust account but Tisdale did not check the
documents for accuracy.
13.
During the time N.F. was handling Tisdale's real estate trust account, N.F.
took entrusted funds to which she was not entitled from the real estate trust account.
14.
During this time, N.F. failed to disburse entrusted client funds to the
appropriate recipients, including but not lim ited to failing to pay title insurance
premiums.
IS.
Dul'ing the time N.F. was handling the real estate t!'Ust account, the bank
deducted bank service charges, wire transfer fees, and check charges from the balance in
the real estate trust account. Tisdale did not deposit his own funds or other non-entrusted
funds into the real estate hust account to cover these deductions by the bank during that
time.

2

16.
Because Tisdale did not adequately supervise N.F., her handling of
entrusted funds, or her reconciliations of his real estate trust account, he did not know
that N.F. was not making the disbursements of entrusted funds that were shown on the
HUD-J Settlement Statements, did not know that the bank deducted bank service
charges, wire transfer fees, and check charges from the balance in the trust account, did
not know that N.F. embezzled entrusted funds from the real estate trust account, and did
not know that it was necessary for him to deposit his own funds or other non-entrusted
funds into the trust account to cover such deductions.
.
Based upon the consent ofthe parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By delegating the duties of preparing and conducting real estate
transactions and the handling of funds for the real estate transactions such
that he did not know that N.F. was not making the disbursements shown
on HUD-l Settlement Statements, did not know that the bank was
deducting fees from the entrusted funds in the account, did not know that
it was necessary for him to deposit his own or other non-entrusted funds
into the account to cover the bank fees, did not know that funds were not
being deposited into the account to cover such fees, and did not know that
N.F. was embezzling entrusted funds from the trust account, Defendant
failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure her conduct was compatible
with his professional obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(b) and failed to
properly maintain and disburse entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.152(a) and (m); and

(b)

By delegating to N. F. the responsibility to maintain required trust
accounting records, including delegating to N.F. the responsibility to
perform monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his real estate trust
account, and by failing to adequately supervise N.F. therein, Defendant
failed to conduct the requisite monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his
trust account in violation of Rule U5-3(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the
consent orthe parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following

3

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Tisdale failed to make reasonable effOlts to ensure that his nonlawyer
assistant's conduct was compatible with his professional obligations in the provision of
legal services to his clients in real estate transactions and the handling of entrusted funds
in the real estate trust account for six years.
2.
Although Tisdale occasionally spot checked a closing file, he was not
involved sufficiently in the day to day preparation for and conducting of real estate
transactions to know of, or to prevent, N.F. 's failure to properly disburse funds for
closings.
3.
Although Tisdale had established a system for reconciliations of his real
estate trust account, these measures were not adequate to ensure compliance with his
professional obligations.
4.
Tisdale's excessive delegation without adequate supervision created
circumstances that enabled N.F. to embezzle entrusted funds.
5.
Tisdale took prompt and appropriate action when he became aware of
N.F. 's misconduct.
6.
Tisdale used his own funds to reimburse clients whose entrusted funds
were embezzled by N.F. and to reimburse the trust account.
7.

Tisdale has reported N.F. to the police.

8.
Tisdale voluntarily self-reported the matter to the State Bar and has fully
cooperated with the State Bar's review of his trust account and practice.
9.
The failure to timely disburse title insurance premiums created the
potential for significant harm should a title claim arise after the expiration of the title
commitment, and potentially interfered with Tisdale's clients' goal of obtaining title
insurance.
10.

Tisdale has no prior discipline.

II.
Tisdale was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar by comity in 2003.
Previously, Tisdale had been licensed to practice law in Tennessee in 1987 and engaged
in the practice oflaw in Tennessee until he moved to North Carolina in 2003.
12.
Tisdale has indicated that he experienced personal or emotional problems
during the time period at issue.

4

13.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Ba,ed on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .01l4(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
(a)

Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation; and

(b)

Effect, and potential effect, of Defendant's conduct on third parties.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the filctors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OlI4(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State
Bar and concludes that the factors present here do not require disbarment in this case.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. I B § .OI14(w)(3) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;

(b)

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution;

(c)

Defendant engaged in mUltiple offenses;

(d)

Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;

(e)

Effect of personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;

(f)

Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

(g)

Defendant's remorse;

(h)

Good character and reputation; and

5

(i)

Defendant has practiced law for about 25 years.

4.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted
funds betrays a vital trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal
profession.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing all admonition, reprimand 01'
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential hann to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness ofthe violations committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension with conditions is necessary and sufficient to adequately protect the
public.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short ofa stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Pancl enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant, Bradley S. Tisdale, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for two years, effective 30 days from service of this Order upon Tisdale.

2.

Administrative fees and costs are taxed to Defendant.

3.
The two-year suspension is stayed for a pedod of two years as long as
Tisdale complies, and continues to comply during the pedod ofthe stay, with the
following conditions:
a.

Tisdale pays all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within 30 days after service ofthe
statement of costs on him.

b.

Each month Tisdale shall provide the State Bar with the three-way
reconciliation of all attorney trust accounts to which he has access
using the reconciliation method described in the State Bar
Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook on pages 35-40 (reference is to
the edition last revised in May 2011). Tisdale shall provide the
three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with
6

funds in his trust account during that month, ledger for any
personal funds maintained in the trust accollnt for bank or credit
card fees, his trust account ledger, and the bank statement,
cancelled checks, and deposit slips for each month. These
documents are due on the 15 th day of the following month -for
example, the three-way reconciliation for the month of January is
due on February 15;
c.

Tisdale will be the only signatory on each attorney trust account
and on each operating account to which he has access. Tisdale will
provide docllmentation showing he is the sole signatory on these
accounts no later than thirty (30) days from the effective date of
this order. Tisdale must sign all instruments disbursing funds from
or depositing funds into any trust and operating account(s) to
which he has access;

d.

Tisdale shall not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions
of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the
stayed suspension;

e.

Tisdale shall respond to all State Bar requests for infOlmation as
required by Rule 8.I(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by
the earlier ofthe deadline stated in the communication or within 30
days of receipt;

f.

Tisdale shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements; and

g.

Tisdale shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of his current home and business street (not
P.O. Box) addresses and telephone numbers.

If Tisdale fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out in
4.
this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted
as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
5.
If the stay ofthe suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the DHC may enter an Order imposing such conditions as it deems necessary
for the reinstatement of Tisdale's license at the end of the suspension. Furthermore,
Tisdale must have complied with each of the following conditions precedent to
reinstatement before he can be reinstated to the active practice of law:
a. Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date of the
order activating his suspension;

7

b. Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules on a timely basis;
c. Paid any outstanding disciplinary administrative fees and costs; and
d. Within 15 days of the effective date of order activating the suspension
Defendant shall have provided the State Bar with an address and telephone
number at which clients seeking return of files could communicate with
Defendanl and obtain such files, and Defendant shall have promptly
returned all files to clients upon request.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction orlhis
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

1./~ned b

e Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

~ day of~L:".~~\-_ _ ' 2013.

Walter E. Brock, Jr.
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

ennifer A. Porter
Counsel for Plaintiff

Date

flLfL-

Alan M. Schneider
Counsel for Defendant

Dale

Date

8

/'

