STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
CONSENT TRANSFER TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

BRET A. TOMITS, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Colon C. Willoughby, Jr., Chair, Harriet T. Smalls and Dr.
Cynthia Payne pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IE § .0118 of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by
Brian P.D. Oten. Defendant, Bret A. Tomits, represented himself. Defendant waives
fonnal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the findings of fact
and conclusions of law recited in this order and to Defendant's transfer to disability
inactive status. By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant waives any right to
appeal this consent order or challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel hereby finds, by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the autllOrity granted it in Chapter 84 oftlle General Statutes of North
Carolina and the mles and regulations oftlle North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Bret A. Tomits ("Tomits" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 24,2001. At all times referred to herein, Tomits
was subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws oftlle State of North Carolina.
3.
During part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Tomits was engaged
in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, NOlih Carolina.

4.
During part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Tomits was
administratively suspended from the active practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina
pursuant to the Order of Suspension dated March 10, 2009 for failing to submit payment
for membership dues for the year 2008, failing to certify his compliance with the
mandatory Interest on Lawyers' Trust Accounts ("10LTA") program, and failing to
comply with Continuing Legal Education requirements for the year 2007.
5.
conditions.

Beginning in or around 2002, Tomits suffered from various psychological

6.
While undergoing treatment for the aforementioned conditions, Tomits
became dependent upon one or more ofthe medications prescribed for his psychological
condition(s).
7.
While attempting to overcome his dependency upon prescription
medication, Tomits became dependent upon alcohol.
8.
In early 2008, Tomits entered a rehabilitation hospital in Ohio, where he
received treatment for prescription drug dependency, anxiety, and alcoholism.
9.
In 2008, Tomits wound down his law practice because he believed his
psychological condition(s), combined with the high-stress nature of the legal profession,
impaired his ability to continue practicing law.
10.
In January 2009, Tomits again sought treatment for his various
psychological conditions. Dr. Devendra Shall, a psychiatrist practicing in Charlotte,
accepted Tomits as a patient and diagnosed Tomits with social anxiety disorder, panic
disorder with agoraphobia, and recunent major depression.
11.

Tomits has maintained his treatment with Dr. Shall since January 2009.

12.
It is Dr. Shah's professional opinion that Tomits is disabled as defined by
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar in that Tomits's mental
condition significantly impairs his professional judgment, perfonuance, or competence as
an attorney.
13.

Tomits consents to being transfened to disability inactive status.

14.
Tomits has sufficient capacity to understand the consequences of
consenting to the tenus of this order.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Bret A. Tomits, and the subject matter of this proceeding.

2.
The panel has reviewed the report and materials submitted by Tomits's
treating psychiatrist, Dr. Devendra Shall. In light ofTomits's personal privacy interests,
these materials should be sealed but stored in the DHC file maintained for tlus case. The
sealed file may be unsealed as necessary to consider any petition Tomits may
subsequently file seeking to return to active status.
3.
There is clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that Tomits is disabled
within the meaning of27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0103(19).
4.

Tomits should be transferred to disability inactive status with the State

5.

Tomits has voluntarily consented to being transferred to disability inactive

Bar.
status.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is hereby
ORDERED:
1.

Bret A. Tomits is transfelTed to disability inactive status.

2.
Tomits shall not practice law in North Carolina until he is no longer
disabled and has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State
Bar pursuant to the procedures set out in 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0125(c).
3.
The report and materials submitted by Dr. Devendra Shall in this matter
are hereby sealed. The sealed documents shall be stored in the DHC file maintained by
the Clerk of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and may be unsealed as necessary to
consider any petition Tomits may subsequently file seeking to return to active status.

}J.l...1i Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the

:1'-1'

day of

ffi.wJ.m

,2010.
~)(""/.
.

/?
__0-0<.

,
r<·,

.'
(...-t-./p:.-

C. Colon Willoughby, Jr., Gpair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel - CONSENTED TO BY:

B~

Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Bret A. Tomits
Defendant

