BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
18G0712

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
ALLEN TORRES,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 25,2018 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. The grievance was
assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs
investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented Ms. I. L. in a domestic action against her husband Mr. R. L. Mr. L. was
represented by Attorney P. M. You prepared and notarized a power of attorney on July 24, 2015
wherein Ms. L.'s father, S. G., was the principal and Ms. L.'s friend, E.E, was the agent. Mr. L.
believed that Ms. L. planned to transfer property to her father to conceal assets from Mr. L.

In 2017, Attorney M. sent Request for Production of Documents to you and your client.
Request Number 11 requested: "Any Power of Attorney forms executed by you or your Father in
which either of you would have granted your Power of Attorney to another person since January
1, 2015." You and Ms. L. responded: "No power of attorney exist [sic] and none have been
signed since January 1,2015."
You submitted a false response to the request for production of documents. The response
denied the existence of a power of attorney which you prepared and Mr. S.G. signed on July 24,
2015. In your response to this grievance, you indicated that you did not have "any obligation to
provide Mr. McArdle any documentation from third parties just because he suspected the parties
involved in the litigation were plotting something he considered nefarious." You did not object
to the relevance of the request. Instead, you misrepresented the truth in response to the discovery
request. The Grievance Committee found that your failure to respond truthfully to the Request
for Production of Documents violated Rule 8AC c) and Cd) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depm1 from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

DMllb

I i-t:L day of

N ~~P..J..4.~

,2018.

