NORTH CAROLINA

DEC 2012

WAKE COUNTY

FILEODHC

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,
v.
C. GARY TRIGGS,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

BEFORE THE
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
11 DHC 9

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter was heard on July 26-27, 2012 and October 25, 2012 by a hearing panel of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair; Fred M.
Morelock; and, Percy L. Taylor. Barry S. McNeill, Deputy Counsel, represented the Plaintiff,
the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant represented himself. Based upon the stipulated facts
and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.

Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, C. Gary Triggs ("defendant" or "Triggs"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 19, 1973, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney
at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina,
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
3.
During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, defendant was
engaged in the private practice of law with a law office located in the town of Morganton, Burke
County, North Carolina. Defendant's present law office is located in the town of Hildebran,
Burke County, North Carolina.
4.
Beginning in approximately 2000 and continuing to the present, defendant has been
engaged in the private practice oflaw in the name of C. Gary Triggs, P.A.

Dorothea A. Anderson
5.
Dorothea A. Anderson was injured in an automobile accident on August 12,2005
and retained defendant to represent her in a personal injury action.
6.
On December 13, 2006, the insurance claims supervisor wrote to defendant
indicating that the adjuster had made numerous attempts to obtain an update on Ms. Anderson's
injuries since July 2006, but had not "received the professional courtesy of a call, letter or
otherwise from [defendant] or someone from [defendant's] office." Defendant made a
handwritten notation on the letter asking his paralegal to provide him an update so he could
respond.
7.
On June 11,2008, the insurance company claims representative requested
documentation from defendant for Ms. Anderson's medical bills. The letter indicated that the
representative had made "multiple requests for this documentation with no response." Another
handwritten notation by defendant on the letter requested his paralegal to contact Ms. Anderson
and "make sure we send the med[ical] reports. Ifwe don't have then request them."
8.
A July 2, 2008 letter from a mediator to defendant indicated that the mediator had
unsuccessfully attempted to contact defendant on several occasions to let defendant know that
the insurance company claims representative was interested in resolving Ms. Anderson's claim
through mediation.
9.
Defendant replied to the mediator on July 7,2008 confirming Ms. Anderson's
interest in mediation and suggesting several attorneys for mediation.
10. On July 29,2008, the insurance company claims representative wrote to defendant
restating her April 3, 2008 offer to settle Ms. Anderson's claim for $6,070. A handwritten
notation on the letter by defendant directed his paralegal to copy Ms. Anderson with the letter for
her comment, and requested the paralegal to "please stay on top of this so we can get it settled
for [Ms. Anderson]. Be sure to mark SOL [statute of limitations] date on system."
11. Defendant had a system established within his office by which flies were assigned
to a paralegal to ensure that the statute of limitations was marked and the files would be handled
in a timely fashion.
12. A handwritten notation by defendant's legal assistant to defendant dated August 4,
2008 noted Ms. Anderson's medical bills and that the legal assistant had telephoned Ms.
Anderson to leave a message asking if Ms. Anderson had any other bills. Another handwritten
notation that same date by the legal assistant noted that Ms. Anderson had returned the telephone
call and reported that she did not have any other medical bills. The handwritten notations did not
mention discussion of the settlement offer by the insurance company.
13. Ms. Anderson denied being informed by defendant or defendant's employees of the
insurance company's settlement offer or mediation overture. Defendant produced no
documentation that he or his employees informed Ms. Anderson of the settlement offer or
mediation interest by the insurance company. The panel finds Ms. Anderson's testimony to be
credible.
-2-

14.

Ms. Anderson's claim was never settled with the insurance company or mediated.

15. Defendant did not file Ms. Anderson's personal injury action within the three year
statute oflimitations (August 12, 2008 deadline).
16. Ms. Anderson testified that over the course of the four years after she retained
defendant, she made numerous calls to defendant and his office to check on the status of the
personal injury action, but defendant never returned her calls or responded to her messages.
Other than the handwritten notations referenced in Paragraph 12 above, defendant produced no
documentation that he or his employees responded to Ms. Anderson's status inquiries. The panel
finds Ms. Anderson's testimony to be credible.
17. On March 10, 2011, Ms. Anderson requested that defendant provide her all of her
file by March 17, 2011. Defendant did not comply with Ms. Anderson's request for her file until
August 11,2011, approximately five (5) months later.
Gregory Allen Oates

18. Defendant represented Gregory Allen Oates ("Greg Oates") in a domestic and
parental rights action in Burke County District Court.
19. On June 18, 2010, defendant filed on behalf of Greg Oates a responsive pleading to
a Summons and Petition to Terminate Parental Rights in Burke County District Court.
20. In support of the June 18,2010 filing, defendant attached a verification which
originally had been executed by Greg Oates's father ("William M. Oates") on July 8, 2008 in
connection with a motion to intervene by Greg Oates's parents in the custody action between
Greg Oates and his ex-wife.
21. The verification attached to defendant's June 18,2010 filing was not executed by
Greg Oates.
22. The signatory to the verification ("William M. Oates") did not appear before the
notary public and sign the document on the date the verification was purportedly executed.
23. Defendant's paralegal, without the knowledge of defendant, altered the date on the
verification from July 8, 2008 to June 18, 2010, altered the date on which the Notary Public
purportedly notarized the signature from July 8, 2008 to June 18,2010, and altered the date of
the expiration of the Notary Public's certification from November 3, 2008 to November 3, 2013.
24. Following an investigation by the Notary Enforcement Section of the North
Carolina Secretary of State, defendant's paralegal was found to have notarized a document
without the personal appearance ofthe principal in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § IOB-60(c)(I),
as well as having failed to administer an oath or affirmation in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. §
IOB-3(2)(14). As a result, the notary public commission of defendant's paralegal was suspended
for four (4) months.

-3-

25. On July 27, 2010, the State Bar opened grievance file number 10G0722 and sent
defendant a Letter of Notice requiring his response to allegations about the false notarization.
Defendant received the Letter of Notice on or about August 11,2010.
26. In his September 17,2010 response to the Letter of Notice and hearing testimony,
defendant stated that upon learning of the mistaken verification attached to the filed pleading,
defendant telephoned his opposing counsel, Mr. Jonathan L. Jones of Morganton, North
Carolina, "who had not noticed the problem and advised him of what had occurred."
27. Mr. Jones testified that during the telephone call referenced in Paragraph 28 above,
defendant only mentioned that Greg Oates had changed his mind and had decided not to contest
the termination of his parental rights. According to Mr. Jones' recollection, it was not until after
defendant received the Letter of Notice from the State Bar that defendant informed Mr. Jones of
the false notarization and of the fact that the signature on the verification did not belong to Greg
Oates.
28. In his September 17, 2010 response to the Letter of Notice and testimony, defendant
stated he did not believe at the time that it was inappropriate to utilize pre-signed verifications,
without the person's personal appearance and oath before the notary public on the date so
notarized, provided that the person reviewed the documents prior to filing.
Nora Helen Sparks
29. Nora Helen Sparks (formerly Helen Williams) ("Ms. Sparks") retained defendant to
represent her in a domestic relations matter with her estranged husband (Larry Williams) ("Mr.
Williams").
30. Ms. Sparks paid defendant $3,500 on July 11,2006, $250 on October 25, 2006, and
$2,500 on September 4, 2008.
31. On April 2, 2007, defendant filed and served on Mr. Williams a Civil Summons and
complaint seeking divorce, equitable distribution, injunctive relief, spousal support and alimony,
and attorneys' fees in Williams v. Williams, No. 07-CVD-557 (Caldwell County District Court).
32. On May 8, 2007, the presiding judge granted Ms. Sparks exclusive temporary
possession of her vehicle; prohibited Mr. Williams from having contact with Ms. Sparks except
through legal counsel; enjoined Mr. Williams from selling or disposing of any marital property;
and scheduled a hearing for May 16, 2007.
33. On May 23, 2007, the court continued the prior temporary order in effect with
certain modification, including a requirement that specified funds be held in an escrow account
pending further order.
34. On July 17,2007, the court directed Ms. Sparks to file affidavits for equitable
distribution and post-separation support by August 31, 2007, and Mr. Williams to file his
affidavits by October 1,2007.
35. On October 22, 2007, the court dismissed Ms. Sparks' action (No. 07-CVD-557)
without prejudice because neither Ms. Sparks nor defendant appeared for the scheduled court
-4-

hearing and Ms. Sparks had not filed affidavits by the August 31,2007 deadline established by
the court.
36. On October 26, 2007, defendant filed a Motion for New Trial pursuant to
N. C. R. Civ. P. 59, asserting that he had forwarded to the court a notice of his conflict with the
hearing scheduled for Monday, October 22, 2007, and that Ms. Sparks' failure to file her
affidavits by the August 31, 2007 deadline was "an inadvertence due to change of staff within
the office of the Plaintiff amounting to excusable negligent [sic]." On November 29, 2007, Mr.
Williams' attorney filed a motion to dismiss Ms. Sparks' Rule 59 motion and to disburse funds.
37. Defendant's Rule 59 motion and Mr. Williams' motion to disburse funds (matters
pending in No. 07-CVD-557) were scheduled for hearing on December 10, 2007, but on
December 19, 2007 the hearing was continued until January 7, 2008.
38. Defendant's law office sent a notice to Ms. Sparks on January 1, 2008 notifYing her
of the January 7, 2008 hearing.
39. Ms. Sparks appeared at the January 7,2008 scheduled court hearing but defendant
did not attend. As a result, the court ordered the escrowed funds disbursed to Mr. Williams and
denied defendant's Rule 59 motion.
40. On April 20, 2009, Ms. Sparks notified defendant that she was terminating their
attorney-client relationship and she asked defendant to refund her retainer and return her file.
41. Ms. Sparks testified that Defendant did not comply with her request for her file.
Defendant produced no documentation that he or his employees responded to Ms. Sparks'
request. The panel finds Ms. Sparks' testimony to be credible.
Ronald F. Dodson

42. Ronald F. Dodson, who resided in Ohio, retained defendant in October of 1998 to
represent him on speeding and driving while impaired ("DWI") charges (Burke County case no.
98CR8967).
43.

Mr. Dodson delivered to defendant an initial fee of $500.

44.

Mr. Dodson's case was scheduled for hearing on March 24, 1999.

45. Mr. Dodson testified that defendant did not notify him that his case was scheduled
for hearing. Defendant produced no documentation that he or his employees notified Mr.
Dodson. The panel fmds Mr. Dodson's testimony to be credible.
46.

When the case was called, defendant was not present.

47.

On March 29, 1999 the court issued an order for Mr. Dodson's arrest.

48.

Mr. Dodson assumed that defendant had resolved his speeding and DWl charges.

-5-

49. In 2009, Mr. Dodson learned for the first time that there was a "hold" on his Ohio
driver's license from the State of North Carolina because of the order for arrest.
50. Beginning in September of2009, Mr. Dodson telephoned defendant repeatedly to
inquire about the status of the charges.
51. Mr. Dodson also wrote to defendant in February of 20 I 0 inquiring about the status
of the charges.
52. Mr. Dodson testified that defendant did not respond to his calls and did not timely
respond to his February 2010 letter. Defendant produced no documentation that he or his
employees responded to Mr. Dodson. The panel finds Mr. Dodson's testimony to be credible.
53. On July 22, 2010, Mr. Dodson filed a grievance against defendant with the State
Bar, grievance file no. 10G0694.
54. Defendant did not respond to Mr. Dodson's February 2010 letter until August 18,
2010, after defendant received a Letter of Notice from the State Bar in grievance file no.
10G0694.
Michael and Susie Schoenen
55. Michael A. Schoenen and Susie D. Schoenen, residents of North Carolina, retained
defendant to represent them in a personal injury action arising from an automobile accident
which occurred in Tennessee on August 8, 2004.
56.

Kevin Wynkoop of Maryland was the driver of the other vehicle.

57. Because Mr. Wynkoop's vehicle was uninsured, the Schoenens' claim was handled
by the Maryland Automobile Insurance Fund ("MAIF") and MAIF's Claims Adjuster Daniel
O'Neil.
58.

Tennessee has a one-year statute oflimitations for personal injury actions.

59. Defendant met with Mr. and Mrs. Schoenen on August 26, 2004 and advised them
that he did not practice in Tennessee but that he had handled civil matters in federal court in
Tennessee.
60.

Defendant offered to contact the insurance company to seek a resolution.

61. Defendant also advised the Schoenens that local Tennessee counsel could be
arranged iflitigation became necessary or, alternatively, defendant could file an action in North
Carolina and force removal or a jurisdiction challenge.
62. Defendant assured the Schoenens that he would obtain the accident report and
witness statements.
63. On November 10, 2004, defendant notified Mr. O'Neil that the Schoenens had
retained him and asked the adjuster to contact him to discuss resolution.
-6-

64. The Schoenens provided defendant documentation of Mrs. Schoenen's medical bills
and records. On June 30, 2005, defendant forwarded the documentation to Mr. O'Neil at MAIF
and copied Mrs. Schoenen.
65. Between July of2005 and September of2005, defendant telephoned Mr. O'Neil on
several occasions about the possibility of settling the Schoenens' claim.
66. Defendant did not file or seek to have filed a complaint in Tennessee within the
one-year Tennessee statute of limitations.
67. On September 8,2005, Mr. O'Neil advised defendant that no settlement would be
forthcoming given the expiration of the one-year Tennessee statute oflimitations.
68. On September 19,2005, defendant sent Mr. O'Neil a letter confirming their
conversation and informing Mr. O'Neil that defendant would be filing an action immediately,
including against MAIF for "bad faith dealing."
69. When the Schoenens did not receive any status updates from defendant in late 2005,
in March of2006 the Schoenens scheduled an appointment to meet with defendant.
70. Mrs. Schoenen testified that between March 2006 and February 2007, defendant
represented to the Schoenens that he continued to negotiate with MAIF on settling their claim.
The panel fmds Mrs. Schoenen's testimony to be credible.
71. MAIF received no communications from defendant after the telephone
communication between Mr. O'Neil and defendant on September 8, 2005 and defendant's letter
of September 19,2005 to Mr. O'Neil.
72. Defendant's representations to the Schoenens that he continued to negotiate with
MAIF were false, and defendant knew the representations were false when he made them.
73. Mrs. Schoenen testified that defendant never notified or informed the Schoen ens
that he had failed to file a complaint on their behalf in Tennessee within the applicable one-year
Tennessee statute oflimitations. The panel finds Mrs. Schoenen's testimony to be credible.
74. During the summer of2007, Mrs. Schoenen made numerous inquiries of defendant
about the status of their complaint and expressed concern about the impending North Carolina
three year statute oflimitations.
75.

Defendant cancelled several scheduled appointments with Mrs. Schoenen.

76. Defendant advised Mrs. Schoenen that the Schoenens should file an action in Burke
County Superior Court against Mr. Wynkoop, the Maryland defendant driver, in the hope of
forcing him to assert a statute of limitations defense.
77. Defendant did not file the Schoenens' complaint in Burke County Superior Court
until October 18,2007, outside the North Carolina three-year statute oflimitation.

-7-

78. Mrs. Schoenen testified that defendant never notified or informed the Schoenens
that he had failed to file a complaint on their behalf in Burke County Superior Court within the
applicable three-year North Carolina statute of limitations. The panel finds Mrs. Schoenen's
testimony to be credible.
79.

Defendant did not provide the Schoenens a copy ofthe complaint and summons.

80. Mrs. Schoenen repeatedly attempted to schedule an appointment with defendant in
January and February 2008.
81. After cancelling several ofthe appointments, defendant met with Mrs. Schoenen on
March 12, 2008.
82. Defendant told Mrs. Schoenen that he would have to serve Mr. Wynkoop by
publication.
83. On June 3, 2008, Mrs. Schoenen forwarded to defendant by facsimile Mr.
Wynkoop's address information.
84.
otherwise.

Defendant did not serve the complaint upon Mr. Wynkoop by publication or

85. On August 3, 2008, the Schoenens filed a claim with their own insurance company,
Farmers Insurance Exchange ("Farmers").
86. Mrs. Schoenen attempted to schedule an appointment with defendant on September
8, 2008 and inquired about the status of their claim.
87. Farmers sent to Mrs. Schoenen a copy of its October 6, 2008 letter to defendant
stating that defendant had been unresponsive and stating that the company would not pay the
claim because defendant initiated the civil action after expiration of North Carolina's three-year
statute of limitations.
88. The Schoenens contacted defendant about their case by facsimile on March 9, 2009
and again on August 5, 2009. In the August 2009 facsimile, Mrs. Schoenen inquired about the
status oftheir case, complained about receiving collection telephone calls, and mentioned that
the Schoenens had contacted the North Carolina State Bar.
89. Defendant telephoned the Schoenens the next day (March 10, 2009) and "promised
to get [their matter] settled."
90. Defendant took no further action and had no further communication with the
Schoenens, although they attempted to contact him again in April of 20 1O.
91. In May of2010, defendant encountered the Schoenens at a restaurant and once
again promised to make an appointment the following day so they could "get a settlement."
92.

Defendant cancelled several appointments with the Schoenens thereafter.

-8-

David and Pat Greer
93. On October 10,2003, David G. Greer and Pat C. Greer retained defendant to
represent them and their son, Nation Hahn ("Greers"), in an action for personal injury sustained
when Hahn was sprayed by another student, Trevor D. McGuire, with nitric acid.
94. On July 1, 2004, defendant filed the Greers' complaint in Caldwell County Superior
Court against McGuire, his parents, and the Caldwell County Board of Education ("CCBE").
95. At mediation on June 8, 2005, the Greers and the McGuire defendants entered into
a Memorandum of Mediated Settlement reflecting their agreement to dismiss their claims against
one another in exchange for the McGuire defendants' payment of$7,500 to the Greers within 15
days.
96. The Memorandum of Mediated Settlement reflected an impasse as to all issues
between the Greers and CCBE.
97. On June 23, 2005, the attorney for the McGuire defendants forwarded to defendant
the release forms for the Greers to sign and the notice of voluntary dismissal with prejudice,
along with a check to the Greers in the amount of$7,500.
98. On July 7, 2005, the Greers signed the release and the McGuire defendants and the
Greers signed the voluntary dismissal with prejudice.
99. The voluntary dismissal with prejudice reflected dismissal of the Greers' claims
against CCBE.
100. David Greer testified that defendant did not inform the Greers that the voluntary
dismissal would dismiss their claims against the McGuire defendants, as well as CCBE. The
panel finds Mr. Greer's testimony to be credible.
101. The voluntary dismissal with prejudice was filed on July 8, 2005.
102. David Greer testified that defendant never notified the Greers that their lawsuit
against CCBE was dismissed or that defendant would need to seek to set aside the dismissal in
order to pursue the lawsuit against CCBE. The panel fmds Mr. Greer's testimony to be credible.
103. On August 9, 2005, defendant sent to opposing counsel a consent order which
purported to set aside the dismissal of the Greers' claims against CCBE in order to place the
claims back on the court calender.
104. The proposed consent order was never signed by CCBE or its counsel and was
never filed.
105. David Greer testified that defendant never provided the Greers with a copy of the
proposed consent order. The panel fmds Mr. Greer's testimony to be credible.

-9-

106. On September 22,2005, CCBE's attorney communicated to defendant an offer to
settle the Greers' claims for $7,500 and expressly stated that the offer would expire ifnot
accepted by September 26,2005.
107. David Greer testified that defendant did not recommend settlement with CCBE.
The panel finds Mr. Greer's testimony to be credible.
108. David Greer testified that in response to CCBE's settlement offer of$7,500, David
Greer told defendant that the Greers were willing to settle with CCBE for $9,500. The panel
finds Mr. Greer's testimony to be credible.
109. Defendant communicated to CCBE's attorney the Greers' counteroffer to settle for
$9,500.
110. The counteroffer to settle for $9,500 was communicated to the Greers.
III. David Greer testified that the Greers telephoned defendant's office monthly to
inquire about the status of their lawsuit against the CCBE defendant. The panel finds Mr.
Greer's testimony to be credible.
112. On the occasions when defendant responded to the Greers' telephone calls, he told
them he would get a court date.
113. On June 5, 2008, defendant wrote to CCBE's attorney indicating that the Greers
were still willing to settle for $9,500.
114. On June 9, 2008, CCBE's attorney informed defendant that CCBE was willing to
settle with the Greers for $1,500.
115. David Greer testified that in response to the $1,500 counteroffer from CCBE, he
instructed defendant to schedule a court date. The panel finds Mr. Greer's testimony to be
credible.
116. Defendant took no further action to obtain relief fi'om the voluntary dismissal ofthe
Greers' claims against CCBE and did not schedule a court date.
117. On December 22, 2009, defendant wrote to the CCBE's attorney indicating that the
Greers were still willing to settle for $7,500.
118. David Greer testified that the Greers received a copy of defendant's December 22,
2009 letter to the CCBE's attorney, and believed their claims against CCBE to still be viable.
The panel fmds Mr. Greer's testimony to be credible.
119. David Greer testified that the Greers did not learn about the July 8, 2005 voluntary
dismissal of their claims against CCBE until 2011 when Plaintiffs counsel made them aware of
what had happened. The panel finds Mr. Greer's testimony to be credible.

-10-

David M. Page
120. On November 17,2005, Darrell M. Page ("Mr. Page") was convicted of two
felonious assault charges and sentenced to terms of imprisonment.
121. On June 15, 2006, Mr. Page and Patricia Ann Hutto ("Ms. Hutto"), his girlfriend,
paid defendant $2,500 to prepare and file a post-conviction Motion for Appropriate Relief
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 15A-1415.
122. Ms. Hutto delivered the transcript ofMr. Page's trial to defendant.
123. On January 22,2007, defendant sent a letter to Mr. Page stating that he had
obtained all ofMr. Page's files and was "in the process of putting together a Motion for
Appropriate Relief."
124. Mr. Page sent handwritten notes to defendant indicating that defendant had not
updated him on the status of the Motion for Appropriate Relief and that defendant had not
communicated with Ms. Hutto.
125. On November 21, 2007, defendant apologized to Mr. Page for not communicating
with Mr. Page sooner and told Mr. Page he was "working on moving this matter along."
126. On September 17,2008, Mr. Page wrote to defendant complaining that he had
received no status report from defendant since defendant's one paragraph letter in November of
2007. Mr. Page pleaded with defendant to correspond with him.
127. On September 23, 2008, defendant apologized for not visiting Mr. Page as promised
and told Mr. Page he had been working on Mr. Page's case. Defendant stated he would try to
visit Mr. Page within the "next couple of weeks."
128. On November 18, 2008, Mr. Page wrote a card to defendant terminating their
attomey-client relationship. Defendant replied by asking Mr. Page to reconsider and promised to
visit Mr. Page before the Christmas holiday.
129. On June 26, 2009, Mr. Page wrote to defendant stating that defendant failed to visit
him as promised. Mr. Page again informed defendant that he was terminating their attomeyclient relationship and Mr. Page demanded retum of the $2,500 paid to defendant.
130. Defendant did not retum the $2,500 retainer fee, or any portion thereof.
Bradley M. Brown
131. Bradley M. Brown ("Mr. Brown") retained defendant in late June of 2009 to
represent him in a medical malpractice action.
132. Defendant charged Brown a fee of $3,500, which Brown paid to defendant in
installments.

-11-

133. Brown and his companion, Deborah E. Knox ("Ms. Knox"), attempted to set up
appointments with defendant and were told by Defendant's office staff that defendant would
contact them by telephone.
134. Ms. Knox testified that defendant did not return their telephone calls seeking the
appointments. The panel fmds Ms. Knox's testimony to be credible.
135. Beginning in January of2010, Mr. Brown and Ms. Knox left messages for
defendant seeking an update on the status of the medical malpractice action.
136. Defendant provided Mr. Brown and Ms. Knox with his mobile telephone number in
case they were unable to reach him at his office number but, according to Ms. Knox's testimony,
defendant did not answer his mobile number when Mr. Brown and Ms. Knox called him. The
panel finds Ms. Knox's testimony to be credible.
137. On July 21,2010, Mr. Brown filed a fee dispute with Plaintiffs Attorney Client
Assistance Program (file #10FD0423) alleging that defendant failed to perform any work on his
case and requesting the return of the $3,500 fee.
138. In response to Mr. Brown's fee dispute, defendant agreed to refund to Mr. Brown
$1,000 of the $3,500 fee.
139. On August 26,2010, Ms. Luella C. Crane, Director of Plaintiffs Fee Dispute
Resolution Program, wrote to defendant and Mr. Brown documenting the agreed resolution and
indicating that defendant "has advised that he will issue the agreed upon refund on or before
September 26,2010."
140. Defendant did not issue the refund to Mr. Brown on or before September 26,2010
as he agreed to do.
141. On September 30, 2010, defendant informed Ms. Crane by facsimile that he would
be mailing to Mr. Brown the $1,000 refund on Tuesday, October 5, 2010 since he would be
receiving a settlement that date.
142. Defendant did not issue the refund to Mr. Brown on October 5, 2010 as he agreed to
do.
143. Mr. Brown passed away on October 19, 2010 and Ms. Knox became the executrix
of Mr. Brown's estate.
144. Ms. Knox testified that she contacted defendant on November 9, 2010 about the
agreed refund, but defendant did not issue the refund to Mr. Brown's estate. The panel finds Ms.
Knox's testimony to be credible.
Gloria Hughes Estes
145. Defendant represented Gloria Hughes Estes ("Ms. Estes") at her murder trial.

-12-

146. A jury convicted Ms. Estes and the presiding judge sentenced her to life
imprisonment without parole.
147. Ms. Estes's family retained defendant to represent Ms. Estes on appeal.
148. After filing a timely written notice of appeal, defendant ordered the trial transcript
from the court reporter on or about February 14, 2008.
149. The court reporter completed the transcript and forwarded it to defendant on May 2,
2008.
150. Over the course of the next eighteen months, defendant failed to prepare and serve
on the prosecutor a proposed record on appeal, failed to file any motions for extension of time to
prepare and serve the record, and otherwise failed to perfect the appeal.
151. On January 13,2010, the court dismissed Ms. Estes's appeal due to defendant's
inaction.
152. On January 10,2011, defendant filed a petition in the North Carolina Court of
Appeals seeking a belated appeal for Ms. Estes, which the Court of Appeals granted.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
General Statute § 84-28(b)(2) in that he violated one or more of the Rules of Professional
Conduct as follows:
a) By failing to respond to the offers of settlement or mediation of Ms. Anderson's
claim from the insurance company claims representative, or by failing to file Ms.
Anderson's personal injury complaint within the applicable statute of limitations,
defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing
his client in violation of Rule 1.3;
b) By failing to timely respond to Ms. Anderson's inquiries or otherwise keep Ms.
Anderson informed about the status of her case, defendant failed to keep his client
reasonably informed about the status of her case in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and
failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of
Ru1e 1.4(a)(4);
c) By failing to infOlm Ms. Anderson about the mediation and settlement offers,
defendant failed to explain to Ms. Anderson the matter to the extent reasonably

-13-

necessary to permit Ms. Anderson, his client, to make informed decisions
regarding defendant's representation of her in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
d) By failing to respond to or comply with Ms. Anderson's request for her file,
defendant failed to provide Ms. Anderson with her file in violation of Rule
1.16(d);
e) By ratifying his paralegal's conduct in modifying and notarizing the verification
in the Greg Oates matter without the personal appearance of the person who
purportedly signed the verification, defendant failed to supervise his nonlawyer
assistant in violation of Rules 5.3(b) and 5.3(c)(1);

1) By failing to attend the January 7, 2008 court hearing on behalf of Ms. Sparks,
defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in violation of
Rule 1.3;
g) By failing to surrender Ms. Sparks' file materials as requested, defendant violated
Rule 1.16(d);
h) By failing to respond to Mr. Dodson's telephone calls and letter, defendant failed
to reasonably consult with his client about the means by which the client's
objectives were to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2), and failed to
promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(4);
i) By failing to meet with or respond to the Schoenens' communications, by failing
to notify the Schoenens that he had failed to file a complaint for them in
Tennessee within the applicable statute of limitation, and by failing to notify the
Schoenens that he had failed to file a complaint for them in North Carolina within
the applicable statute oflimitation, defendant failed to keep his clients reasonably
informed about the status of their case in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to
promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(4), and failed to explain the matter to the extent reasonably necessary to
permit his clients to make informed decisions regarding their representation in
violation of Rule 1.4(b);
j) By falsely representing to the Schoenens that he was continuing to negotiate with
the insurance company and insurance adjuster, and by leading the Schoenens to
believe that their claim remained viable when he knew that it was barred by the
applicable statutes of limitation, defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
k) By failing to take the necessary steps to set aside the dismissal of the Greers'
claims against CCBE, defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in representing his clients in violation of Rule 1.3;
I) By failing to inform the Greers that their claims against CCBE had been
dismissed and by failing to respond to the Greers' communications, defendant

-14-

failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of
Rule 1.4(a)(4) and failed to explain the matter to the extent reasonably necessary
to permit his clients to make informed decisions regarding their representation in
violation of Rule 1.4(b);
m) By misleading the Greers to believe their claims were still viable and that he was
taking the appropriate action to pursue the claims, defendant engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
n) By failing to respond to Mr. Page's inquiries, defendant failed to keep his client
reasonably informed about the status ofthe matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3)
and failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
0) By failing to respond to Mr. Brown's inquiries seeking a status report, defendant
failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of the matter in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly comply with reasonable
requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4); and
p) By failing to issue the $1,000 check to Mr. Brown as twice promised in the fee
dispute process, defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness
in violation of Rule 1.3 and also failed to participate in good faith in the fee
dispute resolution process in violation of Rule 1.5(f)(2).
3.

As to Plaintiffs remaining claims, the panel determined the following:
a) At the close of Plaintiff's evidence, the panel dismissed the claim in the Greg
Oates matter alleging that defendant made a false statement of material fact to a
tribunal in violation of Rule 3J(a)(I), falsified evidence in violation of Rule
3.4(b), committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8A(b),
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
b) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the panel dismissed the claim
in the Greg Oates matter that by falsely stating in his response to the State Bar's
letter of notice in lOG0722 that he telephoned his opposing counsel, Mr. Jones,
and "advised him of what had occurred," defendant knowingly made a false
statement of material fact in connection with a disciplinary matter in violation of
Rule 8.1 (a);
c) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the panel dismissed the claim
in the Nora Sparks matter that by failing to file Ms. Sparks' affidavits by the
August 31, 2007 deadline, defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in violation of Rule IJ;
d) Due to defendant's invocation of the statute of limitations of 27 N.C. Admin.
Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Rule .01 1 1(f)(4) of the Discipline and Disability

-15-

Rules of The North Carolina State Bar, which generally requires grievances to be
initiated "within six years after the last act giving rise to the grievance," the panel
dismissed the claims in the Ronald Dodson matter that by failing to inform Mr.
Dodson of his court date, defendant failed to reasonably consult with his client
about the means by which the client's objectives were to be accomplished in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2), and failed to keep his client reasonably informed
about the status of the client's case in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);
e) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, and because it appeared to the
panel that the issue involved attorney negligence rather than misconduct, the
panel dismissed the claim that by failing to make arrangements for a lawyer
licensed to practice law in Tennessee to file a complaint on behalf of the
Schoenens in Tennessee within the applicable statute oflimitations, defendant
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing the
Schoenens in violation of Rule \.3;

f) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the panel dismissed the claim
that by falsely informing the Schoenens that he would attempt to obtain service
upon Mr. Wynkoop by publication, defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
g) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the panel dismissed the claim
that by failing to recognize the voluntary dismissal with prejudice as to the
Greers' claims against CCBE, defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence
and promptness in representing his clients in violation of Rule 1.3;
h) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the panel dismissed the claim
that by concealing from the Greers the fact that their claims against CCBE had
been dismissed, defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
i) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the panel dismissed the claim
that by failing to prepare and file the Motion for Appropriate Relief for Mr. Page,
defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing
his client in violation of Rule 1.3;

j) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the panel dismissed the claim
that by failing to prepare and file the Motion for Appropriate Relief and failing to
refund the legal fee, defendant failed to refund an unearned fee in violation of
Rule 1.16(d);
k) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the panel dismissed the claim
that by concealing from Mr. Page the fact that he had not made progress on the
Motion for Appropriate Relief and by falsely representing to Mr. Page that he was
working on the Motion for Appropriate Relief, defendant engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
and

-16-

I) For lack of clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the panel dismissed the claim
that by failing to prepare and file the proposed record, or seek extensions of time
for doing so, and by waiting for over one year from the dismissal of Ms. Estes'
appeal to petition for a belated appeal on her behalf, defendant failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in perfecting Ms. Estes' appeal in violation
of Rule 1.3.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and upon the
evidence and arguments presented at the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the Hearing
Panel hereby finds the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
On June 25, 200S, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission panel imposed a five
year stayed suspension of defendant's law license (06DHC30) for failing to pay employee
withholding taxes to the Internal Revenue Service in violation of Rules S.4(b) and S.4(c); failing
to maintain funds in his trust account in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a); utilizing entrusted funds to
his own benefit in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j); and, borrowing from a client in violation of Rule
I.S(a)(1)-(3).
2.
In imposing the five-year stayed suspension in 200S, the chairperson ofthe panel
cautioned Defendant that he was being given "one more shot."
3.
The conditions of the stay of the suspension of defendant's law license in 200S
included, among others, that he not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and that he participate in the State Bar's Fee Dispute Resolution procedure.
4.
In March 1996, defendant received a Censure (95GOOI2IV) for borrowing from
clients in violation of Rule l.S(a)(l), and not repaying the clients timely in violation of Rule
5.4(a).
5.
In August 2006, defendant received an Admonition (05G 1293) for untimely
responding to the State Bar's request for trust account records in violation of Rule S.l.
6.
In February 2009, defendant received a Censure (07G0151, 0626, 1050, 1143, &
1156) for failing to respond to a fee dispute in violation of 1.5(f); failing to withdraw as counsel
as requested by a client in violation of Rule 1.16(d); failing to produce files to a client in
violation of Rule 1. 16(d); charging an excessive fee for telephone calls in violation of 1.5(a);
and, in violation of Rule l.4(a), failing to communicate to a client that a Motion for Summary
Judgment had been allowed in the client's matter.
7.
In May 2012, defendant received an Admonition (11 G0977) for failing to notify
an appellate client that the client's appeal had been dismissed in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3).
S.
Contrary to the conditions of the 200S stayed suspension of defendant's law
license, defendant received an Admonition in May 2011 (11 G0977) for failing to notify an
appellate client that the client's appeal had been dismissed in 2011. In 2010, defendant twice

-17-

agreed to refund client Bradley Brown in a fee dispute, and then twice failed to do so by
defendant's own deadlines.
9.
In violation of other conditions of the 2008 stayed suspension of his law license,
defendant also failed: (l) to provide to the State Bar written reports by a certified public
accountant for July 1,2011, January 1, 2012, and July 1, 2012; (2) to provide his federal and
state tax returns for the first, second, and third quarters of2011; and, (3) to provide practice
monitor reports for April 15, 2011 through October 15,2012.
10.
David Greer testified that defendant's representation of the Greers had caused him
to have a negative impression of the legal profession in general, and of Defendant in particular.
11.
Defendant's current employees testified that improved office procedures had been
implemented beginning in late 2008 to improve responsiveness to clients and accountability.
12.

Defendant introduced affidavits supporting his good character and reputation.

13.
Plaintiff proffered the rebuttal testimony of Fred Moses concerning defendant's
character and reputation, but the panel agreed to strike and not consider Mr. Moses' testimony
given that he was not included on Plaintiff's stipulated list of potential witnesses.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
lB§ .0114(w)(l), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
General Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. 1B§ .0114(w)(3)
a)

Prior disciplinary offenses in this state;

b)

Remoteness in time of some of the prior disciplinary offenses;

c)

Indifference to making restitution;

d)

A pattern of misconduct;

e)

Multiple offenses;

f)

Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and a cooperative attitude
toward the proceeding;

g)

Character and reputation; and

h)

Significant experience in the practices of law.

-18-

Suspension and Disbarment Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. IB§ .0114(w)(1)
a)

Intent of defendant to commit acts where the hann or potential for hann to
his clients was foreseeable;

b)

Circumstances reflecting defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;

c)

Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of
the legal profession;

d)

Impairment of his clients' ability to achieve the goals of their representation;
and

e)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, and deceit.
Disbarment Factor from 27 N.C.A.C. IB§ .0114(w)(2)

a)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, and deceit.

2.
The Hearing Panel concludes that many of defendant's violations of the Rules of
Professional Conduct as found herein occurred after defendant received the five-year stayed
suspension in 2008.
3.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of discipline
available to it.
4.
An admonition, reprimand, censure, or suspension of defendant's license would
not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the actual hann defendant's conduct caused
to the public, the administration of justice and the legal profession, and the significant potential
harm to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal profession if defendant were
permitted to continue practicing law.
5.
The Hearing Panel concludes that discipline short of disbarment would not
adequately protect the public, the legal profession, or the administration of justice for the
following reasons:
a) The five-year stayed suspension ordered in 2008, as well as previous public
discipline, has not deterred defendant from habitual, uncolTected neglect of
clients. Habitual neglect of clients shows that the defendant is untrustworthy;
particularly when defendant has failed to take adequate cOlTective measures
after receiving prior discipline for similar conduct;
b) Misconduct involving misrepresentation or deceit is among the most serious
that any attorney can commit. The Hearing Panel has found that defendant
engaged in acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation and deceit towards two of his
clients, the Schoenens and Greers, in violation of Rule 8.4(c). Such

-19-

misconduct demonstrates that defendant is not trustworthy. The public should
be able to assume that all attorneys are trustworthy; and
c) Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by defendant, would fail to
acknowledge his prior discipline, would be inconsistent with discipline issued
in prior cases involving similar misconduct, and would send the wrong
message to defendant, to other attorneys, and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the State Bar.
6.
The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that defendant not
be permitted to resume the practice of law until he demonstrates the following:
a) That he has reformed;
b) That he understands his obligations to his clients, the public, the legal
profession and the administration of justice; and
c) That permitting him to practice law will not be detrimental to the public, or
the integrity and standing of the legal profession and the administration of
justice.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant, C. Gary Triggs, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law,
effective 30 days from the date of service of this order upon him.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action, including
the cost of the depositions taken in this matter as allowed by statute. The deposition costs were
necessarily incurred for the prosecution of this proceeding. Defendant will receive a statement
of costs from the Secretary of the State Bar and defendant shall pay these costs within 90 days of
service of the notice of costs upon him.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Committee.
This is the

l'i day of DeCeMw ,2012

Sharon B. Alexander, hair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee
-20-

