NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG0293

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Robert K. Trobich,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

CENSURE

)
)

On January 20, 2011, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member ofthc North
Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjustif'ying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Conmlittee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written f01111 of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance COl1illlittee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You were retained to represent JC and SC as debtors in bankruptcy proceedings. You filed a
Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition on their behalf, dismissed that petition, and then filed another Chapter 7
bankruptcy petition for them. You failed to appear at a hearing in the matter on December I, 2006 for
the debtors' Motion to Dismiss Chapter 7 Case, the trustee's Application for Attorney's Fees and
Reimbursement of Expenses of Attorney for the Trustee, the trustee's Motion for Order Directing
Payment of Anticipated Trustee Commission, and the trustee's Application for Order Directing
Payment of Anticipated Realtor Commission. The court entered an order in which it found that the
filing of the Chapter 7 by the debtors was the result of poor legal advice you gave to the debtors
regarding whether the trustee would have the authority to sell the debtors' real property to satisf'y
outstanding tax liens. The court found that if you had advised the debtors of this possibility, they would

not have chosen to file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. The court granted the debtors' motion to dismiss, but
ordered you to pay $10,000.00 to the trustee and $8,100.00 to Charles Green of Prudential Carolinas
Realty within 30 days. The December 2006 order also required the debtors to pay $5,336.38 in
attorney's fees and held youjointly and severally liable with your former clients for that amount. The
order gave you 20 days to file any response, objection, or request for hearing. You filed nothing by that
deadline and the order became effective.
Your former clients paid the trustee $5,336.38 as required by the order. By order dated on or
about February 23,2007, the Court required you to reimburse your former clients that amount on or
before March 26, 2007. You failed to do so. On April 10,2007, new counsel for your clients filed a
Motion for Contempt and for Sanctions based on your failure to comply with the February 23, 2007
order. You were notified electronically of the motion and notice of hearing. You did not respond and
did not appear at the hearing.
The court heard the motion for contempt and sanctions on April 27, 2007 and entered its order on
May 10,2007. The court held you in contempt of the February 23, 2007 order, ordered you to pay
$1,000.00 in attorney's fees and expenses to your former clients' new attorney, ordered you to pay the
$5,336.38 as previously ordered, and ordered you to pay an additional sum of$50.00 per day begilming
May I, 2007 for every day you failed to pay the $5,336.38. You did not comply with the court's May
10, 2007 order.
On August 2, 2007, your former clients, through counsel, filed a Motion to Convert Sanctions
Order to a Judgment, for Additional Sanctions, and for Additional Attomey Fees and served you
electronically. You did not respond and did not appear at the August 31, 2007 hearing. On September
20,2007, the court entered a money judgment against you for $15,436.38, which included an additional
$1,000.00 in attorney's fees and $50.00 per day from May 10,2007 through August 31, 2007.
Also on September 20, 2007, the court ordered you to appear on October 26, 2007 in courtroom
#5 of the Cleveland County Courthouse and show cause why you should not be held in contempt. You
were sen-ed with the order and notice but did not appear or communicate in allY way with the court. The
court found you in contempt and barred you from practicing in that court lmtil you purged your contempt
by paying all Silins due under the judgment including post-judgment interest, attorney's fees, and costs of
collection.
On December 29,2009, your former clients filed a motion for additional sanctions. The motion
and notice of hearing were served upon you by certified mail. You did not respond and did not appear at
the February 26, 2010 hearing. The court entered an order on March 15,2010 finding that your actions
constituted willful, intentional, gross and flagrant violations of the court's orders. The court ordered you
to pay additional attorney's fees and damages and converted the order to a final judgment in the amount
of$58,936.38 plus $50.00 per day after February 26, 2010 until paid.
Your failure to attend the December I, 2006 hearing and failure to respond to the order before the
applicable deadline constituted a lack of diligence in your representation of your clients in violation of
Rule 1.3, was conduct discourteous to the tribunal in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B), and was conduct
prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8A(d). Your subsequent failures to
comply with court orders, failures to respond to motions for contempt and sanctions against you, and
failures to appear in court for hearings constituted conduct discourteous to the tribunal in violation of
Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B), and was conduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of
Rule 8A(d).

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose eonduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of$IOO.OO is hereby taxed to
you.
Done and ordered, this

/ c: day ofc---L£.

, 2011.

d~

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

