NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13G0121

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
David J. Turlington, III,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On October 24,2013, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the NOlth Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminmy hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a. hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant hmm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is noW my duty to issue this censure.
Prior to April 27, 2012, you employed other attorneys' names and names of law firms in a
keyword advertising campaign through Google's AdWords program. On April 27, 2012, the NOlth
Cmolina State Bm Ethics Committee published 2010 Formal Ethics Opinion 14, which states that an
attorney's purchase or use of another attorney's name in an Internet semch engine's keyword-adveliising
program is dishonest and therefore violates Rule 8.4(c) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct. After the
publication of this ethics opinion, you continued to intentionally add inappropriate keywords to your
Google AdWords advertising campaign; your inappropriate keywords consisted of other individual
attorney names (including attorney nicknames), names oflaw firms, and names of judicial officials.
Although you claimed that any inclusion of inappropriate keywords in your adveltising campllign was
inadvertent and was the result of your bulk-purchase of keywords suggested by Google, your history of

keyword purchases demonstrates that you specifically selected and approved a number of these
keywords for inclusion in your advertising campaign. It is your duty to scrutinize all keywords prior to
adding the keyword to your advertising campaign, regardless of whether you created the keyword or
whether the keyword was suggested to you. Your intentional inclusion of other attorneys' names and
law films in your keyword advertising campaign is dishonest and therefore violates Rule 8A(c).
Furthermore, you knowingly made a false statement of material fact in violation of Rule 8.1 (a) by
claiming in your response to the letter of notice in this matter that your inclusion of inappropriate
keywords in your advertising campaign was inadveltent.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
enol' that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depmt from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This .censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, yourc1ients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 20 I 0 by the Council ofthe NOlth Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this \ ~*" day of ~"u etA S£\'-

, 2013.

John . Sllverstem, Chall'
Grievance Committee
The North Cm'olina State Bm'

