NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14G1027

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Stephen A. Turner,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 16,2015 the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. The grievance was
assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs
investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member ofthe North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented R.R. on a charge of simple assault. During R.R. 's trial, you called
R.R. 's sister, I.R., as a witness. I.R. also had a pending charge of simple assault arising out of the
same incident for which R.R. was charged. The lawyer representing I.R. in her criminal case was

not present in the courtroom during your examination of I.R., and I.R. was not advised of her
Fifth Amendment rights before testifying. In response to your questioning, I.R. made selfincriminating statements and admissions about the alleged assault.
When the presiding judge became aware that I.R. had pending related charges, she halted
the proceedings and asked whether I.R.'s counsel was aware that her client was testifying about
these events. You told the judge that I.R.' s counsel had agreed to permit I.R. to testify, and that
I.R.' s counsel was aware you were questioning I.R. without her lawyer present in the courtroom.
These were false statements to the tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(l) and constitute conduct
involving misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c). Moreover, your decision to elicit
potentially incriminating testimony from a represented person without her lawyer present
undermined I.R. 's attorney-client relationship and her constitutional protection against selfincrimination. As such, it was prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4(d). The administration of justice was also impeded in that the court's time was needlessly
consumed addressing your conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

l+k

day of

AL.LIQ. us T

John M. ilverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

'2015.

