NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORETIIE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
1201034

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
James E. Vaughan,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

l
l

Ou April 18, 2013 the Grievance Committee of the NOlih Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by S. C.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe NOlth Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the lules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Counnittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Gdevunce Committee may issue art adinonition, a
reprimartd, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimartd is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm 01' potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues Illis reprimand to you. As chairmart of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bat', it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
The Law Offices of Michael Ira Asen, P .C. (hereinafter "Asen"l, of Greenvale, New
York, attempts to collect civil penalties purSUartt to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 1-538.2 Ii'om NOith
Carolina residents alleged to have shoplifted ii'om NOith Carolina WalMart stores. Neither Asen
nor any member of his firm in New York is licensed in NOlih Carolina. 1n responSe to a letter by
the Authorized Practice Committee demanding that Asen cease and desist in the practice oflaw
in North Carolina, on or about December 9, 2010 Asen registered as an Interstate Law Firm

pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IE, Section .200. Asen then added a N0l1h Carolina attorney's name to
the letterhead used for the Asen demand letters. Effective as of March 30, 2011, that North
Carolina attorney ceased his association with Asen and Asen began using your name and address
as the North Carolina licensed attorney for the Asen finn in North Carolina. On May 6, 2011,
the Authorized Practice Committee again demanded that Asen cease and desist in the practice of
law in North Carolina, noting that, even though a North Carolina attorney was identified on the
letterhead, there was no evidence that the North Carolina attorney had any active role in
reviewing the Asen demand letters or the facts to detelmine ifthe letters had validity.
TIlereafier, Asen sent the demand letters in North Carolina using yoUI' name, law fnm address,
and signature. You acknowledged that you had no active role in the generation of the demand
letters on behalf of Asen 01', other than random screening, in reviewing the demand letters to
determine if the letters are valid. From March 30, 2011 until you resigned effective December
31,2012, you lent your name and signature to the demand letters so that Asen and Asen's firm
could generate and send the civil demand letters to North Carolina addressees. By your own
admissions, your only active participation was the fielding of telephone calls, if any, about the
demand letters. The sending of such demand letters constituted the practice of law. By lending
your name to the demand letters without active participation in the representation, you assisted
Asen in the unauthorized practice oflaw in North Carolina in violation of Rule 5.5(a) and 8.4(a).
Your name and signature on the demand letters also made it appear that you had been actively
involved in the process of reviewing the specific matters and generating the demand letters
when, in fact, you admit you had no active participation in this automated process. Thus, the
demand letters made a false or misleading communication about you or yoUI' services in violation
of Rule 7.1 (a).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee !lusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yOUl'self
to depalt from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the N011h Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attomey
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is here by taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

,J,fftL day of

1lA.iAf

Margaret . Hunt, Chair
Grievance Committee

MMH/ll'

,2013.

