·

'<

ilnn/C
u~ ,II., G

\..1>"

TIm NORTII CAROLINA STATE B
Plaintiff

FINDINGS OF FACT.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

LEROY R. CASTLE. Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on November 2. 2007 before a hearing committee ofthe
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, Sharon B. Alexander, and
members Robert F. Siler and Johnny A. Freeman. Jennifer A. Porter and Robert A.
Crabill represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Leroy R. Castle,
represented himself. Based upon the pleadings, the evidence presented at the hearing,
and the admissions considered pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter
B, § .0114(f), the hearing committee hereby fmds by clear, cogent. and convincing
evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code ("NCAC").

2.
Defendant, Leroy R. Castle (hereinafter "Castle" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1984, and is. and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed. to practice in North Carolin~ subject to the laws of the
State ofNorth Carolina. the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar·and
the Revised Rules ofProfessional Conduct.
3.
During all or part ofthe relevant periods referred to herein. Castle was
engaged. in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Durham, Durham County. North Carolina.
4.
Castle was properly served with process. a hearing in this matter was set,
and the matter came before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.
5.

The Complaint in this action was filed on July 9.2007.

6.

Defendant accepted service of the Summons and Complaint on July 11,

2007.
7.
Defendant failed to file an answer or any responsive pleading by the
deadline established by Ru1e 4 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure and
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(e).

8.
Upon Plaintiffs motion, defau1t was entered against Defendant by the
Secretary of the State Bar on September 17, 2007.
Plaintiffmed a Motion for Default Judgment on September 17,2007 and
9.
certified service of the Motion for Default Judgment on that date by depositing a copy of
the same in the U.S. Mail in a postage prepaid envelope addressed to Defendant's current
address.
... . . .. _1.9: .. Plaintitr~_IIl~ti~nwas gran!ed andpef~~tJudgment filed on November
2, 2007. The Default Judgment entered findings of fact and conclusions of law and
reserved as the sole issue for hearing what discipline, if any , should be imposed.
11.
In or about January, 2001, Keenan Headen (hereafter "Headen") was an
associate and employee of Defendant.
12.

Headen practiced law as Defendant's associate.

13.

Defendant had the obligation to supervise Headen's activities.

In or about January, 2001, Headen esta,blished. an attorney-client
14.
----------:r=e:1":la"'ti'=o=n"""'shi'="=p-=wrth Edria Hinton. Headen undertook to represent ECfua Bmton for mjUiies ~..
sustained in an automobile accident on or about January 4,2001.
15.
Edna Hinton made numerous, repeated efforts to communicate with
Headen to learn the status of Edna Hinton's legal matter.
16.
Headen failed to respond to Edna Hinton's communications and failed to
keep Edna Hinton informed of the status of her matter.
17.
On one occaSion, Edna Hinton had to resubmit to Headen paperwork Edna
Hinton had already provided to Headen but which Headen had lost.
18.
On or about December 23.2004 Edna Hinton spoke with Defendant, who
informed Edna Hinton that Headen was no longer practicing in his office.

19.
During the December 23.2004 conversation. Defendant assured Edna
Hinton that Edna Hinton's case was moving forward.
20.
Beginning on or about January 13,2005, Edna Hinton made numerous,
repeated efforts to communicate with Defendant to learn the status of an attempted
service by publication on the Defendant in Edna Hinton's civil case.

21.
Defendant failed to respond to Edna Hinton's conununications and failed
to keep her informed of the status of her matter.
22.
Defendant gave Edna Hinton contradictory infonnation about the status of
service of her complaint by publication.
23.
Defendant failed to publish the notice of service of the complaint by
publication until on or about June 18, 2005.
24.
On or about September S, 2006, Edna Hinton filed a grievance with the
State Bar concerning Defendant's failure to communicate and respond to her attempts to
communicate.
25.
On Or about October 5, 2006, Defendant received a Letter of Notice from
the Chair of the Grievance Committee regarding the grievance filed by Edna Hinton.
26.
As set forth in the Letter ofNotice, Defendant was required to respond to
the Letter ofNotice within 15 days of receipt.
27.

Defendant did not respond to the Letter ofNotice within the 15 day period

as required.

28.
On or about October 23, 2006 the State Bar sent Defendant a follow up
letter to the Letter ofNotice advising him that the State Bar had not received a response
to the Letter ofNotice.
29.

The follow up letter required Defendant to respond by November 2, 2006.

30.
required.

Defendant did not respond to the follow up letter by November 2, 2006 as

- - -

31.
On or about November 27,2006 the State Bar requested that Margaret
McCreary (hereinafter "McCreary"), a District 14 Councilor, attempt to contact
Defendant in regards to his failure to respond to the Letter ofNotice.
32.
Ms. McCreary did contact Defendant and notified Defendant ofhis
obligation to respond to the Letter ofNotice.
33.

Respondent did not respond to the Letter ofNotice.

34.
On or about February 13,2007 Defendant was served in person with a
Subpoena demanding a response to the Letter of Notice and production of documents
from Edna Hinton's file.
35.

Defendant was required to respond to the subpoena by February 26, 2007.

36.

Defendant did not respond to the subpoena by February 26, 2007.

37.
On or about February 28, 2007 a State Bar investigator sent Defendant a
follow up letter asking him to respond to the Letter of Notice and Subpoena.
38.
subpoena.

Defendant never responded to the State Bar investigator's letter or to the

39.
On or about March 2, 2007, an unidentified person hand delivered Edna
Hinton's file to the receptionist at the State Bar.
In or about June, 2003, Headen established an attorney-client relationship
40.
with Karen Hinton.
Headen undertook to represent Karen Hinton for injuries sustained in an
automobile accident on or about June 11, 2003.

41.

In or about the year 2004 Karen Hinton provided all the documents to
42.
Headen that were necessary for Headen to resolve the claim.

43.
In late 2005 Karen Hinton was contacted by Defendant's office stating
that Defendant was taking responsibility for Karen Hinton's case because Headen was no
longer practicing in Defendant's office.

44.
Karen Hinton made numerous, repeated efforts to communicate with
Defendant to learn the status of her legal matter.
45.
Defendant failed to respond to Karen Hinton's communications and failed
to keep Karen Hinton informed of the status of her matter.

._------~-

46.
On or about May 15, 2006, Karen Hinton filed a grievance with the State
Bar concerning Defendant's failure to communicate and respond to her attempts to
communicate.

47.
On or about June 20, 2006, Defendant received a Letter ofNotice from the
Chair of the Grievance Committee regarding the grievance filed by Karen Hinton.
48.
Asset forth in the Letter ofNotice, Defendant was required to respond to
the Letter ofNotice within 15 days ofreceipt.
49.
as required.

Defendant did not respond to the Letter of Notice within the 15 day period

50.
On or about June 9, 2006 Defendant fJled a complaint on Karen Hinton's
behalf in Wake County .Superior Court.
On or about August 14,2006 the State Bm: sent Defendant a follow up
51.
letter to the Letter ofNotice advising him that the State Bar had not received a response
to the Letter ofNotice and requiring Defendant to provide a written response by August

24,2006.

52.
required.

Defendant did not respond to the follow up letter by August 24, 2006 as

On September 27,2006 Defendant received another follow up letter to the
53.
Letter of Notice advising him that the State Bar had not received a response to the Letter
of Notice.
The State Bar's second follow up letter required Defendant to respond to
54.
the Letter of Notice by October 2, 2006.
55.
Defendant did not respond to the Letter of Notice or to either follow up
letter by October 2, 2006.
56.

On or about October 3. 2006 Defendant responded to the Letter of Notice.

57.
On or about October 3,2006 the State Bar sent Defendant a follow up
letter to his response to the Letter of Notice which asked Defendant to provide additional
information by October 17, 2006.
58.

Defendant did not respond to the October 3 follow up letter by October 17,

2006.
On or about December 7, 2006 Defendant left a voicemail message for
59.
State Bar counsel acknowledging that he was aware of the grievance and documents that
the State Bar was demanding.
60.
In his voicemail message, Defendant stated he would provide the
documents within the next few days.
61.

Defendant failed to produce the documents.

On or about January 4,2007 another·subpoena was issued by the State Bar
62.
requiring Defendant to produce records including the Karen Hinton fIle on or about
January 18,2007 at the Grievance Committee Meeting ofthe State Bar. A State Bar
investigator served Defendant with the subpoena in person on January 5, 2007.
63.
Defendant appeared and produced a copy of the Karen Hinton client file
on or about January 18, 2007.
The client file contained nothing to refute Karen Hinton's allegations of
64.
neglect and failure to communicate.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over Defendant, Leroy R. Castle, and the subject matter.

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for disciplirie pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
By failing to publish notice of service ofEdna Hinton's complaint by
(a)
publication in a timely manner and failing to pursue Edna Hinton's case promptly,
Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing
a client in violation ofRule 1.3;
(b)
By failing to respond and comrowncate with Edna Hinton, Defendant
failed to keep his client reasonably infonned about the status of her matter in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

By failing to respond to Edna Hinton's communication attempts regarding
(c)
the status ofher case, Defendant failed to promptly comply with reasonable
requests for information in violation ofRule 1.4(a)(4);
(d)
By failing to respond to the Grievance Committee's Letter of Notice, the
follow up letters- and Subpoena, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a
lawful demand for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule
8.1(b).
(e)
By failing to file the complaint on Karen Hinton's behalf until June 9,
2006, and only after Karen Hinton had submitted a complaint to the State Bar
regarding Defendant's lack of communication, Defendant failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule
1.3;
(f)
By failing to communicate and respond to Karen Hinton, Defendant failed
to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of her matter in violation
ofRule 1.4(a)(3);

(g)
By failing to communicate and respond to Karen Hinton, Defendant failed
to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(4);

(h)
By failing to respond to the Grievance Committee's Letter of Notice, the
follow up letters, and subpoena, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a
lawful demand for information from an admissions or disciplinary authority in
violation of Rule 8.1(b).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the evidence
presented at the hearing, and the admissions considered pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(f), the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence the following additional

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

Castle's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.
Prior disciplinary offenses, to wit: an admonition issued on
November 16, 1998, a censure issued on October 30, 2001, a reprimand
issued May 28, 2005, and a reprimand issued on February 17,2006;

2.

b.

Pattern of misconduct;

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct;

e.

Substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

Castle's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

3.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

Castle's neglect ofms clients' legal matters had the potential to cause
significant hann to his clients, Edna Hinton and Karen Hinton. By failing to
communicate and failing to diligently pursue their cases, Castle risked missing the
- - - - - - - - - d - c -eadline to fhe 1hese claims.
.
----4.

S.
Castle's conduct resulted in significant hann to the profession. Castle's
neglect and failure to communicate with Edna and Karen Hinton caused them to
feel their trust had been betrayed. Both expressed a sense of distrust of the legal
profession in general due to Castle's conduct

6.
Castle's failure to respond to the State Bar's grievance process and
Disciplinary Hearing Committee pleadings resulted in potential significant harm
to the profession. The legal profession is entrusted with the privilege of selfregulation. The State Bar can only regulate the profession if its members respond
to inquiries of the State Bar and otherwise participate in this self-regulation.
Castle's failure to participate in this self-regulation jeopardizes the profession's
ability to remain self-regulating_
7.
The hearing committee has considered lesser sanctions and :fmds that
discipline short of suspension would not sufficiently protect the public for the
following reasons:

a.

Castle's conduct caused potential significant hann to his clients
and caused potential significant harm and actual significant hann
to the profession as detailed above;

b.

Castle's comments made at the hearing regarding the
inappropriately low priority Castle placed on calls from clients
who had not paid him in advance and on communications from the
State Bar demonstrates that Castle fails to appreciate the
importance ofresponding to all clients and fails to appreciate that
his obligation to respond to the State Bar is as important a
professional obligation as his obligation to zealously represent his
clients;

c.

Castle has been previously disciplined on multiple occasions for
conduct that includes failure to respond to the State Bar and
neglect of client matters, the same conduct at issue in this case,
demonstrating that lesser sanctions have not been effective to
change Castle's behavior and protect the public; and

d.

Ca;stle has engaged in multiple violations of the Revised Ru1es of
Professional Conduct over a substantial period of time and his
misconduct was not an aberration or the result of a mistake;

e.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Castle committe~
would be inconsistent with the orders of discipline entered by this
body ill similar eases; and would send the '.wong message to
attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this State.

8.
The hearing committee finds that the only sanction in this case that can
adequately protect the public is an active suspension ofDefendant's license for a
period oftime.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law. and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Leroy R. Castle, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
in North Carolina for two years.

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.

3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1. Subchapter B. § .0124(b) oftbe North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date ofthis order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.

4.
All costs of this action are taxed. to Defendant. Defendant must pay the
costs within 30 9ays of service of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
5.
After serving six months of the active suspension ofms license, Defendant
may apply to have the remainder of the suspension stayed by filing a petition with the
Secretary ofthe North Carolina State Bar demonstrating the following by clear, cogen~
and convincing evidence:
a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the tenns of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 ofthe State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

b.

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon him;

c.

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home address;

d.

That he has responded to aU communications from the North
Carolina State Bar received after the effective date of this order
within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
comm~cation,whichever is sooner; this includes
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program of
the State Bar as well as formal notices from the State Bar;

e.

That he has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
or the laws ofthe United States or any state; and

f.- ·-That-he·paidall·Membersbip-dues-and-Glient·Sec:urity-Fund.-

- _.. assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice during
the suspension. The State Bar does not send membership and CLE
notices to members who are suspended so it is Defendant's
obligation to contact the appropriate departments on a timely basis,
ascertain his fmancial and CLE obligations during his suspension
and to timely satisfy those obligations.

The procedures of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter n, Section
6.
.0125(b) shall govern Defendant's petition for a stay of the remainder of the suspension
of his law license.

7.
If the Secretary fmds that Defendant has proven compliance with the
conditions of this order by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, the Secretary shall put
into effect the stay ofthe remaining period of suspension provided for in this Order by
reinstating De en ant to active status su ~e
e eons. con 1 ons,
.
of this Order of Discipline, with Defendant's active status contingent upon continued
compliance with the terms of this Order. Such stay will continue in force only as long as
Defendant continues to comply with all conditions in this Order. The Disciplinary
Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofthe matter until all conditions of the Order
are satisfied. under 27N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1. Subchapter B, Section .0114(x).

8.
lfDefendant successfully seeks a stay oftbe suspension onus law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as he continues to comply with the following
conditions:
a.

The conditions set out in paragraphs 5 (c) - (f) ofthe Order of
Discipline section of this Order, and

b.

Defendant shall promptly and timely respond to his clients,
including returning telephone calls from all clients regardless of
whether the clients have paid Defendant.

9.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defendant fails to comply with any ofthe conditions referenced in Paragraph 8 of the
Order of Discipline section of this Order, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
10.
IfDefendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of
his law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must prove each of the matters set out in paragraphs 5 (a) - (f) ofthe
Order of Discipline section ofthis Order by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law.
II.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B. § .0114(x) ofthe
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period ofthe
stayed suspension.

1bis the

G
~.A1dhaU

Signed by the Cb~e consent of the ojIer hearing committee members,
Lf day of
, 200'fi

Disciplinary Hearing Committee

