NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G0643, 17G0809, 18G0226

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
ROBIN F. VERHOEVEN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 26, 2018, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievances filed against you by R. S., S. F., and M. S. The grievances were assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staff s investigation of these
matters.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Subcommittee found
probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of
the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justif)ring disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You were retained in April 2015 to represent R. S. to negotiate a Separation Agreement with her
husband. Thereafter, you communicated with R. S. on only a few occasions regarding gathering of
documents, and communicated with the husband's attorney only twice. You failed to respond to
communications from R. S. and her husband's attorney. You failed to negotiate terms ofa Separation
Agreement, the purpose for which you were retained. R. S. terminated the representation on July 7, 2015.
You failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in your representation of R. S. in violation of
Rule 1.3 and failed to communicate with R. S. in violation of Rule 1.4(a). Your Response to the Letter of
Notice of the grievance filed by R. S. was late, unsigned and contained misrepresentations of what had
occurred in violation of Rule 8.1 (a) and 8.4(c). You failed to respond to requests for information from the
State Bar and to an email from your Bar Councilor regarding this matter in violation of Rule 8.l(b).

You were retained in November 2016 to represent S. F. to seek an increase in child support
payments. Upon completion of payment by S. F. of your fee in Febmary 2017, you prepared and S.F.
verified a Motion to Modify Child Support that you agreed to file, serve and have calendared for March,
2017. Thereafter, you failed properly to serve the Motion, have it calendared or appear on behalf of S.F.
at monthly calendar calls until July 25, 2017, at which time the Motion was set for hearing on September
12,2017. Meanwhile, you failed to communicate with S. F. The attorney for S. F.'s former spouse asked
you at the July 25, 2017 calendar call about mediation, which you then did not discuss with S.F. S. F.
requested to have a phone meeting with you, to which you did not respond. On August 4,2017, S. F.
terminated the representation and sought a refund of unearned fees. You provided to S. F. an accounting
of your time spent on her matter that contained misrepresentations. You did not inform S.F. of the
September 12,2017 hearing date for the Motion until August 8, 2017. By that time, S.F. had resolved her
matter without your assistance, after which you removed the Motion from the September 12,2017
calendar. You failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in your representation of S. F. in
violation of Rule 1.3, failed to communicate with S. F. in violation of Rule 1.4(a) and made material
misrepresentations to S.F. in violation of Rule 8.4(c). Your Response to the Letter of Notice of the
grievance filed by S. F. was late, unsigned and contained misrepresentations of what had occurred in
violation of Rule 8.1(a) and 8.4(c). You failed to respond to requests for information from the State Bar
and to an email from your Bar Councilor regarding this matter in violation of Rule 8.1 (b).
You were retained to represent M. S. in March 2017 in connection with certain matters related to
her divorce. Initially, you participated in proceedings on behalf of M. S. However, between your
appearances at October 2, 2017 and F ebmary 1, 2018 hearings, you failed to act on behalf of M. S. or
communicate with her. You met with M. S. on Febmary 12,2018, and thereafter failed to act on her
behalf or communicate with her until your appearance at her alimony hearing on April 18, 2018. Since
April 18, 2018, you have neither acted on behalf of nor communicated with M. S. You failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in your representation ofM. S. in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to
communicate with M. S. in violation of Rule 1.4(a). You failed to respond to the Letter of Notice of the
grievance filed by M. S., requests for information from the State Bar and an email from your Bar
Councilor regarding this matter in violation of Rule 8.1 (b).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee tmsts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

DM/lb

zz.1i2day of AJ~'>~

,

2018.

