STATE OF NORTH CAROL
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

H. RUSSELL VICK & JIMMY A.
PETTUS, Attomeys,
Defendants

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Renny W. Deese, Chair, and members Walter E. Brock and
Michael S. Edwards, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter
I, SUbchapter B, § .0114(h) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules. Plaintiff was represented by BaITY S. McNeill, Deputy Counsel. Defendant, H.
Russell Viele ("Defendant Viele"), was represented by Dudley A. Witt and David
Freedman of Crumpler, Freedman, Parker & Witt, Winston-Salem, N011h Carolina. Both
Plaintiff and Defendant Viele stipulate and agree to the fmdings of fact and conclusions of
law recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant Vicle has
fi·ee1y and voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the
conclusions of law and entry of the order of discipline. Defendant Vick freely and
voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the pallies' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, tlle Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper pmly to this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of NOlih Cm·olina,
and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of
the N01lh Carolina Administrative Code) .
. 2.
Defendant, H. Russell Vicle ("Vicle" or "Def'endant Vicle"), was admitted
toJhe State Bar on March 28, 1981, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attomey at law licensed to practice in. N01lh Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

3.
Defendant, Jimmy A. Pettus ("Pettus" or "Defendant Peltus"), was
admitted to the State Bar on August 23, 1997, and is, and was at all times refened to
herein, an att0111ey at law licensed to practice in NOlth Carolina, subject to the lawS of the
State of NOlth Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
4.
During all or pmt of the relevant periods referred to herein, Vicle and
Pettus were engaged in the practice of law in the State ofNOlih Caronna and practiced in
the law firm of H. Russell Vicle & Associates, P.L.L.C. ("Viele & Associates") in
Greensboro, Guilford County, NOlth Carolina.
5.
the firm.

Vicle founded Vicle & Associates in 1999 and is the registered agent for

6.
Vicle & Associates represents claimants for Social Security Disability
Insurance Benefits and Supplemental Security Income.
7.
Viele and Pettus are partners in Vick & Associates, and constitute its sole
management.
8.

Pelhls is the managing partner in Viele & Associates.

9.
Both Vicle and Pelhls had siguature anthority on the operating and tmst
accounts maintained by Viele & Associates during the years 2010, 2011 and 2012 ("the
relevant time period").
10.
During the relevant time period, Viele and Pettus employed persons at
Viele & Associates, including other att0111eys and clericalpersollnel.
II.
Jeanne H. Hoag ("Ms. Hoag") worleed full time for Viele and Vick &
Associates from 1992 to 2007 or 2008, perfo1111ing bookkeeping for the firm, including
reconciling banking accounts, payroll, and accounts payable, and paying federal and state
withholding taxes.
12.
Vicle & Associates offered a Simple IRA retirement plan managed by
. Ameripl'ise Financial ("Amedprise") whereby participating employees chose an amount
to be withheld from each paychecle for contribution to that employee's Ameriprise
Simple IRA account.
)3.
Under the AIneriprise Simple IRA retirement plan, Viele & Associates was
supposed to withhold the designated amount from each pmticipating employee's
biweekly paycheck, deposit that amount into the employee's Ameriprise Simple IRA
account, and deposit the finn's matching al1lount up to 3% of the employee's salary.
14.
United States Department of Labor ("DOL") and Internal Revenue Service
("IRS") rules require that pmticipating employees' Simple IRA contributions to
AIneriptise become plan assets as of (I) the earliest date on which such contributions
may reasonably be segregated from Vicle & Associates' genotal assets, blit (2) in no event
later than the 30th calendar day following the month in which the amount would
otherwise have been payable to the participal1t.
-2-

15.
Vick and Pettus had a joint fiduciary duty to their film's participating
employees to segregate and timely deposit the Simple IRA withholdings into the
participating employees' Simple IRA accounts rather than commingle the withholdings
with other funds used for the benefit ofVick & Associates.
16.
In 2007 or 2008, Ms. Hoag began working for Vick & Associates only one
day a week, and she continued doing so into the Fall of 2010 when she was diagnosed
with a medicaJ condition.
17.
On October 21, 2010, Ms. Hoag made a monthly disbursement to
Ameriprise of the Simple IRA employees' contributions for the two bimonthly pay
periods in September 2010, along with a quarterly disbursement to Ameriprise of the
firm's matching contributions for July, August, and September 2010.
18.

Ms. Hoag did not work at Vick & Associates after November 5, 2010.

19.
At the time of Ms. Hoag's departure from her pali-time work at Vick &
Associates, the firm was ClUTent in paying employees' withholding taxes to the IRS and
the North Carolina Department of Revenue, its unemployment taxes to the Employment
Security Commission of NOlih Carolina ("ESC"), and its monthly disbursements to
Arneriptise of the Simple IRA employees' contributions along with the finn's matching
contributions.
20.
Ms. Hoag's departure from her work at Vick & Associates was abrupt and
unexpected by Viok and Pettus.
21.
After Ms. Hoag's depaliure in November 2010, Pettus asslUned
performing Ms. Hoag's payroll and accounts payable duties.
22.
During the relevant time period bnt after Ms. Hoag's departure, Pettus
signed the Vick & Associates checles or authorized clerical employees at the firm to affix
a facsimile of his signature to paychecks for the firm's employees.
23.
After Ms. Hoag's depal'ture, Pettus was responsible for paying the routine
and recurring bills for Vicle & Associates, including the employees' payroll.
24.
As partlters in Vick & Associates, Vicle and Pettus conferted on large or
unusual expenses and attempted to reach a mutual agreement on financial affairs.
25.
Defendant Vick had no day-to-day involvement in Vicle & Associates'
accounts payable or payroll.
United States Code sections 26 U.S.C. §§ 3102(a), 3402(a) provide that
26.
Federal income taxes, as well as Social Security taxes and Medicare taxes
("withholdings") must be withheld from Vicle & Associates' employees' paychecks.
27.
The federal withllOldings referenced above, plus all employer matching
alnount for Social Security and Medicare taxes, by law must be deposited quarterly with
the IRS.
-3-

28.
Willful failure to collect or pay to the IRS such withholdings as referenced
above is a felony under 26 U.S.C. § 7202.
29.
The officers or employees of a business entity responsible for the
collection and payment of such withholdings as referenced above who willfully fail to do
so may be personally liable to pay a penalty equal to the amount of the delinquent taxes
pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 6672.
30.
Pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 7501 (a), such federal withholdings as referenced
above are deemed to be a special fund in trust for the United States.
31.
IRS form 941, which is a summary of the salaries paid to the employees
and the amounts withheld from their paychecks, the monthly deposits to the IRS and the
amount due if sufficient deposits were not made, is due 30 days after the last day of the
respective quarter.
32.
As the managing patiner for Viele & Associates, Pettus Was designated to
sign the IRS fonn 941s for Vick & Associates, but Viele and Pettus were jointly
responsible for the collection, accounting, atld payment of the withholdings to the IRS on
behalf ofVick & Associates.
33.
For the last quarter of 2010 through the last quarter of 2012, Pettus, on
behalf of Vicle & Associates, made withholdings fi'om employees' paychecks and filed
IRS forms 941 with the IRS each quarter.
34.
For tile last qUalier of2010 through the last quarter of2012, Pettus timely
filed IRS form 941 returns on behalf of Vicle & Associates with the exceptions of the
quarters ending in June 2011 alld September 2012.
35.
For the last qualler of 2010 through the last qualler of 2012, Pettus, on
behalf of Vick & Associates, failed to 1l1ake to the IRS the requisite deposits of the
employees' withholdings atld Vic;k & Associates' matching amounts for Social Semlrity
atld Medicare ta,'(es in ally of the qumlers, and the resulting amounts due with each of the
l'espective IRS form 941 returns were not timely paid or remain unpaid.
36.
For the quarters ending in December 2011 tln'ough June 2012, Pettus made
no deposits or payments of withholdings of any kind to the IRS on behalf of Vick &
Associates.
37.
The balance of withholdings due to the IRS by Viele & Associates,
ineluding interest and penalties, exceeds $350,000.
38.
Viele & Associates received numerous letters and notices from the IRS in
reference to its employment tax liability, including a notice of intent to levy.
39.
The IRS letters and notices accumulated in the office at Viele & Associates
where Ms. Haag formerly worked.
40.
inspection.

The IRS letters and notices were available to both Vick and Pettus for
-4-

4 I.
Pettus did not inform Vick in 20 I I about the
withholdings and penalties.

accum~llating

deficits in IRS

42.
On June 17, 2011, Vick was admitted as an inpatient to Moses Cone
Hospital ("Moses Cone") due to illcapacitating neurological symptoms which were
diagnosed as Guillian Barre Syndrome - Miller Fisher Variant.
43.

Vick remained hospitalized at Moses Cone until discharged on July 13,

2011.
44.
After his discharge fi'om Moses Cone, Vick was admitted as an inliatient
to the Guilford Health Care Center for rehabilitation, where he remained until discharged
on August 16, 20 11.
45.
Vick continued his recuperation at home following his discharge from
Guilford Health Care Center, and did not return to Viele & Associates Hlltil early January
2012.
46.
Pettus did not infOJm Vick about the accumulating deficits in IRS
withholdings and penalties until after Vick returned to work at Vick & Associates in
January 2012.
47.
Subsequent to January 2012, Vick and Pettus, on behalf of Vick &
Associates, entered into an agreement with the IRS to make payments on its outstanding
employment tax liability balance.
48.
The NOlth Carolina Depmtment of Revenue ("state Department of
Revenue") has requirements similar to the IRS in regards to withholding state income
taxes from employees' wages and forwarding those wi(hholdings to the state Department
of Revenue along with qumterly employment tax returns.
49.
Willful failure to pay such state withholding taxes to the state Department
of Revenue is a misdemeanor pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236(a)(8)-(9).
50.
Viele and Pettus were jointly responsible for the collection, acconnting,
and payment of the state withholdings to the state Department of Revenue on behalf of
Vick & Associates.
51.
While withholding state income taxes from Vick & Associates'
employees, pettus failed to make withholding payments on behalf of Vick & Associates
to the state Depattment of Revenue during the years 2010, 2011 and 2012.
52.
The state Department of Revenue issued to Viele & Associates a Notice of
Collection in reference to employment withholding taxes for the quarter ending
December 2010.
53.
The state Depattment of Revenue notices were received by Viek &
Associates and accumulated in the office at Vick & Associates.

-5-

54.
The state Depmtment of Revenue notices were available to both Vick and
Pettus for inspection.
On March 26, 2012, the state Department of Revenue garnished
55.
$18,544.76 from the operating account of Vick & Associates to satisfY Vick &
Associates' state withholding tax obligation for the qUaiier elldil1g December 2010.
56.
Pettus did not inf01111 Vick about the deficits in state withholding taxes and
penalties until after Vick returned to work in January 2012.
On April 29, 2013, the state Depatiment of Revenue and Vick and Pettus,
57.
on behalf of Vick & Associates, entered into an agreement that if Vick and Pettus
paliicipated in a Small Business Counseling Program, the state Department of Revenue
would waive $8,807.70 of Vick & Associates' state employment tax liability for the
qUaliers ending March 30, 2011 tlu'ough September 29, 2012.
58.
After Vick and Pettus completed the cOlmseling program referenced
above, Vick & Associates' total state eillployment tax liability was $103,485.51,
including tax, interest and penalties.
59.
The state Depaltment of Revenue agreed with Vick and Pettus to accept
24 monthly payments fi'om Vick & Associates of $4,311.90 to settle the amount due for
the qUal'ters ending March 30, 201 1 through September 29,2012.
60.
The state Department of Revenue began withdrawing the agreed-to
amount of $4,311.90 per month from the Vick & Associates' operating accOlmt on
September 20, 2013.
61.
The rules of the North Carolina Depaliment of Commerce's Division of
Employment Security require employers to file quarterly repOlis and pay unemployment
taxes on the wages paid to employees.
Viele and Pettus were jointly responsible for the accounting and payment
62.
ofunerilployment taxes to the state ESC on behalf ofVick & Associates.
63.
During the relevant time period, Vick and Pettus did l}Ot file necessary
reports or timely pay the required unemployment taxes ($1,127.97 in 2011; $1,713.46 in
2012) to the ESC on behalf ofVick & Associates.
.
64.
During the relevant time period after Ms. Hoag's departure, Pettus
supervised the funds withheld fi'om Vick & Associates' employees' paychecks and funds
owed to the ESC until those funds were delivered to the IRS arid the state Department of
Revenue, or to the ESC.
65.
In January 2012, Vick became aware that Vick & Associates had failed to
payor deposit the funds withheld from employees' paychecks to the IRS and the state
Depmiment of Revenue, or the unemployment taxes owed to the ESC.

-6-

66.
Vick and Pettus were jointly responsible as fiduciaries for the collection,
accounting, and payment of the employees' Simple IRA contributions and matching
funds to Ameriprise.
67.
During 2010 and 2011, at least tlu'ee of Vick & Associates' attorneys,
along with three staff employees were participating in the firm's Simple IRA retirement
plan.
68.
In approximately November 2011, one or more of Vicle & Associates'
employees who were participating in the Simple IRA retirelnent plan discovered for the
first time that Pettus had deducted their retirement contributions from their paychecks,
but that Vick & Associates had not timely deposited these funds 0)' the firm's matching
funds Into their Simple IRA accounts at Ameriprise.
69.
During the last quatier of 2010 and the entirety of 2011, Vick &
Associates withheld Simple IRA contributions £i'om tile paychecks of six employees
totaling over $15,000.
70.
During the last quarter of 2010 and the entirety of 2011, none of the
pruiicipating employees' Simple IRA contributions referenced above or the finn's
matching 3% were deposited into their Ameriprise Simple IRA accounts.
71.
During the last quarter of 2010 and the entirety of 2011, the participating
employees' Simple IRA contributions were commingled with other funds used for the
benefit of Viek & Associates, including the salaries of Vick and Pettus and non-salary
distributions made to Vick and Pettus.
72.
When confronted about the non-deposits of the employees' retirement
contributions or the firm's matching 3%, Pettus admitted that since November 2010 he
had been withholding retirement contributions £i'om each pat'licipating employee's
paycheck, but that he had failed to deposit those contributions and the firm's matching
funds into the pruiicipating employees' Simple IRA accounts.
73.
During 2011, Viele & Associates received repeated notices fi'om
Ameriprise that pmiicipating employees' retirement contributions were not being
deposited into their Simple IRA accounts.
74.
The Ameriprise notices were available to both Viek, at least prior to his
incapacitation with the neurological illness in June 20 I I, and then upon his return to
work at Vick & Associates in January 2012, and Pettus for inspection.
75.
In Janumy 2012, followillg his retum to the firm, Vick becrune awru'e that
Vick & Associates had failed to payor deposit the participating etiiployees' retirement
contributions into their Simple IRA accounts for the last quarter of2010 and the entirety
of2011.
76.
In January 2012, pettus a1l11ounced to Vick & Associates' employees that
he and Vick had decided that the firm would no longer offer the Simple IRA retirement
-7-

plan and that retirement contribntions would no longer be withheld fi'om participating
employees' paychecks.
On January 20, 2012, Pettus announced his intention to restore the
77.
employees' missing Simple IRA contributions.
78.

In August 2012, Vick & Associates' four associate attorneys left the firm.

79.
In September 2012, Pettus deposited sums in the participating employees'
Ameriprise Simple IRA accounts to cover the amounts owed to those employees.
80.
Despite failing to timely deposit withheld l'etifement contributions into
their employees' Simple IRA accounts as referenced above, and also despite failing to
timely deposit fedetal and state employee withholding taxes as referenced above, Vick
and Pettus paid themselves dispropOliionately large salaries and distributions during the
same time period.
81.
During the last two week pay period ending on September 23, 1010, Vick
and Pettus each received a gross salary of $7,692.51; for the seven remaining two week
periods in 2010, Viele and Pettus each received a gross salary of $11,-538.46 per pay
period (an increase in pay, every two weeks, of $3,846.15 each, equating to an increase in
the last three months of2010 of $26,923.05 each).
82.
During 2011, Vick was paid a gross salary of $287,076.92; in addition,
Vick received additional non-salary distributions ii'om Vick and Associates of$76,388.35
in 2011.
83.
During 2011, Pettus was paid a gross salary of $289,846.04; in addition
Pettus received additional non-salary distributions fi'om Vick and Associates of
$79,568.35 in 201 I.
84.
Salaries for Vick and Pettus during 2011 were in excess of salaries and
income paid to other employees who participated in the Simple IRA plan.
85.
Pettus used the commingled withheld federal and state taxes, along with
the participating employees' withheld Simple IRA funds to continue his atid Vick's
salaries and distributions at the same or higher levels during the last quarter of2010 and
during all four quarters of 2011.
86.
On November 10,2015, Pettus surrendered his NOlth Carolina law license
and the Chairperson of the DRC entered a Consent Order disbarring Pettus ii'om the
practice of law in North Cat·olina.
87.
As a patiner with Pettus in Vick & Associates, Viele possessed comparable
managerial authority in the finatlcial affairs of dw fnm even though Pettus was the
managing patinel'.
88.
During the relevant time period, and especially from November 2010 to
June 2011 when he became incapacitated, Vick did not review available corl'espondence
or converse with Pettus to detenlline whether Vick & Associates WaS properly accounting
-8-

for, segregating, and depositing or paying the withheld federal and state taxes and the
patticipating employees' Simple IRA contributions.
89.
Dtn'ing the relevant time period, Viele failed to make reasonable·eff0l1s to
ensure that Vick & Associates had in effect procedul'es assuring that Pettus would
properly account for, segregate and deposit or pay the withheld federal and state taxes
and the palticipating employees' Simple IRA contributions.
90.
DUl'ing the relevant time period, and especially in 2011 and 2012, until he
becatlle incapacitated, Vick did not review available cDll'espondence or converse with
Pettus to determine whether Vick & Associates was propedy accounting for and paying
required ESC insurance premiums.
91.
During the relevant time period, Vick failed to malee reasonable efforts to
ensure that Viele & Associates had in effect procedures assuring that Pettus would
properly account for and pay required ESC insurance premiums.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law

1.
All patties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant Viele and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant Vicle's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact
above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as
follows:
a) By failing to review available correspondence or converse with Pettus to
determine whether Viele & Associates was properly accounting for,
segregating, and depositing or paying the withheld federal and state taxes
and the participating employees' Simple IRA contributions, as well as
accounting for and paying ESC insurance premiums, Vicle failed to make
reasonable effOlts to ensure that Vicle & Associates had in effect
procedUl'es assuring Pettus conformed to the Rules of Professional
Conduct in violation of Rule 5.1(~).
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
Defendant Viek served nine years in the Army and, after law school,
remained in the AmlY Reserve before retiring in 1999 at the ranlc of Lieutenatlt Colonel.
2.
Defendant Viele has no prior disciplinary record cOllceming his license to
practice law in North Cat·olina.
3.
Defendant Vicle has no prior discipline from the Social Security
Administration.
-9-

4.
Defendant Vick fully cooperated with the State Bar's investigation and has
been responsive to the State Bar's inqniries.
5.
Defendant Viele has expressed genuine remOrse for his lack of awareness
of Pettus's actions, and his failure to intervene at an earlier point in time.
6.
befendant Vick did not engage in the conduct described in the Findings of
Fact above with any dishonest or selfish motive.
7.
Defendant Vicle has the reputation, among his peers, colleagues and
associates of behlg honest and fair, though sometimes too trusting of others.
8.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusious With Respect To Discipline
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI14(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors wal1"ant suspension of Defendant
Vick's license:
(E)

Defendant Vicle's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession; and,

(H)

Defendant Vicle's actions had financial repercussi011S on third pmties,
namely his employees.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the N011h Carolina State
Bar and concludes that none of the factors for disbarment are implicated.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.Ol14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the N0l1h Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this ml'\tter:
(A)

Defendant Viek's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;

(C)

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

(G)

Defendant Vicle engaged in multiple offenses;

-l(f

(H)

Defendant Vick's incapacitation with a neurological illness during a
significant pOition of the relevant time period contributed to his lack of
awareness of Defendant Pettus's actions;

(K)

Defendant Vick's full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and
cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

(P)

Defendant Vick's remorse and efforts to repay all sums unpaid to State
and Federal authorities;

(Q)

Defendant Vick's good character and reputation; and

(S)

Defendant Vick's degree of experience in the practice of law

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reptimand or
censnre but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the misconduct at issue and the harm or potential harm Defendant's
misconduct caused to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal profession.

5.
The Hearing Panel also has considered the disbarment factors under 27
N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(2), but concludes that none of these factors are implicated and
that disbannent is not necessary to protect the public in this case.
6.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline ShOit of suspension of Defendant's law license would not adequately protect
the public, the legal profession, Or the administration of justice for the following reasons:
a) The factors ~mder 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.01l4(w)(I) and (w)(3) that are
established by the evidence are of a nature that SUppolt imposition of
suspension as the appropriate discipline; and,
b) Entry of less serious discipline would fflil to acknowledge the seriousness
of the offenses Defendant committed and would send the wrong message
to prosecutors, attorneys, and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
Based upon the foregoing findings offact and conclusions oflaw and the findings
of fact and concitlSion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the p31ties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:

Order of Discipline
I.
Defendant, H. Russell Vick, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for one year, effective 30 days from service ofthis ordet upon Defendant.
2.
The one-year suspension is stayed for a period of one year as long as
Defendant Vick complies, and continues to comply dming the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:

a) Defendant Viele shall timely submit his annual Continuing Legal
Education ("CLE") repOlt form to the CLE Depllltment of the North
Carolina State Bar each year of the stay and contemporlllleously send a
copy of the CLE report fOlnl to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar to
document compliance with the above conditions of the stay. "Timely"
means by the date specified by the CLE department as the df)te by which
members must submit their annual repOlt forms to avoid assessment of a
$75.00 late filing penalty. Defendant must ensure the Office of Counsel
receives a copy of his annual CLE repOlt form no later than 15 days after
it is due to the CLE depaltmentof the State Bar each year;
b) In addition to his arulUal requirement of 12 hours of CLE and within the
next 12 months following the effective date of his suspension, Defendant
Vick shall complete an additional three (3) hours of CLE, approved in
advance by the Office of Counsel, related to law office management;
c) For the next 12 months following the effective date of his suspension,
Defendant Vick shall maintain an installment agreement with the IRS to
continue paying the outstanding balance of the taxes and penalties owed
by Viele & Associates. If the existing installment agreement with the IRS
is modified or satisfied, Defendant Viele shall notify the Office of Counsel
within ten (10) days of such change in status, and shall thereafter notify
the Office of Counsel of any further changes in the status of the firm's
installment agreement with the IRS within ten (10) days;
d) For the next 12 months following the effective date of his suspension,
Defendant Viole shall ensure that his firm, Viele & Associates, properly
reports 1Il1d timely pays any applicable federal and state withholding taxes
and unemployment insurance for its employees, aJld if the firm renews its
offering of a Simple IRA retirement plan for participating employees, then
DefendaJlt Vick shall ensure that any participating employees'
contributions and any fil'lllillatching funds are timely paid by the firm into
the employees' accounts. Thirty days prior to end of his sllspension,
Defendant Vick shall submit a report to the Office of Counsel cel'tifying
his compliance with this requirement as of the date of the report;
e) Defendllllt Viele shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments 1Il1d comply with all CLE req\lirements on a timely basis;
f) Defendant Viele shall keep his address of record with the North Carolina
State Bar current, accept all celtified mail from the North Carolina State
Bar, and respond to all letters of notice and requests for information !l'om
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the

C01TI111unication;
g) Defendant Vick shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct
in effect during the period orthe stay;

h) Defendant Vick shall not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina
or of the United States during the period ofthe stay; and
i) Defendant Vick shall pay all costs and administrative fees of this
pl'oceeding as assessed by the Secretary within thirty (30) days after
service ofthe notice of costs on him.
3.
If the stay of the sllspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the following conditions are placed upon Defendant Vick's reinstatement to
active status. With any petition Defendant Vick files for reinstatement to active practice,
Defendant must demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he complied
with each of the following conditions:
a) Sllbmitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date of the
order activating his suspension;
b) Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules
on a timely basis;
c) Not have violated any ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct;
d) Not have violated any laws of the State ofNo1'th Carolina or ofthe United
States; and
e) Paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within thilty
(30) days of service ofthe notice of costs upon him.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary, which shall be paid within thirty (30) days of service of the
notice of costs upon Defendant.
5.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of tins
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admiu. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .01l4(x) of the
North Carolilla State Bar Discipliue and Disability Rules tlu-oughout the pedoct of the
stayed suspensiOll.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other
Hearing Panel members.
This

the!.&.~ofNOVell1ber 2015.

Renn
. Deese, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Agreed and consented to by:

H. Russell Vick
Defendant

David Freedman
Attorney for Defendant Vick

-14

