BEFORE THE
GRlEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13G0661

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Stephanie L. Villaver,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRlMAND

On January 23,2014 the Grievance Committee of the NOlih Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the NOlih Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You advertised on the internet that you were "Jacksonville's best auto injury attorney"
a~d you guaranteed to get a person "the settlement you deserve!" Your claim that you are the
best auto injury attorney in Jacksonville violated Rule 7.1 (a)(3) as you compared your services
with the services of other lawyers when that comparison could not be factually substantiated.

Furthermore, you guaranteed that you could get a person the settlement he deserved which
violated Rule 7.1 (a) (2) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Your website also indicated that you were "Jacksonville, North Carolina's Personal Injury
Specialist!" You are not a board certified specialist in personal injury law and you can not
represent that you are a personal injury specialist. You indicated in another section of your
website that your "legal team also specializes in traffic ticket matters." Again, you can not refer
to yourself as a specialist in a field of practice. Your use of the terms "specialize" and
"specialist" in describing your legal services violated Rule 7.4(b).
You responded to this grievance on September 6, 2013 by stating that you had reviewed
the website information with your website designer and asked that he correct the problems on
your website. You stated that you had asked for the changes before you went on medical leave.
You further stated that the website information was "reviewed by myself and my staff prior to
posting on the web." You responded that the website designer told you that he had forgotten to
make changes to the website as you had requested.
State Bar staff counsel sent you supplemental questions regarding this grievance. You
responded on October 4,2013 that you had requested changes that addressed the concerns raised
by the grievance before you went on medical leave. You also told the State Bar staff counsel in
an October 15, 2013 telephone conversation that you texted the website designer in May 2013
and asked that he change your website to comply with the ethics rules. However, you were
unable to provide proof of those texted messages due to some problem with your cell phone.
Twenty-one days after your October 4,2013 response, you advised the Grievance
Committee that you spoke with your staffwho reviewed your response and you were told that
you were "wrong on my timeline in my response." You then asked your staff to prepare
affidavits to respond to the allegations in the grievance. You also admitted you didn't know what
went on with your website since you were out of the office on medical leave. Your marketing
director stated in an October 16, 2013 affidavit that the website designer put up the website
without "our knowledge until the first letter from the State Bar." You should have asked your
staff about the website before you prepared your first response to this grievance.
Rule .0112(c) of the Discipline and Disability Rules requires a lawyer to provide a full
and fair disclosure of the circumstances surrounding the allegations of the grievance. The
Grievance Committee was concerned that you either intentionally misled the Committee or
submitted a response to this grievance with reckless disregard for the truth. The Grievance
Committee found that your response to this grievance violated Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. You are advised to fully and fairly respond to any grievances filed
against you.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
.State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $3 50. 00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

;;(oflv

day of f£f, ru.( 4'J0Y

Jo M. Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

,2014.

