...

~~
~\

~

T~

STATEOFNORTHCARO/,WA

~O

\r--

WAKE COUNTY

\._0
\-S'

JAN 2008

/'~

<;.:',~

BEFORE THE

FllErPISCJ;~ ARY HEARING COMMISSION

DHC
~

~(c

.

~,~

0--

OF THE
RTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
07DHC 19

(\iL

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE B'L\--I.,J~-r
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
v.

PAUL E. HEMPHILL, Attorney,
Defen dant

This matter was considered by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed ofT. Richard Kane, Chair, M. H. Hood Ellis and Johnny A.
Freeman. Robert A. Crabill represented the Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. The
Defendant, Paul E. Hemphill, represented himself. Both parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of
this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the
parties, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General
Statutes, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of Title
27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, Paul E. Hemphill ("Hemphill" or "defendant"), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar in 1975, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.

3. During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Hemphill was
engaged in the practice of law in the state of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.

4.
Beginning in 2003, Marjorie Lewis ("Lewis") retained defendant to handle
a personal injury case for her.

5.
Throughout the course of the representation, Lewis would repeatedly call
defendant to try and determine what activity, if any, was taking place on her behalf.

6. During early 2005, Lewis called defendant each week for over two months
and yet received no response from defendant.

7. On March 9, 2005, Lewis wrote defendant informing him that she had not
been able to get in touch with him for months and asking him to please give her case to
someone else ifhe did not have time to help her or take her matter seriously.

8.
In her March 9, 2005 letter to defendant, Lewis urged defendant to get in
touch with her as soon as possible and let her know what was happening with her case.

9.
Lewis did not receive any response from defendant after she sent her letter
on March 9, 2005.

10.
Lewis never received any documents from defendant regarding her case
and was never made aware of whether defendant was doing any work on her behalf at all.

11.
On the rare occasions when Lewis was able to reach defendant on the
telephone he could never provide her with any information other than to tell her that
"things are going along."

12.
Having no response from defendant, Lewis contacted the State Bar Client
Assistance Program on June 21, 2005 for help due to her inability to communicate with
defendant regarding the status of her case.

13.
The State Bar Client Assistance Program attempted to contact defendant
on June 21, June 22, and June 23,2005 but did not have any success in reaching
defendant.

-2-

14.
On July 5, 2005 Lewis filed a grievance with the North Carolina State Bar.
This grievance was assigned file number 05G0734.

15.
Defendant received a certified letter from the State Bar Client Assistance
Program on July 8, 2005 and finally contacted the Client Assistance Program on July 14,
2005.

16.
Defendant informed the State Bar Client Assistance Program that he
would write Lewis regarding the status of her case no later than July 15, 2005.

17.
On information and belief, defendant never sent Lewis any letter updating
the status of her case.

18.
Defendant received a Letter of Notice and Substance of Grievance from
the State Bar on September 21, 2005.

19.
The Letter of Notice informed defendant that he had fifteen days to submit
his response to the Letter of Notice. On October 17,2005, the State Bar Office of
Counsel wrote defendant reminding him that he had not yet responded to the Letter of
Notice and telling him that he needed to respond by October 24, 2005.

20.
On November 1,2005, defendant did file a response to the Letter of
Notice with the State Bar.

21.
In his response to the Letter of Notice, defendant stated that the personal
injury case of Ms. Lewis was still pending and properly before the court.

22.
In his response to the Letter of Notice, defendant did not deny that for a
two month period he did not have any contact with Ms. Lewis. He stated that he did talk
to her in late June or early July 2005 and provided her additional information about her
case.

-3-

23.
In his response to the Letter of Notice, defendant stated that he provided
Ms. Lewis with additional phone numbers where he could be reached including his cell
phone number and he stated that he did not anticipate the communication problems
would occur again.

24.
Lewis continued to have problems communicating with defendant even
after his assurances to the Grievance Committee that these problems would not occur
again.

25.
Lewis had no contact with defendant from October 2005 until at least
March 2006 with the exception of one telephone conversation around Christmas time
2005.

26.
On March 2,2006 Deputy Counsel for the State Bar again wrote a letter to
defendant asking him to provide specific information regarding Lewis' lawsuit, including
its status with the court, whether discovery had been conducted, whether settlement
negotiations had been engaged in, and any other information relative to the status of the
lawsuit. Deputy Counsel also asked defendant to indicate what contact if any he had with
Ms. Lewis during the course of his representation.

27.
Deputy Counsel for the State Bar requested in the March 2, 2006
correspondence to defendant that defendant respond to these questions by March 15,
2006.

28.
Defendant finally responded to the March 2, 2006 letter on May 22, 2006.
In this May 22, 2006 letter, defendant responded that the case regarding Ms_ Lewis was
not prosecuted aggressively by defendant. Defendant asserted that things had changed
and in addition to corresponding with Ms. Lewis, defendant was seeking a resolution of
her claim.

29.
On March 19, 2007, the 1awsuit filed by defendant on behalf of Lewis was
dismissed with prejudice by the Mecklenburg County Superior Court due to defendant's
failure to use due diligence in attempting to obtain service on the adverse party to the
lawsuit.

In May 2005, Roddrick Dunlap ("Dunlap") retained defendant to represent
30.
him with regards to filing a complaint for visitation with his minor child.

-4-

31.
On May 12,2005, defendant submitted the complaint that he had prepared
on behalf of Dunlap to Dunlap for Dunlap's signature on the verification page.

32.
Dunlap received the proposed complaint and did in fact sign the
verification page on June 16,2005 and promptly returned the signed document back to
defendant.

35.
For the next two months, Dunlap contacted defendant to inquire about the
status of the filing of the complaint. Defendant would tell Dunlap that the complaint
would be filed imminently and on some occasions even told Dunlap that the papers had
been mailed to the adverse party in the case.

36.
Dunlap informed defendant in July that the adverse party would be
moving in four weeks and that it was imperative that the papers be sent to her.

37.

Defendant informed Dunlap that he would get the papers out immediately.

38.

Defendant never did send the papers to the adverse party on Dunlap's

behalf.

39.
On August 13,2005, Dunlap informed defendant that Dunlap desired
defendant to discontinue working on this visitation case due to defendant's failure to
timely deliver the work he promised back in Mayas well as defendant's
unprofessionalism exemplified by his neglect and unresponsiveness to Dunlap.
In a letter from Dunlap to defendant mailed and faxed on August 16,2005
40.
Dunlap did also ask for a refund of$880.00 from the $1,000.00 fee that he had paid to
defendant.

In the August 16,2005 letter Dunlap acknowledged that defendant had
41.
earned the $120.00 fee agreed to for a separate case involving a restraining order.
42.

Defendant did not respond to Dunlap's August 16,2005 letter.

-5-

43.
Dunlap thereafter filed a Petition for Resolution of Disputed Fee ("fee
dispute") with the North Carolina State Bar on September 16,2005. This matter was
assigned file number 05FD0533.
44.
The fee dispute matter was referred to the Mecklenburg County Bar Fee
Dispute Resolution Committee and assigned to a mediator on October 3, 2005.

45.
In late October 2005, the mediator successfully mediated the fee dispute
and defendant agreed to refund $700.00 to Dunlap.

46.
On October 27, 2005 the mediator faxed and mailed defendant a
settlement agreement and release reflecting this agreement.

47.
The mediator never heard back from defendant despite many attempts to
contact defendant by telephone.

48.
When the mediator was finally able to speak to defendant, defendant
assured the mediator that defendant would mail a check by November 18, 2005.

49.
The mediator wrote another letter to defendant on November 17,2005
reiterating that he was expecting a check by the next day. This letter also reminded
defendant that his refusal to send a check would be a violation of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct for not handling the fee dispute matter in good faith.

50.
The mediator never received defendant's check nor did defendant ever
contact him again.

51.
After defendant refused to send the check he had agreed to send in the fee
dispute matter, the State Bar opened a grievance file on February 9, 2006. This file was
assigned file number 06G0152.

52.
On March 13, 2006, the State Bar sent a Letter of Notice and Substance of
Grievance to defendant and this Letter of Notice was served personally on defendant on
April 19, 2006.

-6-

53.
Defendant responded to the Letter of Notice on May 4,2006 and did
submit a money order made out to Dunlap in the amount of $700.00 as previously agreed.
54.
Defendant's response received May 4,2006 did not address the issues
regarding neglect and lack of communication and lack of participation in good faith in the
fee dispute program.
55.
Deputy Counsel to the State Bar wrote defendant on May 8, 2006 asking
him to address these further issues by May 23,2006.
56.

Defendant did not respond to the May 8, 2006 letter.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Paul E. Hemphill, and the subject marter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a)

By failing to provide the legal services Lewis hired him to
perform, defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

b)

By failing to respond to Lewis' inquiries about her case, defendant
failed to keep his client reasonably informed in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3) and failed to comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

c)

By failing to provide the legal services Dunlap hired him to
perform, defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in representing the client in violation of Rule 1.3;

d)

By failing to respond to Dunlap's inquiries about his case,
defendant failed to keep his client reasonably informed in violation
of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

e)

By collecting a fee from Dunlap and then failing to provide the
legal representation for which Dunlap paid the fee, defendant
collected a clearly excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a);

f)

By failing to promptly refund the unearned fees upon termination
of the representation by Dunlap, defendant failed to protect a
client's interest upon termination of the representation in violation

-7-

of Rule 1.16(d) and failed to promptly deliver to a client funds
belonging to the client in violation of Rule L15-2(m); and
g)

By failing to follow through on the agreed settlement in the fee
dispute matter and by failing to respond to messages and letters
from the fee dispute mediator, defendant failed to participate in
good faith in the fee dispute resolution process in violation of Rule
1.5(f).

Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing committee
hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Hemphill's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a)

b)
c)
d)
2.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a)

3.

Prior disciplinary offenses, to wit; an admonition in 1997, two
reprimands in 1998, a censurein 1998, a 12 month stayed
suspension in 2003 and an activation of 30 days of the 2003 12
mouth suspension in 2004;
Pattern of misconduct in this matter;
Multiple offenses in this matter; and
Substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.
Defendant has engaged in conduct that has caused significant harm to his
clients and the administration ofjustice. Further, Defendant's failure to respond to the
fee mediation process on a timely basis had the potential to cause significant harm to the
standing of the legal profession in the eyes of the public because it shows disdain for his
obligations as an attorney. The Defendant has not shown an ability to conform his
conduct to the requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct concerning neglect and
communication.

5.
The conduct of Defendant caused actual harm to the standing of the legal
profession, undermining his clients' trust and confidence in lawyers and the legal system.

-8-

6. ODefendant's failure to respond to the fee mediation process on a timely
basis interfered with the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys and undermined the
privilege of lawyers in this State to remain self-regulating.
7.
This DRC Committee has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a
public censure or reprimand WOUIWsUfficient discipline because of the gravity of
the harm caused by the conduct a th
endant to the public and to the administration
ofjustice.
8.
This DRC Committee fjnds Defendant's conduct caused significant harm
and significant potential harm to clients and to the administration of justice, to the
profession, and to members of the public, and that a more severe discipline is necessary
to protect the public.
9.
For those reasons, this DRC Committee believes and so finds that an
Order calling for a discipline short of a suspension of Defendant's law license would not
be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing factors and with the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Paul E. Hemphill, is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw
in North Carolina for five years.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membershi p card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .OI24(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
All costs of this action are taxed to Defendant. Defendant must pay the
costs within 30 days of service of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
5.
After serving two years of the active suspension of his license, Defendant
may apply to have the remainder of the suspension stayed by filing a petition with the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar demonstrating the following by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence:

-9-

a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the terms of27 N.C Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

b.

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
ofthe statement of costs upon him;

c.

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home address;

d.

That he has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar received after the effective date of this order
within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner; this includes
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Pro gram of
the State Bar as well as formal notices from the State Bar;

e.

That he has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
or the laws of the United States or any state; and

f.

That he paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice during
the suspension. The State Bar does not send membership and CLE
notices to members who are suspended so it is Defendant's
obligation to contact the appropriate departments on a timely basis,
ascertain his financial and CLE obligations during his suspension
and to timely satisfy those obligations.

g.

In addition to the regular CLE requirements of the State Bar,
Defendant completed an additional eight hours of CLE instruction
in law office management and provided documentation of
completion to the State Bar.

6.
The procedures of 27 N.C Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section
.0125(b) shall govern Defendant's petition for a stay of the remainder of the suspension
of his law license.

7.
If the Secretary finds that Defendant has proven compliance with the
conditions of this order by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, the Secretary shall put
into effect the stay of the remaining period of suspension provided for in this Order by
reinstating Defendant to active status subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements
of this Order of Discipline, with Defendant's active status contingent upon continued
compliance with the terms of this Order. Such stay will continue in force only as long as
Defendant continues to comply with all conditions in this Order. The Disc iplinary
Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of the matter until all conditions of the Order
are satisfied, under 27 N.C Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .OI14(x).

- 10-

8.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as he continues to comply with the following
conditions:
a.

The conditions set out in paragraphs 5 (c) - (g) of the Order of
Discipline section of this Order; and

b.

Defendant shall promptly and timely respond to his clients,
including returning telephone calls from all clients regardless of
whether the clients have paid Defendant.

9.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions referenced in Paragraph 8 of the
Order of Discipline section of this Order, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in § .OI14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
10.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of
his law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must prove each of the matters set out in paragraphs 5 (a) - (g) of the
Order of Discipline section of this Order by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law.
11.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter E, § .01l4(x) ofthe
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

- 11 -

Signed by the Chair ~th the consent of the other hearing committee
members, this the /4111 dayof ..::#,v~4q
, 2007f'. ~

T.

~--

R~ne, Chair

Disciplinary Hearing Committee

j'

~%9'Q.~~

Ro ert A. Crabill
Attorney for Plaintiff

- 12 -

