THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
v.
)
)
WILLIAM L. DURHAM, Attorney,
)
Defendant )

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING DEFENDANT
TO DISABILITY INACTIVE
STATUS

This matter was considered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of F. Lane Williamson, Chair, C. Colon
Willoughby, Jr., and Rebecca Brownlee. Margaret Cloutier represented plaintiff.
Defendant was represented by James W. Zisa. Defendant has agreed to waive
a formal hearing in the above referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree
to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to
the conditions imposed. Defendant also stipulates that he waives his right to
appeal this consent order or challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings,
conclusions of law or conditions ordered by consenting to the entry of this order.
Defendant further waives any insufficiency in service of process and the
complaint.
Based on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby finds
by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, William L. Durham (hereinafter "Defendant" or "Durham"),
was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 12, 1972 and is, and
was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in
North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Revised Rules of

Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of
North Carolina.
3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Winston-Salem, Forsyth County, North Carolina.
4. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, filed a disciplinary complaint
against the Defendant, William L. Durham, on October 19, 2007. Summons was
also issued on October 19, 2007. Defendant was served with a copy of the
Complaint and Summons on October 26, 2007 and filed a responsive pleading
on November 13,2007.
5. On November 6,2007, the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission appointed the three members of the Hearing Committee to hear and
determine the Plaintiff's disciplinary complaint. The Hearing Committee consists
of F. Lane Williamson, Chair, C. Colon Willoughby, Jr., and Rebecca Brownlee.
6. On December 1, 2008, Defendant, through counsel, filed a Notice of
Disability raising a question about whether the Defendant had a disability that
impaired his ability to practice law. A hearing in this matter is currently scheduled
for January 9, 2009.
7. An evaluation by psychiatrist John Parkinson, M.D. reveals that
Defendant suffers from moderately severe depression and high level of anxiety.
His psychological impairments are significantly affecting his physical well-being
and cognitive performance.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. Defendant is disabled within the meaning of 27 N.CAC. 1B
§.01 03(19), and Defendant should be transferred to disability inactive status
pursuant to 27 N.CAC. 1B §.0118.
ORDER
1. Defendant is hereby transferred to disability inactive status.

2

2. Defendant shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina until
reinstated to active status pursuant to 27 N.CAC. 18 §.0125(c).
3. Defendant shall be taxed with the costs of this action.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full kno\l\l)edge and consent of
the other members of the Hearing Committee, this ji"7:;C'dayof jf.ic'7J£./;/
,

200-a
/-'

,/

F. LANE WILLIAMSON', 'CHAIR
HEARING COMMITIEE

Consented to:

Gu-1~

William L. Durham, Defendant

Ja, es W. Z~a,

,

( /\ CUO
MARGAR

ttorney for Defendant

(\

~ lU CJ VPL j ~\l1I)

CLOUTIER, Attorney for Plaintiff

3

/

