NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,
v.
RALPH T. BRYANT, Attorney,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER came on for hearing before the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0117(d) upon an Affidavit of Surrender of Law
License executed by Ralph T. Bryant ("Bryant") dated October 29, 2007, and filed in the office
of the Clerk of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission on October 31,2007.
Based upon the pleadings and the record, including the Affidavit of Surrender of Law
License, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Defendant was licensed to practice law in North Carolina in 1991.
2. Defendant's address of record with the North Carolina State Bar is P.O. Drawer C,
Greenville, North Carolina 27835.
3. In this action, the State Bar has alleged that Bryant misappropriated $64,847.00 held
by him in trust and utilized those funds for his own personal benefit or for the benefit of a third
party without authorization from the beneficial owners of the funds.
4. In his Affidavit of Surrender of Law License, Bryant admits that the facts upon which
the State Bar's allegations are founded are true and that he cannot successfully defend against the
allegations.
5. In his Affidavit of Surrender of Law License, Bryant states that he wishes to consent
to disbarment by filing his affidavit with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
6. The Affidavit of Surrender of Law License meets all requirements set forth in 27
N.C.A.C. IB §.0117(a)(1), (2), (3), (4) and (d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. 27 N.CA.C. IB §.Ol 08 provides that the Chair has the power and duty to enter orders
disbarring members by consent.

2. Defendant's affidavit meets all requirements set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI17(a)(l),
(2), (3), (4) and (d).
3. The facts upon which the affidavit is predicated warrant Defendant's disbarment.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the undersigned
Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following
ORDER

1. The surrender of the law license of Ralph T. Bryant is hereby accepted.
2. Ralph T. Bryant is DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North Carolina effective
upon the entry of this order with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
3. Ralph T. Bryant shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0l24 of the
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and shall surrender his license and permanent
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit
required by 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.

4. The costs of this action are taxed against Ralph T. Bryant.

,".-r:

This the

iY
/ ' day of

,

41

rk

/l,c'V4n~1<

,2007.

'~
..
,;I"
~

~

---.>"------/'7''->~.? ~~617t Hlillil1son, Chair
.
Disciplinary Hearing Commission

•

