.,
..~~%
..-;4?5J
(.! C( (j?A
~ )Oc3d

;If:'~ - ....

STATE OF NORTH

CAROLH~A NOV 2001

o~

BEFORE THE
l::T '":~""10 DIS~INARYHEARING COMMISSION
~ "l~t:LJ
~ ;;
OF THE
DHC~ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
$
07DHC3

.

WAKE COUNTY

"v?

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
v.

SCOTT E. HAWKINS, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on September 28, 2007, before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Sharon Bo Alexander, Chair, John
Breckenridge Regan, and Pamela U. Weis. Carmen K. Hoyme and Margaret T. Cloutier
represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Scott E. Hawkins,
represented himself. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the
hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Scott E. Hawkins (hereinafter "Hawkins" or "Defendant") was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 20, 1993, and is, and was at all times
referred to herein an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct, and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the hearing was held with
due notice to all parties.
4.
During the times relevant herein, Defendant was licensed to practice law
only in the State of North Carolina and was not licensed to practice law in any other state.
5.
Between August 2004 and April 2005, Defendant engaged in the
unauthorized practice of law in the State of South Carolina by engaging in the following
activities:

.

\

a. Entering into an agreement with Amy Ramirez-Hector (hereinafter "RamirezHector") to provide legal services, including legal advice, representation, and
legal work product, in a divorce action pending in the State of South Carolina;
b. Providing counsel and advice to Ramirez-Hector, who was the named
defendant in Case No. 03DR26-2209, Horry County Superior Court, State of
South Carolina (hereinafter "the South Carolina case");
c. Communicating offers to settle the South Carolina case to counsel for Claude
J. Hector, the named plaintiff therein;
d. Sending written communication to the trial court in the South Carolina case,
which the court construed as a request for continuance;
e. Preparing a Motion for Reconsideration of the January 18, 2005 Final Order
in the South Carolina case; and
f.

Preparing a Notice of Appeal to the South Carolina Court of Appeals from the
January 18, 2005 Final Order in the South Carolina case.

6.
On or about August 6, 2004, Defendant and his girlfriend, Dawn M. Baker
("Baker"), began residing with Ramirez-Hector at 27200 East State Route 70 in Myakka
City, Florida ("the Myakka City property"), which was jointly owned by Ramirez-Hector
and Claude J. Hector.
Ramirez-Hector did not give informed consent, in a signed writing, to the
7.
agreement
by which Defendant and Baker resided at the Myakka City
terms of the
property.
8.
Defendant did not advise Ramirez-Hector of the desirability of seeking
independent legal counsel regarding the agreement for Defendant and Baker to reside at
the Myakka City property.
9.
Defendant and Baker continued to live at the Myakka City property
through at least April 2005.
10.
On or about October 20, 2004, Defendant communicated directly with
Claude J. Hector, the named plaintiff in the South Carolina case, about settlement of that
case when Defendant knew Claude J. Hector was represented by counsel.
11.
On or about July 10,2005, a grievance was filed with the State Bar against
Defendant regarding his conduct in the South Carolina case.

-2-

12.
On or about August 8, 2005, the State Bar issued a letter of notice to
Defendant, advising him that a grievance had been filed against him. Defendant
responded to the letter of notice on September 26, 2005.
13.
On or about October 27, 2005, Counsel for the State Bar sent a follow-up
letter requesting further information from Defendant regarding the grievance. Defendant
failed to respond to the State Bar's October 27,2005 letter.
14.
On or about December 14, 2005, a State Bar investigator sent another
follow-up letter to Defendant reminding him to respond to the October 27, 2005 letter
and providing Defendant another copy of the October 27 letter. Defendant failed to
respond to the December 14,2005 letter.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over Defendant, Scott E. Hawkins, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (b)(3) as follows:
(a)

By agreeing to represent Ramirez-Hector, counseling Ramirez-Hector,
communicating with opposing counsel, and preparing legal documents for
filing, all in the South Carolina case, when he was not licensed to practice
law in South Carolina, Defendant engaged in the unauthorized practice of
law in violation of Rule 5.5(a);

(c)

By residing in the Myakka City property owned by Ramirez-Hector,
without obtaining her prior informed consent in a signed writing and
without advising her of the desirability of seeking independent legal
counsel, Defendant entered into a business transaction with a client, in
violation of Rule 1.8(a);

(d)

By communicating directly with Claude J. Hector, Defendant
communicated with a person he knew to be represented by another lawyer
in the matter in violation of Rule 4.2(a); and

(e)

By failing to respond the State Bar's December 14, 2005 follow-up letter
regarding a grievance, Defendant failed to respond to a lawful demand for
information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b) and
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes additional

-3-

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The Committee finds the following aggravating factor:
a.

2.

3.

multiple offenses.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

absence of a prior disciplinary record; and

b.

absence of a dishonest or selfish motive.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factor.

4.
Defendant's actions caused actual harm to the standing of the legal
profession and to the administration of justice. Disregard for the Rules of Professional
Conduct causes significant harm to the standing of the legal profession in the eyes of the
public because it demonstrates disdain for a lawyer's obligations as an officer of the
court. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the reputation of, and
fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole.
5.
Defendant's failure to respond to a follow-up letter from the State Bar
regarding a grievance interfered with the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys and
undennined the privilege of lawyers in this State to remain self-regulating.
6.
Defendant's pattern of conduct reveals an acute lack of understanding of
his obligations under the Rules of Professional Conduct, and Defendant has failed to
present any evidence that he has reformed or taken any steps to ensure that the public will
not be harmed ifhe is pennitted to continue to practice law at this time.
7.
This DRC Committee has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a
public censure or reprimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of
the harm to the legal profession and to the administration of justice caused by
Defendant's conduct, and the threat of significant potential hann Defendant poses to the
public.
8.
This DHC Committee finds Defendant's conduct caused significant harm
to the administration of justice, to the profession, and significant potential harm to his
client and members of the public, and that a more severe discipline is necessary to protect
the profession, the public, and potential clients.
9.
This Committee finds that entry of an order less than a suspension would
fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant and would
send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of member of the
Bar in this State.

-4-

10.
For those reasons, this DHC Committee believes and so finds that an
Order calling for a discipline short of a suspension of Defendant's law license would not
be appropriate.
11.
The expenses incurred by Plaintiff for stenographic and videographic
assistance in the taking of depositions in this matter and the cost of deposition transcripts
were reasonable and necessary in the litigation of this case. The cost of the depositions
should be taxed to the Defendant.

Based upon the foregoing Findings and Conclusions of Law and the arguments of
the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of Defendant, Scott E. Hawkins, is hereby suspended for three
years, beginning 30 days from the date of service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.
3.
After serving one year of the active suspension of his license, Defendant
may apply for reinstatement upon filing a petition with the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar demonstrating the following by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence:
a.

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon him.

b.

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home address.

c.

That he has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline
stated in the communication, whichever is sooner.

d.

That he has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
or the laws of the United States or any state.

e.

That he paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice during
the suspension.

-5-

f.

That in addition to satisfying the CLE requirements imposed upon
all active members of the State Bar during the applicable time
period, Defendant has obtained annually an additional three (3)
hours of ethics CLE specific to the North Carolina Rules of
Professional Conduct, above that which is otherwise required by
the State Bar.

If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
4.
such stay will continue in force only as long as he complies with the conditions set out in
paragraphs 3(b) ~ (e) above and with the following conditions:

a.

After the suspension is stayed, Defendant shall file a quarterly
report with the State Bar's Office of Counsel which lists any legal
services provided by Defendant to clients outside the state of North
Carolina, and, for each client, describes all measures Defendant is
taking to comply with the other jurisdiction's law regarding the
unauthorized practice of law.

5.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and Defendant
fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions referenced in Paragraphs 3(b) - (e)
and (4), then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in §
.OlI4(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
6.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of
his law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must comply with the conditions set out in Paragraphs 3(a) ~ (f)
above before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law.
7.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.
8.
Defendant shall be taxed with the costs permitted by law in connection
with this proceeding, including deposition costs.

this the

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
day of
(\~
' 2007.

---llL-

-6-

•

Sharon B. Alexander
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Committee

-7-

