NORTH CAROLINA

,/l>;

f.' 'J

/.'\

WAKE COUNTY

r

.

-"
.-~ ' ...~
;"

.'}

_~

.J

-.;L;-~;

7 (,; '- /,

BEFORE THE
.DI~ L1NARY HEARING COMMISSION
JU,-t200fl ~
OF THE
1:1L~D
TH CAROLI NA STATE BAR
07 DHC 30

Dlta

, ,

v.
RHONDA R. HIPKINS, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

This matter was heard on May 16, 2008 by a Hearing Committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Tommy W. Jarrett, Chair, Donna
R Rascoe and Johnny A. Freeman. Margaret Cloutier represented Plaintiff.
Douglas J. Brocker represented Defendant. Based upon the record and the
evidence introduced at the hearing, the Hearing Committee by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence hereby makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina,
and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title
27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code ("NCAC").
2. Defendant Rhonda R Hipkins was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in August 1998, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the
State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3. During the times relevant hereto, Defendant was actively engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina as Counsel for the Town and
Police Department of Stallings, North Carolina.
4. Defendant was properly served with process and received due notice
of the hearing in this matter.

1

5. On the afternoon of Friday, March 3, 2006, Defendant purchased
grocery items from a Harris Teeter grocery store located at 1811 Matthews
Township Parkway, Matthews, North Carolina.
6. During this transaction, Defendant found an unmarked BB&T bank
envelope containing $180 in $20 bills on the check cashing stand of the checkout
counter, which had been left there by the previous customer, and subsequently
placed the envelope and cash into her purse and left the store.
7. The parties presented conflicting evidence and testimony concerning
what Defendant planned to do with this money after she left the store and
whether she intended to use it for her own purpose.
8. On Saturday, March 4,2006, Cpl. Greene of the Matthews Police
Department and Officer Giglio of tile Mint Hill Police Department interviewed
Defendant at her residence about the money she had found at Harris Teeter the
previous day.
9. Defendant admitted finding the money. During the interview,
Defendant told Cpl. Greene that she had deposited the money into her bank
account.
10. Defendant did not deposit the money into a bank account at any time
and the funds were physically present in her home at the time of her
conversation with Cpl. Greene.
11. Shortly after Cpl. Greene left Defendant's residence, Defendant called
the Matthews Police Department and left a message for Cpl. Greene. When Cpl.
Greene returned Defendant's call, Defendant told Cpl. Greene she would come
to the Matthews Police Department the next Monday and return the money to the
Chief of Police.
12. Defendant turned over an unmarked BB&T bank envelope containing
$180 in $20 bills to the Matthews Police Chief the next Monday morning. The
envelope and $180 were returned the same day to the customer who had left the
cash in Harris Teeter.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.

2

2. The North Carolina State Bar has not shown by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence that Defendant committed the criminal act of larceny, and
therefore, Defendant did not violate Rule 8.4(b) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
3. Defendant made a false representation to Cpl. Greene of the Matthews
Police Department which constituted conduct involving deceit, dishonesty and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
Hearing Committee also enters the following

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a) vulnerability of the victim; and
(b) substantial experience in the practice of law, specifically in
advising law enforcement agencies.

2. Defendant's conduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a) absence of a prior disciplinary record;
(b) timely, good-faith effort to rectify the consequences of her
actions, having called Cpl. Greene soon after their conversation at Defendant's
home on March 4, 2006 indicating her willingness to return the money the next
Monday;
(c) full and free disclosure to the Hearing Committee and
cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
(d) good character and reputation; and
(e) remorse.
3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
4. The Hearing Committee finds and concludes that Defendant's conduct
caused significant harm or potential significant harm to the administration of
justice, to the profession or to the public.

3

5. The Committee finds that entry of an order imposing an admonition or
reprimand would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offense committed
by Defendant and would send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State. However, under the
circumstances of this matter, public protection does not require a suspension of
Defendant's law license.
6. Depositions of two witnesses were taken by Plaintiff and the expenses
incurred by the Plaintiff for those depositions were reasonable and necessary in
the litigation of this case. The expense of the deposition should be taxed to the
Defendant.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
Findings Regarding Discipline, all found by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence, the Hearing Committee enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, Rhonda R. Hipkins, is hereby CENSURED for her
misconduct.
2. Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary, which costs shall include the cost of the depositions taken of the
witnesses, and shall be paid within thirty (30) days of service of the notice of
costs upon the Defendant.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of
the other members of the Hearing Committee, this If#--dayof 7u.~
2008.

,

4

