STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

:~:- ~;.
i\"·~ ...

:

~4

..

,0

r-:

. . BEFORE 'l1HE

~.~~

GRIEVANC~ CC14MI:ITEE

COUNTY OF WAKE

.

OF 'rHE;
NORTH CAROLl:l'lA. STATE BAA
84G !~n 97' ell)
, i

IN THE MATTER OF
mVID H. R(x;ERS,

ATTORNEY AT

I

)
)
}
}

PUBLIC.CE)NSURE
"

'-,

LA~v

At its regular quarterly meeting .onOctober 17, 1984, ~e :Grievanc$ .
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar conducted a preliminary hearing
under 'Section 13 of the Discipline ana. Disbannent' Rules of the North Carolina' i
.StateBar ~egardtlil.g. ·:tile ·grievance filed qgainst you by Margaret· Rl,mdell. ,The
Committee considered all of the evidence before it, including your written
statement to the Committee. Pursuant to 'Section 13tH». of' the Dil?cip!\:i:n¢' and
DisbannentR\lles, the Conmi ttee found probable cause. Propable 'cause is
defined under the Discipline and Disbannent Rules a,s: IIA. finding QY t1i.e
.
Grievance Committee that there is reasonable cause to ,believe, that a,: meinber"of
the North Carolin~ State Bar is guilty of misconduct j',ustLfyil1g 'disciplinary'
action." The rules also provide that if, after a einding of ,Probable cause,
the corrmittee detennines that a cqnplaint· and a hea~ing arenot\warJ::'~rfteri, thE;!
Committee may issue a public censure upon the" acc$ptanceof . the same bY' the
. attorney. That detennination has been made by the Committee anothe Committee
issues this Public Censure to you.
As Chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this Public Censure and I am certaini;:hat you
understand fully the spirit in which this duty.is perforrrie<:i:; 'that, you:wtl:l
understand the censure, and appreciate its significance. The fact that a ,
'public censure is not the most serious discipline that ,may be imposed by the
North Carolina State Bar $hould not I::>e taken by you tq. indicate that any'. "
member of the Conmittee feels that your conduct was exclls'able or less than a.
serious and substantial violation of the COde of Ptofessiona1Responsibil:i ty •
You represented Dennis Ray Higgins in a' contested divorce ptoceeding~ in
Wake County, file number 84 CvD 430, and a child support action, file.number
83 CvD ~672. Lisa Skurry Higgins was the opposing party in the <;livorce
proceeding. The opposing party in thechi.td support aet'iqn was Wake :Colinty ~.
ex reI. Lisa Skurry Higgins. Wake County was attempting, to recover AFDC
payments from Dennis Ray Higgins made to Lisa Skurry Htggil1s. tennis Ray
Higgins had signed a voluntary support agreement prlo~.tP yo~·r.~p;t;'esen~a,t±OI1
of him. Margaret Rundell filed an Answer on behalf of Lisa SkUrty Higgins in
the divorce proceeding ~ The Answer challeng~d the period of, s~parati9n and
claimed that a child' had been born of the ma~riagewhd.ch Q:3nnis' Ray ~.j;gg;ins.
had admitted was his by signing the voluntary support agreeinent~ lw:Ed.ling. an
Answer on Lisa Skurry Higgins' behalf on February 22, 1984, Margaret R~dell
bec~ attorney of record for Lisa Skurry H~ggins.

I

After the Answer was filed on Lisa Skurry Higgins' behalf, Lisa Skurry
Higgins informed you that: she planned to marry a man who intended to adopt her
child and that she no longer wanted to contest the divorce and child support
actions. On April 17, 1984, you met with Lisa Skurry Higgins at a Hardee's
and presented her with ant affidavit that stated that Dennis Ray Higgins was
not the natural father of' her child and that she no ionger wanted to continue
any child support action against Dennis Ray Higgins. It further stated that
she did not want to contest the divorce proceeding. Lisa Skurry Higgi~s
signed the affidavit and you notarized her signature. You communicated with
Lisa Skurry Higgins conceining the litigation in which she was the opposing
party knowing that Margaret Rundell was attorney of record for Lisa Skurry
Higgins, and without her prior authorization or consent in violation of DR
7....104 (A) (1 ) •
'

'I",

While it may be true! that Lisa Skurry Higgins told you that she no longer
wanted Margaret Rundell to represent her, no motion for Margaret Rundell to
wi thdraw as counsel had bieen flIed with the Court. As far as you were
concerned, Margaret Rundell remained as counsel of record until ·such time as
the Court may have allowed her to withdraw. Motivated by a change in her
circumstances, Lisa Skurry Higgins may have given up ilnportant legal rights
without careful consideration of the consequences of her actions. She did so
without benefit of counsel. You should have either notified Margaret Rundell
of Lisa Skurry Higgins' desire to meet with you and sought her permission or
refrai~ed from communicatlng with Lisa Skurry Higgins until Margaret Rundell
had withdrawn as counsel.'
Your conduct was unprofessional. It violated not only the letter of the
COde of Professional Responsibility but also its spirit. Your conduct was not
the conduct expected of a member of the legal profession and an officer of the
court. It brought discredit upon you, the profession, and the courts. It
damaged both your reputat~on and the profession's. It placed your privilege
to serve the public as a lawyer in serious jeopardy.
The Committee is confident that this Public Censure will be heeded by
you, that it will be reme~red by you, and will be beneficial to you. The
Committee is confident ~t you will never again allow yourself to depart from
strict adherence to the h~ghest standards of the profession. Instead of being
a burden, this Public Censure should serve as a profitable and everpresent
reminder to weigh carefully your responsibilities to your clients, to the
public, to your fellow attorneys, and to Ehe courts.
Pursuant to Section 23 of the Discipline and Disbarment Rules, it is
ordered that a certified copy of this Public Censure be forwarded to the
Superior Court of Wake County for entry upon the judgment docket and to the
Supreme Court of North Catolina for entry in its. minutes. This Public Censure
will also be maint~ined ap a permanent record in the judgment book of the
North Carolina State Bar •• , PurSuant to policy adopted by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar on the taxing of costs in cases where discipline is
entered by th~ Grievance Committee, you are h~reby taxed $50.00 as the
administrative costs in tpis act'
This the

750',

:1.'-"
rl.t-t. day, of --,-:::::,t...f.~~~&::::!-q..---"-.,1985.

I

