~\~~
§')'\
.. (21<7).
OCT 2007

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINg

D

cJ)

L-O

4-..U

C(;

OF THE

:;:L

j

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE B

BEFORE THE
COMMISSION

. He N~ H CAROLINA STATE BAR

,.-

WAKE COUNTY

'Pi.::'

F/ldt~CIPL, RY HEARING

:;;

07 DHC 8

l ~t~
G.::.Jl..:.~

t..,
TI"'-,

Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

DAVID R. SHEARON, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on October 8, 2007 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Tommy W. Jarrett, Chair, and members
T. Richard Kane and H. Dale Almond. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff, the
North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, David R. Shearon, appeared and represented
himself pro se. Based upon the pleadings and the admissions considered pursuant to 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(f), the hearing committee hereby
finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, David R. Shearon (hereinafter "Shearon" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1970, and is, and was atall times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws ofthe
State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Shearon was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina.
4.
Shearon was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set,
and the matter came before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.
5.

The Complaint in this action was filed on April 16, 2007.

6.
Defendant accepted servIce of the Summons and Complaint on
June 19,2007.
7.
Defendant failed to file an answer or any responsive pleading by the
deadline established by 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0114(e) and Rule 4 of the North
Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
8.
Upon Plaintiffs motion, default was entered against Defendant by the
Secretary of the State Bar on August 14,2007.
9.

Plaintiff filed a Motion for Default Judgment on August 14,2007.

10.
Plaintiffs motion was granted and Default Judgment filed on October 2,
2007. The Default Judgment entered fmdings of fact and conclusions of law and
reserved as the sole issue for hearing what discipline, if any, should be imposed.
11.
Shearon represented Timothy O. Hankins (hereinafter "T. Hankins") and
his wife Sardia M. Hankins (hereinafter "S. Hankins") in the closing on a parcel of real
estate located at 411 Loop Road, Garner, North Carolina (hereinafter "the Loop Road
property").
12.

The closing on the Loop Road property was scheduled for July 2004.

13.
Prior to closing, T. Hankins discovered a septic tank problem on the Loop
Road property.
14.
closing.

T. Hankins notified Shearon of the septic tank problem prior to the

15.
On the day of the closing, Shearon notified T. Hankins that the seller had
agreed to pay to repair the environmental damage.
16.
Shearon indicated to T. Hankins that he had the seller's agreement to pay
for environmental repairs in writing.
17.
Shearon's representations to T. Hankins regarding notification to the seller
and the seller's agreement to pay for repairs were false.
18.
The Hankins paid approximately $170,000.00 at closing and borrowed
$50,000.00 from the seller, George William Thomas, Jr. (hereinafter "Thomas"), to
purchase the Loop Road property. S. Hankins executed a promissory note in favor of
Thomas, which was secured with a deed of trust on the Loop Road property.
19.
Under the terms of the note and deed of trust, the Hankins were to pay the
remaining $50,000.00 on or before December 31, 2004.
20.
In September 2004, T. Hankins notified Shearon that he was ready to have
Thomas repair the environmental damage on the Loop Road property.

- 2-

21.
Shearon subsequently told T. Hankins that he had notified Thomas and the
Thomas' attorney that T. Hankins was ready to have Thomas repair the environmental
damage by certified mail but received no response.
22.
Shearon told T. Hankins to have the repairs done and the cost would be
deducted from the $50,000.00 balance owed to Thomas.
23.
Based on Shearon's communication to him prior to closing that Thomas
had agreed to pay for the environmental repair expenses, T. Hankins expected Shearon to
negotiate with Thomas and determine a balance for Hankins to pay after deduction of the
repair costs.
24.
In about November and the beginning of December 2004, T. Hankins
spent approximately $30,000.00 to repair environmental damage.
25.
Shearon's first communication with Thomas regarding Thomas paying for
environmental repair expenses was in October 2004.
26.
Shearon sent Thomas a letter dated October 6, 2004 stating that the
Hankins had learned of environmental problems needing repair on the property and that
Thomas was obligated under federal law to pay for these expenses.
27.
Thomas retained the services ofF. Bryan Brice, Jr.'s firm to represent him
in the matter of his obligation to pay environmental repair expenses as claimed by
Shearon.
28.
Heather L. Spurlock (hereinafter "Spurlock"), an attorney with Brice's
firm, wrote a letter dated November 21, 2004 to Shearon.
29.
The letter notified Shearon of their position that applicable law did not
require Thomas to pay for the environmental repair expenses and that he would not do so.
30.
Shearon did not notify the Hankins of this communication from Thomas'
attorney or of Thomas' refusal to pay for any amount of the environmental repairs.
31.
Shearon wrote Spurlock a letter dated December 28, 2004 in which he
stated his position that Thomas was responsible for the costs of the environmental repairs
and proposed that the Hankins pay $18,500.00 in full and complete satisfaction of the
note and deed of trust.
32.
On January 18, 2005, Shearon received a letter dated January 13, 2005
from Spurlock in which Spurlock denied that Thomas had any obligation to bear any of
the costs for the environmental repair and rejected the offer Shearon made on behalf of
the Hankins to pay $18,500.00 in full satisfaction of the $50,000.00 note.
33.
In the January 13,2005 letter, Spurlock noted that the Hankins' payment
of the $50,000.00 was overdue and expressly demanded payment in full. Spurlock stated
that Thomas was willing at that time to accept payment of $50,000.00 and forgo the

-3-

interest that was accruing under the note as full satisfaction of the note if the payment
was made within five days from Shearon's receipt of the letter.
34.
Shearon did not communicate the contents of this letter, including but not
limited to Thomas' denial of any obligation to pay for any amount of the environmental
expenses and the grace period for the Hankins to pay the $50,000.00 without interest by
the deadline stated in the letter, to the Hankins.
35.
Based on his conversations with Shearon, it was T. Hankins'
understanding during the fan of 2004 and in January 2005 that Thomas and Thomas'
attorneys would not respond to Shearon regarding the environmental repairs and a
reduced final payment amount.
36.
The Hankins received notice of Thomas' intent to pursue foreclosure on
the deed of trust in about February 2005.
37.

T. Hankins subsequently contacted Shearon for advice.

38.
Shearon did not advise T. Hankins to make the payment necessary to
satisfy the note at that time but rather advised T. Hankins that they would resolve the set
off issues and pay the balance due at the foreclosure hearing.
39.
In reliance on this advice from Shearon, the Hankins did not make any
payment on the note prior to the foreclosure hearing.
40.

The foreclosure hearing occurred on April 13, 2005.

41.

Shearon attended the hearing on behalf of the Hankins.

42.
Shearon did not present any written documentation of any agreement by
Thomas to pay for environmental damage repair to the Loop Road property at the
hearing.
43.
At the foreclosure hearing, the Assistant Clerk found that the
environmental issues were not a matter for consideration in the foreclosure hearing. He
found that the requirements for holding a foreclosure sale had been met and he entered an
order authorizing the foreclosure sale.
44.

The foreclosure sale was set for Wednesday, May 18,2005.

45.
Between the date of the foreclosure hearing and the date set for the sale, T.
Hankins had several conversations with Shearon seeking advice and information about
the status of the matter.
46.
Shearon advised T. Hankins that he would obtain judicial review of
Thomas' obligation to pay for the environmental expenses.

-4-

47.
Shearon did not advise T. Hankins to make the payment necessary to
satisfy the note at that time.
48.
In reliance on this advice from Shearon, the Hankins did not make any
payment on the note prior to the date ofthe foreclosure sale.
When Shearon's report of the status had not changed as ofthe first week
49.
of May 2005, T. Hankins decided to obtain a refinance loan to secure money with which
to satisfy the note.
50.
On Friday, May 13,2005, the Hankins obtained a refinance loan from
which they received about $55,000.00 in proceeds.
51.
Shearon closed this refinance loan and the proceeds were in his trust
account. The HUD-l Settlement Statement prepared by Shearon for this loan contained a
disbursement date of May 18,2005.
52.
T. Hankins' instruction to Shearon at this point was to disburse the money
to Thomas to satisfy the note.
53.
Shearon did not disburse the Hankins' $55,000.00 to Thomas' attorney on
May 18, 2005 nor did Shearon contact the Hankins on that date to notify them that he
could not do so or that doing so would not be sufficient to satisfy the note on the
property.
54.
Between May 18 and May 26, 2005, T. Hankins contacted Shearon on
multiple occasions to ask if Shearon had disbursed the money to Thomas.
55.
Shearon told T. Hankins that he had not done so but that they had time to
do so because a bid had been made on the property through the foreclosure sale.
56.
that time.

In each conversation, T. Hankins told Shearon to disburse the money at

57.
Shearon did not disburse the Hankins' $55,000.00 to Thomas' attorney
between May 18 and May 26, 2005 nor did Shearon communicate to the Hankins that he
could not do so or that doing so would not be sufficient to satisfy the note on the
property.
T. Hankins went to Shearon's office on or about May 26,2005 in an effort
58.
to get Shearon to pay the money to Thomas.

59.
When Shearon met with T. Hankins on or about May 26,2005, Shearon
informed T. Hankins that additional funds were needed to pay the note in full.
T. Hankins gave Shearon the additional money Shearon indicated was
60.
needed on that date.

-5-

61.
to Thomas.

T. Hankins' instruction to Shearon at that time was to disburse the money

62.
Thomas' attorney did not receive any money from Shearon for the
Hankins until May 31, 2005.
63.
conduct.

T. Hankins complained to the North Carolina State Bar about Shearon's

64.
The State Bar established a Grievance Committee file for the alleged
neglect of the Hankins' legal matter. This file was assigned file number 05G1247.
65.
Shearon was served with the letter of notice in grievance file 05G 1247 by
certified mail on or about December 12,2005.
66.

Shearon had fifteen days from receipt of the letter of notice to respond.

67.

Shearon failed to respond to the letter of notice in file 0501247.

68.
Shearon closed a real estate transaction in which the property located at
2908 Broadlands Drive, Raleigh, NC (hereinafter "the Broadlands Drive property") was
transferred from the seller, Stephanie Link (hereinafter "Link"), to the buyer, Tiffany
Ann Goodman (hereinafter "Goodman").
69.
Goodman made arrangements to receive a loan (hereinafter "the Goodman
loan") from Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (hereinafter "Wells Fargo") for use in purchasing
the Broadlands Drive property.
70.
Although Link and Goodman had agreed that Link would pay a certain
amount in closing costs, Goodman's lender, Wells Fargo, restricted the amount Goodman
could receive from the seller in closing costs.
71.
The restriction on the amount that the seller could pay in closing costs was
stated in Wells Fargo's loan commitment letter for the Goodman loan in the section
listing conditions to be satisfied at the time of closing.
72.
Shearon received Wells Fargo's loan commitment letter for the Goodman
loan listing conditions to be satisfied before and during the closing of the loan.
73.
Shearon received loan closing instructions from Wells Fargo for the
Goodman loan.
74.
Shearon had a duty to follow the instructions in Wells Fargo's loan
commitment letter for the Goodman loan that were to be satisfied at the time of loan
closing.
75.
Shearon had a duty to follow Wells Fargo's loan closing instructions for
the Goodman loan.

- 6-

76.
Shearon did not notify Wells Fargo that he would not represent it in the
closing of the Goodman loan.
77.
Shearon did not notify Wells Fargo that he would not follow the
instructions given by Wells Fargo in its loan conunitment letter or its loan closing
instructions for the Goodman loan.
78.
Shearon prepared a HUD-l Settlement Statement for the closing on which
the closing cost allocation complied with Wells Fargo's restriction on the closing costs
that could be paid by the seller.
79.

Shearon provided this HUD-l Settlement Statement to Wells Fargo.

80.
Through a legal assistant acting with Shearon's authorization and
permission, Shearon certified to Wells Fargo that he had complied with the lender's
closing instructions on the Goodman loan.
81.
Shearon's certification to the lender included the certification that "no
additional disbursements to the borrower(s) or the seller(s) have been made without prior
approval of the lender."
82.
According to this HUD-l Settlement Statement, Link was to receive
$42,986.30 in proceeds from the sale.
83.

Link and Goodman signed this HUD-l Settlement Statement.

84.
Shearon did not disburse to Link the full $42,986.30 listed on the HUD-l
Settlement Statement when he disbursed the funds for the closing on the Broadlands
Drive property.
85.
Shearon only disbursed $41,256.30 to Link when he disbursed the funds
for the closing on the Broadlands Drive property.
86.
Shearon gave the remaining $1,730.00, which was the difference between
what Goodman and Link had agreed Link would pay in closing costs and the lesser
amount the lender allowed Link to pay in closing costs, to the buyer, Goodman.
87.
At no time subsequent to signing the HUD-l Settlement Statement did
Link consent to receiving less than was listed on the HUD-l Settlement Statement she
signed.
88.
Shearon did not notify Wells Fargo that he was disbursing $1,730.00 more
to Goodman and $1,730.00 less to Link than the HUD-l Settlement Statement indicated.
89.
Shearon did not obtain consent or approval from Wells Fargo to make the
additional disbursement of$I,730.00 to Goodman.
90.

Link complained to Shearon about the lesser amount disbursed to her.

-7-

91.

Link demanded Shearon deliver the remaining $1,730.00 to her.

92.
Shearon responded to Link and stated he would pay her the $1,730.00 if
she signed the release he sent to her at that time and returned it to him.
93.
The release Shearon sent to Link would have required that Link not file
any complaints or grievances against Shearon with any State or Federal agency.
94.
The release Shearon sent to Link would have prohibited Link from filing a
grievance concerning allegations of misconduct by Shearon to the North Carolina State
Bar, a state agency under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-15.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the Committee
has jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as follows:
(a)

By failing to obtain a written agreement from Thomas to pay for
environmental damage repairs prior to closing, Shearon failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation
of Rule 1.3;

(b)

By failing to advise the Hankins and/or make arrangements for the
Hankins to pay the $50,000.00 to Thomas either before the December 31,
2004 due date or within the grace period extended to the Hankins in
January 2005, and by failing to disburse the Hankins' $55,000.00 to
Thomas' attorney when so directed by T. Hankins with no communication
to the Hankins that he could not do so or that doing so would not be
sufficient to satisfy the note on the property, Shearon failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation
of Rule 1.3;

(c)

By telling T. Hankins that he had obtained an agreement from Thomas to
pay for environmental repairs when he had not, by failing to tell
T. Hankins of communications received by counsel for Thomas, by failing
to tell T. Hankins of Thomas' refusal to pay for the repairs prior to
December 31, 2004, and by failing to tell T. Hankins of the grace period
extended by counsel for Thomas in January 2005, Shearon failed to keep
the Hankins reasonably informed about the status ofthe matter in violation
of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

-8-

(d)

By making a false statement to T. Hankins that he had obtained an
agreement from Thomas to pay for environmental repairs when he had
not, Shearon engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(e)

By failing to disburse the funds he held for the Hankins in trust as directed
by T. Hankins, Shearon failed to payor deliver to a third person as
directed by the client entrusted property belonging to the client in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);

(f)

By not responding to the North Carolina State Bar's letter of notice in
grievance file 05G 1247, Shearon failed to respond to an inquiry by the Bar
in violation of Rule 8.l(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3);

(g)

By disbursing the funds collected as a fiduciary for the Broadlands
property closing in a manner contrary to the conditions placed by Wells
Fargo on its agreement to make the Goodman loan and contrary to the
HUD-l Settlement Statement provided to Wells Fargo, Shearon used
entrusted property for the personal benefit of a person other than the legal
or beneficial owner of that property in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j) and
failed to promptly pay entrusted funds belonging to the client to third
persons as directed by the client in violation of Rule l.l5-2(m);

(h)

By submitting a HUD-l Settlement Statement to Wells Fargo that did not
accurately show how the funds from the closing were disbursed and by
submitting a certification to Wells Fargo certifying that no additional
disbursements had been made to the borrower without the prior approval
of Wells Fargo when he had made such an additional disbursement,
Shearon engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and

(i)

By attempting to have Link sign a release under which she would be
prohibited from reporting Shearon's alleged misconduct to the North
Carolina State Bar in order to receive the $1,730.00 Shearon had failed to
disburse to her from the closing, Shearon engaged in conduct prejudicial
to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments presented at the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the

-9-

hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

2.

Shearon's misconduct is aggravated bythe following factors:
a.

Prior disciplinary offenses, to wit: an admonition issued on
August 17,1999, a reprimand issued on May 26,2001, and an
admonition issued on May 13, 2004.

b.

A pattern of misconduct;

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

Bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by
intentionally failing to comply with rules or orders of the
disciplinary agency;

e.

Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;

f.

Substantial experience in the practice of law; and

g.

Indifference to making restitution.

Shearon's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
a.

3.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive.

The aggravating factors substantially outweigh the mitigating factor.

4.
Shearon's conduct resulted in significant harm to the profession.
Shearon's neglect, failure to communicate, and false communication to Hankins
caused Hankins to feel his trust had been betrayed. Hankins expressed a sense of
distrust of the legal profession in general due to Shearon's conduct.
5.
Shearon's conduct resulted in potential significant harm to the profession.
The legal profession is entrusted with the privilege of self-regulation. The State
Bar can only regulate the profession if its members respond to inquiries of the
State Bar and otherwise participate in this self-regulation. Shearon's failure to
participate in this self-regulation jeopardizes the profession's ability to remain
self-regulating.
6.
Shearon's conduct resulted in significant harm to his client, Hankins, by
depriving Hankins of the opportunity to settle the outstanding debt owed to

- 10-

Thomas for $50,000.00 in January 2005 and instead ultimately placing Hankins in
the position of having to pay $60,000.00 to settle that debt and protect his
ownership of the Loop Road property.
7.
Shearon's conduct included conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice, to wit: his condition of repayment of the funds he withheld from Link and
paid to Goodman upon Link's execution of a release under which she would be
prohibited from reporting his conduct to the State Bar.
8.
The hearing committee has considered lesser sanctions and finds that
discipline short of suspension would not sufficiently protect the public for the
following reasons:
a.

Shearon has engaged in multiple violations of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct over a substantial period of time and his
misconduct was not the result of a mistake, nor did it appear to be
an aberration;

b.

Shearon's conduct caused substantial harm to his client, substantial
harm and potential harm to the profession, and included conduct
prejudicial to the administration ofjustice;

c.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Shearon committed,
would be inconsistent with the order of discipline entered by this
body in similar cases, and would send the wrong message to
attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this State.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The Defendant, David R. Shearon, is hereby suspended from the practice
oflaw in North Carolina for three years, beginning 30 days from the date of service of
this order upon the Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of

- 11 -

the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.

The costs of this action are taxed to Defendant.

5.
After serving twelve months of the active suspension of his license,
Defendant may apply to have the remainder of the suspension stayed by filing a petition
with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar demonstrating the following by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence:
a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 ofthe State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

b.

That he paid the costs ofthis proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon him;

c.

That he paid restitution to Mr. and Mrs. Hankins in the amount of
$10,000.00;

d.

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home address;

e.

That he has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar received after the effective date of this order
within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;

f.

That he has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
or the laws of the United States or any state; and

g.

That he paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice during
the suspension. The State Bar does not send membership and CLE
notices to members who are suspended so it is Defendant's
obligation to contact the appropriate departments on a timely basis,
ascertain his financial and CLE obligations during his suspension
and to timely satisfy those obligations.

The procedures of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section
6.
.0125(b) shall govern Defendant's petition for a stay of the remainder of the suspension
of his law license.
If the Secretary finds that Defendant has proven compliance with the
7.
conditions of this order by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, the Secretary shall put
into effect the stay of the remaining period of suspension provided for in this Order by
reinstating Defendant to active status subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements
- 12 -

of this Order of Discipline, with Defendant's active status contingent upon continued
compliance with the terms of this Order. Such stay will continue in force only as long as
Defendant continues to comply with all conditions in this Order. The Disciplinary
Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of the matter until all conditions of the Order
are satisfied, under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0114(x).
8.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as he continues to comply with the
conditions set out in paragraphs 5 (d) - (g) of the Order of Discipline section of this
Order.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
9.
Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions referenced in Paragraph 8 of the
Order of Discipline section of this Order, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in § .01 14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
10.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .01l4(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

Signed by the Chair wi~he consent of the other hearing committee members,
2007.
this the (1 day of

D-t. ke.-,

,

TO~r4~
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

- 13 -

