NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLmA STATE BAR
0700232

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

)

Lennie L. Hughes,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)

CENSURE

)
)

On October 18, 2007, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
Lawyer's Mutual Liability Insurance Company of North Carolina received a falsified
declarations page which indicated that you were insured by Lawyer's Mutual from February 3, 2007 to
February 3,2008. You were not insured for the above referenced time period, and your malpractice
coverage had lapsed with Lawyer's Mutual as of March 30,2006. Your office sent this falsified
declarations page to a mortgage company relative to a loan you were to close for the company.
In your response to this grievance, you indicated that you did not change or falsify the
declarations page, but your secretary did it. You indicated that you took full responsibility for your
secretary's actions. Our office spoke with your secretary who took responsibility for the
misrepresentation.

Although your secretary takes responsibility for the misconduct in this matter, you have a
responsibility to supervise properly your employees. Your failure to properly supervise your employee
when she falsified the declarations page is in violation of Rule 5.3(b) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this \

4~r-

day of

U(l.t}~J\~.,J....

,2007.

