~~

,

~

'..

,

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF tIlE
NORTU CAROLINA STATE BAR

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

.1

"

COUNTY OF WAKE

87G 07'65(1)

J
IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

)

JOHN S. MORRISON,
ATTORNEY AT ~LAW

)
)

I

;PUBLIC OENSURE

)
.~

c _"

'

.:

e

At its regular quartt;!rly meeting on. July ci4, 1988, the Grie:v:ance:
Committee of the North Carolina Sta·te Bar cO.nducted f,l preliminary hearing
under Section 13 of the Discipline and' pi~barment Rules of the North Caroiina
State B'ar t.egarding the gri't;!yance filed against you ·by Ernest Co. Harcl:img. The
Cotillni.tte~ con~idered all of the evidence before it, including your m;i tten
stat~ment to the Committee.
Pursuant to Section 13(10) of the Discipliileand
Disbarment Rules, the C.oI!1mittee found proba.ble cause. Proba,blt;! caUse is
defined under the Discipline and Di.sbarment Rul,es as: "a ,f.inding by the
Grievance Committee that there is reasonable cause to believe that a membe.r of
the North Ca·rolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct juse1fY'ing aisciplin~ry
action." The rules also provide that 'if, after a finding of p~obable caust;!,
the Committe~ dt;!termines that a complaint and a hearing. are n.ot warrj:ln'l:'ed, t1:le
Commi t tee may issue a public censure upon the acct;!ptance of the s'ame' by the
attorney. That dete~ination has been made by the Commit~ee an4the COnimittee
issues this Public Censure to you.
As C.hairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina St~t~ Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this PUblic 'Censure and I am ce·rtain. that· you
und'erstand fully the. spirit itlw.hich th:is duty is performed , that YQ~ wi],.];.
understand the censure, ~nd appreciate its significance. The' f.act; t:nat a
public censure is not the most serious discipline that may be' imposed by the
North Ca·rolina Sta.te Bar Should Qot be taken. by you to indioate that . any
member of the Committee feels that your conduct was e~cusable or les$ than.a
serious and substantial violation of 8e Code of Professio'nal Responsibility,
and the Rules of ProfesSional Conduct.
'
.
Ernest C. HardIng employed you to reprt;!sent him in a personai injury
aCtion on November 8, 1983. You agreed to representMl;". ijarding on.~ ~
. one-th:l.rd conting~nt fee basis. According to your response .to the Gri:evance
Conunittee, you had some difficulty in proving Mr. HI::u:.'ding' s d~sa·bi:li,tywaf?'
~aused by the Cl:!-r accident.
A medical doctor ori.ginally diagno~~d loft.•
~arding's arthritis"as being a result of normal degenerative changes and woulci
have occurred whether or not: he had been in a car accident;..
~
During this time when you were receiving medical, opinions from Mr.
FIarding's doctors" you indicated that Mr ~ Harding was veryanxiol.ls to. file a
lawsui t. You believed there was a tenuOllS connection between Mr. Jla,rdiortg' ~

·· ......

_w~

disabi.lity and the car accicient and yo.u also. believed th~,t a settlement o.r
jury verdict wo.u+d result in a very mo.dest award. Nevertheless, yo.u to.ld Mr.
Harding that yo.u wo.uld file a lawsuit o.n his behalf in the matter.
As yo.u admitted in ro.ur respo.nse, yo.u did no.t file the lawsuit. Later,
when Mr. Harding asked, yo.u when his trial wo.uld o.ccur, yo.u advised him that
the trial date would be "'so.metime in the future". At the time yo.u made that
re,pres,entatio.n to. Mr. Harding" yo.u had no.t filed the lawsuit ~

.~

... ..•
~

~.,_

I

Yo.ur co.nduct in this matter v·iclates the Co.de cf Prcfessio.nal
Respo.nsibility (which was' in effect at the time cf yo.ur' actio.ns) and the Rules
o.f Professio.nal Qo.nduct (presently in effect). Disciplinary Rule 1-102(A)
pro.hibits a lawyer fro.m engaging in co.nduct invo.lving dishcnesty, ~raud,
deceit, or misrepresentatiOn. The very fo.undatio.n o.f an atto.rney-client
relatio.nship is built upo.n the lawyer's lo.yalty to. his client and the client's
trust in his lawyer. A eli.ent Co.mes to. a lawyer seeking assistance in
reso.lving a legal prcblem. The client relies upo.n the. lawyer to. dea·l with him,
in a truthful and ho.nest way relative to the client's case. A client's trust
in his lawyer is diminished by the lawyer's misrepresentatio.n o.f the status o.f
his case.
A lawyer also. has ane,thical o.bliga,tion to. represent his client
zealo.uslY. Disciplinary Rule 7-101(A)(1) pro.vides that a lawyer shall no.t
intentio.nally fail to. seek the lawful o.bjectives o.f his client thro.ugh
reaso.nably availa:ble mearis permitted by law and the disciplinary rules. Yo.u
vio.lated this rule when yo.u failed to. file a lawsuit o.n behalf 6f your client
as he so.ught lawf,ul recourse for compensatio.n of his injuries. The
misrepresentctt:i;o.t'l made to. Mr. Harding abo.ut the fiiing o.f his lawsuit ~esulted
in co.nfusio.n and Mr. Hard':i,.ng's mistrust of you. In fact, the very thing ycu
t,ried t9 achieve (easing Mr. Harding's mind) was nct achieved as a co.nsequence
of yo.ur untruthfulness.

I
.

It is essential that a lawyer deal honestly and o.penly with his clien~.
A lawyer must keep his client reaso.nably info.rmed abOut the status o.f a matter
and the lawyer must pro.mptly comply with reaso.nablerequests for info.rmatio.n.
The client can o.nly make info.rmed decisio.ns abo.ut the representatio.n in his
case when his lawyer is honest and fo.rthright in his dealings with h~s,
client.
You informed the Grievance Committee tha,t in September or October o.f
1985 yo.ur opinio.n abo.ut the merits 'of 11r. Harding' s case,~ad changed and yo.u'
. believed Mr. Harding's physical pro.blems were caused by the accident. Yo.ur
o.pinio.n was bo.lstered by the changed opinio.n of the medical docto.r. At that
po.int, yo.u had sufficient medical evidence to. file the lawsuit. Ho.wever, by
your o.wn admissio.n, ycu did no.t do so because yo.u had difficulty identifying
the appro.priate corpo.rate'defendant to. sue and because you were involved in
o.ther litigatio.n,. Again~ Di,sciplina,ry Rule 6-101(A)(3) (Rule 6(B)(3) o.f the
Rules o.f Pro.fessiQnal Co.nduct) requires that a lawyer no.t negfect a legal
matter entrusted to. hiin. After receiving additicnal medical evidence to. file
a lawsuit, yo.u sho.uld have filed it immediately. ' As ct lawyer, yo.u have an
ethical obligatio.n to. attend promptly to. the legal matters o.f your client.
The client expects that kind o.f dedicatio.n, co.mmitment, and attentio.n to. his
case.

I

.•

•••

---;;0....

•

~:

t

..
.....

I

The Grievance Committee is aware that you later repres~ntedMr. tif,tr.ding
in his personal injury action and achieved a reasonable settlement. However,
the Grievance Committee cannot excuse your prior acts of deception and
.
misrepresentation in' advising your client that !i lawsuit had.' ·been :HleC;1 wben.
one bad actually not been filed·.
Your condQct was unprofessional. !,t violated not: only the .l,.!;!tt·er ·of the
Code of Profes$ional Responsibi;L:i.ty but also its spirit. Your con,duct: was not
the c.onduct expected ofa membe·r of the legal profession and ,an .9ff~cEn:, of the
court. It brought discredit upon you, the profession, and the ~ourts·. It
damaged both your reputatdon and the profesSion's.' It. pl·acedyoul' 'priv:!-lege
to serve the public as ~ lawyer in serious j~opardy.
.
The Committee is confident t.hat this Pllblic C~nsur~ wil~ ,be he~deqby
You, that it will be reme~bered by you, and will be beneficial to you. The
Committee is confident tQat you will never again allow yourself to .depatt .froJll
strict adherence to the highest standards of the profession •. Instead of b~ing
a burden, this Public Censure should serve as a profitable and everpresent
.
reminder to weig'h carefully yo.ur respons:i,.bilities to your clients ,.to tbe.
publi.c., to your fellow attorn,eys, and to the courts.

I

Pursuant to Section 23 of the Discipline and Disbarment Rules, it :Ls
ordered that a'certified copy of this' Public Censure be forwarded to tlle
Superior Court of Pas'quotank County .for entry upon the judgment; dock~.t~rH;i' to
the Supreme Court of North Carolina fOr entry in its minutes. 'This Public
Censure will also be maintained asa pertpanent rec.ord in the judgmentboolt of
the North Carolina State Bar. Pursual}.t to policy adopted by the Council of
the NorthCaro·lina State Bar on the taxing of cO'sts in. caSeS where discipline
is etitere'd by the Griev·ance Commit·tee, you are hereby ·ta·xed $SO.OO as.' ~he .
administrative costs in thiS action.

.,

198~.

B. Ch~shire, ~r ..,
The Grievance Committee

~.~~.sep'h

.\1

