NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07G0323

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Orrin R. Robbins,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 12,2007 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You maintain a website with the URL, tixfixer.com. The Grievance Committee found
that as a URL for your firm's website, it is a trade name that must be registered with the North
Carolina State Bar and meet the requirements of Rule 7.5(a). You did not apply for registration
of tixfixer.com with the North Carolina State Bar for a determination of whether the name is
misleading and in violation of Rule 7.5(a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. The

Grievance Committee took into account your belief that tixfixer was a domain name and did not
have to be registered with the North Carolina State Bar.
The Grievance Committee further found that the use of tixfixer.com to identify your
website violated Rule 7.1 (a)(2), as the name may imply that you can assist a person in their
traffic matter in a way that is improper, unethical, or illegal.
Furthermore, your website included meta data that caused web search engines to identify
you as a specialist in traffic related law. You are not a board certified legal specialist in "traffic
related law." Furthermore, the North Carolina State Bar has not granted certification in the area
of "traffic related law." The reference to you as a specialist in traffic related law violates Rule
7.4(d) ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

JRF/lr

!)~

day of ~

,2007

