BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07G0641

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
ROBERT A. FORQUER,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 24, 2008, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member ofthe North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is perfonned.
Upon request from Mid-Atlantic Title & Appraisal Services, Inc. you prepared a deed for buyers
Mr. and Mrs. Warren, and forwarded it to Mid-Atlantic for execution at the closing. You allowed a
third party non-client to direct your services, in violation of Rule 5.4(c), Professional Independence ofa
Lawyer and accepted payment for those services without the client's permission in violation of Rule
1.8(f), Conflict of Interests. Also, you improperly split your legal fee with Mid-Atlantic, a non-lawyer,
in violation of Rule 5.4(a), Professional Independence of a Lawyer. Because you prepared the deed
without the client's permission, you failed to communicate with a client in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(b),
Communication. Furthermore, your assistance of Mid-Atlantic in the unauthorized practice of law
constituted a violation of Rule 5.5(d), Unauthorized Practice of Law.

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $100.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this) {1,.. day of\.IfYU

,2008.

