BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTI-I CAROLINA STATE BAR
07G0759

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Ericka F. Hart,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)


REPRlMAND

On July 17,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar mel and·
considered the grievance filed against you by L. J.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofrnisconductjustifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case

and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North

Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.

You closed your law office in September 2006. Open client files with legal work still
remaining were stored and left incomplete until you searched and discovered them after contact
by the North Carolina State Bar in July 2007. You had client funds in your attorney trust account
during this time but you were not reconciling your trust account quarterly and you were unable to
identify the funds in the account when initially asked to do so. These client funds included title

insurance premiums for title insurance policies for which you failed to complete final title
opinions and failed to timely disburse the title insurance premiums between September 2006 and
July 2007. The evidence establishes that you neglected multiple client matters for a significant
period of time in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to timely disburse funds in violation of Rule
1. 1S-2(m). The evidence also shows you failed to conduct the required quarterly reconciliations
in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d). In mitigation, it appears you were experiencing personal problems
that led you to close your law office during this time. Furthelmore, you have been responsive
and cooperative with the State Bar and have now done the necessary work of examining each
client file to detennine any work that had remained and to identify the funds in your trust
account. Accordingly, the Grievance Committee decided to issue you this reprimand.
You are hereby reprimanded by the N0l1h Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attomey issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

:r'lt.

day of

Q~... 5l

Aames. R. Fox, Chair
(~ce Committee

JRF/Ir

,2008

