BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07G0778

NORTH CAROLJNA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
David M. Noble,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 17,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North CaroliIla
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause "to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may­
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Glievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case

and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North

Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.

You agreed to represent E. O. regarding a speeding ticket she received on September 26,
2006. You failed to appear at her court hearing on February 7, 2007 and the North Carolina
Division of Motor Vehicles revoked Ms. O's driver's license.

TIle Grievance Committee found that your conduct was in violation of Rule ] .3, Rule
1 .4(a)(3), and Rule 8A(d). In issuing this reprimand, the Grievance Committee took into
consideration that you took full responsibility for your misconduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourse:::lf
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, ] 981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amounL
of$100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

JRF/lr

IlJ\{ day Of~

,2008

