BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
076093 8

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

1
)

ROY H. PATTON, JR.,
Attorney At Law

1
1
1

REPRIMAND

On 24 April 2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered .the grievance filed against you by T.R.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifLing
disciplinary action."
-

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented T.R. on appeal after T.R. was convicted in federal court on a charge of
conspiracy to possess cocaine with intent to distribute. You failed to notify T.R. when his appeal
was denied and did not respond to T.R.'s numerous attempts to contact you. As such, you failed
to keep your client reasonably informed about the status of his legal matter and failed to promptly
comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a). Despite repeated

requests from T.R. for documents related to his case, you provided T.R. with his client file only
after T.R. sought assistance from the State Bar's Attorney-Client Assistance Program. By
delaying in turning over T.R.'s client file, you failed to take reasonable steps to protect T.R.'s
interests (by surrendering papers and property to which he was entitled), in violation of Rule
1.16(d). By the time you provided T.R. with his file, the statutory period for seeking postconviction relief had expired.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

1&

day of

,2008

e Committee

