WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02BCSOl

IN THE MATTER OF THE
TENDER OF LICENSE OF:
PERCEL H. BROWN

)
)
)

)
)
)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar
pursuant to Section .0017 of Subchapter B of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar upon an
affidavit of tender of license executed by Percel H. Brown and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State
Bar on May 7, 2002.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Percel H. Brown's conduct of misapplying and
appropriating client funds and failing to keep appropriate records of her trust account are grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. SLat. Section 84-28(b)(2) in that Percel H. Brown violated Rules 8.4(c), l.lS-2(a), lin) &
(0), and l.lS-3(a), (cl & (f) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon motion being duly made and seconded, the Council enters the following order:
I.	 The Lender of surrender of license of Percel H. Brown is accepted.
2.	 Percel H. Brown hereby is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina.
3.	 PerceI H. Brown shall comply with the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .0024 of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and shall surrender her license and permanent
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required
by Subchapter B, Section .0024.
4.	 That the costs of this action be taxed against Perce] H. Brown.

Done and Ordered this

;lJ.
/9 day of July, 2002.

E. Fitzgerald Parnell III. President
North Carolina State Bar

North Carolina
Durham County

AFFIDAVIT

TO:

The Council of The North Carolina State Bar

I, Percel H. Brown, hereby tender my license to practice and desire to resign from The
North Carolina State Bar. My resignation is tendered freely and voluntarily, is not the result of
coercion or duress. and I am fully aware of the implications of submitting the resignation.

I am aware that there are presently pending investigations or other proceedings regarding
allegations that 1have been guilty of misconduct, specifically that:
I) On or about May 28, 1998. funds totaling $97,687.20 were wired into my trust account

for a loan closing on behalf of David Stauffenberg. About a week after the closing the lender
rescinded the loan and demanded the funds be returned. Even though checks totaling $13.457.28
relating to the Stauffenberg loan had cleared the trust account, I returned the entire loan amount to
the lender. This caused a defalcation in my tryst account of $13,457.28. Stauffenberg refused to
repay the trust account. Although I have received fees that could have been used to replace at least
part of the funds misappropriated. 1 have not replaced any of these funds. [ chose to use fees
received for business and personal purposes.
2) On January 5, 2001, 1 closed a loan for Jeffrey Frierson. Due to my error. 1 disbursed to
the seller over $4,800 more than he should have received causing an additional defalcation in my
trust account. I have not made any attempt to recover these funds from the seller and have not
replaced them in my trust account. Although I have received fees that could have been used to
replace at least part of the funds misappropriated, [ chose to use fees received for business and
personal purposes.
3) 1 have failed to keep adequate and accurate records of my trust account transactions, as
required by the Rules of Professional Conduct. As a result in numerous instances I have failed to
disburse all closing funds received on behalf of clients. Presently. there is not enough money in my
trust accOlmt for all money owed to or on behalf of clients.
4) [ have fully coopcrated in the investigation by the State Bar.

-.

1 acknowledge that the material facts set forth in paragraphs 1 through 4 are true. 1 am
submitting my resignation because I know that if charges were predicated upon the misconduct
under investigation I could not successfully defend against them.

This

_,-,6,--- day of _,---0---,-,1

6U-==j--/_ _ '

20b;l.

Percel H. Brown

.<tk

Subscribed and sworn to before me this ~ ___, 2<h 7.-.

My commission expires _----=I.iJ=--.,-I=--1)_·-il_l._u_c_,\_-:-

_

day of

