BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07G0977

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
ANTHONY L. BLALOCK,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)


REPRIMAND

On July 17,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Mr. Edwards.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.

In August 2007 you were in district court to represent a client on multiple traffic offenses.
Officer Edwards was the arresting officer. While waiting for your case to be called, you
approached Officer Edwards and questioned him about your client's case. When Officer
Edwards disputed your client's version of the facts, you became loud and belligerent and argued
with Officer Edwards. You then stated in a loud voice, "Officer Edwards, are you drunk? Have

you been drinking? I can smell alcohol on your breath." After stepping away, you returned to
Officer Edwards and continued to yell at him. Several people who were in the courtroom heard
your statements.
The Committee concluded that your conduct violated Rule 4.4(a): Respect for Rights of
Third Persons and Rule 8.4(d): Misconduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

the.l~

day of

~

James R;~E(), , Chair
Grievance Committee

JRF/npm

,2008

