NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07Gll18&07G1272

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Karen Zaman
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 24, 2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by N. B and D. P.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You undertook representation ofN.B. in a personal injury case arising from her fall down
steps. You timely filed a complaint on N.B.'s behalf, survived a motion for summary judgment,
and proceeded to mediation, which impassed. You took a voluntary dismissal without prejudice
of the case. You re-filed the case in July 2005 right at the end of the one year allowed to do so.
You did not tum your attention back to N.B.'s case until the summer of2005. Despite there

having been no change in the identity or address of the defendants in the lawsuit, you did not
have the complaint and summons sent out for service when you re-filed the case. Instead you
had the summons endorsed in October 2005. Even after the endorsement, you did not promptly
send the complaint and summons for service and ultimately service was not timely obtained.
Additionally, you failed to maintain the chain of summons to preserve N.B.' s ability to litigate
the case. Your failure to tend to N.B.'s case for extended periods of time constitutes a lack of
diligence in violation of Rule 1.3. The opposing party filed a motion to dismiss and you took a
voluntary dismissal with prejudice of the case on April 5,2006. You did not tell N.B. of the
dismissal until July 2007. Your lack of communication ofthis significant information about the
representation to the client for this extended period of time is in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3).
Your stated desire to conduct extensive research into the viability ofN.B.'s claim does not justify
delaying communication with the client. Furthermore, if such research was necessary it should
have been conducted earlier in time in order to be useful in your representation ofN.B. rather
than merely in an attempt to minimize the impact of your error and N.B.'s consequent loss of her
ability to litigate her claim.
In a separate matter, you were consulted by D.P. regarding the death of her brother in
West Virginia. After researching the matter and consulting counsel in West Virginia, you
decided you would not represent D.P. in litigating a case regarding the death of her brother in
West Virginia. The time for D.P. to file a complaint under the applicable statute oflimitations in
West Virginia was near expiration by that time, however. In order to preserve D.P.' s ability to
litigate her claim if she chose to do so, either pro se or with other counsel, you drafted pleadings
for her to file in the West Virginia court, prepared the summons to be issued by the West
Virginia court, prepared the ancillary cover pages, represented to D.P. that these were proper
pleadings to file in West Virginia, and corresponded with the West Virginia court to get the case
filed on D.P.'s behalf. In doing so, you drafted a legal document for another for use in a
jurisdiction in which you were not licensed and you provided legal advice to another pertaining
to a jurisdiction in which you were not licensed and thereby engaged in the unauthorized practice
oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(a).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the I q

JRF/lr

#1 day of_-'--'-------"""'7<\--

, 2008

