BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07G1325

liORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

Jesse W. Jones,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)

)

On October 23,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
S1.ate Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a mem ber of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In January 2008, you represented A.T. on criminal charges. After your attempts to have
A.T.'s bond reduced in court failed, you spoke with the press about A.T.'s case and played an
audiotape of allegedly exculpatory evidence. 111e Grievance Committee found your conduct to
be in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct based in part on your statement that you
contacted the reporter because you were upset that you could not get A.T.'s bond reduced in

court, and furthermore, you felt going to the press was the only way to communicate the contents
of the audiotape to the Sherriffs Department and the District Attorney's Office to influence them
to agree to have A.T.'s bond reduced. Your conduct was an attempt to influence the outcome of
a criminal proceeding via the press for the purpose of obtaining desired results for your client in
violation of Rules 3.6(a) and 8A(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart [Tom adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the \

JRF/lr

D~ day of ~

, 2008

