BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLTNA STATE BAR
07G1360

NORTH CAROLNA
W A I G COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Larry G. Hoyle,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

1
1
1
1

CENSURE

)

On January 22,2009, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justiFying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary I-Iearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written f o ~ mof discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofProfessiona1 Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You had ex parte conlmunication with a Judge in connection with your efforts to get a domestic
violence protective order amended. You failed to file the proper motions with the court in support of
amendment ofthe domestic violence protective order. You did not inform current counsel for the
opposing party of your efforts to have the order amended. You falsely informed the Judge that you had
obtained the consent of former counsel to the opposing party - fomler counsel never consented to the
amendment of the order. Your conduct in this case was in violation of Rules 3.5(a)(3) and 8.4(c).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the

high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefillly in the fut~lreyour responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of t l ~ elegal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $100.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

L'J

day of

&&-

,2009

,-&mesx~ox,
Chair
(-&made
Committee
, The North Carolina State Bar

