NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07G1395

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

Gregory W. Stafford,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

)
)


REPRIMAND


On April 24, 2008 the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. C.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
J.C. was arrested for speeding and careless and reckless driving. You claim that you
agreed to represent him on only the speeding charge. In your response to the Grievance
Committee, you claim that you sent a letter on August 22 advising J.C. that there was some
"miscommunication" and notifying him that his case had been continued until September 11,
2007. Neither you nor J.C. appeared in court on September 11. J.C. was called and failed for his

failure to appear on September 11 and he was arrested. The Grievance Committee found that
you violated Rule 1.3 ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct by not appearing in court on your
client's behalf on September 11. In issuing this reprimand, the Grievance Committee took into
consideration your assertion that the September 11 court date was "inadvertently removed from
our system" and it did not show up on your calendar. The Grievance Committee also considered
in issuing this reprimand that you took full responsibility for the error. The Grievance
Committee found as an aggravating factor that J.c. was arrested due to his being called and
failed.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards ofthe legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

JRF/lr

/5 t{. day of ~

, 2008

