-~~.

NORIH CAROLINA

JUl1994

BEFORE THE SECREI'ARY
OF THE
NORIH CAROLINA STATE BAR

FILED
DHC

IN REINSTATEMENT OF
GARIAND BROADOOS KINCHEIOE ,JR.

94 BSR 2

)
)
)
)

ORDER OF
REINSTATEMENT

THIS MATr$ is befolie the SecretarY of the North carolina state Bar
pursuant to a petition for reinstatement filed. on May 13, 1994 by the
Petitioner, Garland Broaddus Kincheloe, Jr.. Based upon the Petition for
Reinstatement' and the infonnation contained in the North carolina state
Bar's recordS) the Secretary hereby makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FAcr
1. On May 1, 1991 the Petitioner was suspended from the practice of
law pursuant to the o:ttier of the Wake County Superior Court. in State vs.
Garland Broaddus Kincheloe, Jr. , 90 CRS 76010. The order of the Court
provided that ithe period of suspension would run throughout the period
during which tihe Pet:i,tioner remained on probation in 90 CRS 76010. The
order also provided that Petitioner could resume the practice of law Upon
the tennination of probation, provided that he complied with the following
requirements :

A.That he produce infonnation acceptable to the N.C. state
'Bar that he has satisfied all of the conditions of the
judgment entered by the court in 90 CRS 76010 and that
he show that his citizenship rights have been restored;
B.

That he meet any requirements and/or conditions which
may be imposed upon路 him by the North carolina State Bar
with respect to the practice of law following a period
of suspension as set forth in Section 25(b) of Article
IX of the Rules and Regulations of the North carolina
state Bar.

2.

Petitioner has COItplied with the Order of
Court in 90 CRS 76010 as follOWS:
A.

th~ Wake

County SUperior

Petitioner has 'provided satisfactory proof to the N.C. state
been restored and that
he has satisfied all of the conditions of the judgment
~tered by the court in 90 CRS 76010.

Bar that his citizenship rights have
,,

B.

:petitioner was not subject to the requirements contained in

I

Art. IX, section 24 of the Discipline & Disbannent
Regulations of the N. C. state Bar, as he was not engaged in
the practice of law when the order in 90 CRS 76010 was
.
entered.
C.

I

Petitioner has satisfied the other requir~ts and
conditions ilnposed upon hint pursucmt tQ Section 25(b) of
Article IX of the Rules and Regulations of the North carolina
state Bar.

3. on Oct. 27, 1989, prior to his suspension by the W~e County court,
. the Petitioner was suspended from the practice of law by order of the
Councj.l of the North carolina state Bar, for failure to路路 pay his inandatory
membership fees, as required by N.C. Gen. stat. Section 84-34.
4.
On May 13, 1994, the Petitioner filed a ~ti~ion for reinstat$mept
to the practice of law with the Membership & Fees Connnittee of the North
carolina state Bar, along with the required filing fee and back dues.
5.
on July 22, 1994; the Council of the N. c. State Bar voted to
reinstate Petitioner to the practice of law insofar as his sus~ion
based upon his failure to pay his mandatory membership f~.

was;

6. After conducting the necessary :inve$tigation regarding the
Petitioner's corrpliance with the requirements set out in section 25(b) of
tl1e Discipline & Disbannent Rules of the North ~lina state Bar, th~
counsel for the North carolina state Bar did not file an ol;>jection to the
petition.
Based upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACI', the secretary

~es

the

following
CONCIDSIONS OF LAW

I

1. The Petitioner, Garland Broaddus Kincheloe, Jr., has satisfied the
requirements set out in Section 25(b) of Art. IX of the Discipline &
Disbannent Rules of the North carolina state Bar and is theretore entitled
to reinstatement of his license to practice law in this jurisdiction.

2. '!he Membership & Fees connnittee of the N. C. state Bar has granted.
the Petitioner's petition for reinstatement, to the extent that his
suspension was based upon his failure to pay mandatory dues.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusion of law i the
Secretary enters the following:
ORDER OF REINSTATEMENT
THEREFORE, Pursuant to Section 25(b) (5) of Art. IX of the Discipline &
Disbarment Rules of the North carolina State Bar, it is hereby ordered:
1. Garland Broaddus Kincheloe, Jr. is hereby reinstated to the active
practice of law in North Carolina as of the date of this order.

I
"-'ooaa8

. 路4

2. The license and tnembership card of Garland Broaddus Kincheloe; Jr.
shall
be retmned
to hlln.
,
I

This the : j..'z.. clay of July, 1994.

L. Thomas IllnSf6:rdl II, Secretary
The North carolina State Bar

I

I

I
..

't

_

..'

-ooaas

