,

--------------~~-------~---~----------:------~--..,..-..,.....----~-""""'!"---

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMtSS~ON
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93 DHC1~~______

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
)
)
)
)

)

MICHAEL R. MITWOL,
Attorney
Defendant

-j

FINDINGS

Or

i

FACT

AND
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

)

)
)

This cause came on to be heard and was heard on June 24, 1~94
before a hearing committee composed of Samuel Jerome crow;
chairman; Paul °L. Jones, and James Lee Burney. Fern E.Gunn
represented the North Carolina State Bar. The defendant, Michael
R. Mitwol, was not present at the hearing and was ~nrepresented
by counsel. Based upon the evidence presented at the h~aring,
the hearing committee finds the following to be supported by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina state Bar, is a body
duly organized unger the laws of North carolina -'and :is the pl;"0p~r'
party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and th~
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina state Bar promulgated
thereunder.
0

I

2. The Defendant, Michael R. Mitwol, was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on August 30, 1978 and is, and was at
all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law lic~nsed tQ
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulationa,
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina stata Bar
and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During all of the periods referred to h~rein, the
Defendant was actively engaged in the practice of law in the
state of North Carolina and maintained a law of£icein New
Hanbver County, wilmington, North Carolina.

4. The Defendant had notice of this <;liscip'linary hearing as
he acknowledged receiving a notice of this hea~ing when hew~s in
the State Bar's office on May 31, 1994.
5. Ann F. Jordan retained the Defendant to represent he~ in
a lawsuit filed by Don R. afid Kirby Lee Whittemore in 1990. The
Whittemores were represented by Gary Shipman of Wilmington.
6.

Jordan paid the Defendant $1500.00.

He did not give

~~r

I
..... OOj4··-~
.0

a receipt.
7. De~endant did not file an answer in the lawsuit and art
entry of default was entered against Jordan ort September 18,
1990.
8.
Shortly after the entry of defaUlt was entered, Jordan
was informed of it and contacted Defendant.
Defendant stated
that he would take care of the matter.
,
I

9.
In late 1990 and in 1991, Jordan repeatedly contacted
Defendant about the status of her case. Defendant stated that
nothing was. happening in her case and she should wait until she
heard from him.
Defendant continued to claim that he would take
care of the matter.

I

1~. On September 18, 1991, Defendant filed a motion to set
aside the entry of default, as well as a notice scheduling the
hearing on the motion for November 18, 1991.

11. By letter dated November 4, 1991, Defendant advised
Jordan that! her case was scheduled for trial on February 3, 1992.
12. Defendant did not notify Jordan of the November 18, 1991
court date to hear the motion to set aside the erttry of default
which was flIed by the Defendant on September 18, 1991.
13. By ~etter dated November 18, 1991, the Defendant notified
Superior CO\lrt Judge Gary E. Trawick that the defendant would not
be able to appear in court on November 18, 1991 to argue the
motion to set aside the entry of default. The Defendant informed
Judge Trawick that there was no opposition to the motion to set
aside the entry of default and that the Defendant and Jennifer
Umbaugh of Gary Shipman's law firm had agreed to try Jordan's
case on the merits during the week of February 3, 1992.
14. Jemnifer Umbaugh stated by affidavit that she never
agreed to a consent order setting aside the entry of default and
she never had discussions with the Defendant about trying the
case on the ,merits during the week of February 3, L992. Gary
Shipman stated by affidavit that there was no agreement not to
oppose the motion to set aside the entry of default.
Shipman
further stated that he opposed the motion and he had not agreed
to try the case oh the merits during the week of February 3,
1992.

I

15. On NoVember 18, 1991, neither Jordan nor the Defendant
were presen~ in court. Judge Gary E. Trawick denied the motion
to set aside the entry of default. Judge Trawick later filed the
order on February 7, 1992, nunc pro tunc for Novemb~r i8, 1991.
16. Def~ndant did not inform Jordan that the motion to set
aside the e~try of default had been denied and he did not give
her a copy of Judge Trawick's order.
17. On January 24, 1992, the Whittemores filed a motion for
entry of def;ault judgment and a notice scheduling the hearing for'
the motion f;or February 3 j 1992. A certificate of servi.ce to
Defendant was attached to the motion and notice.

I

18. On February 3, 1992, Defendant filed a respense on
Jerdan's behalf to' the metien fer entry ef default judgment.
19. The metiQn fer entry ef default judgment was net heard en
February 3, 1~92 anq the Whittemeres filed a net ice scheduling
the hearing en the metien fer February 17, 1992, with a
certificate ef service to' Defendant . .
20. Defendant did net inferm Jerdan ef the February 17 t
ceurt dat.e.

I

1~92

21. The metien fer entry ef def.ault judgment was het heard on
February 17" 1992 and the Whi ttemeres filed a netice scheduling
the hearing en the metien fer March 16, 1992, with a certificate
ef service to' Defendant.
22. Defendant did net inferm Jerdan ef the Mar6h 16, 199Z
ceurt date.
23. Neither Jerdan ner the Defendant were present in ceu~t at
the ~arch 16, 1992 hearing. Judge James D. Llewellyn entered a
default judgment against Jerdan whereby the Whittemeres were
awarded $100,000.00, plus interest and cests ..

24. Defendant' did net inform Jerdan ef the default judgment.
entered by Judge L~ewellyn.
25. Jerdan learned that Defendant had ~cheduled a meeting. en
March 26, 1992 witn. the whittemere~ and their lawy~r, Gary
Shipman, to' discuss the default judgment.
26. On March 20, 1992, Jerdan centacted Defendant and
ebtained an appeintment with him to' discuss the default judgment
en March 23, 1992. The Defendant cancelled that appeintment and
three subsequent meetings.

I

27. On March 26, 1992, Jerdan learned that the meeting
between Defendant, the Whittemeres, and Shipman, was scheduled
fe:!:" that afterneen. Jerdan went to' Defendant's effice qnd was
infermed by Defendant that the meeting with the Whittemeres and·
Shipman had been cancelled. Prier to' March 26, 19~2, Defendant
had never infermed Jerdanef the scheduled meeting with the
Whittemores and Shipman. Jerdan scheduled a meeting witn
Defendant fer March 27, 1992.
28. On March 27, 1992, Jerdan learned that Defendant had
.
attended a meeting with the Whittemeres and Shipman on March 26.,
1992.
She went to' Defendant; s office en March 27, 1992, fer her
appeintment. Defendant gave her a cepy ef the default judgment
and apelegized fer net preperly representing her. He effered to'
refund $1500.00 to' Jerdan. Jerdan also. aSked that Defendant
return her file. Defendant has net refunded the entire $1500.00
to' Jordan er returhed her file.
29. On February 11, 1992, David Walten Grav$s,' S~. reta1ned
Defendant to' cellect a $2,000.0'0 fee which Grave$ waS due as- a

result ef tracking and returning a fugitive to' Sampsen Ceunty,
Nerth Carelina.

I

30. Per' Defendant's request, Graves paid him a $300.00
retainer.
pefendant and Graves agreed that the balance of
Defendant's, fee would be paid on a contingent fee arrangement.
31. From February 11, 1992 to July 3, 1992, Defendant
scheduled eleven appointments with Graves.
Defendant cancelled
or delayed eight of the eleven appointments with Graves. Of the
remaining three meetings held between Defendant and Graves,
Defendant spent very little time discussing Graves' case.
32. Defendant never collected the $2,000.00 for Graves.
33. Graves asked the Defendant to return Graves' file.
Defendant f~iled to comply with ~raves' request.
34. Defendant did not earn the retainer that Graves paid him.
Defendant a~so failed to return the unearned part of the fee paid
to him.

I

35. Jim~y Miller, Ann F. Jordan, and David Walton Graves, Sr.
filed grievances against Defendant with the N.C. State Bar.
These grieV?nces were referred to the 5th Judicial District
Grievance committee (hereinafter "local grievance committee") for
investigation as provided by Article IX, section 2(B) of the
Discipline and Disbarment Procedures of the N.C. State Bar.
36. Representatives of the local grievance committee wrote
Defendant and requested that he respond to the grievances.
Defendant did not respond to tpe grievances.
37. The State Bar dismissed its First Claim for Relief
regarding Jimmy Miller becauSe
he did not
.
. appear at the hearing.
The state B~r subpoenaed Mlller to testlfy at the hearlng.

.

\

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of fact, the hearing
committee makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The conduct
of
the
Defendant, as set out above, constituted
1
•
•
•
grounds fordlsclpllne pursuant to N.C. Gen. stat. Sec.
84-28(b) (2) :in that Defendant's conduct violates the North
Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:

I

(a) By failing to prepare and file an answer to the
complaint filed against Jordan, Defendant has failed
to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing his client in violation o£ Rule 6(6) (3);
failed to seek the lawful objectives of his client
!through reasonably available means permitted by law
and the Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of
iRuie 7.1(A) (1); failed to carry out a contract of
,employment entered into with a client for
:professional services, in violation of Rule
'7.1(A) (2); prejudiced Or damaged his client during
,the course of the professional relationship in
.violation of Rule 7.1(A) (3) i engaged in condUct
,prejudicial to the administration of justice in
!violation of Rule 1.2(D).

I
--00:349

I

(b) By waiting a year before he took any action to
attempt to cu~e the entry of default, Defendant has
failed to act with reasOnable diligence and
promptness in representin~ his client in violation of
RUle 6(B) (3); failed to s~ek the lawful objective~ at
his client through reasonably available means
permitted by law and the Rules of Professional
Conduct in violation of RUle 7.,1 (A) (.1); faileq to
.
carry out a contract of employment entered into with
a client for professional services, in violation, of
Rule 7.1(A) (2); prejudiced or damaged his client
during the course of the professional relationship in
violation of Rule 7.1(A) (3); engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 1.2(D).
(c) By failing to keep Jordan advised about varioo,s, -cQurt
dates and developments in her case, Defendant has
failed to keep his client reasonably informed about
the status of a matter and promptly comply with
reasonable requests for information in violatton ot
Rule 6(B} (I) and failed to explain a matter to the
extent reasonably necessary to permit the client to
make informed decisions regarding the representation
in violation of Rule 6(B) (2).
(d) By lying to Jordan and the court about the status of
her Case and by lying to Jordan aboUt the March 2Q~
19~2 meeting with the Whittemores and Shipman,
Defendant has engaged in condu¢t involving
dishonesty, fraud,' deceit or misrepresentation in
Violation of Rule 1.2(C}.
( e)

I

By failing to appear on Jordan's b~half at the
various court hearings, Defendant has failed to act
with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing his client in violation Of Rule 6(9)(~);
failed to seek the lawful objectives of his client
through reasonably available means permitted by law
and the Rules of Professional Conduct in vi.olation o;f
Rule 7.1(A} (I); failed to carry out a contract of
employment entered into with a client for
professional services, in violation of Rule
.
7.1(A}(2); prejudiced or damag.ed his client during.
the course of the professional relationship in
violation of Rule 7.1(A} (3) r engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 1.2(D}.

(f) By not returning Jordan's file 4 Defendant has failed
to deliver to his client all papers and property to .
which his client is entitled in violation of Rule
2.8(A}(2}.
(g) By failing to refund the unearned part of the fe~
Jordan paid to him, Defendant has ;failed to refund
promptly any part of a fee paid in advance that ha~
not been earned in violation o·f Rule 2.8 (A) (3) .

'.

I
.....00350

(h) By failing to handle Graves' case and obtain his
'money,
Defendant has failed to act with raasonable
diligence and promptness in representing his client
in violation of Rule 6(B) (3); failed to seek the
: lawfUl objectives of his client through reasonably
available means permitted by law and the Rules of
Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 7.1(A) (1);
failed to carry out a contract of employment entered
, into with a client for profassional services, in
violation of Rule 7.1(A) (2); prejudiced or damaged
'his client during the course of the professional
,relationship in violation of Rule 7.1(A) (3~.
(i), By failing to return Graves' file to him, Defendant
has failed to deliver to his client all papers and
I property
to which the client is entitled, in
violation of Rule 2.8(A) (2)

I

0

(j); By not refunding the unearned part of the fee Graves
; paid him, Defendant has failed to refund promptly any
,part of a fae paid in advance that has not been
i aarned in violation of Rule 2.8(A) (3).
(k) By failing to respond to the N.C. state Bar regarding
igri~vances, Defendant has knowingly failed to respond
to a lawful demand for information from a
: disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 1.1(B).
(1) The violations alleged in tha First Claim for Relief
, in the state Bar's complaint were not proven by
I clear, cogent and convincing evidence since the state
,Bar took a voluntary dismissal of the claim.
signed by the undersigned chairman with the full
knowledge and consent of the other members of the hearing
committee this the
)4= day of GJJ,~' 1994.

..•dlt.~

Samuel Jer e Crow
Chairman
Hearing Committee

Uk£!-

I

I

BEFORE THE
DI$CIPLINARY HE~RING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93 DHC 10

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

)
)

Plaintiff

)
)
)
)
)
)

v.
MICHAEL R. MITWOL,
Attorney

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)
)

Defendant

BASED UPON the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law
entered in this case, and further based upon the evidence and
arguments presented at the hearing, including a letter ftom the
defendant which he asked that counsel for the state Bar submit to
the hearing committee, the hearing comm,ittee composed of Samuel
Jerome Crow, chairman; Paul L. Jones, and James Lee Burney, makes
the following additional findings:
AGGRAVATING FACTORS

I

1.

Prior disciplinary record;

2.

SUbstantial experience in the practice of law;

3.

Pattern of misconduct;

4.

Multiple offenses;

5.

Dishonest or selfish moti~e When he lied to Ann
Jordan and the court about the status of her
case and;

6.

Indifference to making restitution to Ann Jordan a.nd
David W. GraVes Sr.
MITIGATING FACTORS

'I
'

,

1.

Personal or emotional problems; and

2.

Apparent remorse for his actions.

BASED UPON all the Findings of Fact, the ConclUsions of Law,
and the aggravating and mitigating factors listed above, the
hearing committee enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. 'The Defendant, Michael R. Mitwol, is hereby DISBARRED
: from the practice of law in North Carolina.
2.

3.

'The Defendant shall immediately submit his law
:licen$e and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina state Bar.

I

The Defendant shall reimburse the North Carolina
state Bar fbr the cost ($462.50) incurred for the
psychiatric examination conducted by Dr. John
,Parkinson and for the fees ($43.16) incurred by his
• appointed counsel, Helen Hinn, in his disability
. case.

I

4.

; The Defendant shall violate no provisions of the
.Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
state Bar during his disbarment.

5.

'The Defendant shall violate no state or federal laws
: during his disbarment.

6.

[The Defendant shall fully comply with the provisions
of Rule 24 of Article IX of the Discipline and
'Disbarment Procedures of the North Carolina state Bar
.regarding the wind down of his practice.

7.

The Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding.

Signed by the undersigned chairman with the full
knowledge and consent o! the other member~ of the hearing
id= day of
. C:.!l~.
,1994.
committee, this the
,
v

I

c?~C-G/

I

