NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF ,THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93 DHC 27

WAKE COUNTY

I

-'

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
vs.

)

)
)
)
)

ROI,sAND C. BRASWELL, ATTORNEY
Defendant

CON$ENT ORDER OF DISCIPLIN$

)
)
)

THIS MATTER, coming before the undersigned Hearing committee
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission pursuant to section 14 (H,)
of Art. IX of the Discipline & Disbarm~nt Procedures of the
North Carolina $tate Bar; and it apearihg that both parti~s have
agreed to waiVe a for~al hearing in this matter anq it further
appearing that both parties stipulate and agree to the following
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law recited in this Cons~nt
Order and to the discipline imposed, the Hearing Committee
therefore enters the following:
'
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina state Bar, is a body,
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper
party to bring this proceeding under the authQrity granted it in
Ch~pter 84 of the General Statutes of North C9rolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina state Bar prQmulg'P-ted'
thereunder. '
2.
The Defendant, Roland C. Braswell, was admitted to tll'e'
North Carolina state Bar in 1952, and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in
North Carolina, subj ect to the rules, regulations, and Rules o't
Professional Conduct of the North Ca~olina State Bar and the laws
of the State of North Carolina.

3.
During all of the periods referred to herein, Braswell
was actively ~ngaged in the practice of law in the State of NOrth
Ca~olina and maintained a law office in the City of Goldsboro,
Wayne County, North Carolina.
4. Braswell did not file federal or state income tax returhs
for the calenda~ years 1986 through 1991 on a timely basis and
did not pay income tax due for those years ort a timely basis~
5.

On or about March 29, 1993, Braswell pled guilty in

I
'.

'"

.. ---

federal cou+t to six counts of failure to file federal income tax
returns in violation of 26 U.S.C. section 7203.
6. On 9r about March 29, 1993, in open court, Braswell
admitted his guilt to the charges of failure to file federal
income tax returns for the calendar years 1986 - 1991.
I

7i
for the

Bra~well has
yea~s 1986 -

now filed his state and federal tax returns
1991.

8. On or about July 6, 1993, Braswell's license to practice
law in North Carolina was suspended on an interim basis, pursuant
to Art. IX, :Section 15 of the Discipline & Disbarment Rules of
the North Carolina state Bar.

I

I

, 8. Braf:?well ceased practicing J,aw pursuant to the interim
suspension order and has not practiced law since July 6, 1993.
9.
Bra~well received a private reprimand from the N.C. state
Bar in 1977, was suspended from the practice of law for 90 days
in 1982 andireceived an admonition (fo];"merly a private reprimand)
from the N.d. state Bar in 1992.
10. Braswell has readily admitted his failure to file timely
income tax returns and has cooperated with the N.C. state Bar
regarding tnis disciplinary matter.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By failing to file timely state and federal income tax
returns for ,the calendar years 19~6 - 1991, ~nclusive, Braswell
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty in violation of Rule
1.2(C) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and committed
criminal acts which reflect adversely on his honesty,
trustworthitiess or fitness as a lawyer in other respects, in
violation of: Rule 1. 2 (B) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

2.
Braswell's misconduct is aggravated by the following
facts: 1) he has previously been disciplined by the N.C. State
Bar; 2) he has SUbstantial experience in the practice of law; 3)
his miscondu'ct was motivated by a sel f ish motive and 4) he
engaged in multiple acts of misconduct.
3. Braswell's misconduct is mitigated by the following
facts: 1) he has admitted his misconduct and 2) he has cooperated
with tbe N.~. State Bar.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing
Findings of ract and Conclusions of Law, the Committee hereby
enters the following:

I
..... 00355

.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, Roland Braswell, is hereby suspended from
the practice of law for five years, with all but one year of the
suspension stayed, upon the following conditions:
a. Braswell shall violate no laws and no'provisions of
the Rules of Professional Conduct during the fiv~ year
period beginning on July 6, 1993.

I

b. Braswell shall timely file state and federal tax
returns and shall timelY pay all state and federal
taxes within the five years from July 6, 1993~ No
later than April 30 of~ach year during the five year
period begin~ing on July 6, 1993, Braswell sha~l
submit written certification to the Secretary of the .
N.C. state Bar, demonstrating that he has timely, fil:~d
tax returns and paid taxes due.
2.
As a condition precedent to reinstatement, Braswell
shall submit written proof the Secretary of the N.C. State Ba~
demonstrating that he has paid all taxes, pen?llties. and interest
owed on his state and federal taxes for the years 1986 - 1991.
3. The on~ year active suspension of Bra~well's license
shall be deemed to run retroactively from July 6, 1993, the date
upon which Braswell ceased practicing law.
4.

Braswell shall pay the costs of this proceeding.

This order is signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee
with the express consent of all partieE; and the other members ,o~f "
the Hearing committee.

I

This the 27th day of June, 1994.

E .. Emory, Jr.,
Disciplinary Heari g

I

Seen and cdnsented to:

John P. 0 'H:ale, Defendant's attorney

~/

/ . . d~e.I1n~~//
~oland Bras~ell,

Defendant

~

I

Carolin Bakewell, Plaintiff's attorney

I

I
0:_ ~ ' .. ~.

