NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH

STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff,
)

CAROL~NA

CONSENT ORDER

)

vs.

)

OF DISCIPLINE

)

J.

~SHA~L

HAYWOOD, Attorney,)
Defendant.
)

This cause coming before a hearing committee compos~d of··
Maureen D. r1urray, Chair, St~phen T. Smith, and Stephen Huntley;
with A. Root Edmonson representing the N. c. State Bar anCl. NelSon
M. Casstevens, Jr. representing the Defendant; and ba'sed upon the
Defendant's admissions as evidenced by his qonsent to the' signing
of this document, the hearing committee finds the foilowing to be
supported by clear, <;!ogent" and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF

I

F~CT

1~
The Plaintiff, the North, Carolina S,tate Bar, is a bpdy
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper
party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Ruies
and Regulations of the North Carolina state Bar promulgated
thereunder.
.

2.
The Defendant, J. Marshall Haywooci,was admitted to the
florth Carolj,na State Bar on October 5, 1959, and is, and was at ail
times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law ,licensed to practice
in North carolina, subject to the rules, r~gu1ations c;tnd Rul~s ,of·
Processional Conduct of ~he North Carolina state Bar and the laws .
of the State of Nqrth Carolina.
3.
During all of the periods referred to herein, the'
Defendant was actively engageci in the practice of law in the Bta:t:.e
of North Carol.ina and maintained a law office in thetity of
Charlotte, Mec~lenburg County, North Carolina.

I

4.
On September 2, 1992, an Indictment was returned in the
Rock Hill Division of the united states District Court of South
Carolina in which defendant was named in a four-count indictment.
-

i ·

5.
Prior to the September 2, 1992 South Carolina Federal
Indictment; the united states Attorney for the Western District of
North Carqlina made a full inv~stigation of the facts and
circumstances surrounding this matter and thereafter declined to
prefer any criminal charges against Defendant.
,

6•
On December 21, 1992 , a P lea Agreement was reached
between Defendant and the united states Attorney for the united
states District
Court of South Carolina.
,
7.

I

Paragraph
7 Of the Plea Agreement
was as follows:
I
'

The Defendant, J. MARSHA~L HAYWOOD, Understanding
that ~is guilty plea in this case no doubt will (result)
in at~orney-disGipline proceedings' by the North Carolina
State Bar, agrees to immediately seek a settlement with
that body resulting in his suspension from the practice
of la~ for a period of not less than two (2) years. The
Defenq.ant further understands that this agreement is
expressly contingent on his reaching such a settlement
with the North Carolina state Bar and is also contingent
upon his surrender of his license to practice law within
sixty ,(60) days of the executiQn of this Agreement.
Defendant attempted to comply with his obligations und,er
Paragraph 7: of the Plea Agreement, b~t was prohibited from doing so
by section:17 of Article IX of the Rules and Regulations of North
Carolina state Bar without submitting himself to disbarment.
8..
On January 4, 1993, a Superseding Bill of Information was
filed in the Rock Hill Division of the united states District court
for South C:arolina replacing and superseding the September 2, 1992
Indictment.' The Superseding Bill of Information charged Defendant
with a misdemeanor violation of 26 U,.S.C. Sec. 6050I and Sec. 7203
and 18 u.s.~. Sec. 2 (failure to file a form 8300 with the Internal
Revenue Se~vice).
9.
On January 4, 1993, Defendant appeared in the Rock Hill
Division of the United states District Court for South CarOlina and
entered a plea of guilty to th~ Superseding Information and the
misdemeanor, violation of 26 U.S.C. Sec. 6050I and Sec. 7203 and 18
2

I

u.S.C. Sec. 2. Defendant's plea was accepted by the
District Court Judge.

Un~ted

Stat$S

10. Pursuant to the Plea Agreement, the Defendant closed his
Charlotte, North Carolina law office and ceased to practice law on
February 20, 1993.

I

11. On October 2, 1993, Judgment was entered in the Rock Hill
Division of the united states District Court for Soutll Cat'elirta
s~ntencing the Defendant.
One of the' special conditions ~of
Defendant's supervised relea.se imposed upon Def,endant by the Coutr't
,required Detendant to refrain from the practice of law in any court
until February 21, 1995.
'
12. This Order is being entered at Defendant's request a.n(i in
compliance with Defendant's Plea Agreement in the South Carol~na
United states District Court.
13. The offense for which Defendant was convicted was CJ.
serious offense as defined by section 3(LL) of Article IX of tne
Rules and Regulations of the Nortn Carolina state Bar.
BASED UPON the foregoing
committee makes the following:

Findings

of

Fact,

the hearing

CONCLUSIONS OF tAw
The conduct of the Defendant, a.s set out above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen Stat. Sec. 84-28(b~ (1)
and (2) in that:

I

(a)

Defendant violated N.C. Gen. stat. Sec. 84-28(b) (2) by
violating the Rules of Professional Conduct asfbllows:
By pleading guilty to,
and being
convicted of, failing to file at least one
Form 8300 showing, receipt of $10,000 or .more
in cash, Defendant has admitted to, and been
convicted of, a crimin?ll act that reflects
adverselY on his fitneSs as a lawyer in'
violation of Rule 1.2(B).

(b)

Defendant has entered into a :Plea Agreem~nt in which .;he
agreed to seek a settlement with the North Carolina State
Bar resulting in his suspension frol1l the practice of la.w.
for a period of not less than two (2) years with the Plea
3

I

'-

..

Agreement expressly contingent upon. Defendant being able
to reach such a settlement with the North Carolina state
B:ar.
Defendant has sough,t such a settlement with the
North Carolina state Bar.
(c)

~ Judgment was entered in the Rock Hill Division of the
united states District Court of South Carolina placing.
D.efendant on supervised release with a special condition
of the supervised release being that Defendant refrain
f.rom practicing law in any court until February 21, 1995.
Defendant is presently complying with the provisions of
the South Carolina Judgment.
.

"1"_

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
BASED UPON the findings of fact and conclusions of law and the
parties consent as evidenced by the signatures below, the hearing
committee enters the following ORDER OF DISCIPLINE:
1.
consistent with the December 21, 1992 South Carolina
Federal District Court Plea Agreement entered into by Defendant in
which Defendant agreed to seek and reach a settlement with the
North Carolina state Bar resulting in the surrender of his license
to practice' law for not less than two (2) years and consistent with
the special conditions of supervised release placed upon Defendant
by the District Court of South Carolina that Defendant refrain from
practicing law in any courts until February 21, 1995, the
pefendant, J. Marshall Haywood, is suspended from the practice of
law in North Carolina for a two year period effective from the date
the Defendant ceased the practice of law on February 20, 1993. In
imposing this sanction upon Defendant, the hearing committee does
not concede that it is obligated to be bound by Defendant's Plea
Agreement or by a JUdgment of the District Court of South Carolina,
however, the hearing committee is influenced by the terms of
Defendant's Plea Agreement and the special conditions of
De'fendant's supervised release. oth.erwise, the sanctions imposed
against Defendant might not be so harsh or as severe.

1

2.
Tne Defendant shall surrender his license, certificate
and membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina state
Bar.
3.
The Defendant is taxed with the costs of this proceeding
as assessed'by the Secretary.
4

I
--00361

signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowlC?dg$ and
consent' of the other members of the hearing committee, this the.
'7-f1,
day of" July, 1994.' - .

)j,~~~~~

I

Meuu;~en p. Murray, Cha~

Hearing Committee

Nelson M. Casstevens, jr.
Attorney for Defendant,
J. Marshall Haywood

A. Root Edmonl:;;on
Attorney for Plaintiff,
The North Carolina state Bar'

I

5

I
'--"n0362

