STATE OF

~ORTH

COUNTY OF

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93G1003(III)

CAROLINA

WA~E

--~-----

---------~-

--

-"

IN THE MATTER OF
REPRIMAND

GERALD R. CHANDLER,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

I
On Apri~ 14, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by the North Carolina State Bar.
"

1

-

,

Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulation$ qf the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information qvailable to it, including your response to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rule's provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and, a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Comttl.itt~e may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
tnitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimp.nd is a written form of discipline more serious
than an admonition issued in cases in which an attorney has
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and h~s caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administratiop of justice, the profession, or a member of the
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grieyance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
not required in this case and issues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is noW my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will ,understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
You were.responsible for handling the estate of Jap H.
Almond who di~d intestate on June 17, 1972 in Stanly County.
From 1972 until 1988, the Clerk of Superior Court directed ten
(10) notices to you to .file an inventory and accounting. Because
you failed and refused to file an inventory or accounting, the
Clerk of Superior Court closed the file by an order dated April

I
-'"-00363

10, 1991 without a final accounting. The Clerk indicates that as
of May 17, 1994 he is still seeking a copy of the Final ACQount.
In addition, you were responsible for handling the est~te of
R. Allen Huneycutt who died in 1968. M$. Betty Huneycutt
Eskridge repeatedly ~equested that you close this estate. You,
were dilatory in handling this estate.

I

Your conduct of failing to file appropriate accountings in
two estate$ that have been beld open over twenty (20) years
violates Rule 6(B} (3) in that you failed to act.'with reasoilaple
diligence and promptness in representin~ clients.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina state Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence .to
the high ethical standar9s of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 198~by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50. 00 ~ hereby t.axed to you.

Done a)ld o r<;le red , this

~ day Of~'

1994.

~~J.~~,~

HOWardMann1ng,s~, '

Vice-Chairman
The Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar

'

I

I

..... 00364

