. ,.,.
"

i..m_THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
')rn, .," "

BRUNSWICK COUNTY

,.".,

_ ••' I [',:, ,

3a

~J:bIS~T COURT DIVISION

: .','·S'.'::::;-; CLiJ:lpfLENO,

Sy~_.G..-:

0 ·GS.......-

_ _ _-=_&--u.-.-.=;
Or")

-'-0-----

IN RE THE MATTER OF MICHAEL PAUL CAVINESS

This matter coming on to be heard, and being heard, by the Honorable Douglas B. Sasser, District
Court Judge of the 13'" Judici~ District, during his May 25, 2007 session of district court in
Brunswick County; and the court, upon hearing the evidence presented, makes the following
FINDINGS OF FACT by the greater weight of the evidence:

1.

That Michael Paul Caviness is a practicing attorney, duly licensed in the State of North
Carolina.

2.

That Michael Paul Caviness regularly represents court-appointed clients in court cases before
the undersigned judge.

3.

That on May 21, 2007, Michael Paul Caviness submitted several fee applications to the
undersigned judge, including three fee applications requesting payment for three cases
disposed of during the undersigned judge's session ofjuvenile court in Brunswick County
on May 16, 2007.

4.

That the fee application in File No. 07 JB 83 claimed .05 hours in court, 3.5 hours in court
waiting, and 5.0 hours out of court.

5.

That the fee application in File No. 07 JB 81 claimed .05 hours in court, 2.0 hours in court
waiting, and 5.0 hours out of court.

6.

That the fee application in File No. 07 JB 65 claimed .05 hours in court, 3.5 hours in court
waiting, and 5.75 hours out of court.

7.

That the May 16, 2007 session ofjuvenile court held by the uodersignedjudge commenced
at 9:30 a.m. and concluded at 10:57 a.m. that same moming,

8.

That all three cases referenced above were firs! court settings, and that Michael Paul
Caviness could not have spent more than 1.5 hours in court on any ofthe cases.

9.

That all together, Michael Paul Caviness requested payment of 10.5 hours court time for a
court session that lasted only 1.5 hours.

10.

That Michael Paul Caviness has requested payment of 15.75 hours of out of court time for
the three cases.

] 1.

That the three above-referenced cases involved a misdemeanor breaking and entering charge
in one case, a misdemeanor simple assault charge in the second case, and probation violation
hearing in the third case.

12.

That all three cases were disposed ofhy admissions and were not matters of an e:Ktremely
complex or serious nature.

13 _

That the amount of out of court time claimed by Michael Paul Caviness in regards to each
ofthe three above-referenced cases is excessive and unreasonable.

14.

That Michael Paul Caviness has acknowledged billing multiple clients for the same time
periods in court, rather than prorating his fees among the clients.

15.

That Michael Paul Caviness has failed to show to the court's satisfaction that the fees
submitted to the court regarding the above-referenced cases are fair and reasonable or that
their submission to the undersigned judge is the result of excusable neglect, mistake, or
oversight.

16.

That the above-mentioned fee applications submitted by Michael Paul Caviness are grossly
excessive and unreasonable and his submission of the same to the court constitutes
sanctionable action.

17.

That Michael Paul Caviness should be publicly admonished for his actions and should be
sanctioned by the court for the same.

18.

That as a condition ofhis sanction, Michael Paul Caviness should be prohibited from further
representation of any court-appointed clients before the undersigned judge until such time,
ifany, that the Honorable Douglas B. Sasser notifies said Michael Paul Caviness that he may
again practice before said judge,

19.

Thatasa condition ofhis sanction, Michael Paul Caviness, pursuant to authority granted to
the undersigned judge by the Honorable Jerry A. Jolly, ChiefDistrict Court Judge for the 13 th
Judicial District, should be prohibited from accepting any court-appointed clients in any
district court proceedings in the 13 th Judicial District for the period from May 25,2007 until
November 25, 2007.

20.

That as a condition ofms sanction, all fee applications submitted to the Honorable Douglas
B. Sasser by Michael Paul Caviness on May 21,2007 should be denied and said Michael
Paul Caviness should receive no payment in regards to those fee applications.

21.

That this order should be entered as a general civil proceeding and be filed in each of the
three counties of the 13 th Judicial District.

Based upon the foregoing Findings ofFact, THE COURT CONCLUDES AS A MATTER OF LAW
as follows:

1.

That the court has personal and subject matter jurisdiction in regards to this proceeding.

2.

That the above-described actions of Michael Paul Caviness desezve public admonition and
are sanctionable by the court pursuant to the inherent powers of the court.

3.

That Michael Paul Caviness should be admonished and sanctioned by the court for his
actions.

IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, ADnJDGED AND DECREED as follows:
1.

That Michael Paul Caviness is hereby admonished by the court for his submission of fee
applications requesting grossly excessive and unreasonable payments of court-approved
funds.

2.

That Michael Paul Ca.viness is hereby sanctioned by the court and as a condition of his
sanction he is prohibited from further representation of any court-appointed clients before
the undersigned judge until such time, ifany, that the Honorable Douglas B. Sasser notifies
said Michael Paul Caviness that he may again practice before said judge.

3.

That also as a condition ofhis sanction, Michael Paul Caviness, pursWlllt to authority granted
to the undersigned judge by the Honorable Jerry A. Jolly, ChiefDistrict Court Judge for the
13th Judicial District, is prohibited from accepting any court-appointed clients in any district
court proceedings in the B lh Judicial District for the period from May 25, 2007 until
November 25, 2007.

4.

That as a further condition afhis sanction, all fee applications submitted to the Honorable
Douglas B. Sasser by Michael Paul Caviness on May 21, 2007 are hereby denied and said
Michael Paul Caviness shall receive no payment in regards to those fee applications.

5.

That this order shall be assigned a file number and be entered as a general civil proceeding
by the respective Clerks of Superior Court in Brunswick, Bladen, and Columbus Counties
and that no fLling fees or costs are to be required in regards to said files.

6.

That the Clerks ofJuvenile Court for Brunswick and Columbus Counties are to immediately
identify all court-appointed clients with cases currently pending on their court dockets whom
Michael Paul Caviness has been assigned to represent, and are to assign new counsel to said
clients.

7.

That the Clerks of Juvenile Court for Brunswick and Columbus Counties are to notify, in
writing, each of Michael Paul Caviness' former clients, informing them that the court has
assigned each of them new legal counsel and advising them of the name, address, and
telephone number oftheit new anomey. The notice to be sent by the Clerks shall also notify
Michael Paul Caviness' former clients oftheir next court date and shall inform them that they
should contact their newly assigned attorney as soon as possible in regards to their case.

8.

That the Clerks of Juvenile Comt for Brunswick and Columbus Counties are to notifY
Michael Paul Caviness, in writing, as to whom each ofhis former clients are reassigned to.

9.

That Michael Paul Caviness is to turn over any files in his possession regarding his former
clients to the appropriate newly appointed counsel and to provide them with any other
pertinent information or items he has in his possession concerning each former client's case.

10.

That the Sheriff of Brunswick COUDty is to have a copy of this order served upon Michael
Paul Caviness and, upon doing so, is to submit a return of service to the Clerk ofthe Superior
Comt of Brunswick County to include in the Clerk's file.

This the 25 th day ofMay, 2007.

~~-..L..~,Lt

""-

The ~Douglas B. Sasser
District Court Judge, 13'· Judicial District

