7~_(J~
. NORTH

BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING CO~~ISSION
en
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA. STATE BAR
94 DHC 6

CAROL1~~
"

.

WAKE COUNTY'

THE NORTH CAROLINl\ STATE BAR,
Pla:intiff
vs .:
ORDER OF DISBARMENT
THOMAS M. JOHNSON, ATTORNEY
Def'endant

This matter being before the undersigned chairperson of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission pursuant to Article IX, Section
17(D) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar upon the defendant's affidavit of Consent to Disbarment
signed on the 18th day of August 19~4, acknowledged on the 24th
day of August 1994 and filed on the 25th day of August 1994, and
based upon the Consent to Disbarment, the undersigned finds the
following:
1.

The' Consent to Disbarment was freely arid voluntarily
r~n¢lered, it was not the result of coercion or duress,
and: the defendant was fully aware of the implications
of submitting the Consent to Disbarment. '

2.

D:~fEmdant is aware that there is a hearing presently
sqheduled concerning the allegations captained in the
complaint in this matter, and that by submitting the
Con~ent to Disbarment, defendant is giving up his right
to defend against those allegations at that hearing.

3.
4.

Defendant has admitted that the material facts upon
whiqh the complaint is predicated are true.
Defendant has admitted that he submitted the Consent to

Dis~arment-because he knew he could not successfully

defend against the allegations contained in the
complaint.
I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned
concludes as follows:
\
1.

The 'affidavit of defendant contained in his Consent to
meets the requirements of Section 17(D) of
Article IX of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carqlina State Bar.
Di$~arment

2.

TheCbnsent to Disbarment filed. by the defendant should
be ~ccepted.

THEREFO~E,

1.

it is hereby ordered:

The ;defendant, Thomas M. Johnson, is hereby DISBARRED

I

ma.jority does not believe that Rule 1.2(B) as presently written
adequately defines what criminal act impacts upon the fitness of a
lawyer to practice law. The principal witness in this case sought
and was unable to obtain a criminal conviction for th~ acts
complained of.' The North Carolina state Bar is now reques-ting the
hearing committee to determine whether it believes a criminal act
was committed and if so, whether or not such conduct reflectf;on
his honesty, trustworthiness and fitness as a lawyer.

I

The Rules of Professional Conduct leave to the broaci
discretion of the hearing committee what criminal acts ma.y reflect
on the fitness of a lawyer to practice law. The North Carolina
Rules of Professional CondQct do not directly address the qu~~tion
of whether a lawyer may engage in illegal conduct involving moral
t~rpitude,
or give any guideline, as to' whethe;- the conduct
complained ot in this case should pe held to re,flect upon the
honesty, trustworthiness or fitness of the Defendant to practice
law. ThuS, the majority of the panel concludes that tne Deienciant
should not be held professionally answerable for his alleged
misconciuct regarding the chief complainant in th~se circumstance:;;
when he has not been convicted of a crime. (See also the Co~ent
to Rule 1.2)
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, that this action is dismissed.
The State Bar is taxed with tne costs.
Signed by the chairman and Mary Elizabeth Lee who voted
for dismissal of the action, this the ,21st day of July, 1994.

~~~
CROW, Chairmah·

SAMEL~E

I

I
_..... 003~O
,"

,

~

