1Sczo

BEFORE THE
GR!EVANCE COMMITT~~
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93G0980 (IV)

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE MATTER OF

)

)

I

MICHAEL A. eAILEY,
ATTORl-lEY AT LAW

)
)
)

REPR,IMAND

On April 14, .1994, the Grievance Committee of the North,
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed agaihet
you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the
le1:te1;" of notice, the Grievance Committ·ee found probable qaU$e.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cauSe \;0 .
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the GrievanceCornmittee may iss~e
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduce~ the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or .
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
. A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious
than em admonition issued in cases in which ari attorney has· '
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Pr.Ofes~ional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client; the
administration·of justice, ·the profession, or a member of the
publi?, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Commit.tee was of tpe opinion that a censure is
not required in this case and issues this reprimand to you. .As'
chairman of the G:rievance Committee of the North ·Carolina State
Sar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certaih
that you will understand fully the epirit in which this duty is..
performed.
As a result of a dependency on prescribed pharmaceutical
medication developed over a period of years after several chronic
ankle injuries arid surgical procedures, you began forging
prescriptions for a schedule V drug, Lomotil . . In May, 1991 your
family helped you recognize that you needed to confront your drug·

I

dependency and you entered a treatment program at Willing Way
Hospital in Statesboro, Georgia. Atter your initial
detoxificatioI')., you entered a rehabilitation unit there for
intensive therapy. In July, 1991 you agreed to an additional
stay in the hospital's extended care facility. In July, 1992,
you moved youi family to Statesboro and committ.ed to an
additional ye~r of follow-up counselling and treatment on an out
patient basis; In June, 1993 you returned to Charlotte and
entered into ~ PALS recovery action ,contract.
While you were in your initial treatment at Willing Way
Hospital, law enforcement officers began investigating
allegations that you had obtained prescriptions by fraud or
forgery. You ,voluntarily submitted to an interview with the
investigating officers on January 15, 1992. You freely admitted
your responsibility for obtaining the prescriptions by fraud or
forgery. When you returned to Charlotte, the District Attorney
reviewed the .i;.nvestigative mat.erials and talked with the Medical.
Director of Willing Way Hospital. He agreed to enter into a
deferred prosecution agreement with you. On June 30, 1993 a
warrant was i$sued charging you with 29 counts of obtaining
controlled substances by fraud or forgery. On July 7, 1993 you
signed a deferred prosecution agreement wherein you accepted
responsibility for the criminal charges. Obtaining controlled
substances by:fraud of forgery constitutes a criminal act-that
reflects adve~sely on your honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as
a laWyer in other respects in violation of Rule 1.2(B). However,
due to your f~ank acceptance of responsibility for your conduct
and your laudable efforts to Overcome your dependency, the
Grievance Com~ittee feit that this r~primand was sufficient
discipline for otherwise serious misconduct.
You are liereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remernbereq by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that
you will neve~ again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State. Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a repr~mand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

3~day

of

~,

I

I

1994.

l~~ t ~~()l;, u .(jet:;

Howard E. Manning, Sr., Jitice'-Chair
The Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar

I

