BEFORE THE
GRIEVANc::E COMMITT~E
OF THE
.'
NORTH CAROLINA STATRBAR

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
<::OUNTY OF

WA~E

~3(J1158 (II)

"-'

IN THE MATTER OF

I

JOHN P. CARLTON,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

"'-'.,

--------------""--""'-'---.,...---...".--)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

Ort July 27, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance tiled agC!.in$t
you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rul~s anq
of the North Carolina State Bar,the Grievance
Committee cqnducted a pre:J.iminC!.ry heCiring. After con.sidering the
information available to it, including your response to the '
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cau$'e.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cC!.use to
believe that a member of the North Carolina Sta,te Bar is gu:j.l,ty
of misconduct j,ustifying disciplinary action."
~egulations

I

The rules provide thC!.,t after a finding of probable c;;:t'\lse.,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue.
various levels of discipline depending 'upon the misconduct, t'he
c:tctual or potential injury caused, and ·any aggravating or
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious
than an admonition issued in cases in. whioh an attorney ha!3
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm t'O a client, t:qe
administration. of justice, 'the profession, or a member of the
pub:J.ic, but the miscondt~ct does' not require a censure.
The Grievance c::ommittee was ot the opinion that a censure is
not required in this case and issues this reprimand to you. AS
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina. State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am ce:rtain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty :Ls
performed.
On November 10, 1993, you ~ntered a plea of guilty to an,
infraction of Title 18 U.S. Code Sections 2511(1) (d) and
2511(4) (b) (ii). Your plea arose out of your conduct prior to the
1992 gubernatorial election of listening to a tape recording of
cordless telephone calls by members of the family of Jim Gardner,
,

I

.

r-------------'--:::'----...,------------------- -then a gu.be~natorial candidate, and var-ious campaign supporters.
By listening to a tape recording of cordless telephone calls in
violation of federal law, you ehgaged in a criminal act which
reflect/? adversely upon your honesty, trustworthiness or fitnesS
as a lawyer, in violation of Rule 1.2(B) of the Rules of
Professionai Conduct.
While the Grievance Committee by no meahs condones your
misconduct in this matter, it did note that you promptly and
fully admitted your wrongdoing, that you cooperated with the
federal government, and that you have been substantially punished
already by the publicity surrounding your federal conviction.
The Comrnitt~e is further aware that you have had a long,
honorable c~reer as a lawyer and jurist and believes that this
incident ma~ks an aberration-which will never be re~eated by you.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your!professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that ,you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered oy you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that
you will never again a~low yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted october 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

t1:tI.

day of

~

, 1994.

~&u4~

. Erwin s~~rman
The Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar

I

I
-00395

