STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEV~CE COMMITT~E

COUNTY OF WAKE
NO~TH

OF THE
CAROLINA S~~TE BAR
: 94'G0124 (I)

IN THE MATTE,R' OF

I

)
)

CHARLES T. LANE,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)

REPRIMAND

)
)

On July 27, 1994, th~ GrieV'ance Committee of 1:he North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed against'
you by the North Carolina St~te Bar.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of the North CaroliIla State Bar, the Grievance'
Committee conducted aprelimina:ry hearing. Aft,er considE;lritlg the
information available to it, including your response to the .
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina $tate Bar is guilty
of rrtiscond,uct justifying disciplinary action."
"

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of ~
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue'
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, J:reprimand, or ceh~ure to the respondent atto!:'rteY.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious'
than an admonition issued in 'caseS! in which an att,orney has
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential ha,rm to a, client, the
adm,inistration of justicE;l, 'the profession, or a member of the
public, but the misconduct does not requJre a cenSlureo
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censuJ;"e is
not required in th~s case and issues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the Grievance Committee of t:.he NorthCarolirta State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that y~>u will understand fully the spirit in which this duty ilS
performed.
On November 10, 1993, you entered a plea Qf guilty to an
infraction of Title 18 U.S. Code Sections 2511(1) (d) and
2511(4) (h) (ii). Your plea arose out of your c;onduct prior to the
1992 g'1..lberna,torial election of reviewing written summaries ,of'
tape recordings of cordless telephone calls by members ofth~

I

,..--------~-------,.----------

.-

family of Jim Gardner, then as gubernatorial candidate, and
various campaign supporters. '( By' reviewing written summaries of
tape recorqings of cordless telephone calls in violation of
federal law, you engaged in a criminal act which reflects
adversely lipon your honesty, trustworthin~ss or fitness as a
lawyer, in :violation of Rule 1.2 (B) of the Rule_s 'of Professional
Conduct.
I

While :the Grievance Committee by no means condones your
misconduct !in this matter, it did note that you promptly and
fully admit1ted your wrongdoing,that you cooperated ,~ith the_
federal gov:ernment, and that you have been substantially punished
already by-the publicity surrounding your federal conviction.
The Committ:ee is further aware that you have had a long,
honorable career as a lawyer and believes that this incident
marks an aberration which will never b~ repeated by you.

I--

You are hereby reprimanded by the Nort'h Carolina State Bar
due to your: professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that: you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it wil~ be beneficial to you, and that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal -};?rofession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the admi~istrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievapce Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this!J.th.. day of

SFf'"PMhtl{

, 1994.

W. Erwin Spai hou , Chairman
The Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar

I

I

