'3315
BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY.HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93 DHC 24

NORTH
WAKE COUNTY'

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Pla,intiff
ViS.

WILLIAM C. P,ALMER, Attorney,
DSfendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT
AND

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

This cau:se coming on to be heard and being heard on August 11
and 12, 1994, before a hearing committee composed of Samuel Jerome
Crow, Chairman, Robert B. Smith, and James Lee Burney; with A.
Root Edmonso~ representing the N. C. state Bar and James B.
MaXwell representing the Defendant; and based upon "the
stipulations, contained in the stipulation on Prehearing
Conference and the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing
committee finds the following to be supported by clear, cogent,
and convincipg evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina state Bar, is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper
party to brihg this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder. '

I·

2. The Defendant, William C. Palmer (hereinafter Palmerj,
was admitted: to the North Carolina state Bar on September 9,
1957, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
Attorney at taw iicensed to practice in North Carolina, subject
to th~ rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North
state Bar and the laws of the State of North
. Carolina
'
Carollna.
3. During all of the periods referred to herein, Palmer was
actively engaged in" the practice of law in the State of North
Carolina and:maintained a law office in the City of Lenoir,
Caldwell County, North Carolina.

4. Palmer's children (including his step-children) were
shareholders land principal operators of an incorporated furniture
company known as Furniture Country USA of Granite, Inc.

I

-{)0415

(hereinafter furniture company). The furniture company was in
the business of the buying and selling of furniture at - retail anc~.
wholesale.•
5. Palmer wa$ a guarantor of at, least on~ of the furnitur~
company's notes held by the Bank of Granite (bereinafter bank)
which were secured by the inventory of the furniture company.

I

6.
In March, 1991, Palmer visited Roger Taylor (hereina;ft~r
Taylor), a vice-president of the bank, and requested the bank to
foreclose its security interest in th~ inventory, with the
inventQry to remain at the furniture company during toe
foreclosure.
.

7 • The bank, through its counseL, prepared t~vo notices of
sale of the furniture company's inventory, one for each note oweq.
by the fu~niture company, giving the date anq. time of the sale ~s
1:00 p.m. on April 15, 1991. The notices of the inventory sale
were posted at the Calqwell county courthouse along withanothe.r
notice of sale of a truck owned by the furniture company. At
least one of the notices of sale of the inventory wasbel;ieved to'
have beep improperly posted. To avoi~ possible problems due to,
the manner in w~ich notice was posted, counsel for the bank
recommended th.at the sale of the inventory be postponed pursuant.
to N. C. Gen~·Stat. Sec. 25-9-605.
8. At the time that the sale of the inventory was sqheduled
to commence on April 15, 1991, counsel for the bank announced
that tile sale of the inventory would be postponeq.. He read aloud
a notice of the postponed sale he had prepareq. which gave the
date and time of the postponed sale as 11: 00 a. m. on April 18,'
1991. Palmer was present when tile announcement of the postponed
sale was made.
.

I

9. A'copy of the notice of postponed sale giving the date
and time of the sale as 11:00 a.m. on April 18, 1991 was posted
at the Caldwell'County courthouse on April 15, 1991 by counsel
for the bank and an assistant clerk of court, Lisa G. Colvard.' A
copy of that notice was attaqhed to the Complaint in this matter
as Plaintiff's Exhibit 1. The notice was posted in a .locked .
glass enclosed bulletin board in the courtIiouse annex. A,li
notices posted by tile employees of the office of the Caldwell
County Clerk of Superior Court were posted in the locked glass
enclosed bulletin board after December, 19~O.
10. On April 18, 1991, the inventory of the furniture
company was sold to the only bidder, the Bank of Granite, for
$156,786.65.

ll. On April 22, 1991, Palmer appeared at the Granite Falls
branch of the ban~ and told employees of the bank that he had .
been told that the sale was postponed to that date. Palmer was
advised that the inventory had. been sold on April 18, 1991.

I
---J0416
.
{-

12. On April 29, 1991, employees of the bank went to the
furniture company in anticipation of removal of the inventory
that had been purchased by the bank. The locks on the furniture
company's bullding had been changed and the bank did not have
access to it,s property.
13. On ~pril 30, 1991, movers engaged by the bank to remOve
the inventqry purchased by the bank went to the furniture company
to begin the: moving. They were denied access to the building of
the furniture company and were prevented from undertaking the
removal of the furniture. On that same date, Palmer, his
step-son, his step-daughter, and the husband of his step-daughter
moved some furniture from showrooms to the warehouse.

I
.

14. On April 30, 1991, the bank filed a complaint against
Palmer and the furniture company in Caldwell county Superior
court, file pumber 91-CVS-494,·seekihg injunctive.relief to
restrain the suit's defendants, and those acting in concert with
them, from removing the bank's property and from interfering with
the bank's o~nership and possession of it.
15. After a series of
furniture waS removed from
May 2 and 3,: 1991. During
portions of ~he removal of

court orders were entered, the
the furniture company's building on
those two days, Palmer videotaped
the furniture.

16. On July 10, 1991, Palmer filed counterclaims in the
above mentioned iawsuit alleging, in part, the bank's breach of
an agreement I to sell the inventory to Palmer (and otherS) and
conversion by the bank of $140,000 of furniture and accessories
not covered by the bank's lien.
17.

I

On or about March 11, 1992, new counsel for the bank,
John E. Hodge, Jr. (hereinafter Hodge), served Palmer and the
other defendants in that action with requests for production of
documents pursuant to Rule 34 of the North Carolina Rules of
civil Procedl;lre.

is.

On or about May 1, 1992, Palmer produced to Hodge a
small stack of documents which included three copies of a
document entitled "Postponement of Sale" which were identical in
appearance to the notice of postponed sale previously identified
as Plaintiff~s Exhibit 1, except the date and time of the sale
had been altered to read: "12:10 P.M., April 22, 1991."

I

I

19. At his deposition taken on july 16, 1992, Palmer
testified that Taylor had caused one of the altered notices of
sale to be delivered to his office in his absence on April 16 or
17, 1991 after he had called Taylor to ask when the postponed
sale would occUr. Palmer further testified that another of the
altered notices was a copy he made from the one he found posted
at the courthouse at approximately 1:15 p.m. on April 22, 1991.
Palmer testified that he copied the third notice from one he
found posted ion the wa+l of the furniture company building.

I

Cop~es of the thre~ notices which he had produced in response to
the requests for production of documents, and which he identified
during his deposition testimony, were attached to the Complaint
in this matter as Plaintiff's Exhibits 2, 3 and 4 •

.20. Palmer produced the altered Ii postponement of Sale"
documents in response to the requests for production of documents·
knowing that they had not been altered by representatives of the
bank or by the bank's counsel and knowing that they had not been
posted in such form.

I

21. Palmer's testimony in his July 16, 1992 deposition aboQt.
how he acquired his copies of the altered documents waS not
truthful testimony in that:

(a.)

Roger Taylor never caused an altered notice of
sale to be delivered to Palmer's office on
April 16 or 17, 1991, or at any other time;

(b)

No notice of postponed sale was ever posted at
the courthouse giving a date and time of the
sale as 12:10 P~M. on April 22, 1991; and

(c)

No notice of postponed sa-le was ever posted at
the furniture company building by the bank or
its counsel.
.

22. Hodge also sought, through his requests fot' produc;::ti6n.
of documents pursuant to Rule 34 and through interrogatories
pursuant to Rule 33 of the North Carolina Rules of civil
Procedure, to discover the factual ba.sis for :palmer'S claim of
value of the furniture he alleged was wrongfully remOved from the
furniture company's building by the bank. .
Palmer's answers to some of the interrogatories
indicated that the interrogatories were not being answered
because, during the moving of the furniture, the pank took the.
books and ;records of the furniture company, without which· the
interrogatories 'could not be fully answered. Likewise, for the
same reason, none of Palmer's or the furniture company's bookS!
and records which would show the cost of the furniture .allegedly
converted were produced in response to Hodge's requests for
production of documents.
2~.

I

24. Hodge filed a motion for sanctions pursuant to Rule 3'7
of the North Carolina Rules of civil Procedure for the
defendants' failure to respond to his discovery requests.

25. The motion for sanctions ca~e on for hearing before
Judge Claude s. sitton in the superior Court of Caldwell county
on Monday, August 24, 1992.
26. During the hearing on the motion, Palmer stated to the
court that he had videotape showing some of the furniture

I

--JC4:t8

company's records being removed. He further argued to the court
that "they (the bank and its agents) took all of the records" and
that his videotape showed some of the records being removed.
27. Judge sitton scheduled a viewing of the videotape to
begin at 7:00 p.m. on August 25, 1992. He directed the clerk to
issue a subpoena for all of the videos taken so the court could
view them.
I

28. At the court ordered viewing on August 25, 1992, Palmer
produced one,videotape that contained approximately 40 seconds of
footage purportedly showing the removal of corporate records from
the premises ,of the furniture company on a handtruck.

1
,

29. The portion of the videotape purportedly showing the
removal of c6rporate records was inserted into a videotape
prepared by ~almer showing furniture being moved after that
videotape was originally made.
30. After viewing the entire videotape, and after viewing
the part purporting to show the removal of records several times,
Judge Sitton;scheduled a hearing for August 27, 1992 for
testimony to be offered concerning the videotape.
31. At ~he hearing on August 27, 1992, Palmer testified that
he had seen two movers hired by the bank removing the corporate
records from the furniture company's premises during the removal
of the inven~ory and placing them on a moving truck.
32. Palmer further testified that he had operated the camera
when the v~deotape was made purportedly showing the corporate
records being removed from the furniture company's premises and
that he had prepared the videotape viewed in court on August 25,
1992 •.
33. Pal~er's testimony about having seen the moverS hired by
the bank remove the corporate records was not truthful testimony
in that no cO,rporate records were removed by the bank from the
furniture company's premises in May, 1991.

I'

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing
committee makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The conduct of the Defendant, as set out above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Sec.
84-28(b) (2) in that Defendant's conduct violates the N. C. Rules
of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)

By producing the altered "Postponement of Sale"
documents in response to Hodge's discovery under
the ¢ircumstances mentioned above, Palmer engaged
in c6nduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or

1

misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(C):
engaged in conduct prejudioial to tne
administration of justice in v~olaeion of Rule
1.2(0}: and knowingly used false evicience in
violation of Rule 7.2(A) (5).
(b)

By testifying untruthfully at his deposition ~bout
where and how he got the altered "Postponement of
Sale" documents, Palmer engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, qeceit or
misrepresentation ~n violation of Rule 1.2(C):
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice ~~ violation of Rule
1.2(0): knowingly made a false statement of law or
fact in violaticn of Rule 7.2(A) (4); anci knowingly
used perjured testimony or false fi!vidence in
violation of Rule 7.2(A) (5).

(c)

By testifying untruthfully about having witne'Ssed
and videotaped the corporate records being removed
from the furniture company's premises in May, 199;1.,
Palmer engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 1.2(C): engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule
1.2'(0); knowingly made a false statement o·f law or
fact in violation of Rule 7.2(A) (4): and knowingly
used perjured testimony or false evid'ence in
violation of Rule 7.2(A) (5).

(d)

The other violations alleged in the Complaint were
not supported by facts whicp were proven by clear,
cogent and conv~ncing evidence.

I

I

Signed by the undersigned Chairman of the hearing committee
with the knowledge and consent of the other members of the
hearing committee this the dJi. day of ../m~, 1994.
t!JZ~

NORTH CAROLINA
i

WAKE COUNTY

BAR

NORTH

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
pilaintiff
vs.
WILLIAM C. PALMER, Attorney,
Defendant

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law of
even date herewith; and fu~ther based upon the evidence and
arguments p~esented in the sanctions phase of this hearing; the
hearing cominitt,ee, composed of Samuel Jerome Crow, Chairman,
Robert B. S~ith, and ~ames Lee Burney, finds the following:
FACTORS IN AGGRAVATION
1.

Prior disciplinary offenses;

2.

Dishonest
or selfish motive;
i

3.

A

4.

Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of his Conduct;
and

p~ttern

of misconduct;

I

5.

SUbstantial experience in the practice of law.
FACTORS

IN

l·UTIGATION

1.

Remoteness of his prior disciplinary offenses;

2.

The personal problems existing between the attorney for
the:creditor and the defendant and the ill health of
family members during the period of his misconduct;

3.

A h~story of sUbstantial charitable contributions to his
community and the raising of foster children; and

4.

A history of having provided legal services to clients of
lesser means.

I.

i

BASED UPON all of the factors listed above, the hearing
committee e~ters the following ORDER OF DISCIPLINE:
,

I

1. The Defendant, William C. Palmer, is suspended from the
practice of law in North Carolina for eighteen months.
2. The eighteen month suspension is stayed for three years
upon compliance by the Defendant with the following conditions:

I

(a)

Defendant shall not engage in any conduct which violates
the Rules of Professional Conduct.;

(b)

Defendant shall attend three hours of CLE. in et.hics.
within 6 months of the effective date of this order and,
each year thereafter during the period of the stay ·of
the suspension;

(c)

Defendant shall pay the costs of this hearing as taxed
by the Secretary.

Signed by the undersigned Chairman with the full knowledge
and consent of the other members of the hearing committee this
the ~day of ~ 1994.
~

I

I

l't

