WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02BCS02

NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE MATTER OF THE
TENDER OF LICENSE OF:
JEFFREY A. HOPKINS

)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar
pursuant to Section .0017 of Subchapter B of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar upon an
affidavit of tender of license executed by Jeffrey A. Hopkins and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State
Bar on June 3, 2002.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Jeffrey A. Hopkins' conduct of misappropriating client
funds for his own personal benefit, over-disbursing client funds, issuing checks payable to cash from his trust
account, and failing to reconcile his trust account, \vere grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.
Section 84-28(b)(2) in that Jeffrey A. Hopkins violated Rules 8.4 (b) & (c), 1.15-2(a), (i), & (m), and 1.15-3(c)
of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon motion being duly made and seconded, the Council enters the following order:
I.	 The tender of surrender of license of Jeffrey A. Hopkins be and hereby is accepted.
2.	 Jeffrey A. Hopkins be and hereby is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina.
3.	 Jeffrey A. Hopkins shall comply with the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .IJ024 of the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required
by Subchapter B, Section .0024.
4.	 That the costs of this action be taxed against Jeffrey A. Hopkins.

th

Done and Ordered this 19 day of July, 2002.

E. Fitzgerald Parnell Ill, President
North Carolina State Bar

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
,., I

COUNTY OF WAKE
AFFIDAVIT	
TO:	

i,1

The Council of the North Carolina State Bar

I, Jeffrey A. Hopkins, hereby tender my license to practice and desire to resign from the North Carolina
State Bar. My resignation is extended freely and voluntarily, and is not the result of coercion or duress, and I
am fully aware of the implications of submitting this, my resignation.
I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation or other proceedings regarding allegations
that I have been guiIty 0 f misconduct, specifically that:
I.	

In October 2000, I transferred $220,000 that I was supposed to he holding in trust for a real estal;;
closing fr011l my trugt account ro my personal account. I opened and used the personal account
for the construction of a new personal residence and home office. I appropriated these funds and
the interest on those funds. After being contacted and questioned by the State Bar in January
2001 , I transferred the funds back into my trust account and wired the funds to the appropriate
party.

2.	

From October 2000 until January 2001, I issued a total of eight checks from my trust account in
the aggregate amount of $67,458 in payment for construction services on my new personal
residence and home office. I did not have personal funds in my trust account to cover these
checks.

3.	

I issued checks from my trust account payable to cash on numerous occasions.

4.	

I disbursed on behalf of several clients more funds than I was holding in trust for those clients.

5.	

From at least January 2000 through January 2001, I failed to reconcile my trust account balance
with the funds I was supposed to be holding in trust for all my clients on at least a quarterly basis.

I acknowledge that the facts as set forth in paragraphs 1-5 are true. I am submitting my resignation
btcaiti>C 1 know if charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investIgation, 1 couid not successfully
defend against them.
2002.

Sworn to and subscribed helore me,

this
of ~ 2002.


-kfyJ4~~~~--'
~ Notary Public	

My Commission Expires:

fY!.-JS-iJ<!-"'

