WAKE COUNTY


IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE OF

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

DENNIS A. WHITLING

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.e. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0117(a) of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon an affidavit of tender of surrender of license
executed by Dennis A. Whitling ("Whitling") on July 2, 2008 and filed in the offices of the
North Carolina State Bar on July 7, 2008.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Whitling's conduct of conversion of
funds to himself without authority from the law firm with which he was employed and from an
estate trust for which he was trustee grounds for discipline pursuant to N.e. Gen. Stat. § 84­
28(b)(2) in that Whitling violated Rules 8.4(b) and (c) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon Motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the following
Order:
1.	

The tender of surrender of license of Dennis 1'. Whitling is hereby accepted.

2.	

Dennis T. Whitling is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in North
Carolina.

3.	

Whitling shall comply with the provisions of 27 N. e. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules and shall
surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124 of the State
Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules.

4.	

The costs of this action are taxed against Whitling.

Done and ordered this 18 th day of July 2008.

STATE Of NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COU}..!TY

AFFIDAVIT TENDERING THE SURRENDER Of THE LlCENSE OF

DENNIS A. \VHJTLlNG


1, Dennis A. Whitling, being first duly swam, say:
J.	

1 desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of Section .0117 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .01 J7.

2.	

My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resii:,'l1ation.

3.	

1 am aware that thcre is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations that I
have been guilty of misconduct by misappropriating funds from the law firm with
which 1 was employed, divcrting to myself legal fees from an estate trust for which I
was trustee that had been authorized for disbursement to thc law firm, filing a false
annual account with the Clerk stating those funds had been disburscd to the law finn
when in fact I disbursed the funds to myselt: and disbursing additional funds to
mysclf from the trust that were labeled in the memo line of the check as fees but had
not been approvcd by the Clerk for such disbursement as required by statute.

4.	

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.

5.	

My resignation is being submitted because I know that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.
Respectfully submitted, this the,.;J day of	

Sworn to and subscribed before me
This the ~ day of
U \ '--1

-1

J\...ci_L--

~.

Cd \

Notary Public

My commission expires:

,.-lC-A-C	

2008.
Cd_

•

4 - ~ - -~ 0 \ -3


2008.

~.<i"

'....

<~"""

/i:· C :; I: ~~i;\

