,NORTH CAROLINA

--

._---

"&&.~o
--

----~--'

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
KENNETH M. JOHNSON
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
'94G0499.(III)

REPRIMAND

I

On October 120, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State :Bar met and considtered the grievance filed against
you by Cristeent S. Falls.
Pursuant to' section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of 'the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee condu'cted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information avaiilable to it, including your response to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause' i.s defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduqt justifying disciplinary action."
I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the
Gri~vance Committee may determine that the filing of a complaint
and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
injury ¢aused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, reprimand, or
censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than
an admonition issued in cases in which an attorney has violated
one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused harm or potential harm to a clieht, the administration
of justice, th~profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does pot r~quire a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
not required ih:this case and issues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the 'Grievance Committee' of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now rely duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will unqerstand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.

I
-0042'5

l

You were the closing attorney in a loan assumption involving
Terrell Raynor, the buyer, and Cristeen Falls, the seller. You
prepared a qeed for the seller, Ms. Falls, and thereby represented
her in a limited capaci.ty in the loan· assumption closing. Yoil ?llso
conducted the title search and prepared the loan ~s~umption
documents.

I

You scheduled several closings, but Mr. Raynor never appeared
at those closings and he did not execute the loan assumption
documents., You then gave Mr. Raynor the qeed to Ms. FaLl,s'
qonqominium, although the assumpt;i.on papers haq not be~n completed.
You stated that you gave Mr. Raynor the deed so he would have proof
of the money that he paid to Ms. Falls for the equity inhe~
property.
As the closing attorney in this transaction, you had a
fiduciary duty to hold the de~d in trust until the parties. had
complied with all terms and conditions of the purchase contract ~nd
the loan assumption had been closed. You breached your fiduciary ,
duty to the seller when you released the deed to Mr. Ray!},or. Your
conduct in t'his matter violated Rule 5.1 (A) and (C) of the North
Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
The Grievance Committee found that it was improper for you to
deliver the deed to Mr. Raynor as proof that he had paid fot tne
equity in the property. The Grievance Comm;i.tteedoes take intQ
consideration that you facilitated Mr. Raynor deeding the property
back to Ms. Falls.
You are her~by reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due
to your professional misconquct. The Grievance Committee trusts'
that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be remembered :Qy
you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never.'
again allow yourself to depart from adherenc~ t.othe high ethical
standards Of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by' the
Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing o~ the
administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of tpis action in.
the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Do!\e and ordered, this

7'111

qay of

,(/d,~ ,

1994.

1t2~~
sRiIii'
W. Erwin

Chai~mah, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

<481-136>

n!:,,<. - ",,'''''
-Uvio:,
..ib

