STATE OF NORTH. CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE,

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94G0441(III)

IN THE MATTER 9F
ERNEST C. DUMM~T
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

I

On October 20, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of;the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee cond~cted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause ,is defined in the rUles as "reasonable cause to
pelieve that a .member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct j;ustifying
disciplinary action. II
,
The rules ~provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are ,not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels ,of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating fact'ors.
The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, rep~imand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimapo is a written form of d~scipline more serious
than an admonit~on issued in cases in which an attorney has
violated one or· more :provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has! caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration pf jUstice, the profession, or a membe-r of the
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
not required in~this case and ~ssues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the'Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that yoti will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
The committee found that on nUmerous occasions prior to May
of 1994 you sen~ letters to potential clients charged with
speeding in For$yth County which contained the following
language: "A pl~a bargain can save you thousands of dollars in
insurance premiums over the next three years . . . . " The
committee determined that while in some. instances this may be

I

true, in the maj·ori ty of cases, a plea bargain would not save
someone "thousands of dollars in insurance premiums" over a three,
year period. Instead, this language, would likely create an'
unjustified expectation about the res~lts you could achieve.
Therefore, the committee determined th~t this language violated
Rule 2.1(B). which states: "A lawyer shall not make a false or
misleading communication about the lawyer or tne lawyer's
services. A communication is faise or misleading if ,it .
i$
likely to create an unjustified expectation about results the
lawyer can achieve . . . "
The committee found in mitigation your lack of prior
discipline and the fact that you have now deleted this language
from you:!;:" letters.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your prqfessiqnal misconduct. The GrievanCe Committee .
trusts that 'you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it wili be beneficial to you, and that'
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the higb ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regard;i..ng the ta~ing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of 'this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

~ day of _tf
___.ovf~_________ ,
llliam
The G;r-ievance
North Carolina

I

# 228

·.
I
.

.

1994.

