..

.,..

-~--

'?~\\
-- ----- -

-

----~

-------

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93Gl12S(II)

STATE OF NQRTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE MATTER OF
J. LARKIN ~AHL,

ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

CENSURE

)
)

Ort October 20, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met, and considered the g:r.ievance filed against
you'by the ,North Carolina State Bar.
!

Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable c,a:use is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe th~t a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The ru:les provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint a~d a hearing before the DisciplinarY Hearing
Commission ~re not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, anq any aggravating or
mitigating factors.
The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition,: reprimand, or a censure. ~
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than
a reprimand!, issued in cases in which an attorney has violated
one or more provisiou'8 of the Rules of Profession<::.l Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a
client, the, administration of justice, the profession or a member
of the publ~c, but the misconduct does not require suspension of
the attorney's license.

,I~

'

The Gr~evance Committee believes that a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission is not required in this case and
issues this,censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to
issue this gensure.
I am certain that you will understand fully
the spirit in which this duty is performed.
Throughout 1992 and 1993 you served as trustee and attorney
for the trustee regarding various debtors involved in bankruptcy
proceedings ,in federal court. On four different occasions
between Sept. 24, 1992 and July 9, 1993, you transferred
approximately $120,000 belonging to eight different bankruptcy
debtors to your law firm's business account. At the time you

I

withdrew the funds, you apparently had a good f:aith, subject.:Lve,
belief that you were ent,itled to the money as reimbursement for
expens~s you had already inc~rred and as compensation ~or work
already performed by you. At the time you withdrew the funds',
however, you did not have approval of the bankruptcy court, ~6+
was the court aware of you~ action.

I

In each case, you filed a petition f'or approval of the fees,
commissions and expenses shortly after you tran~ferred the
debtors' funds to your firm business account.
:tn some cases, the'
amounts ultimately awarded by the court exceeded the amounts
which you hag paid yourself and in some cases, the court awarded
you, an amount less than what you had withdrawn. After these,
matters came to the attention of the bankruptcy court,' you repaid
all of the fees and commissions which you had previously
transferred to your firm account.
The same attorney may perform the dual functions of trustee
and attorney for the trustee in bankruptcy matt,ers. Fiowev~r, the,
law is very clear that fees and commissions for this work may not
be paid, without the prior approval of the bankr~ptcy coutt~,
This requirement is designed to prevent the kind of self-dealiIlg
in which you engaged. By payi~g yourse+f fees and commissio~s '
without prior approval of the bankruptcy court, you paid yourself
an illegal fee in violation of Rule 2.6 and engaged in serious
self-dealing in violation of Rule 5.1 of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. No attorney, no matter how successfu,l,.
experienced or respected, is above the Rules of Professional
Conduct. No amount of frustration with perceived delays or otner
problems with the COl.,l;rt system or personnel can justify se-if.
dealing of the kind in which you engaged.
'
Your misconduct is mitigated by the fact that you are
remorseful for your misconduct and th~t you have acknowl~dged
your error, by the fact that you have. previously received
substantial adverse publicity associated with this matter, and
that you have a long history of honorable service to the
profession with no prior discipline.

I

You are hereby censured by the North Ca;Lolina Dt~,te Bar for
your violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct. The,
Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this, c.ensure"
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will neVer
~gain allow yourse+f to depart from adherence to the high etnical
standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve aE?
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in
the future your responsibility to the public,'your clients~ your,
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean
yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose
conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the N0rth Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of th;is
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

·
,
I

..

Done and ordered, this jjL day of

William o. King,
The Grievance Commi ~ee
North Carolina State

I

I

I

