..

------------------------~-------~--~----.---. .

STATE OF NORTH;CAROL!NA
COUNTY OF WAKE.

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93G0943(II)R

IN THE MATTER OF
THOMAS H. CLEM~NTS,
ATTORNEY AT LAWI

REPRIMAND

I

On October 20, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State 'Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by Ms. C.F.
Pursuant '~o section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of ,the North Carolina State Bar, the GrievanCe
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information avqilable to it, including your response to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause 'is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct j:ustifying disciplinary action."
The rules iprovide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance qommittee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and ~ hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
'various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential i:~".jury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating fac1:;ors.
;-~'~~e Grievance Comfni ttee may issue an
admonition, reprimand;, or censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious
than an admonlt,ion issued in cases in which an attorney has
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has; caused. harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration ,of justice, the profession, or a member of the
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grieva~ce Committee was of 'the opinion that a censure is
not required in: this Case and issues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the, Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will uhderstand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
Prior to April 1992, you undertook to represent a client,

I
'-00'1137

Ms. C.F. regarding a child support and custody matter. Those
issues were resolved on April 30, 1992 and you were charged with
the responsibility of drafting an appropriate orde~ for the
jl.ldge's signature. You did not ultimciceHy complete the order
until July 22, 1994, some eight months after Ms. C. F. f,iled a
grievance against you and only three days befor~ the State Bar
subpoenaed you to appear to respond regarding Ms. C.F.'s case.
Your conduct in delaying more than two years to complete the
order in Ms. C.F.'s case violated Rule 6(B) (3) of the Rules, of
Professional Conduct, whicl1 reql,lires attorneys to handle legal
matters with reasonable diligence. Additionally, it appears t'ha,t
you did not promptly communicate with Ms. C.F. about her case" in
violation of Rule 6(B) (1) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. '
Finally, you violated Rule 1.1(B) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct by your failure to file any respons<;:!
whatever to the letter of notice sent to you by the 12th Judicia,l
District Grievance Committee regarding Ms. C. F. ' s grievance.'~ You
further violated that Rul~ by failing to, respond to a letteJ;' of
State BaJ;' counsel dated May 31, 1994 requef;lting further
information about the case. Owing to Y0l.lr lack of response, tone
State Bar was forced to s\lbpoena you to appea,r in Raleigh on Jl.lly
25, 1994. Although you did file a response to the May 31 l~tter,
you did not appear in Raleigh as commanded by the subpoena.
'
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this r~primand, that it will, be
remembered l;>y you, t:lat it will be beneficial to you, and that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carol;i.na State Bar re'garding the taxing
of the administr?tive and investigative CO$ts to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

bt~day Of;(l~

, 1994.

-to.~
· ..~
~ ~
I.
. . .'.
..

#603

