_ .-F----

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93Gl154 (III) & 94G0083 (III)

COUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE MATTER OF:
RICHARD I. SHOPE'
ATTORNEY AT LAW i

)
)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On October 20, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina St~te Bar met and considered the grievances filed
against you by Linda H. Collins and Joseph A. Hockett.
Pursuant to' section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the
letter of notice~ the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a m~mber of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
,

The rules pfovide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearins before the Disciplinary Hearing
~ommissiort are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factofs. The Grievance Committee may issue art
admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimandiis a written form of discipline more serious
than an admonitiQn issued in cases in which an attorney has
violated one or ~ore provisions of the Rules of professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievanqe Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
not required in this case and iSsues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
On August 13, 1990, Ms. Linda Collins hired Marshall Dotson,
an associate of Larry McNeil to represent her in a domestic case.
At the time Mr. ~cNeil and you had separate practices although

I
-'00439

I

you shared a firm name and office expenses. Ms. Collins paid
Dotson $2,500 in August of 1990 as an advance payment of fees.
Dotson placed this money in McNeil's tFu~t account. A number of·
disbursements were made from the $2,500 including checks madE;·q>ut
to Dotson for fees.
Mr. McNeil died in the March 1992. You then
hired Dotson for a brief period.
In May 1992 when Dotson l~ft
employment with your firm, Ms. Collins had a balance of
approximately $1,000 in unused f~es. Although Ms. Collins' money
remained in your trust account, you did not refund the·:Palance of
·Ms. Collins' money until June 28, 1994 which was after Ms.
Collins filed a grievance against you. By waiting more than two
years to refund the unused portion of Ms. Collins' legal fees,
you violated Rule 2.8(A) (~) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Additionally, you and Mr. Larry W. MCNeil denominated
yourselves as the firm of Shope ~ McNe~l, P.A. on the sign in
front of your offfce and on the letterhead of your stationery
when you and Mr. McNeil actually had an office sharing
arrangement after 1987. You continue to have Mr. McNeil on you~
letterhead even though you and Mr. McNeil were not partners at
the time of his death in 1992. By denominating yourself as the
firm of Shope & McNeil, P.A.when you are not actually p~rtners
with any other lawyer you violated Rule 2.3(E) of th,e Rules of
Professional Conduct. You should act immediately to t~ke the
name of Larry McNeil off your letterhead and office signs. You
should also not indicate that you are a professional corporatiop
unless you are in actual partnership with another lawyer.
.
You a:te hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Comm~ttee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
r~membered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that
you will never again allow yourself to depart fro~ adherence to
the high ethical stand~rds of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October ~5, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the adm~nistrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done anq ordered, this

l~

day of December, 1994.

William O. K:Ln
ail;'man
The Grievance . om· . t tee
North Carolina State Bar

I

