BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMM!TTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93GOl13 (IV)R

STATE OF NORrH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAkE

IN THE MATTER OF
EDWARD D. SELTZER,
ATTORNEY AT tAw

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On October 20, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by KM.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committ~o co~ducted a preliminary hearing.
After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct justifying disCiplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various leveis of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury Caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors.
The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, :reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney_

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious
than an admo~ition issued in cases in which an atto+,ney has
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
ConduCt and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of. justice, the profession, or a member of the
public, but t;he misconduct does not require a censure.
~he Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
not required in this CaE?e and issues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Caroliha State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.

Shortly :after Jan. 5, 1992 you undertook to represent KM

I
..!LOG'
.
"4~1

I

'I

regarding a speeding ticket she received in Guilford County.
You told KM that you could not attend court on the hearing datE;l,
Feb. 4, 1992, but,that you would h~ve another attorney continue'
the matter. You did not tell KM the name of the dther attoJ;ney" "
however. Nevertheless no one appeared in court 'on ~'s bebalf on
Feb. 4. On March 11, 1992, your client received a letter from
the Department of Motor Vehicles, stating that her license would
be suspended owing ,to her failure to appear in court on Feb. 4.
KM notified you about the DMV letter on March 16. Youtbld
her that "a clerical error" had been made and that you would
"take care" of everything. On May 28, 1992, unbeknownst to yo'!lr
client, you went to Guilford County District Court and entered a
waiver of appearance and paid,KM's speeding ticket. Accordingly,
she was cortvicted of driving 70 in a 55 mile per hour zone. KM
did not give you permission to enter a plea on her behalf and in
fact pelieved you were simply taking stepp to restore her drivihg
privileges. After KM learned of the convictiop, you promised at
various times to contact the district attorney and attempt to
eliminate tbe points on KM's driving record. KM called you 2~
times between July 29 ahd Dec. 4, 1992 to inquire about tpe
status of the points regarding her l±cen$e, but you did not
respond to any of these calls. Ultimately, KM hired other
counsel ··'ho was able to set aside the conviction and dismiss the
speeding charge nunc pro tunc.
Your conduct in failing to ensure that either you or another
attorney appeared in court for KM on Feb. 4, 1992 and in failing
to promptly pursue a motion for appropriate relief to set aside '"
the speeding convict:ion constituted neglect of a client,matte~ j:n
violation of Rule 6(B) (3) Of the Rules of Profes$ional Conduct.
You also violated the Rules of Professional Conduct by paying
your client's ticket, thereby ensuring her conviction of speeo.ing
charges, without her knowledge and con$ent. Specifically, Rule
7.1(C) 0.) required you to consult with and ~bide by your cl:ien,t'\s
decision regarding the plea to be entered in her case. You also
failed to communicate adequately with your c:lient regarding this
matter, in violation of Rule 6(B) (1).
Finally, it appears that you did not respond promptly to' the
local grievance committee which initially investigated this
matter. Although you were given notice of the grievance ort Jan.
27, 1993 and asked to respond within three weeks, you :eiled PO
answer until Oct. 4, 1993, after several requests from the local
committee. By failing to respond in a timely fashion to the
local 'grievance committe's inquiry, you violated Rule 1.1(,B) of
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Garolina Stateaar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Cq>mrrtittee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be peneficial to you,' and thq,t
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

1

In accordance with the poiicy adopted October 15; 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina. State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in th~ amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done

a~d

ordered, this

g~

day of

w.

JtI~

, 1994.

I

Erwin Spai
The Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar

I

I
-00·-~~ 3

