BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE.
OF THE
NORTH CARO~INA STATEB~
94G0393

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE MATTER OF

I

BAIBA BOURBEAU,
Attorney at Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On ~uiy 21, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed ag~ins·t.
you by M~. Ervin L. Ball, Jr.

pursuan~ to $ection 13(A) of article IX of tbe Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina state ~ar, the Grievance
GOmrnittee cond~cted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
info:pnation available to it, including your ~esponSe to the .
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable caQse.
Probable cause is defined in the rule.s as "reasonable cause ·to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guLl,.ty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
.

I

The rules provide that after a finding of prol;>ab+e caus~,
the Grievance committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committ~e may .issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
qctual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
aQmonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious
than an admonition issued in cases in which an attorney has
violqteq ohe or more provisions of the Rules of Profes~ional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of th$
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a cenSure is
not required in this case and issues this reprimand tQ you. ~s
chairman of the Grievance committee of the North Carolina state'
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certa~n
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.

I

Roberta' and sammie Burnett had a right of way dispute with
their n~ighbors, Elizabeth and William McDonald. The dispute was
litigated in Buncombe County District Court in file number 91 CVD
355. A ·consent judgment was entered in the case on January 30,
1991. Between that date and February, 1993, when you began to
represent the Burnetts, five orders were entered in the case. In
three of the orders, Ms. Burnett was held in contempt for
violating t~e consent order. In two other orders, the McDonalds
were found not to be in contempt of the consent order, as had
been allege~ by the Burnetts. None of these orders entered in 91
CVD 355 were appealed by the Burnetts. In addition, Ms. Burnett
was found guilty of assaulting Ms. McDonald on four occasions.
On February 16, 1993, you filed a complaint in Buncombe county
Superior cO\lrt, file number 93 CVS 650, on behalf of the Burnetts
against the'Mcbonalds alleging the McDonalds' obstruction of the
right of way. You filed this lawsuit knowing that the right of
way dispute had been litigated in district court. You filed the
case in sup~rior court without first attempting to file a motion
in the cause in district court to have that court determine if
there were issues·that could still be litigated in 91 CVD 355.
On February 19, 1993, you filed a lawsuit on behaif of the
Burnett's son, Jason Apo, against William McDonald alleging that
Mr. McDonald had called Chief Petty Officer Miller to tell him
that Apo had threate.ned and cursed Ms. McDonald and that McDonald
would ruin Apo's military career if Apo's conduct did not cease.
You filed the complaint on behalf of Apo af.ter CPO Miller had
told you that McDonald had not called him and made the statements
alleged in the complaint. In addition, you filed two additional
complaints in Buncombe county superior Court, one against each of
the McDonalds, in March, 1993 alleging malicious prosecution of
Ms. Burnett. 'In December, 1993, you took a voluntary dismissal
of these twp cases, with prejudice. You filed these lawsuits
against the: McDonalds to harass them and cause them to expend
sums to def.end themselves in violation of Rule 7.2 (A) (1). You
also filed the complaints knowing they were not warranted under
existing law in violation of Rule 7.2(A) (2).
In arg~ments before the Hon. Robert D. Lewis on June 3, 1993
in 93 CVS 650, you made inappropriate comments about your client
not having had a fair and impartial hearing of their claims in
district court file 91 CVD 355. In the malicious prosecution
lawsuits yo.u filed on behalf of Ms. McDonald, you alleged that
the conduct of each of the Mcbonalds had been aided and abetted
by a magistrate. In the claim against Ms. McDonald, you also
alleged that her conduct had been aided and abetted by an
assistant district attorney. You. made these allegations in the
malicious prosecution lawsuits without any evidence that these
officials had done anything improper. In a January 9, 1994
letter to the counsel for the McDonalds, Ervin L. Ball, Jr., you
insinuated 'that Judge Roda had been paid off to destroy tapes of
a July 9, 1993 hearing. In a January 15, 1994 letter to Ball,
you stated 'that Judge Brown was biased and prejudiced against
yoUr clien~, had made inappropriate remarks, and had inexcusably
disregarded the evidence. In a March 9, 1994 letter to Ball, you

I

I

I
-n'Q''''
.:;
\,/ Lf4:~

j.

,

,J

ind"icated that Judge Lewis was ,subj.ective and ,chose' to ignpl1e
plead.i,.ngs. You c~l,led his decision subjective and biased and
without the trapp.i,.ngs of truthfulne$$, hone$ty and fairness.
Your statements about these judicial officials were without any
ba$is in fact ~other than your subjective opinion. Your
'
statement$ violated Rule 8.2(B).
The Grievance committee considered the monetary sanctions
already imposed against you pursuant to Rule 11 .i,.n several df·
these matters as a m,ltigating factor. That is why toe discipline
in tJ;lis matter was not more severe.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North carolina State'Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance committee
trusts that you wiil heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will ,be beneficial to you" and that
you will never again allow yourself to depart f,roltl aqherenc$ :tq
the h.i,.gh ethical standards of the legal profession •
•

In accordance with the policy adopted october ~5, 1981 by
theCounc::il of the North caroiina state Bar ;regarding t.he t<;lxing
of the admini$trative and invest.i,.gativecosts to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Co~ittee, the costs of this
acti¢n in, the amount of $'50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

I

/7'14 day

of

·OC.t:f.lttt

"

;1.994.

