....

- ...--.----.....-...

--:------.--~--

.............~.-----.----------------~-------

N.C.

MATTER OF ROBINSON

...,::
,,'

Cite as

~5(f. S.E.2d

-

------

---_.........-._--_.._- ---,_._,- .---_. ..-...-,--.

-----------------------~--

79

79

39 N.C.App. 345

In

the Matter of the Right to Practice
Law of Harold ROBINSON, Esq.
No. 7725SCi32.
Court of Appeals of ~orth Carolina.
Jan. 2, -1979.

Disc~plinary proceedings were instituted against attorney. The Superior Court,
Burke County, Frank W. Snepp, Jr., J.,
ordered the attorney suspended from practice of law for one year' and appeal was
taken. The Court of Appeals, 37 N.C.App.
671, 247 S.E.2d 241, vacated the order and
retained the cause. Following hearing, the
Court of Appeals, Parker. J" held that failure to pursue appeals in follt cases in which
an attorney has been appointed to represent
an indigent criminal defendant warrants
suspension from the practice of law in the
courts of appellate dh'igiolJ. for 12 months
and suspension from the practice of law in
criminal ·cases in a Su!>crior court and a
district court for a period of six months.

Oruer accordingly.
Attorney and Client 0=>58
Failure of attorney to perform duties
of court-appointed counsel to seek appellate
review in foul' criminal cases warrants suspension from the practice of law in the
cpurts of the Appellate Division for Ii period
of 12 months and suspension from practice
in criminal cases in the Superior court and
the District court for six months. Code of
Professional Responsibility, D R6--101(A).
the above~styled cause was reheard in
this Court on 5 December 1978 upon Orde!'
. of this Court. The cause was originally
heard upon appeal on 1 June 1978. An
interlocutory opinion was filed 29 August
1978 (reported in 37 KC.App. 671, 247
S.E.2d 241 (1978» wherein the undisputed
facts of record were reciteti; an opinion on
the disciplinary authority of the Superior
Courtane! the Courts of the App~lIate Division over attorneys was rendered; and the

I

80

N.C.

250 SOUTH EASTERN REPORTER, 2d. SERIES

lnBurke' County Case No. 74CR91S6.·
judgment portion (that portion imposing
State
,v. Han'ey Eerry, the defendant \\'as
discipline upon responrlent) of Judge
fqu:~lQ.,
.guilty of lnvoluntarymanslaughter
Snepp's "Memorandum Opinion and Judgon.~N.o\'ember
20. 1975 and sentenced to a
ment" was vacated for the causes stated;
terHi
'of
710
years in the State!s prison.
and the cause was retained for further
H~,:ga\'e
notice
of appeal. On Marcll, 2,
Iiearing in this Court for consiqeration of
1976;
the
defendant's
trial .attorney petiwhat discipline, if any, should be imposed
upon respondent for his conduct as disclosed tionid the court to be permitted. to withbv the record before this Court. New draw as counsel and the court appointed
b~iefs were filed by respondent and by the resp(;mdent, Harold Robinson, as defendState, ;md cou.nsel were heard in oral argu·· ant's attorney to perfect the apPeaL From
ment upon the rehearing .on 5 December March 2, 1976 to 'Fcbr~arY 197'j: .M'action
w.ils taken to obtain an order ·for· transcript
1978.
Atty. Gen. Rufus L. Edmisten, by Associ- of trial and no action WaS taken to perfect
ate Atty. J. Chris Prather, Raleigh, for the the appeal. On February 21. 1977 the district attorney filed a motion to dismiss the
SUi-teo
appeal. On ~iarch H, 1977 l~esp6nQ.~nt filed
Smith, Moore, Smith, Sc.hel) &, Hunter, by
. a petition· for writ of cel·tiorari iii the Court
James A. Medford, and Frank J. Sizemore,
of Appeals and the writ was issued by the
III, Greensboro, for respondent.
Coi.lrt of Appeals April 7 1977. On April 18;
1977 Judge Lewis ordered a triu)script of
PARKER, Judge.
the trial to be prepared at State expense.
The recitation of the undisputed facts of
On.~1ay 11, 1971. the court relj(~\'edrespon­
record as set out in the interlocutory opindent of further duties in the cas~ and apion of this C()urt filed 29 August 1978 (repointed other counsel to perfect the appeal.
ported in 37 N.C.App. 671, 247 S.E.2d 241
In Burke County Case No.7pCR3480,
{1978)) was as follows:
Respondent is licensed to practice law ill State \'. Loys Rand!lll Ray, the resi10ndent
North Carolina and in all the Courts of this \\'as appointed on April 20. 1976 to rep"
State. He graduated from Wake Forest resent the defendant qn an arm.;ri' robbery
Law School in 1965 and passed the North charge. On September 16; 1976 the defendCarolina Bar Examination in 1965. He ant was found guilty of common law robthereafter practiced law in ~1oores\'i11e, bery and sentenced to 10 years ,il1 prison.
~.C. for approximately three months after He gave notice of appeal and the court
which he served two years as'il legal clerk appointed respondent to perfect t'heappeaL
in the office of the Judge Advocate Ge.ner- An order for the preparation ()f the tranaI, Seventh Division of the Eighth Army. !;cript was entered September 30; W76 and
After release from active military duty in on November 17, 1976 respondent mO\'ed
December 1967 respondent served for one for and secured an order extending the time
year as a pro~ecutor in the Domestic Rela- for serving the record on appeal for an .
tions Court in Greensboro, N.C. About additional 40 d1l-Ys. No furthe;' a:ction was
February 1969 respondent moved to Jack- t~ken and on ~1arch 29, .1977 the district
sonville, N.C. where he engaged in the gen- fl.ttorney filed a lIlotion to dismiss. On ~lay
eral practice of law until January 19'75. In 2. 1977 an order for the arrest of the deJune 1975 respondent moved to ~10rganton, fendant was is;iUed. On ~lay
1977 th~
Burke County. where he set up practice as a court relieved re~pondent from.,any further
~ole practitioner and has engaged in the duties in the case and aPl'ointe<l (:,ther counpractice of law since that time. During his sel to pursue appellate re\·ie\\,.
.
ten or more years in the practice of law in
In Burke County Case ~o, 76CR6955,
~ol'th Carolina. respondent has nen~r perState \'. Willialn B}iwP HQnsl~y, r~5i)0l1(ient
Jected an appeal to either court of the apwas appointeri to repre~ent: th~ 'defendant
pellate division of this State.

n.

I

•i
,

MATTER OF ROBINSON

N.C.

81

Cite as 250 S.E.2d 79

who was charged with rape. On ~ovember
10. 1976 the defendant \\'as found guilty of
first degree rape and sentenced to life imprisonment. He gave notice of appeal and
respondent was appointed ias his attorney to
perfect the appeal. A transcript of the trial
was prepared by the cop.rt reporter and
• delivered to respondent some time in Janu'"
ary 1977. No further ac~ion was takCl1 to
perfect the appeal and o~ ~1arch 29, 1977
the district attorney filed l a motion to dismiss. On ~fay 11, 1977 the court relieved
respondent of any further duties in the C<.'1se
and appointed other counsel to pursue appellate review.
In Burke County Case ~o. 76CR7000,
State ~:. Rex Carswell. the defendant was
chargecl with felonious br~aking or entering
and felonious larceny. He Was repte~ented
by privately employed counsel who. with
the permis~ion of the court, withdrew prior
to trial. On September 14. 19i6 respondent
was appointed to represent the defendant.
On NOV€lllber 16. 1916 the defendant was
found guilty as charged as to both counts
and sentenced to 10 years imprisonment.
He ga'''~ notice of appeal" and on the same
day respondent vias appointed counsel to
perfect the appeal. A transcript of the trial
was deli\"(~r(:d to respondent on January 3,
1977. No further action was taken to per-fed the appeal and on May 11, 1977 the
court reli£:\'ed responden~ of any further
duties in the case and app~inted other counsel to pU!'sue appellate reYiew.
In addition to the foregoing undisputed
facts as set out in the interlocutory opinion
of this Court filed 29 August 19i8, respondent's own testimdny as: set forth in the
record reveals that he was: fully informed of
his appointment as counsel to obtain appellate re,\'iew in each of the four cases listed
above; that until his appQintment in these
case;> he had never previously appeared as
counsel in any appeal, and; that after kno\ving of his appointmentih these cases he
continued to practice law in :.torganton but
neither through stu ely and: investigation nor
by seeking the advice and assistance of
other attorl1£:Ys did he adequately prepare
hirrisElf to handle the leg~al mattei'S which
'his appointment as coun~el in these four

case!? entailed. In explanation of his failure
to perform his duties as appointed counsel
to obtain appellate review in these cases.
respondent testified:
The pressure of time was what caused me
to be unable' to complete these and the
lack of appellate experience in these particular areas. That, combined with one
other thing which I would like to mention. My wife had her first baby on the
firSt day of April, which kind of dovetailed with the deadlines on a couple of
these cases. It had not been a problem
pregnancy, but we had to watch it pretty
carefully, and I had to share the housework and so forth, and so that did take
some of my time. during that penod.
The opinion concerning the authority of
the Superior Court and the Courts of the
Appellate Division to discipline errant attorneys as set out in the interlocutory opinion of this Court (3i ~ .\..App. 671. 247
S.E.2d 241 (19i8)) is here reaffirmed and
incorporated in this final opinion by reference without repetition.
We pn)cced now to the matter or appropriate discipline.
Disciplinary Rule 6-·101(A) of the North
Carolina State Bar Code of Professional
Responsibility, 283 N.C. 18.3, provides:
(A) A lawyer shall not:
(1) Handle a legal matter which he
knows or should know that he is not
competent to handle, without associat.ing with him a lawyer who is competent to handle it.
(2) Handle a legal matter without
p"eparation adequate in the circumstances.
(3) Neglect a legal matter entrusted to
hiI'll.
The undisputed facts in this case estahlish
that respofldent violated this rule in the
ma.nner in which he, performed or failed to
perform his dutie~ as court appointed counsel to seek appellate review in each of the
four cases Ih;ted above. After giving careful consideration to all mitigating circumstane:es (lisclosed by the record and asul'ged
upon us in the brief and oral argument of

I
-00'"
.. "~~~.

82

I

I

N.C.

counsel for respondent, we find that th~
serious nature of respondent's infractions of
the Code of Professional Responsibility V.-afrants imposition of the following disciplinary action by this Court. Accordingly, we
/lOW hElreby order:
1. That the prh'j)ege of the respondent,
Harold Robinson, to ptactic~ law in
the Courts of the Appellate Division
of the North Carolina Genera:l Court
of Jus{jce be and.it is hereby suspended for a period of twch'e (12) months
from the effective date of this order.
2. That the privilege of the respondent,
Harold Robinson, to practice law in
c)'imina) cases in the Superior Cour.t
Division and in the District Court Division of the North Carolina Gen"Cral
Court of Justice be and it is hereby
sugpended· for a period of six (6)
months from the effective date of
this order. tr on said date respondent
is attorney of record in any criminal
case then pending in any court of the
'Superior Court Division or of the District Court Division, he shall forthwith bring this order to the attention
of the presiding Judge of such court.
who shall enter such orelers as may be
appropriate to remove respondent as
attorney and to designate other counsei to appear in his stead. ~o judicial
offic~rof any court 'of the trial divisiems of the General Court. of J ustic'e
shall aplJoint respondent to represent
any criminal defendant after being
notified of ·the terms of this order and
before the expiration of the period of
suspension, nor shall 'respond(mt a<;cept any such appointmen~ after the
effective date of this order and prior
to the expiration of the period of
suspension.
3. This orner shall become ef.feclive on
the date the mandate of thi~ Court
shall issue in this case as provided in
Rule 32(h) of the Rules of Appellate
Procedure .
.HEDRICK and

I

250 SOUTH EASTERN REPORTER, 2d SERIES

ERWI~,

JJ., toneur.

