08 BCS 2
IN THE MATTER OF THE
TENDER OF SURRENDER OF
LICENSE OF

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

ADAM M. TYSON

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to Section .0117 of Subchapter B of the Rules and
Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar upon an affidavit of tender oflicense
executed by Adam M. Tyson and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on
July 14, 2008.
Based upon the affidavit of tender of license, the Council finds that Adam M. Tyson
misappropriated $28,000.00 entrusted to him in a fiduciary capacity and utilized those
funds for his own personal benefit without authorization to do so from the beneficial
owners of the funds.
The Council also finds that Adam M. Tyson has waived his right to notice of this hearing
and the right to be heard before the Council.
The Council concludes that the conduct of Adam M. Tyson constitutes grounds for
discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) in that Adam M. Tyson violated Rules
1.15-2G) and 8A( c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and that the Council
may enter an order of discipline accordingly.
WHEREFORE, upon motion duly made and seconded, the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar enters the following order:
1. The tender of surrender of license of Adam M. Tyson is hereby accepted.
2. Adam M. Tyson is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina.

3. Adam M. Tyson will comply with the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .0124 of
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. Tyson will surrender his
license and permanent registration card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar
along with the affidavit required by Subchapter B, Section .0124.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against Adam M. Tyson.

':' ';\ 'II.

<:(\~, \

(

A V,>

f.~ ~
,{f"-..

NORTH

I.' "

A.

l j I;;'),~

....

- -? ~

-{PI

0\

Jt··

'-;':.~\

... 1('2001

CAROLt~
.....Y\
f~{f.O r;;;) E NORTH
BEFORE THE COUNCIL
\~.....
CAROLINA STATE BAR
E,,,}J1"'fC

WAKE COUNTY ·{,c~

0

4~
""--I II..
""(L,,Y'
~!'~,~[.JlJJJY/
J

08 BCS 2

AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER

Adam M. Tyson, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North
Carolina pursuant to the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Section .0117 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of

coercion or duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submirting my resignation.

3. I am aware that there is pending an investigation regarding allegations that I
misappropriated $28,000.00 entrusted to me in a fiduciary capacity and utilized those
funds for my own personal benefit without authorization to do so from the beneficial
owners of the funds. I have returned all of those funds to the trust account.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated
are true.
5, I am submirting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges

were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully

defend against them.


6. I understand that the hearing by the Council ofthe North Carolina State Bar
with regard to the acceptance of my Affidavit of Surrender will occur at the regularly
scheduled meeting of the Council of the North Carolina State Bar on Friday, July 18,
2008 at the Carolina Hotel in Pinehurst, North Carolina.
7. I acknowledge that I understood before tendering my Affidavit of Surrender
that it would be presented to the Council at its meeting on Friday, July 18, 2008.
8. I hereby waive any claim, argument, or assertion that I have not received
proper or timely notice of the hearing before the Council on Friday, July 18, 2008 on my
Affidavit of Surrender or any other defect in notice. I further waive any and all right or
privilege to appear before the Council at that hearing.

9. I affirm that 1 have had a full opportunity to seek the advice and counsel of an
attorney in filing my Affidavit of Surrender and in waiving any rights set forth in this
Waiver.
.;ll
i

This the lL.i d'ay of_------"V'----'--_l::r
0 '-----

,

2008.


(

1,

S+CUC'Il: .Prcn"L

,Notary Public of the County of
~,,---l cr L< I,en l;)ur~
,State of North Carolina, certify that Adam M. Tyson
personally appeared be ore me this day and acknowledged the due execution ofthe
foregoing Affidavit.
Sworn to and subscribed before me
------=---=---=----=--t---' 2008.

STACEY E PRINZ
NOTARY PUSLIC

I

~eCklenburg County, North Carolina

3-le "2-0t''?-­

