82 N.C.

250 SOUTH EASTERN REi10RTER, 2d SERIES
)7(;,

39 N.C,App. 3"90"

In the Matter of Right to Practice Law
of \VheeJer DALE. Esq.
No. 7725SC664.
Court of Appeals of Xorth Carolina.
Jan. 2, 1979.

In a disciplinary proceeding, ai)peal
was tab:n from an order of the Superior
Court, Burke County, Frank W. Snepp, Jr.,
J., finding a i,\'iIIful violation of the disciplinary rules of the Code of Professional Responsibility. The Court of Appeais, 37 N.C.
App. 680, 247 S.E.2d 246, vacated the order
and retained jurisdiction. Thereafter, the
CoJrt of Appeals, Parker, J .. held that violating tlte Code of Professional Resp<msibility by failing to perfect an appC'al in a case
wherein a death sentence has been imposed
warrants suspension for 90 days.
Ordered accordingly.

Attorney and Client ();:;>58
Violation of Code of Profl'ssional ~e­
sponsibility by failing to perfect an appeal
in a case in which a death SC'ntl,rice ha.<: ~}een
imposed warrants suspen~ion for 90 days.
Code of Professional Responsihility, DR6101(A).

The abo\'e-styled cause was reheard in
this Court on 5 December 1978 upon Order
of this Court. The cause \\'as originally
heard upon appeal on 23 ~1ay 1978. An
interlocutory opinion, which is reported in
37 X.C ..\pp. 680. 247 S.E.2d ~-46 (1978). was
filed 29 August 1978. In that ojlinion the '
undisputed facts -of rr:cord were recited.
Adopting and foll()wing the opinion of this
Court in the case of In re Robinson. 3i
~.('.App. l3il. 2.i7 S.E.2d z.tl (19iS). t.he
order of Judge Snepp imposing disciplinl' on
the respondent wa:: \'acatl'd, and the cause

I

I

MATTER OF DALE

N.C.

83

Cite as 250 S.E.2d 82

was retained in this Court fqr consideration
of' what disciplillC, if any, should be imposed
upon respondent for his conduct as disclosed
hr the record befOl'e this Court. Respon.. ~ntwas given the opportunity to file a
; w brief addressing the question of wheth·
_ . this Court should exercise its inherent
tll\'er to determine what discipljne, if any,
.
.~
should be imposed on respondent, and, if
any, what the extent thereof should be.
Respondent qid not file a new brief.
Atty. Gen. Rufus L. Edmi~ten by Special
Deputy Atty. Gen. John R. B. Matthis and
Ass~iate Atty. Acie L. Ward, Raleigh, for
the State.
Simpson, Baker & Aycock by Dan R.
Simpson and Samuel E. Aycock, Morganton,
for respondent-appellant.
PARKER, Judge..
The record shows that the following facts
are undisputed. Respondent, Wheeler Dale,
is licensed to practice law in North Caroli·
na. He began the practice of law in 1963 or
1964. From 1970 to 1974 he served a term
as District Court Juc\ge. On 17 February
1976 he was appointed to represent the
defendant in the trial of Gase 76CR1377,
State v. Kenneth }iathis, in which the defendant w~s charged with first degree rape.
Respondent appeared for the defendant in
the trial of that case, which resulted in the
. defendal1t's conviction and a sentence of
death. Notice of appeal wa~ given and
.responnellt was appointed to represent the
defendant upon the appeal. On 30 July
1976 the Ju<ige of Superior Court extended
the time for serving the case on appeal to
30 August 1976. On 28 August 1976 respondent received the transcript of the trial. Respondent did not serve the case on
appeal and took no further action to perfect
the appea\. On 29 March 1977 the District
Attorney filed a motion to dismiss the appe~l for the reason that the case on appeaJ
had not been served and the appeal had not
been perfected. On 11 May 1977 the Court
relieved the respondent of any further
duties in the ca,se of State v. i'l,fathis and
appointed oth~r counsel to seek appellate
review of that case. Thereafter, this disci-

I

pHnary proceeding was institutE-d. At the
hearing of this proceeding in the Superior
Court, respondent. testified that he had no
excuse for his failure to perfect the appeal
in the case of State \'. Jfathis.
The interlocutory opinion of this Court
reported in 37 ~.C.App. 680, 247 S,R2d 246
(1978) is hereby reaffirmed and incorpqrat·
ed in this opinion by reference. We now
proceed to the matter of appropriate disci~
pHne.
The undisputed facts in this case establish
that respondent violated the provisions of
Disciplinary Rule 6-11HCA) of the i~orth
Carolina Bar Code of Professional Resp()nsibility, 2...~ N.C. 783, in his failure to perfect
the appeal in the case of State v. Mathis in
which sentence of death had beenimpose<l.
After giving careful consideration to all
mitigating circumstances disclosed by the
record, we find that the serious nature of
respondent's infractions of the Code of Pro. fessional Responsibility warrants imposition
of the following disciplinary action by this
Court. Accordingly, we now hereby i>rder:
1. That the privilege of the respondent,
Wheeler Dale, to practice law in the
State of North Carolina is hereby suspended for a period of ninety (90)
days from the effective date of this
or<ier,
2. This order shall become effective on
the date the mandate. of this Court
shall issue in this case as provided in
Rule 32(~) of the Rules of Appellate
Procedure.

MORRIS, C. J., and HARRY C. MAR·
TIN, J., concur.

I
t, ..

of'~

_

-004"52

-,
COURT OF ApPEALS

680

[37

N.C.App.}

COURT OF APPEALS

681

In re Dale

In re Dale

should be imposed upon respondent for his conduct as disclosed
by the record before us; that this cause is set for rehearing before
this court, as follows: respondent has until and including 200ctober 1978 to file his brief addressing the questions of w.hether
this court should exercise its inherent power to determine what
discipline, if.any, should be imposed upon respondent, and, if any,
the extent thereof; and the State has until and including 9
November 1978 to file its brief addressing the same questions.

ApPEAL by respondent from Snepp, JUdge. Order entered 20
June 1977 in Superior Court, BURKE County. Heard in the Court
of Appeals 23 May 1978.

The result is that the order appealed from is vacated and this
cause is retained in this court for further proceedings.
Order vacated.
Cause retained.
Judges CLARK and WEBB concur.

IN THE MATTER OF THE RIGHT TO PRACTICE LAW OF

WHEELER DALE, ESQ.
No. 7725SC664
Wiled 29 August 1978)

Attorneys at Law .§ ·11 - disCiplinary proceeding-nolice of charges-appearance
of bias by issuing judge -failure 01 judge to disqualify himself
Where the nol ice of charges issued by a superior court judge in a
disciplinary proceeding against an attorney stated that respondent. who had
bE'en appointed to represent on appeal a dE'fendant convicted of first degree
rape. "negligently failed toperfecl the appeal o~ .to seek appellate review by
any other means" in violation of DR 1·102 and DR 6·101(3) of the Code of Pro·
-fessional-Responsibility;' it appears on the face 'of·the notice 'of charges'that the
judgE' may have prejudged respondent's conduct without hearing any evidence;
therefore. the judge should have disqualified himself and referred the inquiry
to another judge. and ,his order suspending respondent from the practice of
law must be vacated. However. the Court of Appeals. in the exercise of its ·in·
herent power to disciplint' attorneys. will .rehear this matter and will deter·
mine what discipline. if any. should be imposed on respondent for his conduct
as disclosed by the record.
Judge

BRITT

concurring in the result.

This disciplinary action was instituted by Judge Snepp on 13
May 1977 by filing a "Notice of Hearing and Specification of
Charges" against respondent, Wheeler Dale, a practicing attorney
of Burke County, alleging that it had come to Judge Snepp's attention that probable cause exists for a hearing into Dale's fitness
to practice law. The specification re~d!):
"On 3 June 1976 you were appointed to represent the
defendant in State v. Kenneth Mathis, 76 CR 1377 upon appeal from conviction of first degree rape. You have negligently failed to perfect the appeal or to seek appellate review by
any other means, in violation of Disciplinary Rule 1-102(1)(5)
and Disciplinary Rule 6-101(3) as contained in the Code of
Professional Responsibility."
On 10 June 1977, respondent filed motions to .prohibit the
district attorney from participating in the hearing; to dismiss the
charges based upon insufficiency of the notice of hearing; and to
request Judge Snepp to disqualify himself from hearing the proceeding on its merits.
All motions were denied. Judge Snepp noted that he had
issued the notice based upon the public record and that that was
all he knew about the matter.
The facts presented were not in di~pute and tended' to show
that: on 1"7 Febt:uary 1976, respondent. an attorney licensed by
the State of North Carolina, who practiced and had an office in
Burke County, was appointed by District Court Judge Beach to
represent one Kenneth Mathis, who was charged with th(' offense
of first degree rape QCl;urring. PJJ Qr ,abo.ut .lA. February.1976; the
defEHldant. Mathis. respondent's client. was tried before a jury
and found guilty of the offense charged on 3 June 1976 and was
sentenced to death by asphyxiation; respondent gave notice of appeal on behalf of Mathis. and the trial court allowed 60 day!> for
defendant to prepare and serve case on appeal on the State; on 30
JUly 1976. respondent filed a motion for extension of time to
serve case on appeal which motion was allowed by Judge Thornburg on 30 July 1976; on 11 August 1976, respondent .filed on

.,

~.

:.
';J

o

~

<t

.. ---.- .,..._- ..... -_ ..- ......

68~

COU~T

".~.-~~-.-

OF APPEALS

~"--'

. - . __ .

.' ....... .........

[37

N.C,App.)

. ·In·re Dale

behalf of ,his client a motion for Stay of Execution of Judgment;.
on 23 August 197&. respondent received' 'the transcript of the
testimony of the trial of defendant M;athis; re~pondent failed to
prepare this case on appeal; and in May 1977'. Judge Snepp
removed respondent as attorney for .defendant-Mathis.
Ruth Ann H;embry testified for respondent that: during her
services as assistant :c1erk or deputy clerk. of the Superior Court
.(for almost seven years). she had an opportunity to observe
respondent as a practicing attorney in Burke County. and his relationship with the Office of the 'Clerk of Superior Court; as far as
she knew. his work was filed promptly and was done thoroughly
with the exception of this case; and. his general character and
reputation in the community is good.
Robert B. Byrd. a licensed att9rney pr~cticing in 'Burke County. testified that: he had practiced law in Burke County sirice 27
September 1955. and::had an opportunity to observe respondent in
the practice of law :since about the mid sixties; respondent was
doing primarily real estate. housing development. subdivision. and
legal work of that sort. and did not. maintain a law office when he
first started to practice law; ,the work that he observed over the
years that he personally knew of was done in a competent manner and that he worked on sonie titles with him; he observed him
in the District Court but not in the Superior Court; and his
general character and reputation is good in the community.
Wayne W. Martin. a licensed' attorney in Morganton.
testified: .he has practiced law in Burke County since August
1967; he is president of the Burke County Bar Association; in his
observation of respondent. he found his work to' be done competently; his character and general reputation is good; and the
Bar Association does not have any plans to institute' a system
whereby the attorneys Of! the i~digent list would be divided between those who could' represent a man charged with a misdemeanor and those who were competent to represent persons
char.ged with a capital offense.
Wheeler Dale. respondent. testified that: he was 62 years old.
received his law degree from Wake Forest University in 1941.
and began practicing law in 1963 or 1964; he had tried ~erious
criminal cases' in the Superior Court and had taken one appeal to
the Court of Appeals in 1968; he had served one term as District

'-..

~.s

COU~TQF APPEAI:.s

pB3

~
l/j

In re Dale

~~

Cour.t Judge from, 1970 to 1974; after his term as Judge. he let it
. be known that he would'take appointed cases (indigent. cases); and
he was appointed in the Kennet/! Mathis case without consultation. Mr. Dale stated:
"[Il have no excuse for not doing it. It is inexcusable on my
part for not doing it . I didn:t have a savings account or any
funds in the bank that I could live on. It was just a matter of
me having to live and placing my priority on living inslead of
doing what I should have been doing. I guess. I had n.o
animosity or ill-feelings of any kind against my client ... :"
Judge Snepp entered his order on
parl:

~O

June 1977 which held in

"It appears from lhe evidence. withoul conlradiction.
that Respondent. conlrary to the Ethical Consideration of
Canon 6. CODE Of PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIRlI.ITY. undertook
to represent a client in an area of law iii which he was not
qualified. and should, have known he was not. He did not
thereafter become qualified through study and investigation.
or by seeking the assistance of. lawyers accustomed to handling appeals. He. representing a client convicted of a capital
offense. did nothing to protect his right to review of his trial
by the Supreme Court of North Carolina.

The Court therefore concludes. as a matter of law. that
Respondent willfully violated. by the conduct found above.
Disciplinary Rules 6-10HA)(1) (2) and (3)."
The respondent appealed.
Attorney General Edmisten~ by Special Deputy A'ttorney
General John R. B: Matthis and Associate Attorney Acie L.
Ward, for the State appellee.
Simpson. Baker & Aycock. by Dan R. Simpson and Samuel E.
Aycock; for respondent appellant.

ERWIN. Judge.
The. record shows this respondent did not take. any action to
perfect an appeal or seek judicial review for his client. wht> had
been sentenced to death .. Nptice of appeal was ,given on 3 June

o0.
f

... _

'.
684

COURT OF APPEALS

[37

In ·re Dale

1976, and yet on 11 May 1977, the respondent had to be removed
from the case because he had not perfected the appeal.
This Court held as follows in In the Matter of the Right to
Practice Law of: Harold Robinson, Esq., 37 N.C. App 671, 676, 247
S.E. 2d 241, 244(1978):
"There is no question that a Superior court, as part of its
inherent power to manage its affairs, to see that justice is
done, and to see that the administration of justice is accomplished as expeditiously as possible, had the authority to
impose reasonable and appropriate. sanctions upon' errant
lawyers practicing before it. Sanctions available include dtations for contempt, censure, informing the North Carolina
State Bar of the misconduct, imposition of costs, suspension
for a limited time of the right to practice before the court,
suspension for a limited time of the right to practice law in
the State and disbarment. See In re Burton, 257 N.C. 534, 126
S.E. 2d 581 (1962); In re Hunoval, 294 N.C. ---, --- S.E. 2d
___ (1977); In re Bonding Go., 16 N.C. App. 272, 192 S.E. 2d
33, cert. denied 282 N.C. 426 (1972); Golan v. U. S. Attorney
for the District of Puedo Rico, CA 1, 5/17./78, 46 U.S.L.W.
2653; Annot. 96 A.L.R. 2d 823.

• •• •
[RJespondent argues, and we agree, that upon the face of the
charges it appears that Judge Snepp prejudged respondent's
conduct before hearing any evidence. We do not believe that
Judge Snepp had in fact prejudged respondent's conduct. We
think the wording of the specifications was an effort by
Judge Snepp to fully advise respondent of the sedousness of
the inquiry. Nevertheless it was' an unfortunate and inappropriate choice of words and we cannot permit this record
to stand ....

• • •
We think Judge Snepp's unfortunate and inappropriate
choice of words came from the idea of necessity for specific
allegations in a third party complaint, rather than from bias
or prejudice. Nevertheless, we must render our opinion from
the record before us.

N.C.App.]

-

COURT OF APPEALS

685

••

In re Dale

Having drafted his notice in the form of specific allegations of misconduct it was incumbent upon Judge Snepp to
disqualify himself, as he was requested by respondent, and to
refer the inquiry to another judge_ To perform its high function in the best way our courts must not only do justice but
they should give the appearance of doing justice. In our opinion Judge Snepp was in error wlien he refused to disqualify
himself and his order must be vacated."
The language used in the specification in the case before us
is almost identical to that used in In ,the Matter of the Right to
Practice Law of: Harold Robinson, Esq., supra. There Judge
Snepp's order was vacated as it must be here.
To provide for uniformity in these very similar cases, we
adopt and follow In the Matter of the Right to Practice Law of:
Harold Robi.",son, Esq., supra.
However, the vacating of Judge Snepp's order does not require dismissal of this proceeding nor does it require a remand
for a new hearing. A new hearing would serve no useful purpose.
The facts are not materially in dispute and respondent has been
accorded full opportunity to present his ev.idence. We are here
concerned with the inherent power of the court to discipline errant attorneys. The facts are before us just as if we had iilstituted this inquiry and had referred it to the Superior Court for
hearing. Therefore, we will exerecise our inherent power in this
matter before us. The questions of mitigating circumstances and
appropriate sanctions have been fully and zealously presented
and argued in respondent's brief.
We therefol'e by this opinion .notify respondent that we have
before us the record as prepared and filed with us by respondent;
that as soon;ts ·briefs have been filed, sh.ould respondent elect to
do so, this matter will be further heard in this Court on the
record and briefs; that this Court will consider what discipline, if
any, should be imposed upon respondent for his conduct as
disclosed- by the -record -beforeus;--that this cau'se is set 'for
rehearing before this Court as follows: respondent has until and
including 20 October 1978 to file 'his brief addressing the questions of whether this Court should exercise its inherent power to
determine what discipline, if any, should be imposed. upon
respondent, and, if any, the extent thereof; and the State has un-

l./~

In

"~

o

~

I

r--~

~~~ C_O~U_~~:~._:~~~,A-.L-~-:-:-A-L-S----~--~----~~
7

(

._8_6____

i

til and including 9 November 1978 to file its brief addressing the

'IL
.1

____

same <juestion's~
The result is that the order a.ppealed from is vacated and this
cau.se is retained in this Coprt for further proceedings .
Order vacated.
Cause retained.
Judge

ARNOLD

concurs.

Judge BRIT-T concurs in the result.
Judge BRITT concurring,
I concur with the result reached in the opinion wt:itten by
Judge Erwin. However. I question the part of the statement
quoted from in the Matter of the Right to Practice Law of:
Harold Robinson. Esq.• to the effect that "as part of its inherent
power to manage its affairs" a court now has the authority in imposing sanction,s to suspend for a limited time the right to practice law In the State and to disbar ail attorney.
I

I
I
,I

I
I

I!
i
I

I
t

I ..

I~

I

I

