NORTH CAROLtNA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
vs.
GREGORY K. ELLER, ATTORNEY
b~fertdant

BAR

NORTH

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT
AND

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

THIS CAUSE was heard by a Hearing Committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission consisting of stephen T. smith,
Chair; L. Patten M:3.son and Anthony E. Foriest on Wednesday, Nov.
16, 1994. The Def~'dant, Gregory K. Eller, did not appear and
was not represent€.:· by counsel. The Plaintiff was represented by
Carolin Bakewell. '3ased upon the pleadings and the evidence
produced at trial, ·the Hearing committee hereby enters the
following :.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina state Bar, is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the prop~r
party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 Of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina state Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. The pefendant, Gregory K. Eller, (hereafter, Eller), was
admitted to the North Carolina state Bar in 1983, and is, and was
at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations,
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina state Bar
and the laws of the state of North Carolina.

I

3. At all tim~s relevant hereto Eller was actively engaged
in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and
maintained a law office in the City of Wilmington, New Hanover
County, North Caro~ina. From 1983 until October 1993, Eller was
employed as an assyciate with the law firm of Harry Pavilack &
Associates.

4. On or about August 29, 1994 the N.C. State Bar filed its
Complaint herein.

5. Eller was personally served with the Summons and
Complaint herein by the Guilford County Sheriff on Sept. 8, 1994.

I

6. Pursu~nt to Art. IX, section 14(E) of the N.G. State Bar
Discipline & Disbarment Rules, Eller's Answer wa~ due on or
before sept. 28, 1994.
7.

Eller failed to file an Answer to the Complaint herein.

8. The Secretary of the N.C. State Bar entered an Order of
Default in Eller's case on or about Oct. 3, 1994.

I

9. Pursuant to Art. IX, Sl;!ction 14(F) of the Discipline &
Disbarment Rules, all of the allegation~ in the N.C. State Bat's
Complaint are deemed admitted, byreasort of Eller's default.
10. Eller had proper notice of the entry of
Default and of the disciplinary hearing herein.

th~

Order of

ll. Prior to April 20, 1989, Eller undertook to r~pr~sent
Student Loan Marketing Association (hereafter, SLMA) regarding
its attempts to collect a student loan from Hugh W. Hurst
(hereafter, Hurst), a chiropractor who lived in Salisbury, N.C.
12. General American Credits CQrporation (hereafter, General
American) served as collection agent ~or SLMA.
13. On or about April 17, 1991, Eller filed a formal
complaint against Hurst in Rowan county superior Court on behalf
of SLMA. In the complaint, Eller alleged that Hurst owed SLMA
$39,044.36 in overdue student loan obligation~ and interest.
14. Hurst was represented in the m<;itter of SLMA v. Hurst by
aranson Pethel (hereafter, Pethel), an attorney with offices in
Salisbury.

I

15. On or about May 9, 1992, Eller and Pethel agreed t'o
settle all pending claims of SLMA against Hurst for $20,00b.
16.
~nowledge

Eller settled SLMA's claims against Hurst without the
or con$ent of SLMA or Qeneral Am,erican.

17. On or about Aug. 4, 1992, Eller drafted and signed a,
notice of voluntary dismissal with prejudice of thecompla~nt in
SLMA v. Hurst without the knowledge or consent of SLMA or General
Amerioan.
18. On or about Aug. 4, 1992, Eller wrote to Tom Rains, a
representative or employee of General American. In the Aug. 4,
1992 letter, Eller failed to reveal tha,t he l1ad set:tl~d S~' s
claim against Hurst for $20,000 or that he had voluntarily
dismissed SLMA's complaint against Hurst.
19. In the Aug. 4, 1992 letter, Eller falsely stated that
the $20,000 settlement was intended as a partial payment only anq
that Hurst had also agreed to confess judgment for the "amount
remaining due after the $20,000 payment has been given due credit
toward his account."
'

I

On or about Aug. 6, 1992, Eller filed the voluntary
dismissal in Rowan County Superior Court.
20.

21. On or about Feb. 22" 1993, Eller fabricated a Consent
JUdgment in the case of SLMA v. Hurst which falsely stated that
Hurst had a9reed to pay $37,970.63 to SLMA.
22. Eller or a third party acting pursuant to Eller's
instructions forged Hurst's signature to the fabricated Consent
Judgment without the knowledge or consent of Hurst or Pethel.
23. On 'or prior to Feb. 22, 1993 Eller fabricated an Order'
for JUdgment in the case of SLMA v. Hurst, which purported to
award $37,97:0.63 to SLMA.
'

I':

24. At the time Eller fabricated the Order for Judgment in
SLMA v. Hurs,t, no judgment or award had been entered in the case
to or on behalf of sLMA and Hurst and Pethel believed that SLMA's
entire claim had been settled by virtue of the $20,000 payment in
1992.

25. Eller or a third party acting pursuant to Eller's
instructions' placed the signature o,f a fictitious judge on the
signature line of the fabricated Order for Judgment in SLMA v.
Hurst.
26.
On lor about March 31, 1993, Eller sent a copy of the
fabricated Order of Judgment in SLMAv. Hurst to General American
along with a cover letter. Eller falsely stated in the March 31,
1993 cover letter that the Order of Judgment had been "recorded
in this matt:er."
27.
Prior to March 20, 1989, Eller undertook to represent
SLMA regarding its attempts to collect a student loan from Steven
R. Shields (hereafter, Shields), a physician who lived in Durham.
28. At 'all times relevant hereto, General American served as
collection agent for SLMA regarding the Shields claim.

1

29.
On or about March 20, 1989, Eller filed a complaint
against Shields on behalf of SLMA in Durham County District
Court.
30. On or about June 1, 1989, a hearing was held before an
arbitrator regarding the case of SLMA v. Shields. Eller failed
to appear on, behalf of SLMA at the hearing. Following the
hearing, the' arbitrator entered an order in favor of Shields.
31.
Eller failed to file a motion to set aside the
arbitration 1udgment in Durham County District Court and failed
to enter any notice of appeal from the June 1, 1989 order.
32.
On or about Feb. 26, 1992, Eller wrote to General
American and: falsely represented that the June 1, 1989
arbitration order had been set aside.

1

33.
On or about March 19, 1992, Eller fabricated an ¢rder
which purpo~ted to set aside the June 1, 1989 arbitration
judgment.
34. At the time Elle~ fabricated the order
paragraph 33, no order had been entered setting
1989 arbitration judgment.

I

refe~red to in
asid~ the June

1,.

35. Elle~ or a third party acting pursuant to .Eller'$
instruction$, placed the signature of a fictitious judge on the
signature line of the fabricated order of March 19, 1992.
36. On or about July 15, 1992, Eller wrote to General
American ~nd falsely represented that ~ hearing had been
scheduled for sept. 28,1992 regarding the case of SLMA v.
Shields.

37.

Eller failed to take adequate steps to prosecute the
in SLMA v. Shields or otherwise cqllect the debt ()w~d_
by Shields to SLMA.
co~plaint

38.
Prior to sept. 8, 1992, Eller unde+took to represent
Kirk Newell (hereafter, Newell) regarding a civil action against
Doug-las Kingsman (hereafter, Kingsman).
39. On or about sept. 8, 1992, Eller filed a complaint on
behalf of Newell against Kingsman in New Hanover county District
Court.
.
40. On or about July 22, 1993, Eller fabric~ted an Order for.
Judgment in the case of Newell v. Kingsman, which purport-ed to'
award $1,320 plus interest to NeweLl,.
..

I

41. At the time Eller fabricated the Order for Judgment in
Newell v. Kingsman, no judgment or award had been ente+ed to or
on behalf of Newell.
42.
Eller or a third party act.j.ng pursuant to Eller's
instructions placed the signature of a fictitious judge on the
signature line of the fabricated Order for Judgment.
43. On or after July 22, 1993, Eller falsely represented to
Newell that judgment had been entered in his behalf and forwargeq
a copy of the fabricated Order for Judgment to Newell.
44.
Eller failed to take adequate steps to p+osecute the
complaint in Newell v. Kingsman or otherwise collect the debt
owed by Kingsman to Newell.
45.
Prior to October 31, 1992, Eller undertook to represent
Selective Insurance Company of Southeast (hereafte~, Selective
Insurance) in a civil action against Bill's Backhoe Service; Inc.
(hereafter, Bill's Backhoe).
.
.

-

.

On or about Oct. 31, 1992, Eller filed a compiaint on
behalf of Selective Insurance in Richmond County Supe~ior-· court
46.

I

,-'

:.-;;, ,.

-

..

-

against Bill ;,s Backhoe.
47. On o,r about Jan. 20, 1993, Eller fil~d a notice of
voluntary dis~issal without prejudice of the complaint in
Selective Insurance Company of Southeast v. Bill's Backhoe
Service, Inc. without the knowledge or consent of his client.
48. In ~ letter to his client dated May 6, 1993, Eller
falsely statep that trial in the case of Selective Insurance
Company of Southeast v. Bill's Backhoe service, Inc. had been
scheduled for the week of Aug. 30, 1993.
49. On o~ about Sept. 27, 1993, Eller fabricated an Order
for Judgment in the caSe of Selective Insurance Company of
Southeast v. Bill's Backhoe Service, Inc., which purported to
award $26,575.00 plus interest to Selective Insurance.

I

50. At the time Eller fabricated the Order for Judgment in
Selective Insurance. Company of Southeast v. Bill.'s. Backhoe
Service, Inc.~ no judgment or award had been entered to or on
behalf of Selective Insurance.
51.

Eller or a third party acting pursuant to Eller's
placed the signature of a fictitious judge on the
signature line of the bottom of the fabricated Order for
Judgment.
instruct~ons

52. On or after sept. 27, 1993, Eller falsely represented to
Selective Insurance that judgment pad been entered in its behalf
and forwarded'a copy of the fabricated Order for Judgment to
Selective Insurance.
53. Eller failed to take adequate steps to prosecute the
complaint in selective Insurance Company of Southeast v.Bill's
Backhoe Servide, Inc., or otherwise collect the debt owed by
Bill's Backhoe to Selective Insurance.
. 54. Prio~ to March 5, 1992 Eller undertook to represent
Polymetric Systems, Inc. (hereafter, Polymetric) in a civil
action against Gehe willetts d/b/a Southeastern Chemical Sales
(hereafter, wllletts).

I

55. On or about March 5, 1992, Eller filed a complaint on
behalf of Polyrnetric against willetts in New Hanover County
District Court.
56. On or about Sept. 28, 1.993, Eller fabricated an Order
for Judgment in the case of Polymetric Systems, Inc. v. Gene
willetts d/b/a, Southeastern Chemical Sales which purported to
award $2,167 plus interest to Polyrnetric.
_ 57. At th~ time Eller fabricated the Order for Judgment in
PolymetricSystems, Inc. v. Gene willetts d/b/a .Southeastern
Chemical Sales, no judglJlent or award had been ent'ered to or on
behalf of Pbly~etric.

I

58. Eller or a third party acting pursuant to Ellet's
instructions placed the signature of a fictitious judge on the,
signature line of the fabricated Order for Judgment.
59. On or after sept. 28, 1993, Eller falsely represented to
Polymetric th&t judgment had b~en eritered in its behalf and
forwarded a copy of the fabricated Order for Judgment to
Polymetric.
.

I

60. Eller failed to take adequate steps to prosecute the
complaint in Polymetric Systems, Inc. v. Gene Willetts d/b/a·
Southeastern Chemical Sales, or otherwipe collect the d~bt owed
by Willetts to Polymetric. '
61. Prior to January 3, 1992 Eller undertook to repres,ent
American Su~uki Motor Corporation (h~reafter, SuzUki) in a civil
action against Performance Inboards, Inc. (hereafter; Performand'e'
Inboards) and others.
.
62. At all times relevant hereto, National Commercial
Recovery (hereafter National Commercial) acted as collection
ag~nt for Suzuki regarding the Performance Inboards rnatte~.
63. ,On or after Jan. 3, 1992, Eller drafted a Complaint
styled American Suzuki Motor corporation v. Performance Inbo,ards,
Inc., Ricky R. Perry, Patricia L. Perry, Gregory J. Perry,'W~
.
Lawrence Bradley'ana Deborah L. Bradl'ey (hereafter American
Suzuki) . . . .
..
...
.
64. Eller falsely rept"esent~d, to Suzuki and/or National
Commercial that he had filed the complaint r~ferred to in
paragraph 63 in wilson County Superior Court and that the case
had been assigned file number 92 CVS 2182. In fact, no complaint
was ever filed by Eller on behalf of Suzuki in Wilson County.

I

65. On or about July 14, 1993, Eller fabricated an O~der for
Judgment in American Suzuki which purported to award $15,7'57.22
,plus interest to suzuki.
66. At the time Eller fabricated the Order for Judgmept;i.h.
American Suzuki no complaint had been filed and no judgment Qr
award had been entered to or on behalf of Suzuki.
67. Eller or a third party acting pursuant to Eller's
instructions placed the signature of a fictitious judge, on, the
signatUre line of the fabricated Order for Judgment.

68. On or after July 14, 1993, Eller falsely represented to
Suzuki and/or National Commercial that judgment had been entered
on suzuki's behalf and forwarded a copy of the fabricated O~q~r
for Judgment to the client.
69. On Aug. 24, 1993, Eller falsely represented to ,Nq.tiol)q.l ,
Commercial that the Notice of Right to Have Exemptions Designated
had been issued to the sheriff for service upon the defendants in
the case of American Suzuki.

I
. ',!

70. Eller failed to take adequate steps to prosecute the
complaint in American Suzuki or otherwise collect the debt owed
by the defepdants in that case to Suzuki.
71.
Prior to April 24, 1990 Eller undertook to represent
Aristech Chemical Corporation (hereafter, Aristech) in a civil
action against Robert P. Trolian (hereafter, Trolian).
72. At all t:.ines relevant hereto, Financial Adjustment
Service, Inc. (heJ:'~after Financial Adjustment) act~d as
collection agent ~-(,;r Aristech regarding the Trolian claim.
73. On or abcat April 24, 1990, Eller filed a complaint
against Tro:lian O~1 behalf of Aristech in Columbus County District
Court.

I

74. On. or about April 28, 1992, Eller fabricated an Order
for Judgment in the case of Aristech Chemical Corporation v.
Trolian.

75. At: the time Eller fabricated the Order for Judgment in
Aristech Chemical Corporation v. Trolian, no judgment or award
had been entered in the case to or on behalf of Aristech and in
fact, the -complaint had been dismissed for failure of Eller to
prosecute the case.
76. On or about April 28, 1992, Eller or a third party
acting pursuant to Eller's instructions placed the signature of a
fictitious judge on tne signature line of the fabricated Order
for Judgment.
77.
On or after April 28, 1992, Eller falsely represented to
Aristech and/or F~nancial Adjustment that judgment had been
entered in its favor against Trolian.
78.
In a letter dated June 28, i992, Eller falsely
represented'to Financial Adjustment that a Notice of Right to
Have Exemptions Designated had been issUed to the sheriff for
service upon the defendants in the case of Aristech Chemical
Corporationv. Trolian.

I

79.
In a leEter dated August 3, 1993, Eller falsely
represented, to Financial Adjustment that execution respecting
Aristech Chemical corporation v. Trolian had been sent to the
sheriff for l.evy.
I

80.
EI+er failed to take adequate steps to prosecute the
complaint iJil Aristech Chemical Corporation v. Trolian
or otherwiSe collect the debt owed by Trolian to Aristech.
81. Eller was discharged by the law firm of Harry Pavilack &
Associates in October 1993, after members of the firm learned
that Eller had settled the caSe of SLMA v. Hurst without the
client's permission and that Eller had fabricated an Order of
Judgment in.the Hurst case.

I
-- )O~
9
. l~i;......,

1- ;

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the
committee makes the following:
.

Hear~ng

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. By settling the claims of SLMA against Hugh D. Hurst for
$20,000 &nd by voluntarily dismissing SLMA's complaint against
Hurst without the knowledge or consent of·SLMA and/or General
American Credits Corporation, Eller engaged in conduct involving
di~honesty, fraud, qeceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 1.2(C), prejudiced a client in violation of Rule 7.1(A) (3),
failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the statu$of
a matter in violation of Rule 6(B) (1) and failed to abide by hi$
client's qecision regarding whether to accept an offer o'f
settlement, in violation of Rule 7.1(C) (1).
2. By fabricating a Consent Judgment and by signing or
causing to be signed the name of Hugh D. Hurst to. the fabricated •
Consent Judgment in the case of SLMA v. Hurst witho\lt Hur$t's
knowledge or consent.~ Eller engaged in conduct. involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violat~on of
Rule 1.2(C) and engaged in criminal conduct in violation of Rule
1.2(B).

I

3. By falsely representing to General American Credits
Corporation that Hurst had agreed to pay the full sum allegedly
owed SLMA as alleged in the complaint in SLMA v. Hurst, by
failing to reve.al that he had settled the case for $20, oob &nd
that he had voluntarily dismissed the complaint with prejudice,
Eller engaged in conduct involving disQonesty, fraud, qeceit or
.
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(C), failed to keep his
client reasonably informed about the status of a matter in .
violation of Rule 6(B) (1) and knowingly made false statements of
fact in violation of Rule 7.2(A) (4).
4. By failing to pursue SLMA's claims against ShielCis, by
failing to appear at the June 1, 1989 hearing in the case of
SLMA v. Shields and by failing to either perfect an appeal from
the June 1, 1989 arbitration order or file a lllot:i,.on t<;> set aside
the arbitration order, Eller neglected a legal matter entrusted
to him in violation of Rule 6 (B) (3) and prej.udiced a client in
violation of Rule 7.1(A) (3).
5. By fabricating an order which purported to set aside the
June 1, 1989 arbitration order and by signing or causing tope
.signed the name of a fictitious judge to that order, Eller
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation 'of Rule 1.2(C) and enga,geCi i,n
conduct prejudicial to tne administration of justice in violation
of Rule 1.2(D).
6. By falsely representing to General American Credits
Corporation that the June 1, 1989 arbitration order had been s$t
aside in the case of SLMA v. Shields and that the underlying
collection action ha<;:i been set for hearing on Sept. 28, 199?,

I
--J0498

Eller engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(C), failed to keep his
client reasonably informed about the status of a matter in
violation of Rule 6(B) (1) and knowingly made false statements of
fact in violation of Rule 7.2(A) (4).
7. By taking a voluntary dismissal of the claim of Selective
Insurance against Bill's Backhoe without the knowledge and
consent of his client, Eller engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty,' fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 1.2(C), pr~judiced a client in violation of Rule 7.1(A) (3),
and failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the
status of a,matter in violation of Rule 6(B) (1).

1

8. By fabricating Orders of JUdgment and by signing or
causing to be signed the name of fictitious jUdges to the Orders
of Judgment in the cases of SLMA v. Hurst, Newell v. Kingsman,
American Suzuki v. Performance Inboard Motors; PolVmetric Systems
v. willetts; Selective Ins. Co. v. Bill's Backhoe; and Arist.ech
v.Trolian, Eller engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(C), and
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice,
in violation of Rule 1.2(0) •
I

9. By falsely representing to his clients, SLMA, Kirk
Newell, American Suzuki, Polymetric, Selective Ins. Co., and
Aristech that an Order for Judgment had been entered on the
client's behalf and by forwarding a copy of the fabricated Order
for Judgment to the clients; by falsely representing to Selective
Insurance that the case of Selective Ins. Co. v. Bill's Backhoe
Service was set for hearing during the week of Aug. 30, 1993; and
by falsely representing to suzuki that a complaint had been filed
on its behalf against Performance Inboards and others, Eller
engaged in qonduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(C), failed to keep his
clients reasonably, informed about the status of their matters in
violation of Rule 6(B) (1) and knowingly made false statements of
fact in violation of Rule 7 •.2 (A) (4) .

I.

10. By failing to take effective action to pursue collection
claims on behalf of Kirk Newell, Selective Insurance Co.,
PolYll,leric, American Suzuki, and Aristech, Eller neglected legal
matters entrusted to him, in violation of Rule 6(B) (3) and
prejudiced his clients in violation of Rule 7.1(A) (3).
11. By :falsely representing to suzUki and Trolian that
efforts were being made to collect on judgments obtained on
behalf of the clients, Eller engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 1.2(C),' failed to keep his clients reasonably informed about

1

the status of a matter in violation of Rule 6(B) (1) and knowingly
made false statements of fact in violation Of Rule 7.2(A) (4).

This the

2..l- day

of _-=-N~O:......·\l=--=:yY3~'
...:..IIII!.'-!:~::::....
_____ ,
1994.

I
L. Patten Mason

I

I
" •• "

':";:._'

"X,;:. ...

.:,~~.

t

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTHC~OLINA STATE BAR
94 DHC 15

WAKE COUNTY

.

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

GREGORY K.

)
)
)

vs.

)

E~LER, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

THIS CAUSE was heard by the undersigned Hearing Committee of
the Disciplinary Hearing commission on Wednesday, Nov. 16, 1994.
In addition to the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law
previously entered in this cause, the Hearing Committee enters
the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. David C. Haar, an attorney licensed to practice law in
North carolina in 1993, joined the firm of Harry Pavilack &
Associates in October 1993. Haar was hired to replace Eller, who
was disCharged earlier that month.
2. Haarspent most of his time during the first three months
of his employ,~ent reviewing the firm's collection files and
attempting to determine how many cases had been mishandled by
Eller.
3. Haardiscovered approximately 30 files other than those
mentioned in the State Bar's complaint, which contained documents
indicating that Eller had neglected the file and had misled the
client about the status of the case.

I

4. In at least seven of the 30 additional collection files
referred to in paragraph 3, Eller prepared fabricated Orders for
Judgment which were forwarded to the ciient and misled the
clients about the status of the case. Portions of the seven
additional files are included in Plaintiff's Ex. 32 and inVolve
the following matters:
a.
b,
c.
d~

e.
fo;

Venture Communications v.
Static Control Components, Inc.;
USAA v. Cardihal Chevrolet;
Citicorp V. Commercial Flocking;
Henry Walke Co. v. Sterling Tool & Mold, Inc.;
Cedalioh systems v. Little & Associates;
M.A. BrUder v. Thompson Paint Co.

I
-'JO~~D1.

g.

Professional

Position~rs

v. Dan stewart

5. The law firm of Harry Pavilack &' Associates has expended.
approximately $30,000 in compensating clients whO have been
damaged as a result of Eller's misconduct. The firm has al$o
turned over claims from three other former clients to ~ts
malpractice carrier for handling. These three claims arise out
of matters which Eller had handled for the fi~.

I

6. Three collection files which were assigned to Elier are
missing from the law firm of Harry Pavilac~ & Associq:tes .'rpe
staff discovered that the three files were missing shortly after
Eller left the firm in October 1993.
7. Haar has attempted to contact Elier on a number of
occa$ions since October 1993 to determine the whereabout$ qfthe
missing files and to discuss the status of other collection files
which Eller had handled prior to his departure from the firm.
Eller haS not responded to any of Haar's telephone qalls or
letters.
8. Eller has failed to make restitution to the firm or to any
of his former clients.
9. Eller has not been subject to discipline previously in
the state of North Carolina.
10.
Eller has not offered any explanation of or defense to
his misconduct to Haar, to any other lJlember of the law firm 0·£
Harry Pavilack & Associates or to the North Carolina state Bar.

Based upon the Findings of Fact previously entered herein as
well as the preceding findings, the Hearing Committee makes' the
following:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The following mitigating factor is present: Eller has not
been subject to prior discipline in North Carolina.
2.

The following aggravating factors are present:
a.

The misconduct was the result of a dishonest
motive.

b.

Eller ~as displayed indifference to making .
restitution to the victims of his misconduct.

c.

The evidence demonstrates a pattern and practic;::e of
misconduct.

d.

The evidence reflects multiple violations of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.

Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of. Law
entered herein and the evidence presented relating to the

I

appropriate discipline, the Hearing committee enters the
following:
ORPER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant is hereby disbarred from the practice of
law in North Carolina.
2. The Defendant shall pay the costs herein prior to seeking
reinstatement of his license to practice law.
This t~e

2,

NO"'~

day of ~eeemSar, 1994.

I

L. Patten Mason

I

I

