(;;l.a !l
BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
91 DHC 23
94 DHC 19

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
NORTHROPE D. RICE,
, Attorney
Defendant
,

)
)
)

) CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

)
)
)
)
)
)

This matter came on before the hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of L. Patten Mason,
chairman; Richard L. Doughton, and Frank L. Boushee pursuant to
section 14(H) of Article IX of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar. On October 17, 1994, Susan Letendre
filed a grievance against the defendant, which was assigned file
number 94G1259. On January 12, 1995, the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar found probable cause in Ms.
Letendre's grievance and directed that the matter be consolidated
with the other above referenced cases presently pending before
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. The defendant, Northrope D.
Rice, has ag~eed to waive the filing of a formal complaint and a
formal hearing regarding Ms. Letendre's grievance. The defendant
has also agreed to waive a formal hearing in the motion for order
to.s~ow cau~e in 91 DHC 23 and case number 94 DHC 19.
All
partles deslre to resolve all issues raised in the motion for
order to show cause in 91 DHC 23, case number 94 DHC 19, and the
grievance fi+e number 94G1259. All parties $tipulate that these
matters may be resolved by the undersigned hearing committee,
that defendant does not qontest the following Findings of Fact
and Conclusions of Law recited in this Consent Order and the
discipline imposed, and that defehdant further hereby waives his
right to appeal this Consent Order or challenge in any way the
sufficiency qf the findings. The hearing committee therefore
enters the f~llowing:

I
'.

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

duly

The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper

organiz~d

I

,
'.

party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General statutes of North Carolina, an9 the
Rules and Regulations of the North Caroli~a state Bar promulgated
thereunder.
.

I

2. The defendant, Northrope D. Rice, was admitted to the·
North Carolina state Bar on April 2, 1984 and is, and was at all .
times refer~ed to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules
of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina state Bar and the
laws of North Carolina.
3. During all of the periods referred to herein, deferida'nt
was actively engaged in the practice of law in North Carolina and
maintained a law office in Wilmin9ton, North Carolina.
4. In late 1985 or early 1986, William L. Floyd retained
defendant to represent him in a workers' compensation case.
5. Mr. Floyd received workers' compensation benefits until
they were terminated by the Industrial commission in April 1;990.
Defendant agreed to appeal the Industrial Commissiqn's decision
to the North Carolina Court of Appeals (Court of Appeals)-.
6. Although defendant gave notice of appeal in Mr. Floyd's
case, he did not perfect the appeal with the Court of Appealer •.
7.. Defendant lied to Mr. Floyd by stating that M+. Floyd'.S
case was pending in the Court of Appeals. Defendant sent Mr.
Floyd a copy of a letter that defendant purportedly sent ,to the·
Court of Appeals requesting an update of the status of the appeal .
which defendant had not perfected.
'.
-

I

8. Defendant agreed to file a petition for writ of
certiorari in Mr. Floyd's case with the Court of Appeals.
9.
Defendant never filed the petition for writ of
certiorari with the Court of Appeals.

10. Defendant lied to Mr. Floyd by stating that defendant "
had filed the petition for writ of certiorari with the Court of
Appeals. Defendant sent Mr. Floyd a copy of a letter that
defendant purportedly sent to the Court of Appeals to file the
petition. Defendant also seht Mr. Floyd a copy of the petition
for writ of certiorari which defendant had not filed.
11.
Def.endant lied to the North Carolina Industrial
Commission about Mr. Floyd's case. Defendant advised the
Industrial Commission that he had filed an appeal with the court
of Appeals, when he had not. He also told the Industrial
Commission that he had filed a petition for writ of certiora,ri "
with the Court of .Appeals, when he had not.
12.

In December 1991, Daisy McFadden retained defendant for

representation in a social security disability and sUpplemental
security income claim because she was denied disability insurance
benefits.
13. A ,hearing on Ms. McFadden's claim was scheduled for
August 27, 1992. Defendant was informed of the date of the
hearing, but failed to take ade~ate steps to notify Ms.
McFadden. .
14. Ms'. McFadden did not appear at the scheduled hearing on
August 27, 1992.
15. De;fendant failed to inform Ms. McFadden that her case
would be di.smissed for her failure to appear if 'she did not give
the administrative law judge an explanation for her absence from
the hearing.

1

16. Ms. McFa,dden's request for hearing was dismissed for her
failUre to appear at the hearing.
17.

In December 1992', steven C. Pope retained defendant for
in a. social security disability benefits case.

representat~on

18. On; June 23 and August 31, 1993, defendant requested that
the Social security Administration (SSA) decide Mr. Pope's case
based upon the evidence in the record and without conducting an
oral hearing.
19., Detendant did not tell Mr. Pope that he had asked that
Mr. Pope's case be decided without an oral hearing.
20. In'April 1994, Susan Letendre retained the defendant for
representation in a social security disability case.
21. On~at least two occasions defendant mai.led to Ms.
Letendre the form to request a hearing before SSA for her
signature. : Defendant did not receive the executed form from MS.
Le:tendre.

I.

22. Defendant did not file the request for hearing on behalf
of Ms. Letendre since she did not complete and sign the form.
23. Th$ rules and regulations of SSA allow a representative
of a claimant to make any request on behalf of the claimant.
Thus, defendant could have requested the hearing on MS.
Letendre's behalf without her signing the form.
24. Defendant should have requested the hearing for Ms.
Letendre to:preserve her right to a .hearing before the SSA and
protect her interests in the matter.
25. Defendant's abovereferenced'misconduct occurred during
the period of his stayed five-year suspension under the
Disciplinary Hearing commission's order entered in North Carolina

1

state Bar V.' Northrope o. Rice, 91 OHC 23. Such misconquct
the order of disciplin~ entered, in that case in that
defendant's five-year suspension was stayed upon the condition
that, inter alia, he not violate any rules of ethics of th~ North
Carolina state Ba~.

violat~s

26. Ms. McFadden" Mr. Pope, and Ms. Letendre obtained
disability benefits from SSA with the assistance of attorn'ey
James Gillespie of Wilmington.

I

27. Mr. Floyd settled his worker's compensation case on
January 27, 1995. Th~ settlement included payment of medic;:al
bills incurred from september 24, 1985 to January 27, 1995, a
lump sum payment of $40,000, and $750.00 per month compensation
for his lifetime or l5 years.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing
findings of fact, the hearin9 committee makes the ~ollowing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By not promptly perfecting Mr. Floyd's appeal with th~
North Carol,ina Court of Appeals, defendant has failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness; ip representing his client in,
violation of Rule 6(B.) (3); failed to seek the lawful objectives
of his client through reasonably available means permitted bylaw
and the Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of .Ruie
7.1(A) (1); failed to carry out a contract of emploYment entered
into with a client for profess;ional services, in violation of
Rule 7.1(A) (2); prejudiced or damaged his clientdur:i,.ng the
course of the profess;ional relationship in violation of Rule
7.1(A) (3): engaged in conduct prej~dicial to the administration
of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(0).

I

2. By lying to Mr. Floyd about appealing his case to the
Court of Appeals, defendant has engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation o,f
Rule 1.2(C).
3. By lying to the North Carolina Industrial commise;ian
about appealing Mr. Floyd's caSe to the Court of Appeals,
defendant has engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(C); engaged
in conduc;:t prejUdicial to the administration af justice' in
violation of Rule 1.2(0); and knowingly made a false statement of
laW or fact during the representation of a client in violation of
Rule 7.~(A) (4).
'
4. By failing to inform Ms. McFadden of the date of her'
hearing, defendant'has failed to keep his client ~easonably
informed about the status of a matter and promptly comply with
reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule6(B) .(1) ;
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in .

I

representing' his client; engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(0); and
prejudiced q~ damaged his client during the course of the
professional relationShip, in violation of Rule 7.1(A) (3).
5. By 'failing to advise Ms. McFadden of the steps she
should take ,to prevent the dismissal of her claim, defendant has
failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of
a matter anq promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 6(B) (1); failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing his client;
engaged in qonduct prejudicial to the administration of justice
in violation of Rule 1.2(0); and prejudiced or damaged his client
during the course of the protessional relationship; in violation
of Rule 7.1(A) (3).

I

6. By waiving Mr. Pope's right to an oral hearing in his
social security case without informing him and receiving his
authorization, defendant has failed to keep his client reasonably
informed a~dut the status of a matter and promptly comply with
reasonable r,equests for information in violation of Rule 6(B) (1);
failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to
permit the c'lient to make informed decisions regarding the
representati~on in violation of Rule 6 (B) (3); prejudiced or
damaged his client during the course of the professional
relationship, in violation of Rule 7.1(A) (3); and engaged in
conduct prejUdicial to the administration in violation of Rule
1.2(0) •
7. By not taking steps to protect Ms. Letendre's interests
in her socia~ security case by defenqant filing a request for
hearing before the Social Security Administration, defendant has
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice
in violation of Rule 1.2(0).
FINOINGS IN AGGRAVATION
As aggravating factors, the hearing committee approves and
enters the following:

I

1. 'prior disciplinary offense;
2.

dishonest motive;

3.

a pattern of misconduct;

4.

substantial experience in the practice of law; and

5. ,failure to perform community service as ordered
'by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission in 91 DHC 23.
FINDINGS IN MITIGATION

I

As miti'gating factors, the hearing committee approves and.
enters the following:

I

1.

defendant experienced personal or emotional problems'
during the time of his miscqnduct~
,

2.

defendant demonstrated a cooperative attitude towar<1l
these proceedings~ and

3.

defendant exhibited remorse regard:i,ng bis
misconduct.

Based upon the stipulated findings of fact and conclusions
of law entered in this matter, and further based upon the
stipulated agg.ravated and mitigating factors contained herein,
and the consent of the parties to the discipline imposed, the
hearing committee approves and enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
~.
The defendant, ~orthropeD. ,Rice, voluntarily
his license and is hereby DISBARRED.

surr~nd~rs

2. In addition to any other conditions of reinstatement
required by the North Carolina state Bar, the qefendant shall
satisfy his tax obligation pursuant to the Internal Revenue
service prior to seeking reinstatement of his law license.
3. Defendant shall violate rio Rules of Professional Conduct
during his disbarment.
4. Defendant shall violate no state or federal laws' during'
his disbarment.

I

5. Defendant shall comply with the provisions of Section ~4
of Article IX of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding winding down his practice. Def'endant shall
have 60 days from the date of this order to wind down his
practice. Defendant shall submit his membership card and law
lJcense to the secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
6.

Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceed,ing.

Signed by the undersigned dhair with the full knowledge arid
of the ~ members of the hearing committee, thist tq.e .. ·
py'l' day of r~ I/'''~ ","" ,1995.
con~nt'

Seen and consented to:

. CheShire, V
fo~ Defendant

I

n M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

Noi/£i2
Defendant
[56]

I

I

