t> " , \ ",\';~J. ,:

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE'~MR;'~'"
Plaintiff

CONSENT ORDER
STAY OF SUSPENSION

v.
JONATHAN MARK BROOKS, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DHC) composed orthe Chair, Theodore C. Edwards, II, and members
Donna R. Rascoe and Donald G. Willhoit. Jennifer A. Porter and Cannen K. Hoyme
represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Jonathan Mark Brooks
(hereinafter "Brooks"), was represented by Alan M. Sclmeider. This matter is before the
DBC upon petition by Brooks for a stay of the remainder ofthe suspension imposed in
the Order of Discipline in this case. Based upon Brooks' petition and supporting
materials, the State Bar's response and materials, and the consent of the parties, the
hearing panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North
Carolina Administrative Code.
2.
Defendant, Jonathan Mark Brooks, (hereinafter "Brooks" or "Defendant"),
was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1995. Brooks' law license
was suspended for three years by the Order of Discipline entered in this matter, filed and
effective on October 26,2007.
3.
The Order of DiscipJine provided that after serving one year orthe
suspension, Brooks could apply to have the remainder of the suspension stayed upon
filing a petition and showing compliance with the conditions stated in the order by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence.
4.
Brooks applied to have the remainder of his suspension stayed by filing a
petition for reinstatement on October 29, 2008. Brooks, through counsel, recited actions

taken to comply with the conditions in the Order of Discipline and attached
documentation in support of his statements. Brooks appropriately filed the petition with
the Secretary of the State Bar and served a copy on the Office of Counsel ofthe State

Bar.
5.
The GHice of Counsel of the State Bar examined Brooks' compliance with
the requirements for reinstatement pursuant to Rule .0125(b) of the State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125(b), and the Order of Discipline in
this matter. The State Bar tiled a response to Brooks' petition for reinstatement reporting
that Brooks had failed to comply with one condition stated in the Order of Discipline.
The Order of Discipline required Brooks to timely pay membership dues and Client
Security Fund assessments as ifin active practice during the period of the suspension.
6.
'fhe records ofthe State Bnr show that Brooks failed to timely pay his
2007 and 2008 membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments and did not pay
them until September 2008.
7.
Compliance with the Rules of the State Bar, including administrative rules
and including conditions set out in Orders of Discipline, is a significant indicator of an
attorney's willingness to practice law in accordance with the Rules of Professional
Conduct and to submit appropriately to the regulation of his or her law pmctice by the
State Bar.
8.
The parties stipulate, however, that if a hearing were held on Brooks'
petition, evidence would be presented indicating that Brooks' failure to comply with this
condition was unintentional.
9.
Furthermore, Brooks complied with the conditions pertaining to necessary
CLE courses specifically sel out by the hearing panel in this case, as well as the other
standard conditions contained in the Order of Discipline.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
jurisdiction

All the parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel bas
Jonathan Mark Brooks, and the subject matter.

OVt>:f Defend apt.

2.
Pursuant to Rule .0125(b)(8), 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125(b)(8), a
hearing panel considering a petition for reinstatement from suspension can impose
additional sanctions in the event violations of the order of suspension are found. Brooks'
failure to comply with the condition in the Order of Discipline concerning payment of
membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments warrants such additional
sanction.
:3.
The unintentional nature of the violation is such, however, that denial of
the application for a stay of the remainder of the suspension is not warranted.

THEREFORE, based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law,
and the consent of the parties, the hearing panel hereby enters the following
ORDER

I.
The remainder ofthe suspension of Brooks' law license is stayed and
Brooks is reinstated to the active practice of law, subject to the terms, conditions, and
requirements of the Order of Discipline in tlus case. Brooks' status as an active member
of the North Carolina State Bar between the effective date of this order and October 26,
2010 is contingent upon his compliance with all of the conditions set forth in the Order of
Discipline.
2.
Tn accordance with Rule .0125(b)(2) of the North Carolina State Bar
Disciplint- and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0 125(h)(2), I3rooksis
eligible for reinstatement subject to the terms of the Order of Discipline on November 28,
:2008. The stay of the remainder of his suspension and his reinstatement Wlder this order
shall be effective on that date.

3.
Brooks is sanctioned for failing to comply with one afthe conditions in
the Order of Discipline as follows: should Brooks fail to comply with any of the
conditions in the Order of Discipline and the stay ofthe suspension of his law license be
lifted as provided in § .OI14(x) of tile North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules, then the duration of Brooks' subsequent suspension will be two (2) years,
beginning on the effective date ofthe order lifting the stay.

The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retainjurisdiclion ofthis
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .OlI4(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
4.

Dlscipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the st.ayed suspension.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of ni:l\j~\..v
,2008.

\ "\r'-

~(~-4Theodore C. Edwards, n, Chair
DiscipluIafY Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:
1
;7 /7 I)
1;11it'ojV"e..- ,1/'(1',1;1--/
~ ,;' 1/

/i/)
" 1/
)

!

C"

Jonathan Mark Brooks
Defendant

~~cide~~~

Defense Counsel/Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

