STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
COMMI'r'rEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA S.T~':tE BAR
, . 94G0760 (II)
GRIEV~CE

COUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE MATTER OF
BENJAMIN CLIFTON, JR.
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 12, 1995, the Grievance CommittE':le of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filced against
you by Garland Spangler.
.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rul:es and
Regulations of the ~orth Carolina State Bar, ·the Grievance
CommittE':le Qonducted a p+eliminary hea+ing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the .
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee ~ound prob~bl:e cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable C:auS.e to
believe tpat a member of the Nort'h C~rolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
'
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievi;ince Committee may determine that the f.;Lling of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary aearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, tb.e
actual qr potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorn~y.
A.reprimand is a written form of discipline more s~rious.
than an. admonition issued in cases in which an attorney has
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a cliE':lnt, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Gr.;i.evance Committee was of the opinion that a cenSurE':l .;Ls
not required in this case and issues this reprimand to you. As
chai:J::"man of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you wil.l understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
'
In April or May i992 you undertook to represent RS who had

I
.... 00 .,'Q
5~-fJ}O!' .~
>

been sued by a college for payment of tuition after RS waS
dismissed from the college because of a drug incident. RS i
father, GS, contacted you about the matter and indicated that he
was concerne~ that the campus newspaper had printed untrue
statements about RS' criminal record. You told' GS that RS might
have a count~rclaim against the college for libel or slander and
agreed to handle the entire matter. Thereafter, however, you
failed to apIDear on RS' behalf at a hearing on the c,ollege' s
motion for summary judgment. Because of your absence, summary
judgment was entered in the college's behalf on May 11t 1992.
Although yOU were aware of the adverse judgment entered against
your client, ,you failed to perfect an appeal or take other steps
to remedy the results of your neglect.
It now appears that the
adverse judgment is final and that the statute of limitation has
expired on any counterclaim RS might have had. Your neglect of
RS' case conStituted a serious violation of Rule 6(B) (3) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct, which requires all attorneys to
pursue legal Imatters which they undertake with reasonable
diligence.

I
:

The Comm,ittee was even more concerned, however, about your
conduct after the damage to your client had occurred.
In June
1993, GS indicated that he was considering filing a claim against
your malpractice carrier. You telephoned GS on June 7, 1993 and
told him that if .. [you] want to sue [me] go ahead, however, it
would cost [you] more than the judgment." Nevertheless, in your
letter of Feb,. 4, 1994 responding to the 10th Judicial District
Grievance Committee, which investigated GS' grievance, you denied
making the statements.
Your conduct in attempting to dissuade GS from filing a
claim againstlyou for your neglect of his son'S case constitutes
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice, in
violation of Rule 1.2(D). By denying these statements in your
Feb. 4, 1994 letter to the 10th Judicial District Grievance
Committee yoU made a false statement of fact to a discipiinary
authority in violation of Rule 1.1(A).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Cqrolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct.
The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that
you will never again allow your-self to depart trom adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of, the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the adminisltrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Gr~evance Committee, the costs of this
action in the ~mount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you .

.... 00631·

I
,

pone and ordered, this

~~day

'-1

of

_~~'.=.{)
.....-__"-'--.~---,-,~_,

~\fV1

W~

.

l

"i

199$.

0,

William O. Kirig
~
The Grievan~e Com 'ti e
North Carolipa Sta e _ r

I
.'

I
..... )0'::-">"'2'
,
: - ",h_l

