N.C.]

SPRING TERM 1973

261

State v. Beach

STATE OF NORTH. CAROLINA v. NEIL DOUGLAS BEACH
No. 71
(Filed 9 May 1973)
1. Qriminal Law § 9; Assault and Battery § 14- aiders and abettorssufficiency of evidence
In a prosecution' charging defendant with aiding and abetting
in assault with a firearm with intent to kill and aiding and abetting
in tp,e discharge of a firearm into an occupied vehicle, evidence was
sufficient to withstand motion for nonsuit where it tended to show
that defendant was present when the crime was committed, operated
flashing lights on ll~s automobile and blinked his headlights from
bright to dim nuiner9-U,s times while driving clol:le behind the victim's
automobile, thus CaU3\tlg that automobile to stop on the side of the
road, pulled alongside the victim's automobile so that the gunman's
,window was flush with the driver's seat, moved Illowly along after
the first shot was fired while the gunman fired five additional shots
into the. victim's a~tomobile, left the scene of the ~rime, attempted
to escape recog~ition, pursued the victim's automobile at high rates
o~ speed, denied to police offic~rs tnat he ,had been at the scene of
the crime and later admitted being present.

2. Criminal Law § 9- aider and abettor - acquittal of princIpal
It is not necessary that the person who actually perpetrated a
crime be tried and convicted before the one who aided and abetted
in the crime can be tried and convicted, but there must he· proof
that the offen,se has in fact been committed.

I

3•. Criminal Law § 9; 1I1dictment and Warrant § 9- aider and abettoracquittal of principal-l:Iufficiency of indictment a~ainst defendant
Where indi,ctments ch!lrged that an unknpwn person discharged
a firearm into an occupied vehicle and committed an assault with a
firearm· with intent to kill aI\d that defendant was present, aiding
and abetting in the deed, acquittal of one Johnny Smith as· the actual
perpetrator did not constitute a sufficient basis for dismissal ·of the
charges against def~ndant.
4. Criminal Law § 172-·· failure to submit lesser offense - acquittlll~rror cured
Jury verdict of r..G!~.guilty of aiding and abetting in assault with a
firearm with intent ;;,,' kill was tantamount to a verdict of not guilty
of all lesser included. .offenses; therefore, the jury v~rdict rendered
nonprejUdicial 'the faJlure of the trial judge to submit the lesser Included offense of aiqiing and abetting in an assallit with a deadly
weapon,

;":'-1:

£"-"t. :!,
,

5. Criminal Law § 9; Inliictment and Warrant § 9-defendant as aider
and abettor - sufficieI'C;y of indictments
An indictment must charge every ess~ntial element of the crime,
but it need not set forth the specific facts or means by which' an
accused aided and abetted in the commillsion of a crime; therefore,

..... 00542

..'.~

262

-

IN THE SUPREME COURT

•
.....

[283

N.C.]

State v. Beach

263

on the 24th day of August, 1971, with force and arms, at
and in the county aforesaid, did unlawfully, wilfully, and
feloniously aid and abet an unknown ,party who unlawfully,
wilfully and feloniously discharged a pistol, a firearm, into
an automobile located on Highway No. 181 North of Mor'ganton, North Carolina between Morganton and Oak Hill
School, Burke County, North Carolina, while Robert H.
Deaton, his wife, Revonda Gail Deaton, and their children,
Bobby Lynn Deaton, age nine (9) years, and James Robert
Deaton, age eight (8) years, were in actual occupation of
the said automobile. Neil Douglas Beach wag,the driver of
the automobile from the rear seat of which said shots
were fired. After the shooting said automobile was driven
away at a high rate of speed by the defendant against the
form of the ,statute in such case made and provided and
against the peace and dignity of the State.

6. Criminal Law §§ 112, 119- requested instruction - incorrect ,statement
of law,,-- refusal to instruct proper
Defendant's requested 'instruction that "Circumstantial evidence
which raises mere suspicion or conjecture of guilt 'is insufficient for
conviction" was not a correct statement of the law as to the intensity
of proof required when the State relies upon circumstantial evidence,
and the trial court therefore properly refused to give the instruction.
7. Criminal Law § 119- requested instructions given in substance - no
error
There was no prejudicial error in the trial court's refusal to give
instructions as to aiders and abettors in the exact words of defendant's
tendered request where the charge actuaily given was substantially in
accord with defendant's ,request.

s/ DONALD E. GREENE

S. Constitutional Law § 34; Criminal Law § 26- two charges based on
one offense - acquittal on one charge - no double jeopardy
. In a ,prosecution charging defendant with aiding and abetting in
an assault with a firearm with intent to kill and aiding and abetting
in the discharge of a firearm into an occupied vehicle where defendant
was acquitted of the assault charge, he was ,neither convicted nor
punished twice for the same offense and did not suffer infringement
of his constitutional guaranty against double jeopardy by the imposition of multiple punishment, even if he was twice tried for the same
offense at the same time.

ApPEAL by defendant from Fowntain, J., 18 September
1972 Session of BURKE Superior Court, transferred for initial
appellate review by the Supreme Court by Order dated 26
March'1973 pu.r!lUant to G.S. 7A~31.(.b)-(4) .. Indictment No. 71 Cr 7002 charged:
"THE JURORS FOR THE STATE UPON THEIR OATH PRESENT, That Neil Douglas Beach late of the County of Burke

TERM 1973

State v. Beach

the trial court in a case charging defendant with aiding and abetting
in an assault with a firearm with intent to kill and with aiding a~d
abetting in the discharge of a firearm into an occupied vehicle properly
refused to quash the indictments against defendant, particularly si~ce
the allegations of the indictments stated 'facts showing that defendant
was present as the driver of the vehicle from which the shots were
fired.
.

9. Criminal Law § 142-- suspended' sentence upon conditions - consent
of defendant - effect ,of appeal on judgment
Where the judgment of the trial court. contained a reCital that
the actual sentence was suspended with defendant's consent upon
the condition that he surrender his license to practice law to the
N. C. State Bar and there is no indication in the record that defendant
excepted to the judginent or withdrew his consent, the question of
whether defendant's appeal ,stayed the order of disbarm~l:t by ,.'.'G
trial court is not presented on appeal.

SPRI~Q

••

Solicitor"
Indictment No. 71 CrD 6918 charged:

.

"THE JURORS FOR THE STATE UPON THEIR OATH PRESENT, That Neil Douglas Beach, late of the County ,of
Burke on the 24th day of August, 1971, with force and
arms, at and in the county aforesaid, did unlawfully, wilfully and feloniously aid and abet an unknown party who unlawfully, wilf~lly and feloniously assaulted Robert H.
Deaton and his wife, Revonda Gail Deaton, and their children, Bobby Lynn De~ton, age nine (9) years, and James
Robert Deaton, age eight (8) years, with a certain deadly
weapon, to wit: a Pistol, with the felonious intent to kill
and murder the said Robert F.. De~ton, his wife, Revonda
Gail Deaton, and their cr..ildH::D; : :·'·,;~~r. ·,~/:..il. Deaton, age
nine (9) years, and James Robert Deaton, age eight· (8)
years, in that said unknown party fired said pistol six (6)
times into an automobile which Robert H. Deaton, his wife,
Revonda Gail Deaton, and their children, Bobby Lynn
Deaton, age nine (9) years,- and James Robert· Deaton,',age
eight (8) years, were occupying, one shot going through the
car and passing near the head of Robert H. Deaton, and
the other five (5) shots striking said automobile which
Robert ,H. Deaton, his wife, and children were occupying.
Neil Douglas Beach was the driver of the automobile from

~

:J"
.,"\
I,~

o

o
f

.-

.....
264

IN ',l':ijE SUPRE~E COURT

[283

State 'v. Beach,

the rear seat of which said shots were fIred. After the
shots we,re fired; said ~utpmobile wastfriv~n, away at a
high rate of speed by the de:J:E!Ddant, against the form of
,the statute ~n sucq. case m,ade an~ provideq and agl;lin!)t
the peace and dignity of t~e State.

s/

DONAiJ) E~ GREENE

Solicitor"
Prior to pleading defendant moved to dismiss, on the
ground that Johnny.Smith was tried and acquitted as the prin~
cipal in both charg~ ()f which defendant allegedly aided and
abetted. In support of his motion, defendant handed up the
transcript in the ,Johnny Smith case. He, also introduced the
record' proper in the cases charging ,Johnny Smith with assault
with a firearm with intent to kill and'discharging a firearm
into' a vehicle. The trial' judge denied defendant's motion to
dismiss., The indictments were consolidated for trial and defendant entered pleas of not guilty.
"
The State offered evidence which tended. to show that on
the night of 24 August 1971, or the early morning of August
25, 197:t, the Robert~H. Deaton family was going toward Morganton on Highway 181 in their 1969 Chevelle automobile.
Mr. Deaton was driving, Mrs. Deaton was in the front passeD'ger seat, and their young sons Robert and James were ~sleep
in the back seat. After the Deatonshad passed two vehicles
and a driveway leading to the home of a man named Biggerstaff, the vehicle, driven by defendant approached from the
rear bljnldng its lights from high to low and operating its flashing lights. MI'. Deaton thereupon pulled his automobile to the
shoulder of the road~ and defendant drove his Oldsmobile automobile beside the Deaton car so that the right rear window of
defendant's car was opposite the driver's window of the Deaton
automobile. A woman was in the front seat beside defendant,
and a man was sitting in the front seat next to the door.
Two men were in the back seat. When defendant's automobile
came to a stop, a man sitting in the right rear seat of defendant's automobile inquired,·iAre you having any trouble, buddy?;'
Mr. Deaton answered "No." The man making the inquiry then
extended' his arm out the window and shot toward Mr. Deaton.
Deaton fell back in his wife's lap. He was p.ot hit by a bUllet
but received powder burns about his face. Defendant then
slowly drove forward, and five other shots were rapidly fired.

'.

N.C.]

SPRING TERM 1973

265

,St!!te'v. Beac;h

~

,~

Four of these, shots hit the frOIit part of the DeatoI), vehi~le,

tr.

~p.d one shot hit, the radio aeri~l~ D~fendant's vehicle then
~oved off at a normal rate o( speed, and' Mt; Deaton followed.
T~elicen!)e nu~ber on the Oldsmobile :was, blurred wit~ ml,ld,
and as D~aton came closer to get a better view of the license
plate defe,ndant suddenly applied brak~s" forcing Deaton to
swerve his automobile and pass. The Deatons wer~ able to

o
o
f

obtain the license number of the Oldsmobile automobile. After
passing the Oldsmobile Mr. Deaton accelerated his automobile,
1;0 speeds of approximately 100 mph with the Oldslp.obile
following closely behind. The Oldsmobile began to slow down
and disappeared fJ;om tp,e Deatons' view near the road leading
to Lenoir, North Carolina.
.
The Deatons proceeded to the police station at Morganton,
reported the incident, and furnished the police with the license
number which they had taken from the Oldsmobileautomqbile.
The police apprehended defendant in Lenoir, North Carolina,
and he agreed ,to return to Burke County.
Mr. and Mrs. Deaton ha~ not previously known any of
the occupants, of the Oldsmobile automobile but identified defendant as the operator of the Oldsmobile, and Mary Max Berry
as the woman who was sitting in the front seat. They were
unable to identify the remaining occupants, of the al,ltomooile.
Mrs. Deaton later saw Johnny Smith and stated positively that
he was not t~e man who shot into their automobile.
Defendant offered evidence which tended to show that he
was a practicing attorney with offices in Lenoir, North Carolina, and that on the night of 24 August 1971 he went to
Burke County to see a client by the name of Biggerstaff. At
the time he encountered t1,le peatons, he was accompanied by
Mrs. Mary Max Berry, who was riding in the front seat, Leroy
Nelson, who was sitting in the left rear seat and Johnny Smith,
who was occupying the, right rear seat. As he drove down
Highway 181 toward Morganton, the Deatons' automobile came
up behind him with its lights blinking; passed him, and after
slowing down came to a stop on the shoulder of the road.
Defendant Beach testified:
"When he pulled off the road, I thought he was in
trouble. But he pulled all the way off the highway onto
the shoulder of the road there. I pulled up beside of him
and just slowly-just well; I think Mrs. Deaton was yes-

'.

266

IN THE S

[283

State v. Beach

I took my foot off the gas and the car just idled up beside,
when I got up even-about well, just about, just like they
said, about my back window was even with Mrs. Deaton~s
front windoY\'. Johnny Smith rolled the window down, and
said, "What's the trouble, ang I didn't hear anything said,
but I heard a shot, and then just-everything just happened fast-six shots or five shots and just bang, bang,
bang, bang, and the first shot-No, sir, I didn't see who
fired those shots, I didn't see a gun 'untn later. I was ·on
down the road when I saw a gun."
Defendant further stated that he drove away after the
shooting occurred because he was frighteneQ., and that he
carried Johnny Smith and Leroy Nelson'to Smith's automobile.
He admitted that he had first stated to police officers that he
had not been in Burke County on the night of the shooting.
Defendant offered witnesses who gave testimony tending
to corroborate the defendant. He also offered numerous witnes~es who testified as to his good reputation and character.
T}J.e jury returned a verdict finding defendant not guilty
of aiding and abetting in assault with a firearm with intent to
kill. The jury returned a verdict finding defendant guilty of
aiding and abetting in the discharge of a firearm into an occupied vehicle. Defendant appealed.

Simpson, Martin and Baker, by Dan R. Simpson and Gene
Balcer for delendant appellant.
Attorney General Morgan; Assistant Attorn!3Y General
R. S. Weathers 1m' the State.
BRANCH, Justice.
[1] Defendant assigns as error the failure of the trial judge
to grant his motions as of nonsuit,
The following principles of law control decision of this
assignment ~~ error:
One who advises, counsels, procures, encourages or assists
another in the commission of a crime is an aider and abettor.
State v, Benton, 276 N.C. 641, 174 S.E. 2d 793; State v. Johnson, 220 N.C. 773, 18 S.E. 2<;l 358; State v. Lambert, 196 N.C.
'524, 146 S~E. 139; State '1.1. -Hart, 186 N.C: 582, '120 S.E. 345.

N.C.]

SP_ERM 1973

267

State v. Beach

-

"A person aids and abets when he has 'that kind of
connection with the commission of a crime which, at
common law, rendered the person guilty as a principal in
the second degree. It consisted in being present at the
time and place, and in doing some act to render aid to the
actual perpetrator of the crime, though without taking a
direct share in its commission.' "

State v. Davenport, 156 N.C. 596, 72 S.E. 7; State v. Epps,
213 N.C. 709, 197 S.E. 580. See also State v. Oliver, 268 N.C.
280, 150 S.E. 2d 445; State v. Bruton, 264 N.C. 488, 142 S.E.
2d 169; State v. Gaines, 260 N.C. 22&, 132 S.E. 2d 485.
This Court in the case of State v. Price, 280 N.C. 154,
184 S.E. 2d 866, has defined an aider and abettor, ,or a principal
in the second degree, as follows:
.
" . . . One who procures or commands another to commit
a felony, accompanies the actual perpetrator to the vicinity
of the offense and, with the knowledge of the actual perpetrator, remains in that vicinity for the purpose of aiding
and abetting in the offense and sufficiently close to the
scene of the offense to render aid in its commission, if
needed, or to provide a means by which the actual perpetrator may get away from the scene upon the completion of
the offense, is a principal in the second degree and equally
liable with the actual perpetrator.... "
In State v. Ha1'gett, 255 N.C. 412, 121S.E. 2d 589, the
definition is stated thusly:
" , A person aids when, being present at the time and
place, he does some act to render aid to the actual perpetrator of the crime though he, takes no direct share in its
commission; and an abettor is one who gives aid .and'
comfort, or either commands, advises, instigates or encourages another to commit a crime.' State v. Holland, 234
N.C. 354, 358,67 S.E. 2d 272; Stafe v. Johnson, 220 N.C. 773,
776, 18 S.E. 2d 358. ' . . . Mere presence, even 'i'lith. t~·:
mtelltioll of assisting in thEl commission of a crime caimo~
be said to have incited, encouraged or aided the perpetration
thereof, unless the intention to assist was in some way
communicated to him (the perpetrator) '. . . . ' State v.
Hoffman, 199, N.C. 328; 333; 154 S.E. 314. However, there
is an exception. ' . . . when the bystander .is a friend of

'A'
t,,; .J~

~"

)l~

;.,

0
...-. '
'-t-"""

:268.

IN TIlE SllPREME COlJRT

[283

State v. Beach.

the perpetrator, and knOWS· that his presence will be regarded by the perpetrator as an encouragement and protection, presence alone may be regarded as an encouragement,
and in contemplation of law this was aiding and abetting;'
State'll. Holland,;8upra."

'Defendant relies7 upon the cases of State'll. Ham, 238 N.C.
94, 76 S.E. 2d 346, State'll. Ha1'gett, supm, and State'll. Gaines,
supra, to support his contention that the trial judge should have
allowed. his nlOtions as of nonsuit~ These cases· are factually
distinguishable from this case in that the State in each was
only able to sb,ow that defengant was present at the. scene I;>f the
crime. There was no evidence that th!'J' defendants in any of
these c~ell rendered aid, to the perpetrator of the deed, qr that
anyone of the defendants gave encouragement or made it known
that he was prese;nt. to lend aid to the perpetrator of the deed
if it were needed. '
In instant case, the State offered evidence tending to shOw
that defendant (1) was present when the crime was committed,
(2) operated the flashing lights on his automobile and blinked
his headlights from bright to dim numerous times while driving close behind the Deaton automobile, thus causing that automobile to stop on the side of the road, (3) pulled alongside the
Deaton automobile so that the' gunman's window was flush
with the driver's seat, (4) moved slowly along after the first
shot was fired while the gunman fired five additional shots
into the Deaton motor vehicle, (5) left the scene of the crime,
(6) attempted tl;>, escape recognition, (7) pursued the Deaton
automobile at high rates of speed, (8) denied to police officers
that he had. been in Burke County and later admitted being
present.
We conclude that when taken in the light most favorable
to the State there was sufficient evidence to allow the Jury
to find that defendant was present at the time the crime was
committed, and that he rendered aid. to the actual perpetrator
of the crime.
We hold that there was sufficient evidence to repel defendant's motion as of nonsuit.
Defendant next contends that the trial court erred in
placing him on trial as an aider and abettor to discharging' a
firearm' into an occupied vehicle and as an aider and abettor

-

~.C.]

SPRIlItt; TERM 1973

1'.,0
~

'269

]~

State v. Beach

to an assault with a firearm .with intent to kill, because the
State had previously tried Johnny Smith as the actual perpetrator of these crimes, and the said Johnny Smith was found to
be not guilty of either'charge.
.
[2] It is not necessary that the perl::lon who actually pel'petrated
the. deed be tried and convicted before the one who aided and
abetted in the crime can be, tried and convicted. State'll., Jan'ell,
141 N.C. 722, 53 KE. 127. indeed, this Court has held that where
one principal has been acquitted at a former trial it was no bar
to the trial of the others who were indicted as principals. State
'V. Whitt, 113 N.C. 716, 18 S.E. 715. See Annot., 24 A.L.R. 603;
21 Am. Jur. 2d Criminal Law § 101: Obviously there must be
proof that the offense has in fact been committed before one
may be' convicted of ,aiding and abetting in its commission.
Cf. State'll. Gainey, 273 N.C. 620, 160 S.E. 2d 685; State'll.
Sp1"Uill, 214 N.C. 1~3, 198 S.E. 611.
We find the following statement in 21 Am. Jur. 2d Criminal Law § 128, n. 15, to wit: "The fact that one. mistakenly
supposed to have committed a crime was tried therefor and'
acquitted does not affect the guilt of. one proven to have been
present aiding and abetting, so long as it is established that
the crime was committed by someone."
This Court has recognized that an indictment may properly
allege unknown conspirators in charging a criminal conspiracy.
State'll. Gallimore, 272 N.C. 528, 158 S.E. 2d 505; State'll.
Davenpo'rt, 227 N.C. 475, 42 S.E. 2d 686; State'll. Abernethy,
220 N.C. 226, 17 S.E. 2d 25; State'll. Lewis, 142 N.C. 626, 55
S.E. 600. It, rationally follows that an indictment is valid which
alleges the existence of an unknown co-principa~ 1,:1 eh3.:'·gLilg~ ,\1
crime.,
[3] Here the bills of indictment do not allege that Johnny
Smith was the person who actually perpetrated' the offenses.
The indictments charged that a crime was committed by an
unknown person and that defendant was present; aiding and
abetting in the deed. Thus the acquittal of Johnny Smith was
not. a sufficient basis tor dismissal of the charges.
[4] Defendant assigns as error the failure of the trial judge
to submit to the jury the misdemeanor charge of assault with a
deadly weapon.

Assault with a: deadly weapon is a, lesser included offense
of assault with a firearm with intent to kill.

o
o
f

-

270

IN THE SUPREME COURT

[283

State v. Beach

When there is evidence of a lesser included offense of the
crime, the court must charge upon the milder offense even
when there is no specific prayer for such charge. State v.
Riem, 276 N.C. 361, 172 ·S.E. 2d 535; State v. Wagoner, 249
N.C. 637, 107S.E. 2d 83.
Here, the jury returned a verdict of not guilty of the
greater offense which was tantamount to a verdict of not guilty
of all lesser included offenses. 5 Am. Jur. 2d Appeal and Error
§ 792. Therefore, the jury verdict rendered nonprejudicial the
failure of the trial judge to submit the lesser included offense
of aiding and abetting in an assault with a deadly weapon.
[5] Defendant contends his motions to quash the indictments
were erroneously denied because each failed to allege how defendant aided and abetted.
The requirements for a valid indictment are stated in
.state v. Greer, 238 N.C. :325,77 S.E. 2d 917, as follows:

" . . . (1) such certainty in the statement of the
accusation as will identify the offense with which the
accused is sought to be charged; (2) to protect the accused
from being twice put in jeopardy for the same offense;
(3) to enable the accused to prepare for trial, and (4) to
enable the court, on conviction or plea of nolo contende?'e
or gl,lilty to pronounce sentence according to the rights
of the case. S.v. Cole, 202 N;C. 59~, 163 S.E. 594; S. v.
Gregory, 223 N.C. 415, 27 S.E. 2d 140; S. v. Morgan, 226
N.C. 414, 38 S.E. 2d 166; S. v. Miller, 231 N.C. 419, 57
S.E. 2d 392; S. v. Biggs, 234 N.C. 259, 66 S.E. 2d 883."
G.S. 15-153 provides:
"Every criminal proceeding by warrant, .indictment, .information, or impeachment is sufficient in form for all intents
and purposes if it express the charge against the defendant
"in aplain,intelligible,"ana explicit manner; and the same
shall not be quashed, nor the judgment thereon stayed, by
reason of any informality or refinement, if in the bill or
proceeding, sufficient matter appears "1;0 enable the court
to proceed- to judgment."
This statute has been liberally construed by our Court,
State v. Greer, supra; nevertheless, the statute does not dispense
with the requirement that the essential elements of the offense
must be charged. State v. McBane, 276 N.C. 60, 170 S.E. 2d 913.

N.C.]

SPRING TERM 1973

271

State v. Beach

Defendant relies on this passage from State v. Greer,
supra:
"The general rule in this State and elsewhere is that
an indictment for a statutory offense is sufficient,if the
offense is charged in the words of the statute, either literally or substantially, or in equiva]ent words. S. v. G1'egm'Y,
supra; S. v. Miller, supra.; S. v. Randolph, 228 N.C. 228,
45 S.E. 2d 132. This rule does not apply where the words
of the statute do not, without uncertainty or ambiguity,
set forth all the essential elements necessary to constitute
the offense sought to be charged in the indictment, so as to
inform the defendant of the exact charge of which he is
accused to enable him to prepare his defense, to plead his
conviction or acquittal as a bar to further prosecution for
the same offense, and upon conviction to enable the court
to pronounce sentence. In such a situation the statutory
words must be supplemented in the indictment by other
allegations which explicitly and accurately set forth every
essential element of the offense with such exactitude as to
leave no doubt in the minds of the accused and the court
as to the specific offense intended to be charged. . . . "

,

It should be noted that defendant omitted the final sentence of

the paragraph, which reads as follows : "However, it is neither
necessary to state particulars of the crime in the meticulous
manner prescribed by common law, nor to allege matters in the
.nature of evidence."
An indictment for a statutory offense it: ;,,-f::!ci,~:t1t when it
charges the offense in the language of the statute. State v. Penley, 277 N.C. 704, 178 S.E. 2d 490; State v. Hm'd, 264 N.C.
.149, 141 S.E. 2d 241. Moreover, it is generally recognized that
an indictment need not set forth the specific facts or means by
which an accused--aided and abetted" in -thecommissi"6n or a
crime. Annot., 116 A.L.R. 1104. Even so, the allegations of the
indictments here challenged stated facts showing that defendant
was present as the driver of the vehicle from which the shots
were fired. Had defendant desired further information, he
could have moved for a bill of particulars.
[6] Defendant also assigns as error the trial judge's denial
of requested instructions on circumstantial evidence.

7f'o".

~

l.f)

O~

o
4

'272

IN THE SUPREME COURT

[283

N.C.]

State v. Beach

Defendant also avers that the trial court erred in refusing
to give the following requested instruction:
[7J

"To RENDER ONE WHO DOES NOT ACTUALLY PARTICIPATE IN THE COMMISSION OF A CRIME GUILTY;()F THE
OFFENSE COMMITTED, THERE MUST BE SOME EVIDENCE
TENDING TO SHOW THAT HE, By WORD OR DEED, GAVE
ACTIVE ENCOURAGEMENT TO THE PERPETRATOR OF THE'
CRIME OR BY HIS CPNDUCT MADE IT KNOWN TO SUCH
PERPETRATOR THAT HE WhS STANDING By TO LEND AsSISTANCE WHEN AND IF IT SHOULD BECOME NECESSARY."
Judge Fountain, in part, charged:
" ... it is settled law that ail wlw are present at the
.place of a crime and are either aiding and abetting, assisting or advising in its commission, or are· present for such

-

fl)

purpQlle to the knowl~d,ge 9f the, ,actpat perpet:rf1~orare
prinCipals and ~re equally guilty. A person aids when
~ing present 8,t the tipje, and place,· '!le !ioes some act t.o
render aid to the actual perpetrator of the crime, though
he takes no direct share ,in itsconpnission.

. A general and correct charge as to the intensity or quant1,lm
of 'proof when the State relieS wholly or partly on circumstantial
evidence is adequate unlE;lSs the d!lfendant tenders request for
a, 'charge on the intensity of proof required for 'such evidence,
State 11. Ste1lens, 244 N.C. 40, 92 S.E. 2d 409; State 11. Shoup,
226 N.C. 69; 36 S.E.2d 697. When such request is aptly tendered, the trial judge should charge that circumstantial evidence
must point unerringly to defendant's guilt arid exclude every
other reasonable hy,pothesis. State 11. Lowther, 265 N.C. 315,
1~4 S.E. 2d 64; State 11. Stephens, 244 N.C. 380, 93 S.E. 2d
431; State 11. Warren, 228 N.C. 22, 44 S.E. 2d 207.

We beiieve the:court's charge placing the burden upon the
State to prove defendant's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt was
sufficient. State 11. Shoup, supra; State 11. Shook, 224 N.C.
728, 32 S.E. 2d 329.

273

State v.Beach

" In apt tim~ defendantrequ.ested· this instructJo:r;t;, "qr,cumstantial 'eviqence which rl:!,ises mere suspicion or conjectUre
of,guilt is insuffi"i~mt for conviction.~'
.
.

In instant case the requested instruction was not a correct
statement of the law as to the intensity of proof required when
the State relies upon circumstantial evidence, and the court
t~~refore pro~rly r~fused to give the instruction. 3 Strong's
N. C. Index 2d Criminal Law § 119. The court is under no
duty to modify or qualify the requested instruction so as, to
remedy defects therein. 7 Strong's N. C. Index 2d Trial § 38.

SPRIN'G TERM 1973

~
}I')

"'0
'0
.",

f

An abettor is one who gives aid and comfort or either
commands, advises, instigates, 4r encourages another' to
commit a crime.
Further, the mere presence of a' person at the scene
of a crime at the time of its commission does not make him
a principal in the second degree;·that is, dbeS not make him
an aider and, abettor, . . . While mere presence, cannot constitute aiding and abetting, a bystander does become' an
aider and abettor by his presence at the time and place of
a crime where he is present to the knowledge of the actual
perpetrator of the crime for the, purpose of assisting, if.
necessary, in the commission of'the crime, and his presence
and purpose do in, fact encourage the actual ,perpetrator to
commit the crime."
The court's charge was substantially in accord with defend~
ant's request. The law does not require that the charge be gIVen
exactly in the words of the tendered request or instructions.
State 11. Hpwa:rd, 274 N.C. 186, 162 S.E. 2d 495; State 11.
Bailey, 254 N.C: 380, 119 S.E. 2d 165.
There was no prejudicial error in the court's refusal to
give the instructions as tendered by defendant.
[8]

Defendant's assignment of error No.9 is as follows:
'''WAS THE DEFENDANT PLACED IN DOUBLE JEOPARDY
WHEN THE COURT ORDERED THAT HE BE TRIED FOR Two
SEPARATE CRIMES ARISING OUT OF ONE SINGLE INDEPENDENT CRIMINAL OFFENSE, T;aus SUBJECTING HIM TO MULTIPLE' PUNISHMENT 'FOR THE SAME, OFFENSE?"

This einn;t~·st.ate,d i1'l Bta,te v. Summrell, ~82 N.C. 157, 192
·S.E. 2d 569, that "The constitutional guarantee against double
jeopardy protects a defendant from multiple punishment, for
the same offense" ... " In finding that the defendant has been
twice convicted, and sentenced for the same criminal offense,
we said that "The .fact that concurrent, identical sentences were
imposed in each case makes this duplication of conviction and

-

-

274

IN THE SUPREME COURT

---_ .._--

[283

State v. Beach

punishment :no less .a violation of defendant's constitutional
right not to be put in jeopardy twice for the same offense."
The difference betwe~n instant case and SummreZi, assuming that this defendant was twice tried for the same ·offense at
the same time, is that defendant was acquitted of one of the
offenses-aiding and abetting assault with a firearm with intent
to kill. Therefore, he was neither convicted nor punished twice,
for the same offense and did not suffer infringement of his
constitutional guaranty against'double jeopardy by the imposition of multiple punishment.
"If a person is convicted simultaneously of armed robbery
and of the lesser included offense of assault with a deadly
weapon, and hoth offenses arise out of the same conduct, as in
State v. Pa1'!Cer, 262 N.C. 679, 138 S.E. 2d 496 (1964), :and
State v. Hatcher, 277 N.C. 380, 177 S.E. 2d 892 (1970),and
separate judgments are pronounced, the judgment on the ·separate verdict of guilty of assault with a deadly weapon must
be arrested." State v. RichardsOn, 279 N.C. 621, 185 S:E. 2d
102 (1971). Even if defendant had been tried for an offense
and a lesser included offense thereof, the remedy, as .suggested
in Richardson, would be of no avail in that there is no separate
verdict of guilty to be arrested.

vie find no prejudicial error in this assignmt;!nt of error.
[9] Finally, defendant assigns as error the action of the trial
judge in disbarriIig, him aftk-J: .ilis. conviction of a felony and
after he had given notice of appeal.

Article 4 of Chapter 84 of the General Statutes provides
for the creation of the North Carolina State Bar as an agency
of the State and in .part pr,ovides for the discipline and dis'barment of its members. It does not, 'however,' purport to fetter
tl;te inherent power of the courts to disbar attorneys. G.S.
84-36; In re Burton, 257N .C. 534, 126S.E. 2d 581.
When an attorney is convicted of a felony, the court conducting the cr~minal trial, in the exercise of its inherent powers,
may summarily and without further proceedings order his
name stricken from the rolls of attorneys and order his license
surrendered to the North Carolina State Bar, Inc. Such order
is entered as protection to the public against an unworthy practitioner. In re Burton, supra; In re Brittain, 214 N.C. 95, 197

-

.

- .....

-

------

-- ..

....

.

N.C.]

SPRING TERM 1973 .

275

State v. Beach

S.E. 705; State v. Spivey, 213 N.C. 45, 195 S.E. 1; in the matte/"
of Ebbs, 150 N.C. 44~ 63 S.E. 190.
The narrQw question of whether defendant's appeal stays
the order of disbarment is not posed by the facts ·of this case
since defendant consented to the surrender of his license as
one of the conditions of the suspension of the active sentence
imposed.
The judgment" provides:
"It is ADJUDGED that the defendant be imprisoned for
the term not less than 18 nor more than 24 months in the
common jail of Burke County to be assigned to work under
the .supervision of the State Department of Correction:

The execution of this sentence is suspended, however,
for three years upon compliance with the following conditions, to which the defendant gave assent: that he be
placed on probation for three years under the usual statutory terms and conditions, and upon these special conditions of probation: (1) that he pay the costs in this action;
(2) that he pay into the office of the clerk the sum of
$1184.60 for the use and benefit of Robert H. Deaton; (3)
that he pay into the office of the clerk the sum ·of $650.00
for the use and benefit of Mrs. Robert H. Deaton; (4) that
he surrender his law license to the North Carolina State
Bar, II).c., and not engage in the practice of law until and
U)-;l"f.lS l;he North Carolina Bar, Inc. determines that his
law license be reissued.

.,

This, the 22nd day of September, 1972.

sl

GEORGE

M.

FOUNTAIN

Judge PresidingAttorneys for Defendant:

Dan R. Simpson,
C. E. Baker
Attorneys for the State: Donald E. Greene,
Joe K. Byrd, Robert
B. Byrd" (Emphasis ours)
In State v. Gole, 241 N.C. 576,86 S.E. 2d 203, it is stated:
"True, courts having jurisdiction may pronounce judge
. ment as by law provided; and then, with the defendant's

.J

"', tdj
,'~

.. ;j')

o
o
4·

IN: TItEr'swREME COURT

276

[283

State v. Beach

consent, express' or implied, suspend execqt~op., thereof upon
prescribed: conditions. Long' recognized as an inherent
power of the court; su«h authorityil?' now ,r~cogni~ed expressly by statute. S~ v. Miller, 225 N.C. 213, 34 S.E.2d
143, 'and cases'cited; G.S~ 19-197."
The case of State v; Wan'en, 252 N.C. 690, 114 S.E. 2d 660,
contains the following pertinent statement:
"Appeilant finally contends that he did not consent to
the suspension of the prison sentence, that his exception to
the judgment. and notice of appeal therefrom negatives
consent, and that the judgment below should be stricken
and the cause, reman~ed for proper ,sentence, should the
Act be declared constitutional. State v. Moore, 245 N.C.
;158, 95 S.E., 2d 548. Chapte:r 1017, Session Laws()f 1959
(G.S. 15-180.1) provides that a defendant may appeal from
a suspended senten,ce. It further provides 'that by giving
notice of appeal the defendant does not waive his acceptance
of the terms, of suspension of a, sentence.' The judgment
below recites that the sentence was suspended by and with
the consel1t of the defendant. There was no specific exception to this portion of the judgment; there is only an ex.ception to the judgment generally. In the absence of
anything to indicate withdrawal of consent, the reCital by
the court is accepted as correct and true."
The judgment in this case contains a recital that the actual
sentence was suspended with defendant's assent. Nothing appears showing withdrawal of this assent. There was no specific
exception to the portion of the judgment imposing the conditions
of the suspended sentence.
In any event, defendant could at most have won a "pyrrhic
victory" had we sustained this assignment of error since we
have been unable to find prejudicial error in the trial of the
ca,se.

..

SPRING TERM 1973
"

N.C.]

, ,27,7

Investment p,roperties v. Allen

INVESTMEN,T PROPERTIES OF ASHEVILLE, INC., AND BAxTER
H. TaYLOR
MARTHA NORBURN MEAD A:LLEN

v:

:0
~

No; :Ill

1/'"

o
of' '

(Filed 9 May 197;1)
1. Principal and Agent § 5-, contract made'by ageni....:.iiabllity of prin.
cipal
'
,
A principal is liable upon a contract duly made' by his agent with
a third person (1) when the agent acts within the s,cope of his actual
authority; (2) when the ,contract, although, unauthorized" has been
ratified; (3) whlln the agent acts within the scope of his apparent
a1,1thoriW, unless the third person has notice that the agellt is exceed·
ing his actual authority.
2. 'Principal and Agent §, 4- insufficiency of evidence of agency
The evidence was insufficient to show that defendant or anyone
purPorting to act' for her promised to pay for grading work performed on her land under a contract with plaintiffs where it tended
to show that defendant's brother had procured defendant's signature
on a 50-year -lease of ,her property to plaintiffs, plaintiffs informed
defendant's brother that it would be necessary for defendant to
execute a new lease subordinating her interest in the premises in order
for them to finance construction of a motel on the site" defendant's
brother refused to try to persuade defendant to subordinate her inj;crest unless plaintiffs guaranteed to save her harmless if the c;onstru,ction loan was not paid, plaintiffs and defendant's brother engaged in
extended negotiations concerning a new lease but plaintiffs were never
willing to give a guarantee, satisfactory to defendant's brother and
no proposals were ever submitted to defendant, defendant's brother
agreed that if plaintiffs would personally put up one-third of the
cost of the motel' he would "stand personally liable" for the cost of'
grading in, tp,e event defendant failed to sign a new lease of the
property, plaintiffs forfeited their rights under the 50-year lease and
defendant's brother thereafter negotiated a lease with a motel company
which defend'ant signed.
3. Principal and Agent § 5- contract on agent's credit - principal not
liable
When a party contracts with a known agent personally on his
own credit alone, he will not thereafter be: allowed to charge the
principal on the ground that the agent acted within the scope of
his apparent authority.
4. Principal and Agent § 6- unauthorized contract - ratification
The question of ratification o~ an unauthorized contract does not,
arise where the person' making the contract did not purport to act as
the agent of the Ilerson claimed to, be the principal.
Justices HUSKINS and MOORE dissent.

No error.

ON defendant's petition for a rehearing of her appeal from

Judge Harry C. Martin at the 1 March 1972 Session of BUN-

'.

-

