,

Hwestment· Company, Inc.; '!IlWhich he~ttel?ted to ,the fact that he was
the co~tractor for Durham .Renthl .and, .~nvestmeIit. 'Cqinpany, Inc.,'
whereas. in truth anq in fact, as k~o\\ln by Mr. ;Biggs tijat the contractor for sajd develoPIl1ent was:oIie C. Paul Roberts. The transaction
referred to abov~ consisted of the signing of an affidavit certifying that
all sub-coI)tr~ctors' who haq {urnifineq work ~nq services' on two fourplexes owned by Durham Rental and Investment Company, Inc. had
heen paid ii;t full. Mr. Biggs was the majority .stockholder of purham
Rental and, Investment Company; Inc .. and: the owner of the said four~
plexes were being constructed by C. Paul Roberts.
In addition to the aforementioned transaction, Mr. Biggs disclosed
other misconduct arising (lut of a' transaction co~cerning the. improper
notarization of a deed (for which no federal charges were made) and
the misapplication of loan proceeds from constructi.on loan funds on
thirty-four four-plexes, said misapplications being corrected upOn completion of the thirty-four four-plexes.
After considering Mr. Biggs tender and the supporting affidavits
and the: statements fr<;>m John McMillan and Ai.lstin J. Stubbs, ,Attorneys for Mr. Biggs, the Council of The North Carolina State 'Bar
accepted Mr. Biggs license. Discipline was deferred until the January
meeting of the Council, with a special committee comprised of Jerome
Clark, being appointed to investigate the circumstances surrounding
~lr. Biggs· case with instructions to return in January with their recommendations for ,discipline:

_I
C~

IN THE MATTER' OF GEORGE L. BUlV1PASS, ATTORNEY, DURHAM, N. C.

Pursuant to G.S. 84-28 (f), The North Caroiina State Bar applied
• ~ for and was granted Injunctive Relief in the matter of the misconduct
'--.J of George Bumpass, Attorney, Durham, N .. C. This injunction was
granted by Superior Court Judge D. Marsh McLelland upon hearing
upon a temporary restraining order previously issued by Superior Court
.Judge :Donald L. Smith directing Mr. Bumpass to show cause, if any
be, why he should not be enjoined from the practice of law pending the
determination of disciplinary proceedings which may be forthcoming
lwainst him.
Judge McLellaml found that from November 8th, 1974 to and in. eluding September 20th 19'/6, thirteen sworn and notarized grievances
had been filed by various citizens of North Carolina against the Respondent, Mr.. Bumpass for alleged misconduct under the Code of Professional Responsibility. Of these thirteen grievances ten had been
filed within the last five montbs next proceeding the granting of the
Injunction. Nine of the aforementioned' grievances involved the withholding and misappropriations of clients funds and property in violation of Disciplinary Rtlles. 9-101 and 1-102 of the Code of Professional
Responsibility, and three of the grievances allege misconduct on the
part of Mr. Bumpass in violation of Pisciplinary Rule 6-101 of said
Code.
)·1

." THE

NORT~ CAROLINA BAR

-

'

.

......,'

,

In addition. the ,CQ~tt J:QuIid that two warrant~ had been i!:isued
against the Re~pondent. in Durham Countychargjng him with the
crime of embezzlement of insurance fuml!:J;

~

,As nif;mtj(;med abov~, basf;!d On these.fi,pdingf? of ~~ct,the Court, ~on:­
tinned th~restrairiing order issued by Judge Donald':Smith and ordered:
that the ~el:!pon.dent be enjoined. and restrained- fro~ pr~cticing law or
~ representing any citize~s in any legal matter in the State <;>J: North
CarQlrna pending the. tinal qeterminatibn of all disciplinary proceedings
to be instituted against him 'by the NorthCarolina.:State Bar.

I~.

,~'~

1

'0

-

Pursuant to Rule 25 of the North Carolina ,Rules of Appellate
Procedure, The North Carolina State Bar moved the Court to dismiss
Respondent's appeal for failure to give notice of appeal within ten days
of entry of judgment..Judge D. B. Herring, Jr., heard The State Bar's
motion and found that the Respondent W. Frank Brower, failed to
comply with Rule 3 of the North Carolina Rules of Appellllte Procedure and therefore, pursuant to Rule 25 of the North Carolina Rules
of Appellate Procedure ordered that Respondent's appe~l be dismissed
and that the judgment entered by Judge Henry A. McKinnon be and
remain the final jt~dgment in the cau~e. As of the date of this report,
no petition for writ of certiorari has been filed on behalf of Respondent.

Buffi Griffin, Representative of Student Bar Associations appeared' before the Council relative ,to student representatives. attending meetings of the Council in order to open a line of communication between
the two organizations.
As. a result of her appearance, the Council adopted
the policy of inviting the president of the several law
schools student bar'. associations to the Council meeting in order to create a dialogue between the legal
profession and the law students.

THE NORTH OAROLINA BAR

i5

.....

-

-

,~,

-----~

C:;?~

IN THE MATTER OF W. FRANK BJ,tOWER, ATTORNEY, RA .. ·
LEIGH N. C.
W. frank Brower, Attorney, Raleigh N. C.,. had previously appealed to the North Carolina Superior Court from a judgment of disbarment entered by the Council of The North Ca);olina State Bar in
November of 1975. On July 2nd 1976, Judge Henry A. McKinnon,
entered a judgment affirming the judgment of th~ Council of The North
Carolina State Bar. Counsel for Mr. Brower did not give notice of
ilppeal in open ,court. On July 13th, 1976, Counsel for Mr. Brower- filed
notice of appeal from Judge McKinnon's judgment. Said notice' of
appeal was given eleven days after ~he entry of judgment by Judge
Henry A. McKinnon.
.

Buffi Griffin

Jr.

·'0·

-

-.

