(2) That thi~ Coqncil will not cons~der .an applicatio!l for J;'eiIf-.
shdement:priorio the' regu}ar ·1lieefing of the Ear 'Council ill Oc~obet,
1979.
.
.
i

(3) Th~t the &uspension does not permtt Cha,rles Th~mas Biggs to
. be ·asso.Ciated with a~1Y law firm a,sa 'iawc1erk,pata,legal or employee at
any time while the ~;tispE!nsion is 'in effect.
After givhig full consideratlon to the facts foqnd by the Council In
this case,baserl llPon the Affidavit 9f Charles Thomas Biggs and the
oral representations made to the Council by his attorneys, John B. l\'IcMillan, Esquire, Ansto~r J. ,Stubbs, Esquire;. a;nq Jame~ A. Cole, Jr..,
Esquire,. the Council concludes that Charles Thomas Biggs' miscondqct
is a violation of Section PR1-102(A) (3) and (4), ·and. upon IDo~ion duly
made and seconded, the Council:
RESOLVED, that the Hcense to practice .Jaw in North Carolina
heretofore issued to Chatles Thomas ~iggs of Durham, North Carolina
ctnd being tendered by' Charles. Thomas Biggs -through 'his attorneys,
.Tohn B. McMillan, Esquire, Allston J. Stubbs, Esquire, and James A.
Cole, Jr., Esquire, be accepted as a Surrender of License and that the
report and ·recommendations of the Special Committee be and the same
aloe hereby 'adopted;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Charles Thomas Biggs be
faxed with the cost of this proceeding; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President is authorized

~tnd directed to enter an::appropriate order.

Pursuant to the resolution adopted hy the Council of The North
Cm:oIina State Bar:
1. That effective 1 February, 1977, the license of Charles Thomas
Biggs is hereby suspended for a period of three (3) years.
2. That this Council will not consider an application for reinstate'ment prior to the regular meeting of the Bar Council in October, 1979.

J

3. That the suspension does not permit Charles Thomas Biggs to
be associated with any law firm as a law clerk, paralegal or employee at
any time while the suspension is in effect.
"

That a copy of th-i~- D>:e-G£l" be forwarded to the General Court of
Justice of the. State of North Carolina and to the appropriate authorities
of the United States Federal Courts in the State of North Carolina.

IN THE MATTER OF 'THE
'PETli-roN 'FOIt APPLICATION
.FOR RESTORATION OF I.,.ICE,NSE·
OF THOMAS S~ GARRISON, JR.,
, Asheville, North Carolina

George J. Miller, President
The North Carolina State Bar
,to

,"!THE NORTa CAROLINA BAR

-

-

( D'1S\\.

1

"

b'
f :"'
.""",

I

After giving due consideration to the record of the hearing and the
recommendations of the Hearing Committee, upon motion duly made
and seconded, it was:
RESOLVED, the Council upon review of the report and upon review
of the record of the hearing, determined that Mr. Garrison should not
be reinstated,. and
.
THEREFORE, IT J!S HEREBY ORDERED that the petition of
application for reinstatement of Thomas S. Garrison, Jr. is denied .and
,-that ThomasS. Garrison Jr. is taxed with the C03'b (If ;;~1,is· ·pr6ceeding.
This 10th day of May, 1977.
The North Carolina State Bar
George .J. Miller, President
The President, being advised' by the Secretary that Mr. Garrison's
attorney has reported that he did not receive notification of this hearing
on Apri115 and will file an affidavit to this effect, has set this matter for
reconsideration by the Council at its meeting on July 15, 1977.
THE NORTH CAROLINA BAR

-

~.
l/j
~'

This 'matter cameol} for hearing before the Council of The North
Carolina State Bar at its April 15, ] 977 meeting in Raleigh, North
Caroiina pursuant to Section 25 of the Rules arid Regulations of The
North Carolina State Bar and, jt appearing that Thoma& S. Garrison',
Jr. applied for reinstatement and presented evidence to a Hearing Committee duly appointed by the Chah:man of the Disciplinary llearing
Commission, which hearing ,was held on the 4th day of February, 1977,
and at which, Thomas S. Garrison, Jr. was present and gave testimony
and was represented by his attorney, Robert B. Long, Jr., Esquire. The
North Carolina St~te ~ar was represented by Haro)d p. Coley, Jr.,
Esquire. A transcript was made of the hearing and' the findings, con~]usions and recommendations of the Hearing Committee were entered
on March 23, 1977, at which time the Hearing Committee recommended
that the license of ThQmas. ~. Garrison, Jr. be restored to him. This
matter was set for review by the Council at its regular quarterly meeting on April 15th. Notice wal? directed to Mr. Garrison's attorney.
Robert B. Long, Jr., Esquire, by mail on April 5, 1977. At the time of
review by the Council, neither Mr. Garrison nor his attorney, Mr. l.ong,
were present. The North Carolina State Bar was -represented by Mr.
Harold D. Coley, Jr.

Done at Raleigh, North Carolina, pursuant to the resolution duly
adopted by the Council of The North CaroHna State Bar on April 15,
1977.
'
This 28th day of April, 1977.

ORi)E~ \

, .tl

41

-

