~

.. - ,
Investment Company, Inc.,"in whici_ested to the fact that he was
the contractor for D1,lrham Rental an,d Investment Company, Inc.,
whereas in truth and in fact,as known by Mr. Biggs that the contractor for said development was one C. Paul Roberts. The transaction
referred to above consisted of the signing of an affidavit certifying that
all sub-contractors who had furnished work and services on two fourplexes owned by Durham Rental and Investment Company, Inc. had
been paid in full. Mr. Biggs was the majority stockholder of Durham
Rental and Investment Company, Inc. and, the owner of the said fourplexes were being constructed by C. Paul Roberts.
In addition to the aforementioned transaction, Mr. Biggs disclosed
other misconduct arising out of a transaction concerning the improper
notarization of a deed (for which no federal charges were made) and
the misapplication of loan proceeds from construction loan funds 011
thirty-four four-plexes, said misapplications being corrected upon completion of the thirty-four four-plexe$.
After considering Mr. Biggs tender and the supporting affidavits
and the statements from John McMillan and Austin J. Stubbs, Attorneys for Mr. Biggs, the Council of The North Carolina State Bar
accepted Mr. Biggs license. Discipline was deferred until the January
meeting of the Council, with a special committee comprised of Jerome
Clark, being appointed to investigate the circumstances surroundinK
Mr. Biggs case with instructions to return in January with their recommendations for discipline.
IN THE MATTER OF GEORGE L. BUMPASS, ATTORNEY, DURHAM, N. C.
Pursuant to G.S. 84-28 (f), The North Carolina State Bar applied
for and was granted Injunctive Relief in the matter of the misconduct
of George Bumpass, Attorney, Durham, N. C. 'This injunction was
granted by Superior Court Judge D. Marsh McLelland upon hearing
upon a temporary restraining order previously issued by Superior Court
.Tudge Donald L. Smith directing Mr. Bumpass to show cause, if any
be, why he should not be enjoined from the practice of law pending the
determination of disciplinary proceedings which may be forthcoming
<lp-ainst him.
. Judge, ~r:""-. :~~.!:;:' f, :-:·:'::::-...i tIlat from November 8th, 1974 to and ::!.:'
cluding Se{Ji:elniJer":~W'ti1 1916, thirteen sworn and notarized grievances
had been filed by various citizens of North Carolina against theRespondent, Mr. Bumpass for alleged misconduct under the Code of Professional Responsibility. Of these thirteen grievances ten had been
filed within the last five months next prQc~eding the .granting ·of the
Injunction. Nine orthe aforementioned grievances involved the withholding and misappropriations of clients funds and property in violation of Disciplinary Rules9-10r and 1-102 of the Code of Professional
Responsibility,and three of the grievances allege misconduct on the
part of Mr. Bumpass in violation of Disciplinary Rule 6-101 of said
Code.
1-1

''''THE NORTH CAROLINA BAR

&{~\

\

....

In addition _ l r t found that two warrants' had been issued
against the Res
~ in Durham County charging him with the
crime of embezzlement of insurance funds.
As mentioned above,based on these findings of fact, the Court continued the restraining order issued by Judge Donald Smith and ordered
that the Respondent be enjoined and restrained from practicing law: or
representing .any citizens in any legal matter in the State of North
<carolina pending the final determination of all disciplinary proceedings
to be instituted against him by the North Carolina State Bar.
IN THE MATTER OF W. FRANK BROWER, ATTORNEY, RA.LEIGH N. C.
W. Frank Brower, Attorney, Raleigh N. C., had previously appealed to the North Carolina Superior Court from a judgment of disbarment entered by the Council of The North Carolina State Bar in
November of 1975. On July 2nd 1976, Judge Henry A. McKinnon,
entered a judgment affirming the judgment of the Council of The North
Carolina State Bar. Counsel for Mr. Brower did not give notice of
appeal in open court. On July 13th, 1976, Counsel for Mr. Brower filed
notice of appeal from Judge McKinnon's judgment. Said notice of
appeal was given eleven days after the entry of judgment by Judge
Henry A. McKinnon.
Pursuant to Rule .25 of the North Carolina Rules of Appellate
'Procedure,The North Carolina State Bar moved the Court to dismiss
Respondent's appeal for failure to give notice of appeal within ten days
of entry of judgment..Judge D. B. Herring, Jr., heard The State Bar's
motion and found that the Respondent W. Frank Brower, failed to
comply with Rule 3 of the North Carolina Rules of Appellate Procedure and therefore, pursuant to Rule 25 of the North Carolina Rules
of Appellate Procedure ordered that Respondent's appeal be dismissed
and that the judgment enteted by Judge Henry A. McKinnon be and
remain the final judgment in the cause. As of the date of this report,
no petition for writ of certiorari has been .filed on behalf of Respondent.

----~,-·--1

533

I
J

Buffi Griffin, Represen~i?.t~ :';"-" ';, ~.' . ': ~""!:" ~.:.:ssc~,
ciations appeared before th'" ;:':;.;:" .> .. ::-.. ' _, ...... ~... oS ~o s~u­
dent representatives attending meetings of the Council in order to open a line of communication between
the two organizations.

Buffi Griffin

, .As a resuit of her appearance, the Co~ncil·~dopted
the policy of inv.iting the-president of the several law
schools student bar associations to the Council meeting in order to create a dialogue between the legal
profession and the law students.

THE NORTH OAROLINA BAR

P-

te

'';1'::
15

o
o

,4.

