.'" j

Lr:J:.J,
•

. (5~ .Shall keep and: maintl:iiIi' recQrdg (,If the. v~r~oussteps taken
(lntl~r this' orqer so that, ·llPon.anY subSequent proceeding, proof of cofu:'
v1iance with this order will bE;! available. Proof of cQmpli~Jlce with this

order shall be a condition precedent to any. petition: for reinstatement of
the. l'esP9ng~nt as a .1i(!en$~d attOl;riey.
3. Thecost13 of this action shall l)e taxed against the respondent.
This the 12th day of December, 1975.
-.
.......".s/James H. POll Bailey
'Jud~e Presiding
,,...--.~-

~-

-·8~J\

IN THE MATTER OF PHILLIP MATTHEWS, Attorney of Newton,
the defendant tendered:bis license for suspension and the Council issued
.. .th~.fo~.I~wing JUDGMENT:
This came on for consideration by the· Council of The North Carolina
State Bar at its meeting on Friday. January 16, 1976, in the State Bar
offices, 107 Fayetteville Street, Raleigh. North Carolina, UPDn the Tender
of Surrender of the Licen'se of one Phillip R. Matthews, Attorney of
Newton, and it appe~ring f;roIQ the Tender in writing filep by Mr.
Matthews' attorney, Mr. Bailey Patrick, the following:

6~ The' Petitioner d~es Iwt desire to contest the charges of misconduct under inv~stigation and fee1§ that if it 'were litigated, it would'
c~use eIQbarrassment .to himself, to hjs law firm and to the le~aI
profession.
.

•

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Phillip R. Matthews be taxed
with the costs of this. proceeding.

2. The. Petitioner is the subject of an investigation by the Grievance Committee and the Council into allegations of misconduct on his
part in the following cases:
. (a) As counsel of record for DeWitt Miller in the case of Miller vs.
Miller in the General Court of Justice of Catawba County.
(b) As counsel of record for the defendant Henry C. Coan, Jr. in
the criminal case in the General Court of Justice of Catawba County.
(c) In his. capacity of attorney at law in a complaint filed by
Robert L. Frye III;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED that Phillip R. Matthews
is suspended from the practice of law for a period of one year from
February 1, 1976 and that he is not to engage in the practice. of law
until further Orders of the Council of The North Carolina State Bar and
that he be blxed with the costs of this proceeding in the amount of
$245.70 and that a copy Qf this Judgment be forwarded to the General
Court {);f Justice of the State of North Carolina and. to the appropriate
authorities of the United States Federal Courts in the State of North
Carolina.

5. The Petitioner is aware of the allegations of mIsconduct which
have been filed against him and the ?-ffidavits and documents of the
complaining parties and the Petition-er's statement and answer thereto
are attached to this Petition 'for consideration by the Council.
:~4

,1:HE NORTH CAROLINA BAR

-

o

Cd
f

After giving due consideration to ther~c9rq' in tllis case and presentation by Mr. Patrick on' behalf of his client, the Council agreed to
accept the Tender of Surrender of Phillip R. Matthews' license upon the
following conditions,. and Mi'. ·patrick, on behalf of his client, Phillip
R. Matthews, agreed orally before the Council to these conditions and
the Council entered the following resolution.
BE. IT RESOLVED that the license to practice law heretofore issued
to Phillip R. ~~tthews, Attorney of Newton, being tendered by Mr..
Matthews through his attorney, Mr. Bailey Patrick, 'is accepted as
a surrender of license and Phillip R. Matthews is susp~nded from the
practice of law for a period of one year beginning February 1, 1976
provided that he may apply for reinstatement at the meeting of the
Council in July of 1976.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the President.is authorized and
directed to enter appropriate order..
.

4. The Tender of the Surrender of this license is freely and vol un- .
tarily tendered; it is not the result of coercion or duress; and the Petitioner is fully aware of the implications of submitting this tender.

(C
~

Mr. Patrick, on, behalf· of his client, Mt.Matth~ws, was' present at
this hearing. Each m~mber of the Council h~d pr~viously been mailed
a. copy of the record which was 'before the Grievance Committee.

l.Tne Petitioner was admitted to The North Carolina State Bar
in 1965 and is engaged in the general practice of law in Newton and
Hickory, North Carolin'a.

3. Phillip R. Matthews desires to surrender his license for a period
of six months from and after an effective date set by the Council on
'condition that he be allowed to resume the practice. of law six months
thereafter.
.

.~.

This the 23rd day of January, 1976.
Frank H. Watson, President
The North Carolina St~te Bar
IN THE MATTER OF FRANK WADE. HALL, Attorney of Asheville, the matter was. heard in the Superior Court of Buncombe County
before Judge Robert D. Rouse on a motion for summary judgment filed
by the N. C. State Bar. This motion was denied and petition for writ of
certiorari before the N. C. Court of Appeals is. now pending.
The Chairman reported to the Council that 7 additional disciplina:t:y
matters are still pending either in the Superior Court or before various
trail committees.
THE NORTH CAROLINA

-

B~R

35

-

