----------

-- -- --...-.--

BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94 DHC 1

NORtH CARQLINA
WAKECOUNfY

THE NORTH <tAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
vs,
)
)
STEVEN BOWPEN, ATTORNEY
)
Defendant
)

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

I

This matter came on before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of St~phen T. Smith, Chair, Paul L. Jones, Esquire, and Anthony E. Foriest; with:
Joseph B. Cheshire, V and Alan M. Schneider representing the Defendant, and Harriet P.
Tharrington representing the North Carolina State Bar; and pursuant to Section 14(H) of Article
IX of the Rules'ofRegulations of the North Carolina State Bar; and it appearing that both parties
have agreed to vyaive a formal hearing in this matter; and it further appearing that both parties
stipulate, and agree to the following Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law recited in this
Consent Order ;md to the discipline imposed, the Hearing Committee therefore enters the
following;
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of North
Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter
84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina; and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2..
R. Steve Bowden was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on September 5,
1979 and was at all time relevant hereto an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina
subject to the. rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar and the laws: of the Stat~ of North Carolina.
3.
Dqring all times relevant hereto, defendant was actively engaged in· the practice
of law in the State or North Carolina and maintained a law office in the Greensboro, North
Carolina area.
4.
On, or about June·3, 1993, defendant began representing Ms. Angela L McClurkin
(hereafter, McClurkin) in a personal injury matter arising out of an automobile accident which
occurred on April 29, 1993 (hereafter, McClurkin's claim).

I

.-'

5.
Prior to June 3, 1993, McClurkin had received a check from State Farm Insurance
Company for $1,432.24 ~s partial payment on McClurkin's claim.
McClurkin negotiated directly with Jennifer C. Dolianitis, the claims adjuster for
6.
State Fann, for the $1,432.24 advance payment prior to retaining Pefendant.
7.
The settlement memorandum for McClurkin dated Pecernber 8, 1993.', indicates
a "recovery" of $9,,000.00.
'

I

On the settlement memorandum, defendant deducted $1,432.94 from th~ $9,000.00
8.
as an amount that McClurkin had already been paid by State Farm.
9.
The actual amount defendant obtained for McClurkin on her claim, not including
the $1,432.24 advanced to Ms. McClurkin prior to retaining Defendant, was $7,567,06.
'
10.
On or about December 8, 1994, defendant took: as his fee for McClurkin's claim
one quarter (114) ofth~ total settlement amount of $9,000.00 which amOtillted to $2,250.00~ rather
than taking 114 of $7,567.06, the amount received after he was retained.
11.
On or about December 3, 1993, defendant loaned McClurkin $350.00 for her
personal use until her claim was settled.
12.
At the time defelldant advanced McClurkin the $350.00, defendant had not
received any funds from State Farm on behalf of McClurkin.
13.
Defendant deducted the $350.00 from the total due McClurkin 011 December 8,
1993 when McClurkin's claim was settled.
14.
Prior to settlement, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company gave -notice of
its subrogation claim in the amount of $815.20 for payment nuu:le on behalf of McClurkin.

I

15.
Defendant did not pay John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company (hereafter,
John Hancock) $815.20 on its subrogation claim; instead, defendant, with John Hancock's
knowledge, consent and authorization, paid John Hancock $611.40 and retained $203,.80 (114 of'
the $815.20) for himself as a procurement fee on the subrogation claim.
16.
Absent some agreement to the contrary, the $203.80 proclJl'emel1t fee retaintXt by
defendant should have been paid to McClurkin to reduce her' overalI attorney's fees.
17.
From December 1993 until July 1994, defendant settled personal injury claims for
fourteen (14) clients other than Angela McClurkin where there was a subrogatiQn claim relating
to the settlement proceeds.
18.
In each of the fourteen (14) cases referred to in paragraph 17, defendant, with the
knowledge and consent of the lienholders, retained ,a portion ,of the amount of the subrogation
claim as a procurement fee.

I

,

'

,"

19.
Absent some agreement to the contrary, the procurement fees retained by defendant
in each of these fourteen (l4) cases should have been paid to the cli~nt to reduce attorney's fees.
20.
Defendant mistakenly believ~d that he was entitled to a portion of the subrogation
claims as a pr9curenient fee for paying and discharging the subrogation claim and/or protecting
I
the lien.
21.
.Defendant Was unaware of the impropriety of such a practice and consequently
such was dony absent any dishonest or deceitful motive.
22.
After learning that the State Bar was questioning his handling of the subrogation
claims, defendant immediately cooperated with the North Carolina State Bar, implemented
procedures for the proper handling of subrogation claims and voluntarily refunded to clients the
procurement fees he retained on the subrogation claims.

I

BASEl) UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By including $1,432.24 in the calculation for his fee of (1/4) of the proceeds from the
settlement of McClurkin's claim when said advance was obtained prior to his engagement,
Defendant collected an excessive fee in violation of Rule 2.6 of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
2. l3y loaning McClurkin $350.00 before McClurkin's claim was settled, Defendant
violated Rule 5.3(B) by advancing a client living expenses while representing her in connection
with contemplated or pending litigation.
3. By retaining $203.00 as a procurement fee from John Hancock's subrogation claim,
Defendant coll~cted an excessive fee in violation of Rule 2.6.
4. By failing to .pay McClurkin the $203.00 referred to in the preceding paragraph,
Defendant failed to promptly payor deliver to McClurkin monies to which she was entitled in
violation of Rule 10.2(E)..

I

. 5. By retaining procurement fees on SUbrogation claims in 14 other cases, Defendant
collected an excessive fee in violation of Rule 2.6.
6. By fa,iling to pay his clients the procurement fees referred to in paragraph 5, Defendant
failed to promptly payor deliver to his clients monies to which they were entitled to in violation
of Rule 10.2(E).

Based upon the Committee's Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
consent of the parties, the Committee enters the following

I

\

·~.~

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1. The license of R. Steven Bowden to practice law in the State of North Carolina i& .
hereby suspended for one year. The suspension of the Defendant's law license is stayed for a
period of two years from the effective date of the entry of the Order herein, based upon the
following conditions:

I

(a) Within one month of the entry of any consent order, Defendant shall.schedule.
an appointment to participate, at hi~ own expense, in the Law Management Assistance Prpgtattl
for one year during which a law practice management plan shall be implemented and qlonitored
by Nancy Byerly Jones.
(b) Defendant shall submit to random audits of his trust account by the North
Carolina State Bar at any time during the two year stay period. He'shall also provide copies of
any settlement disbursement sheets and other documentation relevant thereto as requested by the
North Carolina State Bar at any time during the two year stay period.
.
(c) Defendant shall violate no provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
during the two year stay period.
(d) Defendant shall violate no laws of the State of North Carolina during the two
year stay period.
(e) Defendant shall be assessed with the costs of this proceeding as deterrrtilled
by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.

I

,

.'

Signed by the undersigned chainnan with the full knowledge and consent of the other
hearing committee members, this the .21 day of th.Ajt.cJt. , 1995.

I
~~~~~.~
Alan M. Schneider

I

I
.... 0062.:1

.-'

