-~--------....----~---~-----------~~--~--""

-,

-,± llo,)

I

-- - ----- -

--

~;-----

---

>" -

---

-----

---

NORTH CAROLINA

)-' - .: .. ,
IN THE GENERAL COURTS OF JUSTICE
!"" ~ J
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
\ 2 A~110: 12
.'
94 CRS 40878
'FORSYTH COUNTY SJ I"J)IR
- _., v ,~. H ,- r,: . .- -1 v C c: C
rUJ'iSII v'... \..,
°
I

STATE OF N?RTH

.-.10

l

C~O__L_IN_A_ _

)
)

vs.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
AND
PUBLIC REPRIMAND

)

DANIEL SMITH JOHNSON,
Defendant.

)
)
)

I

THIS ~AUSE coming on to be heard and being heard before the HONORABLE
WILLIAM H. !FREEMAN, Superior Court Judge Present and Presiding over the April 3,
1995, session o,f the Forsyth County General Court of Justice - Superior Court Division, as
a summary proceeding fot the discipline of a member of the Bar of the State of North
,
Carolina;
AND 1'1' APPEARING to the undersigned that the Defendant, DANIEL SMITH
JOHNSON, was personally preseIit in court and represented by his counsel of record, CARL
F. PARRISH, DONALD K. TISDALE and DAVID B. FREEDMAN, all of the 21st Judicial
District-Forsyth County Bar;
AND IT FURTHER APPEARING to the undersigned that the North Carolina State
Bar was present by and through its duly authorized representative, CAROLIN D~
BAKEWELL;
,
AND IT FURTHER APPEARING to the undersigned that after having considered the
allegations against the Defendant, DANIEL SMITH JOHNSON, the evidence presented 'on
behalf of MR., JOHNSON by way of exhibits which the Court received into evidence,
arguments of counsel, and considering the arguments made by CAROLIN D. BAKEWELL,
representative for the North Carolina State Bar, the Court makes the following:

I

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
That the pefendant, his respective counsel, and the North Carolina State Bar through
its duly authorized representative, were all present in court on the 3rd day of April, 1995.
That ,all parties:, are properly before the court, and by consent, all parties, including the
North Carolina State Bar by and through its duly authorized representative, CAROLIN D.

I

BAKEWELL, were properly noticed to appear in court to present any and all evidence
deemed necessary by the parties for consideration by the Court.

II.
The Defendant, DANIEL SMITH JOHNSON, is an attorney at law, duly licensed
in 1976 by the North Carolina State Bar to practice in the State of North Carolina. .
Subsequent to 1976, MR. JOHNSON has concentrated his practice primarily in the Forsyth
County and surrounding areas; however, M:R. JOHNSON, has· practiced law in a significant
number of counties within the State of North Carolina.

I

IiI.
The Defendant, ·DAl'IIEL SIvIITH JOHNSON, entered a plea of no contest on
December 15, 1994, to a Bill of Information charging the Defendant with simple possession
of cocaIne. The occurrence date of the alleged simple possession of cocaine was 1989.
IV.

At the time the no contest plea was entered, with the consent of the State of North
Carolina, by and through the duly elected District Attorney for the TWenty-First Judicial
District, THOMAS J. KEITH, and with the consent of counsel for the Defendant and the
Defendant, the undersigned Superior Court Judge retained jurisdiction and continueq
judgment in this matter pending the Defendant's cooperatioI). with the District Attorney's .
office in an ongoing investigation conducted by a multi-jurisdictional task force. Based upon .
the consent of the parties, this Court maintained jurisdiction of this matter.
V.

I

A judgment was rendered by the undersigned on the 3rd day of April~ 1995', based
upon the no contest plea entered by the Defendant, DANIEL SMITH JOHNSON on
Decemper 15, 1994, and without en.tering a judgment of conviction, tbe Defendant was
sentenced pursuant to North Carolina General Statute § 90-96, as amended. Pursuant to .
said judgment, if the Defendant completes all terms of said judgment as entered, the matter
will be brought before the Court for review with final disposition entered according to North
.
Carolina General Statute § 90-96, as amended.
VI.

Based upon all evidence presented by the State of North Carolina by and .through
THOMAS J. KEITH, as well as arguments of CAROUN D.BAKEWELL of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Court finds asa fact that the Defendant, in the late 1980's and
continuing into the e~ly 1990's, was engaged in the personal Use and consuniption of the
controlled substance, cocaine. The Court specifically finds, based upon all evidence
·2·

,

<j

-.:.
"

I

I

....~

"c',,

presented, that. the Defendant never sold the controlled substance of cocaine or any other
controlled subs~ances; that the Defendant never possessed with the intent to deliver cocaine,
or any other controlled substances; nor did the Defendant engage in the laundering of
money, conceal'ing of assets, or any other type of illegal activities during this time period.

VII.
The Court specifically finds that the Defendant has had no use of cocaine of any kind
since August, 1992, and that when the Defendant was possessing cocaine, the possession of
the controlled s.ubstance was for the sole purpose of recreational use. Further, there was
no evidence to ~ind, and therefore this Court does find that the Defendant never possessed
any quantity of controlled substances in excess of the amount which would have been
cQnsistent with personal recreational use.

I',

VlII.
Prior to· the Defendant being indicted, the Defendant submitted himself for
assessment and' interview with the PALS Program of the North Carolina State Bar.
Subsequent to the said interview ana discussions with the Director of the PALS Program,
the PALS ProgIiam specifically found, by way of exhibits presented to the Court, that the'
Defendant did not .have an active addiction problem which required intervention by the
PALS Program. Further, the Defendant voluntarily submitted himself to a substance abuse
assessment with Forsyth Psychiatric Associates, and it was determined that the Defendant
did not have an addiction to cocaine or any other controlled substance, nor did the
Defendant have an active problem with the use of cocaine or any other ~ontrolled substance,
and the recommendation of the assessing agency, Forsyth Psychiatric Associates, was that
the Defendant was not in need of treatment or any other intervention.
i

IX.
,
The Court specifically finds that the Defendant freely and voluntarily submitted
himself for the above evaluations prior to being indicted. That had the Defendant not been
indicted, he would have been a candidate for the Amnesty Program with the North Carolina
State Bar; howev~r, because of the indictment, the Defendant is not eligible for the Amnesty
Program.

I

X.
The COuI1 specifically finds that during the years that the Defendant has practiced
Jaw before the Courts of the State of North Carolina, the Defendant's representation of his
clients was never affected in any manner; that the Defendant rendered excellent legal
service and advice to his clients, and has maintained a high standard of professional
representation o~ his clients.

·3·

I

XI.
The Court specifically finds that the Defendant is an attorney of impeccable ch~racter
by his fellow members of the Bar, as well as current and former judges, other than the
allegations ~s addressed in this Order. Further, the Court finds that the Defendant's, legal
expertis<, is exemplary and his abilities as an attorney and his diligence iIi the representation
of his clients has likewise been exemplary.
.

I

XII.
The Court finds that the Defendant has violated the Penal Code of the State 'of
North Carolina by the entry of his plea of no contest of the indictment as set forth in 94'
CRS 40878. Because of said violation, the Defendant has violated Rule 1.2(B) of the Rules
of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and therefore should be
disciplined.

XIII.
That in entering this judgment, the Court finds that tbe discipline sbould be,
commensurate with the allegations against the Defendant, and likewise should. be
commensurate with the efforts of the Defendant in the representation of his clients in the
past, as well as the current representation of his clients, his cu.rrent standing as a member
of this Bar, and his honesty, trustworthiness and fitness to engage in the practice ,of law.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF FACT, THE COURT MAKES
FOLLOWING:

nm

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

I.
The undersigned has jurisdiction of the person of the Defendant, DANIEL SMITH
JOHNSON; that the undersigned has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this ,proceeding,
and all parties are properly before this Court.

II.
The Defendant entered a plea of no contest to, the charge of possession of cocaine,
and the Defendant has been sentenced pursuant to the provisions of North Carolina ' .
General Statute § 90-96. Upon the Defendant's successful completion of the termsQf tlte
judgment of the Court, judgment shall be rendered according to the terms of North Carolina
General Statute § 90-96.

·4-

..

I
.:

'

III.
The Defendant does not have and has not for some time had a physical problem of
addiction to any type of controlled substance.

IV.
The Defendant has not violated any other Penal Code of the State of North Carolina.

BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF
LAW, IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED AS
FOLLOWS:

I

1.
That the Defendant, DANIEL SMITH JOHNSON, be and he hereby is
suspended from the practice of law in the·State of North Carolina for a period of six (6)
months from April 3, 1995. The activation of this period of suspension is stayed for one (1)
year, with the consent of the Defendant, provided that:
a.

the Defendant shall not use, consume, or possess any controlled substances
ill violation of the laws of the State of North Carolina or the laws of the
United States of America;

b.

Ute Defendant shall not engage in any conduct which would otherwise violate
the Rules of Professional Gonduct;

c.

'The Defendant shall submit to random drug testing and urinalysis as may be
requested by the North Carolina State Bar, and the said urinalysis shall not
exceed one urinalysis per month; and said urinalysis shall be performed at. the
e~ense of the Defendant;

d.

The Defendant shall c011lply with the criminal judgment heretofore entered;

e.

The Defendant shall perform two hundred (200) hours of community service;

and
f.

The Defendant shall make no less than twelve (12) presentations to schools
or other groups of young people concerning the dangers of drug abuse, and
s~d presentations shall be completed within twelve (12) months of the date
o~ this Order.

Tl;lis period, of suspension shall be stricken one year from the date of this
2.
Order upon a showing that the Defendant has fully complied with the terms and provisions
of this Order.

-s-

.-'

I

3.
In addition, the Defendant is publicly reprimanded for violating Rule 1.2(B)
of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
...
4.
The undersigned shall retain jurisdiction over this cause for su~h other and
further proceedings as might be deemed necessary by this Court, by the North Carolina
State Bar, or by the Defendant.

I

This the

1/ ~/r
i

day of April, 1995, nunc pro tunc April 3, 1995.

-/-.."/ ~
~.

-~~.-

...-------....."

~<-./? -~"kb-~~

HONORABLE WILLIAM H. FREEMAN .

Superior Court Judge

I

,:

I

,

....

,,'

