STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF

~AKE

IN THE MATTER OF

I

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITT:e!'E
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94G1397 (:J;I)

KAREN B. SHIELDS
ATTORNEY A,T LAW

)
)
)
)
)

.:REPRIMAND

On April 13, 1995, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed qgainst
you by Mark V. Gray.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules qnd
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the G;r-ievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Afte·r considering the
information available to it, including your responl:3eto the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cauSe.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe thqt a member of' the NorthCarolipa State ~ar isg~ilty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
.

:1,
~

Tne rules provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may is'sue
variops levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factorl:3. The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprimand, or censu,re to the respondent attorney.
A rep+imand is a written form of discipline more serious
than an admonition issued in cases in which an attorney has
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the
public, but. the misconduc.t does not rE:quire a censu+e.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
not required in this case and issues this reprimal;'Ild to you. As
chqirman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
In March 1993 you were retained by the guardian fo;!:' Pete:!; A.
Fore, Jr. to represent him in a wrongful death action where his
father, Peter 'A. Fore, Sr. was killed during a high speed chas$.
You were also retained by Alberta H;igh, the administratri:,x: o-f
Peter Fore Sr.'s estate, to represent her and to institute legal
proceedings on behalf of her as representative of the heirs of

I
;,'-'~

.-..~.,-.

I

--

.

. .....

--.,-."

,

.

:,,~-

.<

.,:.,':'",,'-

,

,"

the late Peter Fore, sr. At the tj,me you contracted with High,
you believed that the decedent's only heir was the one minor son.
Later you lear.ned that there was another potential heir, LaToya
Fore, the decedent's child by a previous marriage. You contacted
LaToya Fore's 'mother and told her she should retain separate
counsel which she did.
Y01,l continued, however, to represent the administratrix and
Peter Fore, Jr. until the administratrix fired you on September
2, 1994. During the time that you represented both parties, you
and another at;tq:r;ney negotiated with the insurance company for a
settlement.
While it appears that you ,had no conflict of interest
initially because you knew of only one 'heir to Fore's estate, you
h~d a conflict, in representing both the administratrix and Peter
Fore, Jr. once you lea~ned of the putative heir. An attorney for
the administratrix in the wrongful death action, has a fiduciary
duty to the he;i.rs and should seek t.o treat all heirs fairly and
reasonably.
.
YoUr condllct in representing both the administratrix and the
guardian for P~ter A. Fore, Jr. in the wrongful death case
without full disclosure of the advantages and risks involved in
such dual representation'violates Rule 5.1(b) of the Rules of
professional Conduct.
You are h~reby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct.' The Grievance Committee
trus.ts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that
you will never'again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical stand~rds of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the ~mount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

~rdered,

Done and

this

~tL

day of

I

1995,.

irman,
tee
Bar,
#264

I
..;t,

,':.'>t.
,

.~. ~

<"

I

I~

~~?:t3;:)~:~
••

l

" i .:

\-

~.:;

