STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITT~~
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR.
94G1466 (II)

COUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE MA'tTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

JOHNT. ORCUTT
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

.9n April 14, 1995, the Griev·aIlce Committee of the North
Carolina State aar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by 'the North Caroliha Stat'e Ba:t::".
PurSuatltto section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina St;ate B'ar, the Grievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing, After cOhs~dering the
information available to' it, including your response ·to the
letter of riot.ice, the Grievance Committee ~ound probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probaple cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
compla~nt and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injUl::Y caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
.admonition,; reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fOJ;m of disc'ipline more serious
than an admonition issued in cases in which an .attorpeY has
violated one or more provisions of the Ru.les of Professional
Conduct :and has causeq harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member bfthe
public, but themiscondu¢t does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
hot requi:t::"Eid ~n th:i,s case and issues this. reprimand to you. As
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Ca:rolina State
Bar, it 'is now my duty to issue this!' reprimand and I am 'certain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is·
performed.
.
The Grievance Committee found that Wendi Sullivan met
wi·th one of your .nonlawyer employees, 'Mr .AI Orcutt,' to. disc;uss .

I

.

'

:.

----------------------------------------------

the possibility of filing a bankruptcy petLtioni and that after
reviewing Ms. Sullivan's assets and liabilities, Mr. Al Orcutt
opined that filing a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition would be in
her best interest. The committee determine that Mr. Al Orcutt.
ehgaged in the unauthorized practice of law when he advised Ms.
Sullivah that ~t would pe in her best interest to file a Chapter
7 bankruptcy. The committee also determined that you knew or
should have known that Mr. Orcutt was giving legal advice to
prospective cli.ents. The committee determined that your failure
to take corrective action violated Rule' 3.1 (a) of the Rules o'f
Profess.ional Conduct (nA lawyer shall not aid a person not
licensed to practice law in North Carolina in the unauthorized
practice of lawn) and Rule 3.3(a) (nWith respect to a nonlawyer
employed or ret~ined by or associated with a lawyer, a partner in
a law firm shall make reasonable effort that the firm has in
e.ffect measures giving reasonable assurance tha.t the nonlawyer's
conduct is compatible with the professional obligations of the
lawyern) .
.

----

I

You are heteby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you·wiil heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that
you wiil never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethicai standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the 'Council of t;.he North Carol:j..na State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

CSth i;)rn-_!..;...!-~~~-=/~I

1995.

I

I

~1/

