.

/OD«(~

"

STATE OF

,NO~TH

CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
,
NORTH CAROLINA STATE'BAR
94<314J.:8 (II)

. ':

COillfTY OF WAKE

IN THE MATTER OF

'I

"

JOHN T. ORCUTT
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

On April 14, 1995, the Grievance Committee of tbe North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed agains,t
you by M~. David M. Warren.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the G~ievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information a,va:ilable to it, including yotir 'response t,o the'
letter o~ notice, the, Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the Nort'h Carolina State Bar is guilty
Qf misconduct jUE/tifying disciplinary action."

.

I

The rules, provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grieyance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are riot required and the Grievance Committee may ,issue
various levels of discipline depepding u,pon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and arty aggravating or
mitigat±ngfactors. The Grievance Committee may'issue an
admonition, repJ;:'imand, or cenSl.lre to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more .serious
than an admonition issued in cases in which an attorney has
violated one or more prQvision~ of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has cal.lsed harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the
pubiic, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion tpat a gensu~e i~
not required in this case and issues this reprimand to you. ~s
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is, now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
t'hat you will understand fully the spirit in which this: duty is
performed.

I

"

",

'."

The Grievance committee found that Cynthia Ann Wouk met with
one of your nonlaWyer employees, Mr. Al Orcutt, to discuss the
possibility of filing.a bankruptcy petition; and that after
reviewing Ms. 'Wouk' s assets and liabilities, Mr. Al Orcutt opined
that filing a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition would be ih her best
interest. The commit~eedetermine that Mr. Al Orcutt engaged in
the unauthorized practice of law when he advised Ms. Wouk that it
would be in her best interest to file a Chapter 7 bankruptcy.
The committee also de:termined that you knew or should have known
that Mr. Orcutt was giving legal advice to prospective clients.
The committee determined that your failure to take corrective
action violated Rule 3.1(a) of the Rules of Professional Conduct
("A laWyer shall not aid a person not licensed to practice law in
North Carolina, in the unauthorized practice of law") and Rule
3.3 (a) ("With respect to a nonlawyer employed or retained by or
associated with a lawyer, a partner in a law firm shall make
reasonable effort that the firm has in effect measures giving
reasonable assurance that the nonlawyer's conduct is compatible
with the professional obligations of the lawyer").

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
rerriembered by you, that it will be benefic;::ial to you, 'and that
you will never, again allow' yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethic~l standards of the legal profession·.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina· State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a repri~and by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the C?-mount of $50.00 are l:1ereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

~~~~=-~~____ '

Wl' liam O. Ki
The Grievance
North Carolina S

1995.

I

#228

...

,',',',.

,J

I

