..

---------------------~-------~----------~---~~--

,
---~

-------

_~".,,-...r-

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94G1523 (III)

COUNTY OF WAKE

NAT PENDLEY,
ATTORNEY AT I,rAW
1

..

----

--~-~--

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE MATTER OF

---

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On April i~, 1995, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
-you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations 0.£ the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable caus~ is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
belleve that ~ member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct! justifying disciplinary action."
The rule~ provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before,th~ Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors. The Grieyance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written, fp'rm of: discipline more serious
than an admonition issu,ed in, cases in whiCh an attorney has
violated one or more provisions' of ,the Rules of Pro!essional
Conduct and has caused harm or pptential harm to a client, the
administratib* of justice, the profession, or a member of the
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was -of the opinion that a censure is
not required in this case and issues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
As of late 1993, you lived in Forsyth County and practiced
law in your home, which was in the 21st Judicial Distri.ct. You

I

concluded, based upon your observations, that a Republican
candidate could probably win at least one of the three races for
superior court judge seats in .November 1994 in the neighbor,ing
22nd Judicial District. You ultimateily decided tOi run and, on.
Feb. 18, 1994, you filed a n<?tice of candidacy for one of the
superior court vacancies in tne 2.2nd Judicial District.

I

On Feb. 17, 1994, the day before yo~ filed for election, Y9U
agreed to rent a mobile home just across the county line in .
Davidson County, which is in the 22nd Judicial District. Prior
to filing for election, however, you never entered the mobile
home, which had no water, no telephone, no power and no wor~ing
toilets. Although you slept in the mobile home on the $venings'
of Feb. 18 and Feb. 19, 1994, you vacated the tr~iler thereafter
and paid no rent, as the trailer was uninhabitable. Meanwh,ile,
your wife and three children continued to live in Forsyth County
~nq your eldest daughter attended. Forsyth County publ~c schools
as a resident oE Forsyth. County.
.
Between Feb. 20, 1994 and August 22, 1994" you generally
slept at the home of friends in Davidson Count~, but paid no rent
to them. One several occasions, however, you remained overnight
at your family's home in Forsyth County, to assist your wife in
the care of your children. Beginning on Aug. 22, 1994, you
rented an apartment in Davie County, which is also in tbe 22nd .
Judicial District, and spent some time there unt,il the date of
the election in November 1994. Your :eamily continued to live in
Forsyth County and you never obtained ~ residential telephope in
the 22nd Juqicial District prior ,to the election.

I

Although you won election .to the superior court bench in
November, 1994, you were never sworn in to o:e:eice,. as the r.esul t
of a lawsuit which was filed,' .challenging your residency and
eligiblity to serve. Following a hearing on Dec. 7, 1994, a
permanent injunction and consent orQer were·ente~ed, declaring
your candidacy void ab initiQ,'! based upon .your f~:dlure to
establish residency in tne .2~nd Judicial Distric·t as, required :Qy
G.S.163-106(i).
While the consent order entered in the l~w$uit did not find
that you were guilty of fraud and although· you have persistently
maintaineq that you believed you had complied with the law
regarding residency before. the Noyember 1994 election and
conducted all of your activities openly, the Grievance Committee
believes that your conduct created at least the appearance of
impropriety and was prejudicial. to the administration of justiqe,
in violation of Rule 1.2 (D) of the Rules of Professional .conduot ..
Moreover, the Committee is very t.roubled by your failure to
respond to the letter Q:e notice. i:p.. t,his· matter. in. violation of
Rule 1.1(B) of the Rules. of Profes~;ional Conduct. As a result of
your misconduct, the State' Ba.r was forced to subpoena you to
appear in Raleigh to provide a response. The profession cannot
remain self-regulating unless lawyers take seriously their
obligation to respond promptly to inquiries from the State Bar

I

regarding

discipli~ary

matters.

The Committee believes,'hQ\1ever, ,that your conduct is
mitigated by the fact 'that you have been the subject of
substantial p.dverse publicity already regarding the judicial
election, wh'ich has damaged you i;inancially, by your lack of
prior discipline and by the fact that you appeared genuinely
remorseful about your failure to respond to the letter of notice.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it 'will be beneficial to you, and that
you will ~ever again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethlcal standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordarice with the policy adopted October 15~ 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and. investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee"the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed'to you.
Done and ordered, this

2{

day of __~~~~~~~_' 1995.

William o. King
The Grievance Commi
North Carolina Stat~~_~_

I

I

