NOTE: THIS LINK RELATES ONLY TO HAROLD

W. BEA VERS OF GREENSBORO. THIS LINK
DOES NOT RELATE TO GREENSBORO PATENT
LAWYER WALTER L. BEAVERS, WHO HAS HAD NO
PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATION WITH HAROLD W.
BEAVERS.

NORTH CAROLINA,.

• ;;"l.1 \_

.'

"".:. C.S.C.

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PETITIONER,

v.
HAROLD W. BEAVERS, ATTORNEY,
RESPONDENT.

IN THE GENERAL COURTS OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
08 CVS 11071

)

)
)
)
)
)
)
)


CONSENT ORDER

OF DISBARMENT


THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard by the undersigned Judge of the
Superior Court of Wake County. Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was
represented by Katherine E. Jean. Respondent, Harold W. Beavers, was represented by
James B. Maxwell.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the court by Harold
W. Beavers, the court makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Harold W. B~avers was licensed to practice law in North Carolina on August 22, 1981
and at all times pertinent to this action was a partner in the law firm of Beavers & Chase,
L.L.P. (lithe firrni')in Greensboro, North Carolina.
2. In a series of transactions, Beavers misappropriated $828,329.63 entrusted to him in a
fiduciary capacity for the benefit of clients of the firm and utilized those funds for his
own personal benefit without authorization to do so from the beneficial owners of the
entrusted funds.
3. Beavers was a co-trustee of the Trust Under the Will of Charles L. Beavers ("the

Family Trust"). The beneficiaries of the Family Trust are all members of Beavers'

immediate family.

4. Beavers misappropriated entrusted funds from the Family Trust by transferring
$350,000.00 from accounts held by him for the benefit of the Family Trust into the trust
account of the law finn to cover a shortage in the law finn trust account caused by some
of the misappropriations described in paragraph 2 above.

5. Beavers misappropriated $25,000.00 from the Family Trust by writing checks in the
amounts of $20,000.00 and $5,000.00 directly to himself from accounts held by him for
the benefit of the Family Trust.
6. Beavers misappropriated $14,446.41from the Family Trust by writing a check in that
amount drawn on funds held for the benefit of the Family Trust to the Guilford County
Tax Department to cover the tax obligation of a client. The client had deposited
sufficient funds into the firm trust account to cover the client's tax obligation but Beavers
had misappropriated the client's entrusted funds from the finn trust account as described
in paragraph 2 above.
7. Beavers misappropriated $154,952.38 from the Family Trust by writing a check in
that amount drawn on funds held by him for the benefit ofthe Family Trust payable to an
account owned by a cllent of the firm. The client of the firm was entitled to receive
$154,952.38 from funds that had been deposited into the firm trust account for his benefit
but Beavers had misappropriated the client's entrusted funds from the firm trust account
as described in paragraph 2 above.
.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court:makes the following;

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. By misappropriating entrusted funds that had been delivered to him in his fiduciary
capacity for the benefit of clients and by misappropriating funds ~ntrusted to him as a co­
trustee of the Family Trust, Beavers violated Rules 8.4(c) and 1.lS-2(a), G) and em) of
the North Carolina Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. Beavers' misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.

Section 84-28(b)(2).


IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1. Harold W. Beavers is DISBARRED [Tom the practice oflaw in North Carolina.
2. Harold W. Beavers shall comply wit11 the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .0124
of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his
license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar
along with the affidavit required by Subchapter B, Section .0124.
3. The costs oftms action are taxed against Harold W. Beavers.

2

Done and Ordered this

)1J

day of

~8.

tJ~

Superior Court Judge Presid'

WE CONSENT

'=!Z~~========--~~-Katherine E, ] ean
Attorney for Petitioner

H~~---Respondent

es B. Maxwell
ttomey for Respondent

3

?t-'

Il.
•

THE NORTHv CAROLINA STATE BAR,

B F-ErTITIGNER,
I

IN THE GENERAL COURTS OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
08 CVS 11071
)

)
)

v.	
HAROLD W. BEAVERS, ATTORNEY,	
RESPONDENT.

)
)
)
)

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LAW LICENSE

Harold W. Beavers, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1. 1 desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section
.0117 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation. 1 affirm that 1
have obtained the'advice and counsel of an attorney in filing this Affidavit.
3. 1 am. aware that there is pending an investigation regarding allegations that:
(a) in a series of transactions, I misappropriated $828,329.63 entrusted to me in a
fiduciary capacity for the benefit of clients of my former law firm and utilized those
funds for my own personal benefit without authorization to do so from the beneficial
owners of the entrusted funds (I removed some of the $828,329.63 from the trust account
of the former law firm; the remainder is funds I received in trust for the benefit of clients
that I did not deposit into the trust account ofthe former law firm and instead
misappropriated to my own personal benefit;
(b) 1 misappropriated $350,000.00 from the Trust Under the Will of Charles 1. Beavers
("the Family Trust ll ) of which I was a co-trustee, the beneficiaries of which are all
members ofmy own family, by transferring $350,000.00 from funds held by me for the
benefit of the Family Trust into the trust account of my former law firm to cover a
shortage in the law firm trust account caused by some of the misappropriations described
in subparagraph (a) above;

(c) 1 misappropriated $25,000.00 from the Family Trust by writing two checks, in the
amounts of$20,OOO.00 and $5,000.00, directly to myself from funds held by me for the
benefit of the Family Trust;

(d) I misappropriated $14,446.41 from the Family Trust by writing a check in that amount
drawn on funds held by me for the benefit of the Family Trust to the Guilford County
Tax Department to cover the tax obligation of a client of the firm who had deposited
sufficient funds into the firm trust account to cover his tax obligation but whose funds I
had misappropriated as described in subparagraph (a) above; and
(e) I misappropriated $154,952.38 from the Family Trust by writing a check in that
amount drawn on funds held by me for the benefit of the Family Trust to an account
owned by a client of the firm who was entitled to receive that amount from the fum trust
account but whose funds I had misappropriated from the finn trust account as described
in subparagraph (a) above.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend
against them.
6. At the State Barts request, I consented to entry of a preliminary injunction by the
Wake County Superior Court prohibiting me from handling entrusted funds and
prohibiting me fro~ acting in a fiduciary capacity.
7. After the State Bar became aware of the misconduct described in this affidavit, I
·provided $221, 906.42 for deposit into the trust account of the fo~er law firm and into a
successor trust account to the trust account of the former law firffi. I borrowed money in
order to make these deposits. The purpose of these deposits was to provide funds with
which to reimbqrse clients for the losses caused by the misappropriations described in
paragraph 3(a) a~ove.
This the Ja.~ay of

I,lQ..rq

, 2008.

T S

QmpSot1
, Notary Public of the County of
,
State of North Carolina, certify that Harold W. Beavers personally appeared before me
t1lis day and acknowledged the due execution of the foregoing Affidavit.
Sworn to and subscribed before me
This the Jib""""day of

AoOu~r

tM........

,2008.

~"'NOtar'fp~bl~"-\'Q~
~~/III.;?SiOh ~pi res -

•.... ft 'Cr'6:.


TARA J. SAMPSOI\i

!'

NOTARV PUBLIC

GUILFORD COUNTY. NC

ii

l r J J~ f 201'1­
2

