STATE OF NORTH C~p,L~f}::OUinY. C.9Jf:l.THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
'i1i4.1
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
WAKE COUNTY
FILE NO.: 08 CVS 16228
b-

BY

-.

-­

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner
v.

CONSENT ORDER

OF DISBARMENT


KEVIN J. STRICKLAND, Attorney,
Respondent

THIS MATIER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of
Wake County upon the tender of surrender of his law license by Kevin J. Strickland.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, Kevin J. Strickland (hereinafter "Strickland"), the Court makes the
following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Strickland was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 2001 and is,
and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State ofNorth Carolina.

2.
During all ofthe periods relevant hereto, Strickland was engaged in the
practice of law in Burgaw, Pender County, North Carolina.
3.
Strickland is aware that there is presently pending an investigation
regarding allegations that he is guilty of misappropriation of client funds, including
sellers' proceeds from real estate transactions in the amount of at least $1,623,832.60.
4.
Strickland desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in North Carolina.
5.
Strickland's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the
result of coercion or duress. Strickland is fully aware of the implication of submitting his
resignation.
6.
Strickland acknowledges that the material facts upon which the

investigation is predicated are true.


7.
Strickland has submitted his resignation because he knows that if
disciplinary charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could
not successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
By misappropriating client funds, Strickland engaged in criminal acts that
reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in
violation of Rule 8.4(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
2.
Strickland's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
3.
The courts ofthis State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary
action against attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
4.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person of Kevin J. Strickland and of
the subject matter of this proceeding.
5.

Strickland has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, 1HEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.
Kevin J. Strickland is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North
Carolina. This disbarment is effective upon the entry of this order by the court.
2.
Strickland shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124.
Strickland has been given the time to wind down his law practice prior to entry of this
disbarment order; accordingly, his affidavit of compliance with the provisions of Section
.0124 is due to the State Bar within 10 days of the filing of this order.
3.
Strickland shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the

expiration of at least five (5) years from the date of entry of this order.

4.
Strickland's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125.

5.

The costs of this action are taxed against Strickland.


Done and Ordered this '3\

'1;y of~ ~

CONSENT TO BY:


J
er A. Porter
Deputy Counsel, North Carolina State Bar
Attorney for Petitioner

Respondent

,2008.


tnOUOEC 3\ C\Fl 9: 4t•
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

WM\E COU1H Y. CSBJEE:RIOR COURT DMSION
WAKE COUNTY

FILE NO.: 08 CVS 16228

THE NORTH CAROLINA STABrE1tAR:;-,-t----­
Petitioner

v.

AFFIDAVlT OF SURRENDER OF
LAW LICENSE

KEVIN J. STRICKLAND, Attorney,
Respondent

Kevin J. Strickland, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.
3. I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations
that I am guilty of misappropriation of client funds, including sellers' proceeds from real
estate transactions in an amount of at least $1,623,832.60.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend
against them.
This the

lC~day of_~-=-_"c.='.o-"""',--"-,>Q,=C!:,,--r

, 2008.

1, ~I;'T!;)N LEP- ,i:\,c" \ .."', Notary Public of the County of ~~"tlc.r ,State of North
Carolina, certify that Kevin J. Strickland personally appeared before me this day, was sworn, attested that
the foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate ofhis own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing
Affidavit.

C

