STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE"
OF TH:e:
NORTH CAROLINA STAT~ BAR
95G0047 (IV)

COUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE MATTER OF

I

)
)
)
)
)

ANDREW N. PATTERSON, II
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

On July 20, 1995, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina Stat~ Bar met and considereg the grievance filed again~t
you by the North Carolina State 'Bar.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Rule .0113(a) of the Rules and Regulations of tne North caroiina
Stat~ Bar,' th(3 Grievance Committee conducted a prelirilin~ry
hearing. After considering the information available to it,
including your response to the letter o~ notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable .cause is q,efined in the
rules as "reason~ble cause to believe that a membe+, of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduc,t, just;i.fying
d:i,.sciplinaryaction."

I

The rules provide that ~fter a finding of probahl~ cau$l!e,
the Grievance Committee may determ;i.ne that the filing- of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, th~
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating ,or
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprj.,mand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious
than an admonition issued in cases in which an attorney h~s
violated one or more prov~sions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the·
administration of justice, the profession, or a membe;r of the
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opin;i.on that a censure is
not required in this case and issues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State,
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
You were employed by Phillip Chase to file a ci viI action,'
against Dan Grimes for money owed. YoU prepared a complaint
which was to be verified by Phillip E. Chase. You had an
employee in your office sign Phillip E. Chase's name on the

I
f'· '.

,

\
\

---------~------------------~--~-------~-----------------------

verification. You directed another employee to affix her jurat
to Chase's signature. The verification was made to appear that
Phillip E.Chase himself had signed the document before your
notary public employee when he had not done so. 'This was a
misrepresentation that violated Rules 1.2(c) and (d) of the RuleS
of Professtonal Conduct.
In deciding not to impose more severe discipline in this
matter, the Grievance Committee took into consideration the fact
that Phillip E. Chase wanted you to expedite the filing of his
complaint. ' The Grievance Comtnittee also considered the fact that
you believed that you had a document signed by Chase authorizing
you to sign his name. However, even if you had a document
authorizing you to sign Chase's name, the verification should not
have been prepared in such a way to represent that Chase himself
had sworn to and signed the verification before your employee.
You ar'e hereby reprima~ded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remenibered by you, that it will be beneficial to 'you, and that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accprdance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the admi~istrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

~<J'./~

o~day of

1995.

Wi liam O. King
The Grievance Co mit
North Carolina Stat
#418/sd

I

I

\
\

'-

