STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE'BAR

COUNTY OF WAKE

94G13~1(II)

IN THE MATTER OF
,

I

CONRAD A.AIRALL
ATTORNEY A'l' LAW

)
)
)
)

REI?RIMAND

On July 20, 1995, the Grievance Cemmittee .of the Nerth
Carelina St~te Bar met and censidered the grievC\.nce f~led ~gainst
yeu by Joyce K. Davis-Wrenn.
Pursuant te 27 N.C. Admin. Cede Chapter 1, Subchapter Bl .
Rule .0113(a) .of the Rules and Regulatiens .of the Nerth CarelinaState Bar, the Grievance Cemmittee cenducted a preliminary
hearing. After censidering the infermatien availabl~ te it.'
including yeur respense te the letter .of netice, the Grievance'
Cemmittee feund prebable cause. Prebable cause is de;Eiped i.n the
rules as "reasenable cause te believe that a member .of the Nerth
Carel ina State Bar is guilty .of miscenduct justifying
disciplinaryactien."
.
The rules provide that after a finding .of prebable cause,
the Grievance Cemmittee may determine that the filing .of a
cemplaint and a hearing befere the Disciplinary Hearing
C.ommissien are net required and the Grievance Cemmittee may i~sue
varieus levels .of discipline depending upen the miscenduct, the
act1.lal .or petential injury caused; and any aggravating or
mitigating facters. The Grievance Cemmittee'may issue an
admenitien, reprimand, .or censure te the respendent atterney.

I

A reprimand is a written ferm .of discip~ine mere serious
than an admenitien issued in caseS in which an att:erney has
vielated .one .or mere previsiens .of the Rules .of Prefessienal
Cenduct and has caused harm .or petential harm te a client, the
administratien .of justice, the prefessien, .or a member .of the
public, but the miscenduct dees net require a censure.
The Griev~nce Cemmittee was .of the epinien that a censure is
net required in this case an~ issues this reprimand te y~u. As
chairman .of the Grievance Cemmittee .of the Nerth Carel ina state
Bar, it is new my duty te issue this reprimand and I am certain
that yeu will understand fully the spirit in which tbis duty is
perfermed.
Ms. Jeyce Kaye Davis-Wrenn hired yeute represent he~ en our
C\.beut May 19, 19·93 cencerning her dismissal as anempleyee ~rom
the U.S. Pestal Service. On .or abeut December 20, 1993, the
Equal EmpJ,eyment Oppertunity Cemmissien (EEOC) netif:ied YQU by
certified mail that it had reached a decisien adve~se to
Ms. Davis-Wrenn en her emple~ent discriminatiop matter. YQuQid
net netify yeur client .of this adverse decisien until July, 1994.
Ms. Davis-Wrenn's time to appeal the EEOC's adverse decision haQ

.'

,
\
\

l'

'1

.

I

•

"

expired by the time she received notification of the decision.
The EEOC has denied Ms. Davis-Wrenn's request for
reconsideration.
,

Your failure to timely notify Ms. Davis-Wrenn of the EEOC's
adverse deci~ion resulted in prejudice to her because she was
unable to appeal the decision.
I

You are; hereby r~primanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, ~nd that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed ~ you.

Done and ordered, thisctl!' day of

~

t,..-

,

1995.

William O. King
The Grievance Co mitt e
North Carolina State. ar
#409

I

I

