_.

WAKE

---

gr }jCj~

JUN 1995

NORTH CAROLINA

--~-

-!

~---.--

FILED

COUNT~

NORTH

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

J. SAM JOHNSON Jr.,
Attorney
Oefertdant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

BAR

I

FINDINGS OF FACT AND
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

.,,' 1;.,

,

This cause came on to be heard and was heard on March 10 .':~nd
31, 1995 before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
commission composed of Henry Co Babb Jr., chairman; Frank E.
Emory Jr., iand James Lee Burney. The North Carolina state Bar
was represented by Fern E. Gunn. The defendant, J. Sam JohnSOn
Jr., appeared pro~. Based upon the admiSsions of the defendant
in his answer to the complaint, the stipulations on prehearing
conference; and the evidence presented at the hearing, the
hearing committee finds the following to be supporte~ by clear,
cogent, anq convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body
duly organized urt~er the laws Of North Carolina and is the proper
party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder .;

I'~

2. Th~ defendant, J. Sam Johnson Jr., was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on September 13, 1957 and is, and was at
all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations,
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar
and the laws of North carollna.
3. During all of the periods referred to herein, the
defendant was actively engaged in the practice of law in North
Carolina and maintained ~ law office in Greensboro, North
Carolina.
4. In :October 1991, James McCray retained defendant to .
represent the estate of his late wife, Decelia J. Mccray. Mr.
McCray qualified as Administrator CTA of Decelia J. McCray's
estate on Diecember 4, 1991.

I

5. Under Decelia J. McCray's will, Mr. McCray received one
of two life estate interests in the house located' at 1310 Youngs
Mill Road in Greensboro, North Carol~na. Mr. McCray lived in .
this house with his late wife for a number of years prior to her
death in october 1991. Mr. and Mrs. McCray were both fin~ncially
liable on the deed of trust on the house. Mr. McCray paid the
mortgage on the house f9r a number of years. During' the l~$t '. ,
year of Mrs. McCray's life, he alone; 'mage the payments from his
income derived from social security disability •.

I

,

"

6. Defendant represented the estate of Mrs. MCC~aY until
April 1992. Defendant testified that he withdrew from
."
representation at that time because of Mr. McCraY'$ lack of
cooperation and because the estate did not pay defendant's
attorney's fees.
.
7. After Mrs. McCraY's death, Mr. McCray continued to ~ive
in the house on 1310 Youngs Mill Road. He paid the monthly
mo~tgage payments from his income and the ~ife insurance proceeds
he received from Mrs. McCray's death.
'

8. Mr. McCray had a dispute with Old stone Bank, the
noteh9lder on his house, regarding the December mortgagepayrnep~
which l1r. McCray believed was misplaced by the bank •. He also
exhausted his, funds and got behind in his mortgage payments. In,
February 1993, Mr. McCray sought assistance from defendant in
~esolvipg the dispute with Old stone Bank about the December
'mortgage payment and a threatened foreclosure on the house. Mr.
McCray testified that he wanted defendant's help in saving pis
house from foreclosure.

I

9. Defendant represented Mr. McCJ:'ay individually in his
efforts to save his hous,e from foreclosure. Sand,ra Dent Burns'
was an associate in defendant's law office in February 1993 and
she worked with Mr. t-tcCray. She took various steps to assist M;r.
McCray with his problems regarding the mortgage Payment dispute
with the bank and the threatened foreclosure on his house. Ms.
eurns requested records of Mr. McCray's payment history from Mark
Mosley of Old stone Bank~ Ms. BU:rns also spoke with Mr. MQsley
about what the bank requir~d to prevent foreclosure of Mr.
Mccray's house. Ms. Burns wrote Kim Gallimore, the trustee, in a
letter dated March 30, 1993. She asked Mr. Gallimore fqr a stay
of the foreclosure proceedings. Old stone Bank denied the
request for a stay of the foreclosure proceedings.
10. In February 1993, defendant also resumed representing
the estate of Mrs. McCray. From February 1'993 until his
withdrawal from the estate case on September 2, 1993, defendant
or Ms. Burns rendered Various services to the estate, including
drafting a petition of sale of the house and other services
li$ted in defendant's bill dated 8/18/93 (Plaintiff's
Exhibit 24).
.
11. At defendant's request, Mr. McCray withdrew.$93·O.!53 and
$940.90 from the Decelia J. Mccray, estate account on March 12 ',and
16, 1993, respectively. On March 12 and ,16, 1993, Mr. McCray
brought the money to defendant's office and gave it to Ms. Burns.
Defendant applied the total amount of $1,871.53 ,to his attorney's

I

:"

fees for representation of the Decelia J. McCray estate.
12. The foreclosure sale on Mr. McCray's house was held on
July 19, 1993, at the Guilford County Courthouse. Mr. McCray,
Geraldine Collier, and Ms. Burns attended the sale. Defendant
did hot attend the sale because he was out of the country.
Defendant sent Ms. Burns to monitor the sale and report back to
him.
13. James Cooper made the highest biq of $50,001 on Mr.
McCray's house on July 19, 1993. Altho~gh Mr. McCray khew of Mr.
Cooper aSia neighbor, Mr. McCray did not know that Mr. Cooper
planned to bid on the house.
14. After the foreclosure sale, Mr. Cooper met with Mr.
McCray and Ms. Collier at Mr. Cooper's house. Mr. Cooper agreed
to sell the house to Ms. Collier for the amount of his bid, plus
any expenses (unpaid taxes, liens, judgments) associateq with the
property. Ms. Collier agreed to buy the house from Mr. Cooper
because Mr. McCray did not have the money or credit to purchase
it.

I

15. MS. Collier telephoned the courthouse at 4:30 p.m. on
July 29, 1993, the last day of the 10-day upset bid period. She
learned that no upset bid had been made.
,

16. Defendant upset Mr. Cooper's bid in the late afternoon
on July 2~, 1993. Defendant paid the bid deposit of $2,550.05 by
personal ~heck.
bid.

17.

Mr. McCray did not tell defendant to upset Mr. Cooper's

18. Mr. Cooper told Mr. McCray that defendant filed an upset
bid on Ju~y 29, 1993. Mr. McCray was surprised to hear that
defendant had upset the bid on his house.
19. As a result of defendant's upset bid, a second
foreclosure sale was scheduled for September 3, 1993.
20. Defendant, Ms. Burns, and Mr. McCray testified about
their effo.rts to find someone to bid on the house at the next
sale. Noone agreed to bid on the house at the September 3, 1993
sale.

I

21. Defendant again determined to withdraw from
representation of the Decelia J. McCray's estate. On September
2, 1993, at defendant's request, Mr. McCray went to defendant's
office. At about 9:00 a.m. on September 2, Mr. Mccray was
presented and signed a Request to Withdraw which relieved
defendant of any further obligation regardihg the estate.
22. Atter Mr. McCray signed the Request to withdraw on the
morning of: September 26 defendant continued to represent Mr.
McCray ind~vidually in his efforts to save his house from
foreclosur~.

23.

Defendant testified that after Mr. McCray signed the

I
0075$
•~

.~. f

Request to Withdraw, Mr. McC~ay became distraught over h~s
concern that he would lose his'house at the impending foreclosure'
sale. Mr. McCray repeatedly asked de.fendant to help him avo~d
the loss of his house.

I

24. Defendant testified that while Mr. McCray remained in
bis office, def.endant prepared a contract for Mr. McCray's
sign~ture.
The contract provided that defendant, would attend th~
September 3, 1993 foreclosure sale and bid on Mr. McCray's house.
The contract also provided that if defendant were the highest.
bidder at the September 3 sale, defendant would give Mr. McCray
or his nominee first option to purchase the property fro~
defendant within six months of September 3, 1993. Defendant set
out conditions for Mr. McCray to exerci~e his first option, inter
alia, (1) Mr. McCray must pay in full the attorney's fees gue to
defendant; (2) Mr. McCray must repay to gefendant all e~penses'
incurred in the purchase of the ho~se, including ad valorem
taxes, liens and encumbrances of record, the purchase price,
closing costs for the loan associated with the purchase, and'~ny
other expenses defendant incurred; (3) Mr. McCray must pay 10% of
the entire amount defendant invested in the property.
The contract further provided that if Mr. McCray could not
exercise the fir~t option to purchase the hOllse on or befo+e ..
March 3, 1994, the "option shall expire and Johnson [defencl~ntl
shall be free to dispose of the property i;lS he wishes."
.
25. Mr. McCray testified that he attended almost three year$'
of school in South Carolina. He cannot-read. Ms. collier,
defendant or Ms. Burns read Mr. McCray's letters and ethel!'
correspondence to him. Mr. McCray cannot write, but he cap sign
his name. Defendant was aware of Mr. Mccray's inability cit'
limited ability to read when Mr. McCray was in defend~nt's offiCe
on September 2, 1993.

26. Defendant read the contract to Mr. McCray and Mr. McGray
signed it on september 2, 1993, one day before the $cheduled
foreclosure sale.

I

27. Mr. McCray testified that he asked;defendant to let him
take the contract to someone to read it to him. Defendant
refused Mr. Mccray's request.
28. Defendant testified that he gid not remember whether he.
advised Mr. McCray to seek independent counselor get advice
about the contract before Mr. McCray .signed it.•
29.
On Sept.ember 3, 19.93, defendant attended the foreclosu~e
sale. Mr. Cooper was also present at the sale.. Mr. Cooper
t.estified that he had Mr. MCCray's authoriz'ationto bid on the
house for Mr. McCray. However, when Mr. Cooper learned tha·t
defendant was at the sale to bid for Mr. McCray, Mr. Cooper did
not bid on the property.
.
30.

Defendant was the· highest bidder oil September :f,

199~.

31!
Elaine Green-Tan upset defendant's bid. Defendant
suggested that Mr. McCray visit Ms. Green-Tan at her home and
determine her interests in pUrchas ing, M,l!'. f1cCray' s home.•

I

"

32. Another foreclosure sale on Mr. Mccray's house was held
on October 1, 199-3. Defendant bid $55,231.70 and was the highest
bidder.
33. Defendant withdrew money from his stock and other
investments to purchase the hoUse at $55,231.70.
34. PursUant to the contract of September 2, i993, Mr.
McCray rented the house from defendant for several months.
35. Mr. McCray could not afford to exercise the option to
purchase the house from defendant.
36. Ms. Collier with Mr. McCray's consent contracted with
defendant to purchase the house. Ms. -Collier bought the house in
July 1994. She did. not agree to pay the attorney's fees that
defendant b'laimed Mr. McCray owed. At the time defendant sold
the house to Ms. Collier, he had received notice of and responded
to the grievance Mr. McCray filed against him at the State Bar.

I

37. D~fendant sought to hold Mr. MCCray individually
responsible for an obligation of the estate of Decelia McCray
(i.e. payment of defendant's attorney's fees) when that
obligation,was not incurred individually by Mr. McCray.
Defendant took a promissory note dated April 13, 1994 from Mr.
McCray for the $3,747.47 attorney's fees owed by the estate.
Defendant also took the title to Mr. Mccray's 1987 Chevrolet van
as collateral.
38. D~fendant held himself out as Mr. McCray's attorney with
respect to:helping him save his hou,~e from fqreclosure. Mr.
Mccray testified that he thought defendant was protecting his
(Mr. McCra~'s) interests when defendant purchased the house.
39. Defendant was interested in protecting his attorney's
fees when he purchased Mr. McCray's house at the foreclosure
sale. That interest is borne out in defendant's letter of
January 11, 1994 to State Bar counsel regarding this matter.
'Defendant wrote that Mr. MCCray's only asset was his house and
lot and if the house was lost to foreclosure, "he [Mr. McCray]
woUld lose his only asset and I .[defendant] would lose all chance
of payment;of my fees already earned. If I were the purchaser at
the sale, instead of some person who would not protect his
interests, I would have a chance to protect his interests, and
al'sohave the possibility of his paying my fees i either through
his borrowing against the property; or through a third party
coming to his assistance later and paying the fees, or by my
selling it:for more than the investment."

I

40. Defendant did not fully disclose to Mr. McCray that they
had confliqting interests regarding the transaction, nor did
defendant fully disclose to Mr. McCray the risks and
disadvantages of the transaction as set out in the September 2,
1993 contract.
'
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing
committee makes the following:

I
"

OO,75.~(':
~""

~}

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
~a)
~orn~ng

After Mr. McCray signed the Request to Withdraw on the
of September 2, i993, defendqnt cont.inueq to rep:ires~nt
Mr. Mccray individually in his efforts to save his house from
foreclosure. Furthermore, Mr. McCray could have reas~mably
understoo~ in light of all the circumstances that defendant was
apting in his b~half with respect tg. the foreclos,l,lre sale.

I

(b) Mr. McCray did not have a r~asonable opportunity to
knowingly or understandingly enter into the contract dated
.September ~, 1993 between the time that defendant withdrew from
representation in the estate case and when Mr. McCray signed the
contract, partiqularly in light of Mr. Mccray',S limited ability
to understand the contract and the absence of opportunity which
he wa$ provided to understand it or consult with others to read
and explain it to him.
' ,
(c) The contract dated September 2, 1993 and signed by Mr.
McCray was unfair on its face to Mr. McCray for the followipg
reasons:
(i) In order to exercise the first option to purchase
the house, Mr. McCray would have to pay 10% interest on
the money that defendant invested to purchase the hou$e
at foreclosure. The commercially reasonable r~tes, were
less than 10% at the time of the contract.
Defendant
charged the 10% interest in order to recoup the interest.·
he lost on the money he withdrew from his stock
investments to purchase the house.
(ii)
In ordel;' to exercise the first option,topurqha.~e
the house, Mr. Mccray would have to pay attorney's fees
to defendant which in effect increased the purchase
price of the house by $3,747.47.
(iii) Defendant gave Mr. McCray a six-month option to
purqhase the house from defendant. At the time Mr •.
McCray entered into the contract on September ~, 1993,
qefendant knew that Mr. McCray's financial condition ,WCiS.
bleak. Defendant also knew that it would be difficult,
if not impossible, for Mr. McCray to exercise the f,i,J;.st
option to purchase the house because he nad limited
income and no credit.

I

(iv) Defendant sought to impose on Mr. Mccray
individually an obligation of the estate of Decelia
McCray with respect to payment of defendant's attorney's ,.
fees.
.
.
(d)

Defendant's conduct constitutes grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28,(b) (2) :i.n t1l.at
defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as
follows:
(i)

By entering into a contract to purchase the Qome
of a client, James Mccray, at a time when ~r.
McCray expected defendant to exercise his

-.... <

I
,

> '

••~'i; --~

-:

·oo~

,

~

~

-.1

.",-

',.'

'(~S

------------------:--------------------"-------"--------~---,

professional judgment for Mr. MCCray's protection
without first making full disclosure of the risks
and disadvantages involved in the transaction to
Mr. McCray, and without fully disclosing the
conflict between his interests and those of Mr.
McCray, defendant has violated Rule 5.4(A).
(ii)

By entering into a business transaction which waS
unfair to his client, Mr. McCray, defendant has
violated Rule 5.4(A).

,

Signed QY the undersigned chairman with the full knowledge
and consent:of all of the a her members of the hearing committee,
this the i
day of
"1
I
1995.

I
"

[147]

I

NORTH CAROL;I:NA

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94 DijC 23

WAl<E COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

I

J. SAM JOHNSON JR.,
Attorney
Defenc;iant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of ;Law
entered in t~is matter, and further based upon arguments of
counsel, the hearing committee composed of Henry C. Baph Jr.,
Chairman; Frank E. Emory Jr., and James Lee Burney, makes the
following additional findings regarding the existence of
agg~avating and mitigating factors in this case.
AGGRAVATING FACTORS
1.

Selfish motive;

2.

Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct;

3.

Vulnerability of victim; and

4. - Substantial experience in the practice of law.

I

MITIGATING FACTORS

.

1.

Absence of prior disciplinary record;

2.

Full and free disclosure to the committee or cooperativeattitude toward proceedings; and

3.

Character or reputation.

BASED UPON 13,11 the Findings of Fact, the Conclusions of Law,. .
and· the aggravating and mitigating factors listed above, the
hearing committee enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
Defendant, J. Sam Johnson Jr., is hereby

1.

_ • •

_____

.~.

_.

_

~

••

____

~~

'A_-_

••

,~_

•••

_______A

__

.~.

__ 0

" . , ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

,

~

__

~

_

••

_,~

_ _ •

__

•

____

censu~ed.

.~.~_~,_.

" -

2. Defendant shall immediately discharge the obligation of
James McC~ay to defendant as evidenced by the promissory note
dated April 13, 1994. Defendant shall also immediately disc~arge
the colla~eral securing the obligation evidenced in the
promissory note dated April 13, 1994 by returning the title to
Mr. McCray's 1987 Chevrolet van.
3.

Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding.

4. This proceeding is retained for further order, if
necessary 'I in the event of defendant's non-compliance wi th this
order.
Signed by the undersigned chairman with the full knowledge
and consent of the oth~embers of the hearing committee, this
the
}
day of
...-v1
, 1995.
I

I

/
j

I

JIr-

I

I
0076-1

'I

NORTH C1\ROLINA
WAKE COUN,TY

IN THE MATTER OF
J. SAM JOHNSON JR.
Attorney at Law

I

JUN 1995

FILED
DHC

)
)
)

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTa CAROLINA STATE BAR
94 DHC 2~

CENSURE

This censure is delivered to you pursuant to
section .0123 (3) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the
North Carolina state Bar as ordered by a hearing committee in the
above captioned proceeding on March 31, 1995. Tl1e hearing
committee found that you violated Rule 5.4(A) of the North
Carolina state Bar Rules of Professional Responsibility.
In October 1991, James McCray retained you for
representation regarding the estate of his late wife, Decelia J.
McCray. Mr. Mccray qualified as Administrator CT~ of Decel,ia J.
Mccray's estate on December 4, 1991.

I

Under Decelia J. McCray's will, Mr. McCray received :oneof
two life estate ~nterests in the house located at 1310 Youngs
Mill Road in Greensboro, North Carolina. Mr. Mccray lived in
this house with his late wife for a number of years; pri9:r to h~r
death in october 1991. Mr. and Mrs. Mccray were both financiaily
~iaQle on the deed of trust on tl1e house.
Mr. ~qCray paid the .
mortgage on the house for many years. During the last year Qf
Mrs. McCray's life, he alone made the payments from his limited
income derived from social security disability.. After Mrs.
Mccray's death, Mr. McCray continued to live in the house. 'He
paid the monthly mortgage payments from his limited income and
the life insurance proceeds he received. from Mrs. Mccray's death.
You represented Mr. McCray as Administrator CTA of DeCelia
J. Mccray's estate until you withdrew from representatiQn in
April 1992.
Mr. McCray ha~ a dispute with Old Stone Bank, the
noteholder on his' house, regarding the December mo·r'\:gage pa'yment
which Mr. McCray believed was misplaced by the bank. He also
exhausted his funds and got behind in his mortgage payments.. I'n'
February 1~93, Mr. McCray sought your help in resolving the
dispute with Old Stone Bank about the December mortgage payment'
and the threatened foreclosure.
.
Your office represented Mr. McCray individuaJ,ly in his
efforts to save his house from foreclosure. Sandra pent Burnf:;,
an associate in your office, wor){ed with Mr. McCray. She took
various steps to assist Mr. McCray with his prOblems regarding
the mortgage payment dispute with the bank and the threa'tened

I
" -

..... "

;:;

foreclosure on his house. Ms. Burns requested records of Mr.
Mccray's payment history from Mark Moseley of Old stone Bank.
Ms. Burns ~lso spoke with Mr. Moseley about what the bank
required to prevent foreclosure of Mr. Mccray's house. Ms. Burns
wrote Kim Gallimore, the trustee, in a letter dated March 30,
1993. She asked Mr. Gallimore for a stay of the foreclosure
proceedings. Old stone Bank denied the request for a stay of the
foreclosur~ proceedings.
~n F~bruary 1993, you also resumed representing the estate
of becelia :Mccray. From February 1993 until you withdrew from the
estate cas~ on September 2, 1993, you or Mrs. Burns rendered
various services to the estate, inclUding drafting a petition of
sale Of the house and other services listed in your bill dated

8/18/93.

I

.

At your request, Mr. McCray withdrew $930.63 and $940.90
from the Decelia J. McCray estate account on March 12 and 16,
1993, respectively. On March 12 and 16, 1993, Mr. McCray brought
the money to your office and gave it to Ms. Burns. You applied
the total amount of $1,871.53 to your attorney's fees for
representation in the Decelia J. McCray estate.
The fOreclosure sale on Mr. McCray's house was held on July
Although you did not
attend the 'sale, Ms. Burns did and she reported the outcome of
the sale to: you.
19, 1993 at, the Guilford County Courthouse.

Jame.s Cooper was the highest bidder at the July 19, i993
sale. Mr • .cooper later agreed to sell the house to Mr. McCray's
girlfriend, Geraldine Collier, for the amount of his bid, plus
any e~penses associated with the purchase of the property. Ms.
Collier agreed to buy the house from Mr. Cooper because Mr.
McCray did not have the money or credit to purchase it.
You upset Mr. Cooper's bid late in the afternoon on July
Mr. MCCray did
not tell you to upset Mr. Cooper's bid.
29, 1993 by! paying $2,55Q.05 by personal check.

You ~gain determined to withdraw from representation of
Decelia J. McCray's estate. on the morning of september 2, 1993,
at your request, Mr. McCray went to your office. At about 9:00
a.m. on September 2, Mr. Mccray was presented and signed a
Request to withdraw which relieved you of any further obligation
regarding t~e estate.

I

Aft~r Mr. McCray signed the Request to Withdraw, he becam~
distraught over his concern that he would lose his house at the
impending fpreclosure sale. Mr. McCray asked you to help him
avoid the loss of his house. After Mr. McCray signed the Request
to Withdr?lw: on the morning of September 2, you continued to
represent him individually in his efforts to save his house from
foreclosure.

While Mr. McCray remained in your office, you prepared a
contract for his signature. The contract provided that you would
attend the September 3, 1993 foreclosure sale and bid on Mr.
Mccray's house. The contract also provided that if you were the

I

I

highest bidder at the September 3 sal~, you would giv~ Mr! .Mccray
or his nominee first option to purchase the property from you
within six months of September 3, 1993. You set out conditions
for Mr. McCray to exercise his first option, inter alia, (1) M·r.
McCray must pay in full the attorney's fees due to you respecting.
your representation of the estate; (2) Mr. McCray must +epay ~ll
expens~s you incurred in the. purcl)ase of the house, ~nclucling ad
valorem taxes, liens and encumbrances of record, the purcha$e
price, closing costs for the loan associated with the purchase;
(3) Mr. McCray must pay 10% of the entire a~ount you invested in
the property. The contract further provided that if Mr. McCray
could not exercise the first option to purchase the hous~ on or
before March 3, 1994, the option would expire and yoti would be
~ree to dispose of the property as you wished.

'I

You read the contract to Mr. McCray and h.e signed it on
,.
September 2, 1993, one day before th~ scheduled foreclqsure s~le.
xou were aware of Mr. McCray's inability or limited ability to
read when he was in your office on September 2, 1993. Altbougq
Mr. McCray asked you to let him take the contract to someone to
read it to him, you refused Mr. McCray's request. You claim tha·t
you do not remembe:I:' whether you advised Mr. McCray to seek
independent counselor get advice about the contract before he
signed it~
You were the highest bidder at the foreclosure sale on
september 3, 1993. You were again the highest pidder at a
sUbsequent and final sale held on October' 1, 1993.
The contract dat~d September 2, 1993 and signed by Mr.
McCray was unfair on its face to M:r. McCray for thefoll.ow:ing.
reason,;:

I

(i) In order to exercise the first option to purchase
the house, Mr. McCray would have to pay 10% interest on
the money that you invested to purchase the house, at
foreclosure. The commercially reasonable rates were
less than 10% at the time of the contract.
)!,o-q chGl:r.ged
the 10% interest in order to recoup the interest you .
lost on the money you withdJ;"ew from your stock
investments to' purchase the house.
(ii) In order to exercise the first option to purchase
the house, Mr. McCray would have to pay attorney' $ fees'
to you which in effect increased the purchase price of
the house by $3,747.47.

(iii) You gave Mr. McCray a six-month option to purchaSe
the house. At the time Mr. McCray entered into the
contract on September 2, 1993, you knew that Mr.
Mccray's financial condition was bleak. You also'kn~w
that Lt would be difficult, if not impossible, for Mr.
Mccray'to exercise the first option to p~rchase the
house because he had limited income and no credit .•
(iv) You sought to impose on Mr. McCray individually an
obligation of the estate of Decelia McCray witp respect
to payment of your attorney's fees.
.

I
00764
.
,.

',.,,~

,.

'"

---------------------~--~-~~~---'-----.-.-----"-

---,--.,-,-~-,

Mr. McCray did not have a reasonable opportunity to knowingly
or understandingly enter into the contract dated September 2,
1993 between the time you withdrew from representation in the
estate case and when Mr. Mccray signed the
contract; .particularly in light of Mr. McCray's limited ab.ility
to understand the contract and the absence of opportunity which
he was pro¥ided to understand it or consult with others to read
and explain it to him.
You and Mr. McCray had several conflicting interests in this
transaction. Your interests as a purchaser and Mr. McCray's
interests 'as a potential buyer were in conflict. In addition,
your interest in protecting your attorney's fees in the estate
case conflicted with Mr. Mccray's interest in saving the house he
had lived 1n for a number of years. Your interest in protecting
your attorney's fees is evident from a letter dated January 11,
1994 writtr=n to State Bar counsel regarding this matter. In that
letter, you wrote that Mr. Mccray's only asset was his hoUse and
lot and if: the house was lost to foreclosure, "he [Mr. McCray]
would lose, his only asset and X ~ould lose all chance of payment
of my fees: already earned. If I were the purchaser at the sale,
inste_ad of. some person who would not protect his interests, I
would have: a chance to protect his interests, and also have the
possibility of his paying my fees, either through his borrowing
against the property, or through a third party coming to his
assistance, later and paying the fees, or by my selling it tor
more than the investment." In addition, you further sought'to
protect your interests in your attorney's fee owed by the
Decelia McCray estate by taking a promissory note dated April
13, 1994 from Mr. McCray and taking the title to his 1981
Chevrolet van as collateral.

1-

You did not fully disclose to Mr. McCray that you and he
had conflicting interests regarding the transaction, nor did you
fully disclose to Mr. McCray the risks and .disadvantages of the
transaction as set out in the September 2, 1993 contract. '
Your conduct violated the Rules of Professional Conduct. By
enterj.ng into a contract to purcha·se the home of a client, James
McCray, at:a time when Mr. McCray expected you to exercise your
profes~ional jud~ent for h~s protection, without first making
full disclosure of the risks and disadvantages involved in the
transaction, and without fully disclosing the conflict between
your interests and those of Mr. McCray, you violated RUle 5.4(A).
In addition, by entering into a business transaction which was
unfair to rour client, you violated RUle 5.4(A).

1-

Although the hearing committee has chosen to impose ,a
relatively,moderat'e sanction of a censure, you should not assume
that the h~aring committee in any way feels that your conduct in
this matter was excusable. The hearing committee trusts that you
will consiqer this censure, recognize the errors that you have
made, and never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high et:hic~l standards of the legal profession. This cenSure
should serve as a strong reminder and inducement for you to 'weigh
carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your
clients, your fellow attorneys, and the courts to the end that
you demean :yourself as a respected membel;" of the legal profession

I
?

,: '~:' }

00765

whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
,

Signed by the undersigned chairman with the full knQwl,edg~
ahd consent of the ther member? of the hearing committee; this
_--J,l_..--'- day of
~
, 1995.

(/
Commission

I

I

I

' .•

_,

.f.

"

