STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE,

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G0296(I)

IN THE MATTER OF
ANTONIA LAWRENCE
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

On October 19, 1995, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by Catheripe B. Brinkley.

I

Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Rule .0113(a) qf the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar, the. Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary
hearing. After considering the information available to it,
including your responSe to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the
ruleS as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Caroiina State: Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinaryaqtion."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
compiaint and ~ hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are. not .required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious
than an admonition issued in cases in which an attorney has
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the
public, but the misconduct does not reqUire a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
not required i~ this case and issues this reprimand to you. As
Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that
you will under~tand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
The Grievance Committee found that complainant hired you to
represent her with a personal injury claim soon after her
automobile accident on February 23, 1990. Even though the extent
of complainant':s damages was established early on, you did not
file a complainant on behalf of complainant until February 22,
1993, one day prior to the statute of limitations deadline. The
committee dete~mined that this conduct violated Rule 6(b) (3) of
the Rules of Professional Conduct which requires a lawyer to act

I
• i

·00·775

with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a
client.

I

In addition, the committee found that you knew or ShO'l,lld
have known, based upon your involvement with the Oozier v.
Crandall case, that it was critical noe to let the. slimmons e~pire
in complainant's case since the complaint was :l:iled bnthe eve of
the statute of limitations deadline. Nevertheless, you failed to
renew the summons within 90 days which thereby created a statute.
of limitations defense. The committee determined that this
conduct violated Rule 6(a) (1) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct which states that a ICl.wyer shall not handle a legal
matter which the lawyer knows or should know that he is not
competent to handle.
Finally, the committee found that during your representation
of complainant with this matter, you failed to reasonably
communicate with complainant concerning the status of
complainant's case, despite numerous attempts by complainant to
contact you. TJ:le committee determined that this conduct violated
Rule 6 (b) (1) of the Rules of Professional Conduct which states
that the lawyer shall keep the client reasonably informed about
the status of a matter and promptly comply with reasonable
.
request for information.
Ordinarily, this conduct along with your previous discipline·
would have warranted more severe discipline. However, the
committee considered the fact that the misconduct in this case
occurred during a time in which you were experienc~ng health
problems. If you should experience personal or health problems
in the future, please take whatever action is necessary to
p:r:otect the interests of your clients, such as referring the
client to another attorne.y, returning the client file, and
returning any unused portion qf the fe.e to the client.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the· North Carolina State Bar
due .to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and t~at
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal pro.fession.
In acco!:,dance with the policy adopted October 15,1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney .
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ·of this
action in the. Cl.mount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

I Sf-day

1l~
t2~ f)

of

<'

, 1995.

Ann Reed, Chair
The Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar

