STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE.

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94G1464 (II)

IN THE MATTER qF
JOSEPH M. LUZZJ;
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

I

On July 20, 1995, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State .Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by Scott H. McCulloch, Esq.
Pu~suant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the
'letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct jiustifying disciplinary action."

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance C'ommittee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a' hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the mil?conduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee, may issue an
admonition, rep~imand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious
than an admonition issued in cases in which an attorney has
violated one or' more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has, ca.used harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
not required in this case and issues this reprimand to you. As
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina. State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will uhdersta.nd fUlly the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
Jose Lopez paid you $100.00 in the fall of 1994 to obtain a
limited driving'privilege for him. On or about November 1, 1994,
you requested t~at Judge George Greene sign a limited driving
privilege for L9pez. You represented to Judge Greene that Lopez
was eligible for the privilege when, in fact, Lopez was not
eligible because he had two driving while impaired convictions in

I

a five year period on his record. He had received a level two
sentence under Judge Stafford Bullock.
You knew or should have known that Lopez was not etigible
for a privilege. First, Lopez had been represented by ~hilip
Redwine when Lopez pled ,guilty in February 1994. The conviction
was appealed to Superior Court and remanded in August 1994. You
maintain that you asked Judge Gree~e to sign the limited
rivilege based on Lopez's description of the district court
. udge; however, you knew or should have known that Judge Greene
ad not been a district court judge for several years. It would,
have involved very little ·e:ffort on your part to have checked
Lopez's record and court file in this matter. You should have
checked Lopez's record under these circumstances to see if he was
eligible for a privilege. You conduct indicates at the very
least, a reckless disregard for the facts. Notably, there was
not a copy of the privilege in the court file nor was a copy sent
to the Department of Motor Vehicles. The comment to Rule 7.2
reads in part: " [a]n assertion purporting to be of the lawyer's
own knowl~dg~ . . . may properly be made only when the lawyer
knows the assertion is t-rue or believes it to be true on the'
basis o~ a reasonably diligent inquiry" (emphasis added) .

I

ay representing to Judge Greene that Jose Lopez was eligible
for a limit.ed driving privilege when Lopez was not eligi)::>le for
such a privilege because of two driving while impaired
convic.tions in five years, you engaged in conduct prejudicial to
the administration of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(d). You
also violated Rule 7.2(a) (4) by incorrectly representing to Judge
Greene that Lopez was eligible for a limited driving privilege
when you had failed to make a reasonably diligent inquiry.
.

l

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
ue to YO'l,lr professional misconduct. The Grievance Commi.t;tee .
rusts that you will heed this reprimapd, that it will be .
'emembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, al1-d that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy agopted October 15, 1981 by
Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding tbe taxing
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
ac.tion in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taXed to you.
th~

Dcme and ordered, this

jltl--

day

~::...-..r+-.~;.....,....-"

WJ.lliam o. Kin
The Grievance C
North Carolina S

1995.

rman
ee
Bar

I
':- " :..+ ...~.4')...

" : . ': i

"~.

()0790

