--

.......--------------~----~----~--------. --- ------ -- -------------- ~------,

BEFOR,E THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G0015(III)

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE MATTER OF
CLINT EUDY,
i.
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 20, 1995, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State'Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by the North Carolina State Bar.

I

Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Rule .0113(a) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar, the:Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary
hearing. After considering the information available to it,
including your: response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the
rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct jus·tifying
disciplinarya(f!tion."
The rules:provide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and ~ hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are 'not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levelslof discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors.
The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprimand, or a censure.
A censure. is a written form of discipline more serious tha:n
a reprimand, issued in cases in which an attorney has violated
one or more. provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused sigriificant harm or potential significant harm to a
client, the administration of justice, the profession or a member
of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of
the attorney's license.

I

The Grievqnce Committee believes that a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission is not required in this case and
issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to
issue this censure.
I am certain that you will understand fully
the spirit in which this ~uty is performed.
In. 1992, you undertook to represent Margare.t Wallace
Schwabenton Eanes in a domestic matter.
The primary issues for which you represented Ms. Eanes had
to do with child support/custody of two minor children and the
resolution of the equitable distribution. On October 19, 1992
the Honorable William L. Daisy of the Guilford County District

I
.'

~

.... ,.

9(l791
~ ~ ~

I

Court conducted a hearing concerning child support. At the
conclusion of the hearing, Judge Paisy entered an Order from the
bench directing Ms. Eanes' ex-husband to pay $1,000.00 per month
to Ms. E.anes in child support. YOl.l never Prep'?lred the typed,
Order for the judge's signature. At .$.Qme later time ,Ms. Eanes
contacted, you requesting a copy of the Order. You prepar~d the
Order consistent with Judge Daisy's bench Order. You showed the .'
Order as being a conformed copy by writing on it "s/William L.
Daisy". While the Order accurately reflected Judge Daisy's oral
order, he had not, at that time, actually signed an or~ginal
Orger and there wa$ not an original Order in the court file.
In connection with the equitable distribution in Ms. Eanes
case, it was necessary for you to obtain an appraisal ·of Ms.
Eanes' ex-husband's business known as OR Surgical, Inc. yoti had
cont'acted Kent L. Dewey, a certified public accountant in
Greensboro, about providing an evaluation of the company.
Ms. Eanes began requesting Dewey's opinion. Because you had
failed to provide Dewey with the relevant information on the
company, Dewey had not appraised the business; nevertheless, you
prepared a letter purportedly from Kent Dewey to yourself with a
valuation placed on the business. You signed Kent Dewey's nCime
to the letter without his knowledge or authorization.
.
By providing your client with a document whichpurporteq to
be a conformed copy of Judge Daisy's child support order when no
order had actually been signed by Judge Daisy, you engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentatidn'
in violation of Rule 1.2(c). By signing Kent Dewey's name to' a
letter appraising OR Surgical Inc. when Dewey had not furnished
such a letter or valvation, yoti engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or .misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 1 . .2(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

'

~I

:,

In mitigation, you have no prior disciplinary record and you
reported your misconduct to the State Bar. You fully and freely
disclosed to the State BCir the circumstances $urrQunding YO\lr
misconduct. The two instances of misconduct cited above appear
to be aberrations in an otherwise distinguished career.
.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar ~or
your violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct. The
Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you w:i,ll neve+,
again aJ,low yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in
the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean
yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose
conduct may be relied upon without question ..
In accordance with the policy adopted Ootober 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigCitive costs to any attorney
issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount 0;E $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

"
.. /""'~---'~ ,-'
i

-.....

--------------~-----------

Done and ordered, this

--~--

-

,--

~-

---

---

-~-

--~~----~~--

Z~

I

I:
,

