NORIH CAROLINA

BEFORE '!HE

DISCIPLINARY HEARING cx:M{[SSION
OF '!HE
NORIH CAROLINA sTATE BAR
'~5

THE NORm CAROLINA STATE BAR,

)

Plaintiff

)

mc

12

)

vs.

)
)

IHILLIP S. BlOO<S III, ATroRNEY)
Defendant
)
)

FINDINGS Of FAcr
AND CONCIlJSIONS OF lAW
AND ORDER TRANSFERRING
ATroRNEY 'ID DISABILITY
INACrIVE STA'IUs

THIS MATI'ER was heqrd on Aug. 18,1995 by a duly appointed Hearing
Connnittee of the Disciplinary Hearing Connnission of the North carolina:'
state Bar corrp6sedof Hemy C. Babb, Jr., Cllair; Michael ~. Bonfoey and A.
James 'Early III, pursuant to Section .0118 of the N.C. state Bar Discipline
~ Digapility ~es.
carolin Bakewell representeQ the Plaintiff, the N~C •.
state Bar. . '!he Defendant, Philip S. Banks III, did not appear and was not
represented by counsel. Based upon the plead,ings filed herein and the
evidence pres$ted at the hearing, the Hearing Committee makes the
following:·
FINDINGS OF FAcr

I

1. '!he Plaintiff, the North carolina state Bar, is a body duly
o:rganized UI'lQer the laws of North carolina and is t,pe proper party ,to bring
this proceeding under the authority granted it in Cllapter' 84 6f the General
statutes of North carolina, and the Rules and Re!gulations of the North
carolina state Bar :promulgated thereunder.

2. '!he Defendant, Ihillip S. Banks III (hereafter, Banks), was
admitted to the North carolina state Bar in i984, al'lC1 is, and was at qll
times referred to herein, an Attomey at raw licensed to pJ:'actice in North
CC:lrolina, subject to the rules, regulations, andRulep of Professional
Conduct of the North carolina state Bar and the laws of the state of North
carolina.

3. Dlring all of the pertinent periods :t;eferred to h.erein, Banks was
actively engaged in the practice of law in the state of North carolina and
maintained a law office in the City
of Winston-Salem, Forsyth CoUnty, North carolina.
4. Banks was personally served with the state Bar's Stmnnons and
complaint .herein by a member of the Forsyth County Sheriff's Department on

May 22, 1995.

5. On June 12, 1995, L. 'Ihomas Illnsfo:td II, seCretary of the N.C.
state Bar, mailed a -copy of the notice scheduling the hearing in this
matter for Aug. 18, 1995 to Banks at his last knc:IWn address, 2651 Glen
Forest Drive, !Winston-salem, N.C. 27103.
6. Prior 'to the hearing of this matter, Banks failed to submit himself
for a physical; and psychiatric evaluation, failed to respond to the N.C.
state Bar's discovery requests in this matter and failed to participate in
a pretrial conference, in violation of o:tders entered by the Cl1air of the
Disciplinary Hearirg camn:i.ssion.
7. In recent months, Banks haS written a number of letters and has
filed nUIl¥3r9US pleadings in the state and federal courts which contain
frivolous, bizarre and unfounded interpretations of the law and the
constitution.
8.

Bar-J~

consistently refers

~.:c

I

adverSe or unfa'Tor..=>_ble court decisior.s

has "illegal,'~ "unconstitutional" or "void" and typically ignores these

decisions instead of dealing with them in more appropriate or effective
ways.
9. Banks has engaged in a pattern of relitigating issues which have
previously beeri decided adverse to him.
10. In September 1994, Hon. catherine Eagles found that Banks had
violated Rule 11 by filing a show cause motion in the case of state of
North carolina; ex reI Edmisten v. Schamens et al, 90 CVS 5443 (Forsyth
County) whiCh was not well grounded in fact. Judge Eagles also found that
the show cause motion attenpted to re-litigate issues which had previously
been decided on two other occasions in the same lawsuit. Judge Eagles
ordered Banks to participate in the N. C. state Bar lawyer Management
Assistance Program (!MAP).
11 Banks has refused to participate in the N. C. state Bar !MAP
Program.

12.

On

April 6, 1995, Hon. William L. Osteen entered an order holding

Banks in contempt of court, after Banks failed to appear in court in
December 1994 to present oral argument respecting a motion which Banks had
filed on behalf of his client in the case of Shamens y.!.. carlson,

B-90-i3419C-7W (M.D.N.C).

I

.

13. In the show-cause proCeeding before Judge Osteen, Banks contended
that he had a Constitutional right not to appear to argue the motion and
that Judge Osteen's order conunanding him to appear violated the 13th
.Amemment of the u.s. Constitution.
14. Judge Osteen's o:tder found that Banks' analytical ability had
become ilclouded" and ordered Banks not to appear before him in federal

court for a period of one year.
15. Banks ihas engaged in a pattern of threatening judges, court
officialS and dpposing parties and their attorneys with criminal
prosecution, ~chment; civil litigation and divine retribution when

I

these irxlividuals take action with which Banks disagrees.
16. Banks was jailed for 30 days for criminal contenpt in March :J;995
after he refused to comply with an order of the W~ COUnty SUperior Court,
commarxling him to tum aver records relating, to his attorney trust account
to the N.C. state Bar, in carcpliance with a Si:ate Bar randain .audit
subpoena.
17. As of Aug. 18, 1995, Banks continued to reiuE;e to cdrt1ply with the
randOll). audit subpoena am insists that the state Bar has no authority to

I

review his trust account records.

18. 'J;3anks has stated in at least one plea¢lihg that betwe!=n December
am Janucu:y 1995 he has became "afraid and nervous ••• [because ·of
an alleged conspiracy] to the point where Banks has found it difficult to
concentrate and remain focused, has become paranoid about people and
Ine'.:ltings in public settings, and r.a:;; experienl':'eci a shol.tening of his temper'
1992

ani patience with people, including his client, Donald siImns ••••
19. Kip sturgis, an Assistant Attorney General, testified that he has
been involved in ~era1 cases over the past three y~ in ~ich .Banks Wcl$

also involved as an attorneyand/or a party.
20. Sturgis testified that, based upon his observatiQns of Banks; it·'
is his opinion that Banks suffers from c.t memtal condition whic1)
.
substantially impairs his judgment, perfonnance or cOmpetence as an
attorney.
21. Prior to the hearing of this matter, Raleigh psychiatrist Dr.
Nicholas E. stratas reviewed a number of doctnnents written by Banks.
Dr. stratas testified that the author of the documents ,which he
reviewed exhibited synptoms which are consistent with an individual who
22.

suffers from a psychotic disorder.

I

23. Dr. stratas testified that I absent appropriate treatment I Ban]{s' '
condition is not likely to iIrg;>rove and Very likely will d~teriorate 111 the

future.

.

24. Dr. stratas further stated, that in his opinion,. Banks was not
able to function rompetently as an attorney.
25. Banks suffers from a Inental condition which SUbstantially impairS
his judgment, perfonnance or competence as an attorney.

OONCIDSIONS OF lAW

is disabled within the meaning of 27 N.C. Admin. COde <llaptE~r
1, SUbchapter B, Rule .0103 (18) of the Discipline & Disbal:meht Rules of t1}e
N.C. state Bar in that Banks suffers from a mental or physical condition
which $ignifi~tly impairs Banks' professional judgment, perfonnance or
competence.
1.

~

008,~.42.'
.

, t ..

.'

..
2. Banks should be transferred to disability mactive status until
such time ~ he submits himself for a physical and psychiatric examination
by a physician or physicians and demonstrates that he is competent to
practice law ip North carolina.
WHEREFORE, . the Hearing committee hereby ORDERS:
'!he De~endant, Phillip S. Banks III, is hereby TRANSFERRED 'ro
INAdrIVE STMUS until such time as Banks submits himself for a
physical and psychiatric examination by a physician and psychiatrist and
demonstrates by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he is con1petent
to practice law in North carolina.
1.

D~SABILITY

2. Banks Shall have 30 days from service of this order in which to
conclude arty pending legal matters.

I

3,. Banks shall COll1ply with the wind down provisions of Section .0124
of the Discipline & Disability Rules.

4. Banks f?hall pay the costs of this disability proceeding, including
all SUIils expetrled by the N.C. state Bar to carrpensate the Bar's expert
witness, Dr. NiCholas E. stratas.
Signed by the C11air with the consent of the other
Hearing Connnit~ members.

~

the

:tC..

day of

~.,

1995 •

• ,l
, Jr., Chair
4G:>\.,.a::IJ.iinary Hearing Conunission

I

I
OOS{r}5- :"

