BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMiTTEE
·OFTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95Q0012(IV)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNty

IN THE MATTER OF
C. GARY TRIGGS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

II
t

.

On Octob~r 19, 1995, the Grievance Cortnnittee ofthe North Carolina State Bar metand
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bat.
"

Pursuant to section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable Cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a fmding of probable cause, the Grievance Cortnnittee may
. determine that t4e filing of a complaint and a heating before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition,
reprimand, or a Gensure.
A censQre i$ a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice,
the profession or. a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attorney's license.
The Grievapce Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Comnrittee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I
am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.

i

i

J

I

I

.

/ ..
r

r

0.0825

.
-

....
.;~

------~

---~ ~------~

:1',

I

You represented C. Morgan Shepherd, a client and long-time friend, in the sale ofMr,.
Shepherd's business, Telcom. From the sales proceeds, you were to pay cert~in debts of Mr.
Shepherd, including an equity loan in the amount of$15,627.27. Fifteen thousand dollars Qfthe
proceeds from the sale was maintained in your trust account. Yau asked to borrow the
$15,000.00 from Mr. Shepherd. Mr. Shepherd agreed to the loan and you delivered a note to
him.
You did not repay the loan in a timely manner as agreed upon by you and Mr. Shepherd.
However, the note with interest, has been repaid.
You represented L~ McCall in the sale -of one ofhis businesses. Proceeds from the sale'
were placed in your trust account. You asked to borrow some of Mr. McCall's money which
was in your trust account. Mr. McCall agreed to the loan and you provided a note with interest
for the lQan to McCall. However, you did not give him a secured note for the loan.
Y()u represented Richard Pons in a personal injury case. You deposited the proceeds ofthe:
settlement of that case into your trust account. At a later time, you borrowed some of the
proceeds Mr. Pons obtained from the personal injury action. You never gave Mr. Pons a
promissory note to secure the loan.

I

The Grievance Committee acknowledges that neither Mr. Shepherd nor Mr. McCall
complained about their loan tran~actions with you. Nevertheless, yow conduct with respect to
borrowing money from your clients violates Rule 5.4(a) of the Rules ofProfessional Conduct.
The loans were business transactions. Your interests as borrower and your clients' interests as 'l~nders were inherently adverse. Your clients expected that you as ,their lawyer would exercise
your professional judgment for their prote~tion with regard to the loans. Yoor clients cons~nte4'­
to the loans, but there was no full di~closure given before you obtained their con~ent. Thatis,
you did not explain to the clients the risks or disadvantages associated with lending money to
you. You did not advise them to consult independent counsel so that they could determine if the
terms and conditions of the loans were favorable to them.,
Rule 5.4(a) also prohibits a lawyer from entering into a business transaction with a client
under any circumstances unless it is fair to the client. These loan transactions were not fair to
your clients. With respect to Richard Pons and Larry McCall, you did hot provide promissory
notes or any security for their loans. In the case of C. Morgan Shepherd, your unsteady financi~
condition jeopardized his loan with the bank. The Grievance Committee was concerned about
the potential financial harm which could have resulted in these loans from your clients.

00826·

-.....

--------,----.--.-------~-----~------------------

,

---

- - .

. - -

Y QU are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance COnimittee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a strong remirlder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to
the public, yoUr clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean,
yourself as a r~spected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon
without question.

-

I

In accorcJ.ance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State,Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issuecJ. a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in
the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

fL:/I\,

day of

~, 1996.

tkv~~

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

,/
I

!

r

:

)r..,
/

\._!.

008Z';:
1 ..... •

~J

.'

