NORTH

CMO~INA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STArE ,BAR
94G 1533(III)

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

ROMALLUS O. MURPHY
ATTORNEY AT LAW

.'

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 11, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina Btate Bar
met and considered the grievance filed against you by PriceUa Curtis.
Pursuant to section ,0113(a) of the Discipline and Dis~bili,ty Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the G:rievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing..
After considering the information available to it, including your ref;lponse to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable Qause. Probable·causei~
defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cau~e, the Grievance
Committee may determine that the filing of a complaint alld a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee
may issue various ievels of discipline depending upon the misconduct~ the actual or
potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors, The Grievance·
;. Committee :may issue ~n admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent
attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more s~rious than all admonition
issued in cases in which an attorney has violated,one or more provisions of the
Rules of Profes~ional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm toa client,
the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does not require a censure .
. The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a cenSl.\J;e is not required in
this case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this
.
reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this
duty is performed.
The Grievance Committee found that complainant filed a petition for a Contested
Case Hearing with the Office of Administrative Hearings ("OAH") on J uile 30, 199~;.
that on, July 20; the Attorney General's office, on behalf of N.C.. A&T University,
served complainant with a motion to dismiss; that later that same day, complainant

,

,',:OqS28
,

,

.'

----.-------......."---------.,.-----.,......,....,,...,..........,.,....,....,.,.,---,--~~~--.~-.. ,.-- ~'.- ----~-.-.-- -~-~~

hired you to represent :h(:rt 'with this matter; that complainant produced everything
needed to respond to the motion at the initial meeting; that pursuant to OAH Rule
.0115, you had ten days from the date of service of the mQtion to file a response;
that you failed to;
any response on behalf of complainant; that you received
notice that pre~hearing statements were due on August 12, 1994 but you failed to
file anything by this date or anytime thereafter; that other than a Notice of
Appearance dated August 1, 1995, you did not file anything with the OAH on behalf
of complainant; that on August 17, 1994, the Administrative Law Judge assigned to
this case allowed respondent's IilotiOll; that after the petition was dismissed, you
failed to tak~ any action, such as filing an appeal, to try and rectify the
consequences of your neglect; and that you failed to reasonably communicate with
complainant. concerning the status of her case throughout this rep.resentation.

-

--

...

_-- -

.-

file

1

The committee determined that this conduct violated Rules 6(b)(3) and
6(b)(1) whic4 state that a lawyer shaU act with reasonable diligence and
promptness In representing the Glient and shall keep the client reasonably inf<;>rmed.
about the st~tus of a matter and promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information. As indicated in the comment to Rule 6: "Perhaps J;lO professional
shortcoming is more widely resented than procrastination. A client's ~nterests often
can be adversely affected by the passage of time or the change of conditions; in
extreme instances, ... the client's legal position may be destroyed. Even when the
client's interests are not affected in substance, however, Unreasonable delay can
cause a client needless anxiety and undermine confidence in the lawyers'
trustworthiness."
You are hereby r~primanded by the' North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will 'n~ver again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high
ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15,1981 by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and
investigative :costs to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee,
the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you .
Done and ordered, this

. ,m-

3

day of'

/'

I'

, 1996.

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

1

./'

t

I

I

I

r.,. .

J

. '

00829

