_ _---------------------~-----.--------- - ------

~-------------____:1

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARYHEARINGCOMMlSSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96 DHC 3

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
THOMAS B: BRANDON, III, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

I

This matter scheduled to be heard on June 14, 1996 before a hearing C01l11liittee composed
of Henry C."Babb, Jr., Chair, Franklin E. Martin, and A. James Early, III; with A. Root
Edmonson rep~esenting the North Carolina State Bar and Alan M. Schneider representing Thomas
B. Brandon, III. Defendant has agreed to waive a formal hearing in the above referenced matter.
All parties stipulate that these matters may be resolved by the undersigned hearing committee,
and that the Defendant further hereby waives his right to appeal this consent order or challenge
in any way the sufficiency of the findings. The Hearing Committee therefore enters the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
to rthbrinCg thil·.s procdeethding under dthRe auth
laws 0df.~orthC'h- Caroh'na anfthd ios the alproSper PartyfN
- -~rity
grante It m apter s4 0 e ener
tatutes 0 0
aro ma, an
e Ru les an egulatlOns
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
'
1.

1-'

2.
The Defendant, Thomas B. Brandon, III (hereinafter Brandon), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on September 20, 1979 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North' Carolina, subject to" the rules,
regulations, ~d Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of
the State of North Carolina.
,

3.
'During the times relevant to this Complaint, Brandon w~ actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the Town of
Williamston, Martin County, North Carolina.

,
,I
I

.
i

1

/'

I

AS RELATES TO THE FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF ALLEGED
IN THE COMPLAINT

4.
Terry L. Stokes (hereinafter Stokes) has a daughter who in 1994 was enrolled in
a school at the United Cerebral Palsy Center (hereiHdfier the center) in Greenville, North
Carolina. Stokes' child suffered from cerebral palsy.

I

5.

Brandon and Stokes have no frunily relationship.

6.

Brandon and Stokes have no professional relationship.

7.
On or about August 2, 1994, without Stokes having initiated any contact with him,
Brandon visited Stokes' neighbor and friend, Sabrina Hill (hereinafter Hill). Brandon identined
himself as an attorney who had previously represented other children from the center ill·
negiigence lawsuits. Brandoll asked Hill questions about whether Stokes' child might be disabled.
Brandon asked Hill whether Stokes had ever had an attorney review the child's medical records
to determine whether there may have been any medical negligence that caused the child's current
medical condition.
8.
Brandon also asked Hill who might know mote about the child's condition. Hill
advised Brandon that Stokes' relative, Earl Smith (hereinafter Smith), from Ayden, North~
Carolina, might be helpful in answering some of Brandon's questions.
.'
9.
Brandon later personally visited Smith and identified himself ~s an attorney who·
had previously represented other children in medical negligence lawsuits. Brandon asked Smith
if Stokes' child Was disabled and whether an attorney had ever exatninedthe child's medical
records to rule out medical negligence. Brandon asked Smith to ascertain whether Stokes wanted
him. to review the child's medical records to determine whether there may have been any medical
negligence that caused the child's cerebral palsy.

I

10.
Brandon's.interest in seeking to review Stokes' child's me<iical records was to
secure representation in any medical negligence case that the records may· have revealed was
warranted. A significant motive for Brandon in secw"ing representation of Stokes was the fee that
the case might generate.
11.
By approaching Hill and Smith and proposing that they advise Ms. Stokes or his
availability to review her child~ s medical records to determine whether she had grounds for. a
claim for medical negligence, Brandon w~ attempting to solicit profeSSional employment fOJ:
pecuniary gain by in-person contact through the acts of others.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact relating to the First Claim for Relief
alleged in. the Complaint, the hearing committee makes the following:

1/
/.
- ,I
.

0085·2·
.....

----------..--------~----~--~~~-----------

--------------,

CONCLUSION OF LAW
Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. Sec.
84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the N.C. Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
By attempting to solicit fee-generating professional employment from Stokes in
a potential medical negligence claim concerning her child's cerebral palsy, and
doing s<\> through in-person contacts with other who could influence Stokes,
Brandon attempted to solicit professional enlployment from a prospective client
with whpm he had no family or prior professional relationship when a significant
motive for doing so was his own pecuniary gain in violation of Rule 2.4(A), and
attempted to violate Rule 2.4(A) through the acts of others in violation of Rule
1.2(A).

I

AS RELATES TO THE SECOND CLAIM FOR
RELIEF ALLEGED IN THE COMPLAINT

12.

Brandon has no family relationship with Stephanie Bethea (hereinafter Bethea).

13.

Brandon and Bethea had no professional relationship.

14.
S~metime in 1988, Brandon had an opportunity to see Bethea's child in Greenville.
He noticed that ~e child had cerebral palsy.
15.
Brandon subsequently made an in-person visit to Bethea's house and asked Bethea
whether he coul4 come in and speak with her about her child. Brandon advised her that he had
represented children who were handicapped, including children with conditions similar to her '
- child~s, ip negligence claims. He indicated that her child's condition may have be~n caused by
inadequate medipal care.
16.
Brandon's interest in approaching Bethea in person was to secure representation
in any medical negligence case that Bethea's child's medical records may have revealed was
warranted. A significant motive for Brandon in secudng representation from Bethea was the fee,
that the case might generate.

l-

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact relating to the Second Claim for Relief
alleged in the Complaint, the hearing committee makes the following:
CONCLUSION OF LAW
Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. Sec.
84-28(b)(2) in that befendant violated the N.C. Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:

I

.-

,!

;

r

)

..

i~,~.,.
--

00853
,f..:'

'.

,'

-

By attempting to solicit fee-generating professional employment from Bethea in
a potential medical negligence claim concerning her child's cerebral palsy, .
Brandon attempted, through in-person contaGt, to soliCit professional employment
from a prospective client with whom he had no family or prior professional
relationship when a significant motive for doing So was his Own pecuniary gain
in violation of Rule 2.4(A).

BASED UPON the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the consent -of the
parties, the hearing committee fmds the following:

I

FACTORS IN AGGRAVATION

1.

Multiple offenses.

2.

Substantial experience in the practice of law.

FACTORS IN MITIGATION

1.

Absence of a prior disciplinary record.

2.

Absence of dishonest motive.

3.
Full and free disclosure to the Committee and cooperative attitude toward t4e
proceedings.

\

4.
. 5.

Character and reputation.
Interim rehabilitation through comprehensive r~view of the rules and
governing advertising and solicitation.

6.

Sincere and genuine remorse regarding his conduct.

7.

Remoteness of the conduct alleged in the second Claim for relief.

regul~tions

BASED UPON the foregoing, the hearing committee enterS the folloWing ORPER, OF
DISCIPLINE:

1.
Thomas B. Brandon, III is hereby suspended from the practice of law in North
.
Carolina for a period of six months.

11

i

i

I
J

I

f

r

t

;

/'
'.

'

...

00'854
, .

2.
The suspension of Brandon's license is suspended for two years upon Brandon's
compliance with the following conditions:
a. During each year of the. two year stay period, Brandon shall participate in a 3
hour ethics block in which the issue of permissible vs. impermissible forms of attorney
advertising is addressed.
a. Brandon shall violate no provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct during
the two year sU;ly period.

h.

Brandon shall violate no laws of the state of North Carolina for the two year

stay period.
3.

I

The costs of the proceeding are taxed against Brandon as assessed by the Secretary.

Je...

Signed on this the
day of ~. , 1996 with the full knowledge and consent
of the other me¢bers of the hearing commft e.

·~f

He
"abb, Jr.,' Chair
Di ~ary Hearing Committee

CONSENTED

to:

.04~~
'

...

~

Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

jJ£~;4~A. Root Edmonson
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

i

I

/

I

I
,,

,

/ ...
I

:,

/
....

'00855
,

.

