•

p

BEFORE THE
,I
CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95 BCR 5

NORTH CAROLINA
WA,KE COUNTY

In the Matter of
Petition for Reinstatement 0:E:

~'1l

RECOMMENDATION OF
HEARING COMMITTEE

Carl Goldfarb

I

This matter coming on to be heard ~nd being hear& on
Septemper 29, 1995 by a hearing committee composed of Paul L.
JoneE;l, Chairman, James R. Fox, and Robert Frantz. The Petitioner,
Carl Goldfarb, was represented by James B. Maxwell, and Harriet '
P. Tharrington 'represented the North Carolina State Bar. Based
upon the evidence presented and the arguments of counsel, the
hea~ing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Carl Goldfarb was admitted to the practice of law in
North Carolina in 1959.
2. From September 1959 through June 1983, Goldfarb was all
attorney licensed to practice law in ~orth Carolina, with his
principal office in Charlotte, North Carolina.
3. On May 19, 1983, Goldfarb pled guilty to and was
adjuq,ged guilty of two counts of embezzlement iIi violation of
N.C.G.S. Section 14-90 in Mecklenburg County. Superior Court.
4. On May 20, 1983, Goldfarb voluntarily tepderedthe
surrender of his license to tbe North Carolina State Bar. At the
time of the voluntary surrender, Goldfarb filed an affidavit
acknowledging that on five occasions over a period of
approximately two years he had misappropriated approximately
$29,.000 of funds entrusted to him by clients.
'

I

5. On June 3, 1977, prior to his disbarment, Goldfarb
received a publ:i,c censure from the North Carolina State Bar in
Disciplinary Hearing file 77 DHC 1. tn that order, Goldfarb was
censured for receiving funds of a client and failing to preserve
the identity of those funds . . A copy of the public censure is
attached to this r~commendation and incorporated herein.
6. Goldfarb's indictment and conviction were widely
publicized in the Mecklenburg County communitY because Goldfgrb
waE;l a ~rominent member of the bar and community.
7. On July 15, 1983, based upon Goldfarb's affidavit and
surrender of license, an order was entered by the Council
disbarring Goldfarb.
'
8.

I

"

. .#'" .....

,-

;~",;:. ... .:r.-",,;/

The underlying incidents which led to the tender of

.

Goldfarb's l.icenSe and his disbarment are set out in the
affidavit dated May 20, 1983, the Council's Order dated JUly 15,
1983 and the: Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law in 77 DHC 1
dated June 3, 1977, all of which are attached to this
recommendation and are incorporated herein.
9.
Fro~ the earliest years of Goldfarb's career through the
time he surrendered his license Goldfarb's first wife suffered
psychiatric problems. Soon after the marriage, Goldfarb learned
that his wife had been in psychiatric treatment since age five.
10. Over the course of the marriage, Goldfarb's wife grew
more seriously ill. She was repeatedly hospitalized at Duke,
Menninger's,' Johns Hopkins and other treatment centers. On at
least Qne occasion, she spent two years at the Menninger's Clinic
in Topeka, K~nsas.

I

11.

Because of his wife's psychiatric problems and frequent
Goldfarb was primarily responsible for the care
of his two children, William and Ava.
hospitalizat~ons,

12. The'bills for Goldfarb's wife's psychiatric treatment
ran into hundreds of thousands of dollars. After the first few
years of marr.iage, .Goldfarb's medical insurance ceased paying for
his wife's treatment.
13.
In order to pay the medical bills, Goldfarb began
borrowing money from friends and family.
14. The :financial pressures on Goldfarb from his wife's
illness contributed to Goldfarb'S decision to take client funds
to meet his wife's massive medical bills.
15. Goldfarb divorced his first wife in 1981.
Sharon House 'Goldfarb in 1983.

He married

16. After the divorce, his first wife successfully sued her
primary psychiatrist at Duke University for malpractice in part
for improper administration of drugs.
17. Goldfarb petitioned for reinstatement in 1989. A full
evidentiary hearing was held on January 19, 1990. At the
conclusion of that hearing, a majority of the panel recommended
reinstatement' in an order signed the 30th day of March 1990. One
member dissented. When the matter came before' the full council
of the State Bar, the council denied Goldfarb's petition. A copy
of the Report' of Hearing Comm,ittee in the 1989 reinstatement case
is attached.

I

18. Goldfarb has complied with all orders and judgments of
the state court relating to the matters resulting in his
disbarment, a~d.he has fully complied with all conditions of the
sentence imposed by the Superior Court of Mecklenburg County.
19.

Goldfarb's citizenship has been restored.

20. Goldfarb haS made restitution to all clients whose funds
were embezzled.

..

~

....

,

I

21. Goldfarb has taken the following continuing legal
education courses on the dates indicated below:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.

April 29, 1989
June 2, 1989
Dec. 3, 1992
Dec. 11, 1992
Feb. 19, 1993
May 7, 19,93
August 27, 1993

h. March 25, 1994

I

i. Feb. 17, 1995

Basics of Bankruptcy
Workers' Compensation
N.C. Tort Law of 1992
N.C! Workers' Compensation Law
Wrecks, Liens and Videotape
Workers' Compensation
The 1993 Professional
, Responsibility Seminar
N.C. Evaluation and Settlement
Personal Injury Claims
Medical Proof Of Damages a~d
Disability

22. Goldfarb has at times since his disbarment worked as a
paralegal/legal assistant.
23.

Since his disbaJ,:'ment, Goldfarb has worked at times asa
at the battered women'S shelter of Mecklenburg County
and with the Mecklenburg County Red cross; however, upon lea'rning
of Goldfarb's conviction for embezzlement and his disbaJ,:'ment, the
battered women's shelter told Goldfarb that it no longer n~ed,ed '
his service,s.
volunt~~r

24. There was no evidence that Goldfarb eng,ageo. in the
unauthorized practice of law during the period of'disparment.
25. Goldfarb is remorseful over the c'ircumstancesthat led
to his surrender of license in 1983.
26. T~mothy L. Harris, a Gastonia attorney and Goldfarb's
current employer, hired Goldfarb to serve as a legal a$si$ta~t in
his o~fice with full knowledge of Goldfarb's misconduct. Harris
has found Goldfarb to be diligent and trustworthy.

I

27. William Goldfarb, Goldfarb's son
testified on behalf of his father.

a~d

a Monroe attorney,

BASED UPON the foregoing findings, the hearing committee
concludes as follows:
1. Carl Goldfarb has proven by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence that he possesses the moral qualifiqations requir~d 'for
admission to the practice of law in North Carolina.
~.
Goldfarb has proven by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence that he understands the current Rules of Professional
Conduct.

3. Carl Goldfarb has not proven by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence that if he is allowed to resum~ the practic~
of law in North Carolina it will not be detrimental to the
standing and integrity of the baJ,:', nor the administration'of
justice, nor adverse to the public's interest.
4.

Because it has been more than seven (7) years since

Goldfarp was ~isbarred, the committee understapds and recommends
that any reinstatement would pe conditioned upon Goldfarb's
attaining a passing .grade on a regularly scheduled written bar
examination administered by the North Carolina Board of Law
Examiners and, the Multistate Professional Responsibility Exam to
prove competertcy and learning in the law required to practice law
iIi this state.
5. For purposes of 27 North Carolina Administrati.ve Code
Chapter 1, Supchapter B, Section .0125(a) (7), this recommendation
shall be a final order unless Gqldfarb seeks to bring this
recommendation before the Council of the North Carolina State Bar
for their consideration.
WHEREFORE, the hearing comrni t·tee by a unanimous vote
recommends that the license to practice law of Carl Goldfarb not
be reinstated.

I

Signed by the undersigned Chairman with the full knowledge
and consent of the other members of the hearing committee this
the ~ay 0f October, 1995.
.

~
Paul L. Jones
Hearing Commi

hpt #364

I

I

......, .. ~ .

.'," 008~9

