BEFORE THE
'GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94G0570(I)

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE:

IN THE MATTER OF
BILLY H. MASON,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

I

•

On Octofuer 20, 1994, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by Herbe~t Munday, Jr.
Pursuant to section 13 (A) of article IX of the Rules and
Regulations 9f the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee co~ducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause.
Probable cau$e is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rulesproV'ide that after a finding of probable cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission a~e not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating f~ctors. The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a wri,tten form of discipiine more serious
than an admonition issued in cases in which an attorhey has
violated one :or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a'member of the
public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opi~ion that a censure is
not required ,in this case and issues this r¢primand to you. As
chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to iSsue this reprimand and I am certain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is
performed.
You agreed to bring a lawsuit on behalf of Herbert L.
Munday, Jr;'s business against a shopping center landlord. On
several occasions, you misrepresented to Munday that a lawsuit
was in progress and that you had engaged in conversations with
the lease manager for the landlord. You made these

\

)
I

I

.J

.

..00871
~.

t '..

\

\

representations although no lawsuit had been filed and yo~ h~q
not engaged in any,conversation with the lease manager. Your
misrepresentations violated Rules 1.2 (C) and 7.2 (A) (4). Your ~'
failure to file the lawsuit violated Rules 6(B) (3) and 7.1(A) (1).
You also failed to return a videotape to M~nday or his new
.
counsel in violation of Rule 2.8(A) (2).
You failed to respond to a Letter of Notice' in this matteJ:;' .
in violation of Rule 1.1(B). You made no res~onse until ~
subpoena was issued for your appearance.

I

orhe Grievance Committee was cognizant of the E:3fforts you
made in the past to deal with the problems that caused similar
misconduct in the past. The Committe~ urges you to con.tinu~ ~uch
treatment to prevent any recurrence of similar conduct in the
future.
•

You are hereby reprimanded by the Nort~ Carolina State B~r
due to your professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remeffiPered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and, that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to
the high ethical stand~rds of the legal profession.
.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 1,5, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding tne ,tax;l:Q.g
of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ·of this
action in the amount of $50.00 arE:3 hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

r+'ftday of AI~

, 1!394.

I

\

I

)

I

J

: '\

It,

'"

