~3/7
NORTH CAROLINA

---~ ______ -____

BEFORE THE
-- CHUEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96GOI84(1)

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
DOUGLAS O~BORNE, JR,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 25, 1996, the Grievance Conimittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing; After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cauSe. Probable cause is defined in the rule~ as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
.
The. rules, provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hel;lring
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depeq.ding upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or qtitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition,
reprimand, 01' c~nsure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofP1'ofessional Conduct
and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or
a member of the: public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this repriD;lartd to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina
State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain tha~ you will understand
fully the spirit in which this dutY is performed.
You were appointed to represent William H. McClelland in the appeal of his conviction of
criminal charges: You failed to perfect Mr. McClelland's appeal.

I

In yo.ur respo.nse to. this grievance, yo.u indicated that Mr. McClelland's appeal "slipped my
mind." The Grievance Co.mmittee was co.ncerned abo.ut yo.ur representation that yo.ll had
fo.rgo.tten Mr. McClelland's appeal, particularly when there was evidence that yo.u received two.
remind~rs, abo.ut Mr. McClelland's appeal. One reminder was from a clerk o.f court and ano.ther
was from the clerk o.fthe No.rth Caro.lina Co.urt o.f Appeals.
Yo.ur failure to. perfect Mr. McClellapd's appeal vio.lates Rule 1.2(<i), Rule 6~b)(3), and
Rule 7.1(a)(I) o.fthe Rules o.fPro.fessio.nal Co.nduct. Yo.ur neglect o.fMr. McClellan<i"s appeal
had a Po.tentially dire effect o.n Mr. McClelland's appeal to. the No.rth Caro.lina Co.urt o.f Appeals.
Yo.U were served with a letter o.f no.tice in this grievance o.n March 9, 1996. Yo.U failed to.
resPo.nd within the time allo.wed under the State Bar rules. Yo.U finally resPo.nded to. this
grievance after yo.u were subpo.enaed to. appear at the State Bar o.ffice.
Your failure to. resPo.nd pro.mptly to. this grievance vio.lates Rule 1.1 (b) and Rule 1.2(d)o.f
the Rules o.f Professio.nal Co.nduct. Please resPo.nd pro.mptly to. any grievance that yo.u tec~ive
in th~ future.
Yo.U are hereby reprimanded by the No.rth Caro.lina State Bat due to. yo.ur pro.fessio.nal
misco.nduct. The Grievance Co.mmittee trusts that yo.u will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will b~ beneficial to. yo.u, and'that yo.U will never again allow yo.urself
to. depart fro.m adherence to. the high ethical standards o.f the legalpro.fessio.n. '
In accordance witb the policy adopted October 15. 1981 by the Council of the Nortb
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of tbe administrative and investigative costs to any ,
attorney issued a reprimand by tbe Grievance Committee. the costs oftbis action in the
amount of $50.00 are bereby taxed to you.

"

"

Done and o.rdered, this

'fJl

~ day o.f~4C.oC4tH6!~_" 1996.

~p~
Ann Reed

Chair, Grievance Co.mmittee
The No.rth Caro.linaState Bar

--- .... ....
~

.r"'~

/

