BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G 1046(III)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
GEOFFREY C. MANGUM,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 25~ 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Benny P. West.
Pursuant to :section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information avail~ble to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found: probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member ottheNorth Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after.a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the ~.ctual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition,
reprimand, or cen,sure to the respondent attorney.
,

.

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious thart an admonition issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The GrievaI),ce Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina
State Bar, it is nowmy duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you will understand
fully the spirit in which this duty is performed. .
You agreed ;to handle five appeals for Benny P. West. You admit that you failed to perfect
those appeals.
Your neglect in handling Mr. West's appeals violates Rule 1.2(d), Rule 6(b)(3), and Rule
7. 1(a)(1)(2) and (3) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. As Mr. ,West's attorney, you had an
obligation to attend to his matters diligently and promptly.

I
009flS

You also failed to respond promptly to the grievance that Mr. West filed against you.
Although you were given art extension to respond to this grievance, you did not meet that
deadline. The State B~ subpoenaed you to its office 8lld you appeared and offered a response.
By not responding promptly to the State Bar's iQ.vestigati(;m of Mr. We~t's grievance, you have
violated Rule 1.1 (b) and Rule 1.2(d) of the Rules of Pr6fe~sional Conduct.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State B~ due to your professional
misconduct. The Griev811ce Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yours~lf
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued iLteprimandbythe_Gri<Mtl1ce Committe.e. the ..costsuofthis action in theamOllfit
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

~ day of_'="""""'----_ _-, 1996.

~~
1-

-

-

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina S~te Bar

I

j

l

I

j
I

- i

I
,... ....

."

"

00906

