NORTH CAROLINA

------- ---

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
EDWARD D. SELTZER,
. ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G0542(IV)R

CENSURE

On July 25, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Ali Q.
Pursuant t9 section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After conSidering the
information available to it, including yout response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found iprobable cause. Probable cauSe is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina S~te Bat is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the; filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing .
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline dependipg upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
. aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.

I

A censure ~s a written form of discipline mote serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attorney ,has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice,
the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attorney's license. ,
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I
am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty i~ performed.
You undertook to represent Mr. Ali Q. in early October 1994 respecting an immigration
matter. Mr. Q. paid you $1,500 and agreed to pay you an additional fee when the case was
concluded. Although it appears that you were unable to complete the case because Mr. Q. failed

-..
..

.• _ . .,-R"

."

..

'

."

. .60
.. 7.,
00
~

, ,'~ i!. '"<
• '
.. <"

~

*

'

~'

•

,.t

to provide you with some documents, you did not mak~ it ~l~ar't~ him that you would not
proceed without the documents, nor did you return the unearned portion of the $1,500 fee to Mr.
Q. Although you indicated that you were waiting to detertnine how the State Bar concluded Mr.
Q's grievance, the fact that a grievance had been filed did not relieve you of your duty to handle your client's legal matters promptly. Consequently, the Grievance Committee concluded that
you neglected a client's legal matter in violation of Rule 6(b)(3) and failed to return the unearned
P?rtion of a fee, ~n violation of Rule 2.8 of the Rules ofProfes~ional Conduct.

I
\

Additionally, the Grievance Committee found that you failed to respond toin-quiries fro111.
Mr. Q or his other attorney about the matter, in violation of Rule 6(b)(l) pfthe Rules of
Professional Conduct. Finally, the Committee found that you failed to respond promptly to the
local grievance committee's letter of notice concerning Mr. Q's complaint~ in violation Rule
1. 1(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

!I

II

of

Ii

Your misconduct in Mr. Q's case is aggravated by the fact that you have been previously
disciplined by the State Bar for similar misconduct. The Grievance Committee wishes to
emphasize that any future violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct may result in more
substantial discipline.

I
I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation ofthe Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made" and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should setveas
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to.
the public, your cliepts, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself
as a re~pected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without
question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
. $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

II

Done!Uld ordered, this (, JM. day of

I

liLA
~~A -I~,1996.

r:kv f?4<..

I
i
)

I

I

Ann Reed, Chair' Grievance Committee

I

The North Carolip.a State Bar

[

nl- '

1I

-

<

:
~ ",

-,./?'.
"

: ..
r."

,K)", -

00908"
'~

i

-----...

"j

-,"'" ~

