BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G0934(1I)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKECOUNT~

IN THE MATTER OF

H. C. KIRKHART,
ATTORNEY ATt,.AW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

I

On April 11, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the griiwance filed against y<;m by Yangchun Zhong.
Pursuant t6 section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a pr~liminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it; including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying ,
disciplihary action,. "
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the 'filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Cortunission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline dependiJ1g upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
.reprimand, or a cel1sure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or mOre provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice,
the profession or member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attorney's license. i

I

a

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you., As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this cehsure. I
am certain that yo~ will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In November 1994, you began representing Song Cong in a domestic case against her
Chinese husband, Yartgchun Zhong. In January 1995, an order was entered in Wake County
District Court ordering Mr. Zhong to pay $300 a month in alimony to Ms. Congo Subsequent to
that order being entered, you began a romantic relationship with yoUr client, Ms. Congo As a

/'

'

..

'..

"

"CoJ.~ ~istrict

result of that affair, a hearing was held in July 1995 in Wake
Court in which Mr.
Zhong sought repayment of the $1,200 he had paid in alimony to Ms. Cong due to the adulterous
relationship ~he was having with you. The court ordered the $1,200 to be repaid to Mr. Zhong
and also ordered Ms. Cong to pay Mr. Zhong's attorney's fees in the amount of$3,93~. You
allowed the interest of your client to be prejudiced by your personal interest in the relationship
with Ms. Congo Your conduct violated Rule 5.l(b).
In deciding to issue this censure, the Grievance Committee was fl,ware that Ms. Cong
consented to the relationship and that the commencement of the relationship was not a result of
your being overbearing or taking advantage of any weak emotional'condition caused by the
divorce action. The Grievance Committee was also aware that, at the time the relationship
comm~nced, Mr. Zhong may have had other grounds for ending the alimony payments due to a
Chinese divorce he had obtained. However, the committee did not feel that these facts
constituted a defense that exonerated you from a violation of the rule. A simple way for you to
have avoided violating the rule would have been to withdraw after the relationship developed.

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar' for your violation ,Of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance, Committee trusts that YOll will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility t()
the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean Y9Urseif
as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without
qlJestion.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
C&rolina State Bar regarding the taxi~g of the administrative and investigative costs to any .
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

t1I

Done and ordered, this

I

~ day of..y:.-:.....:!:.+~~--' 1996.

~J2~

Ann Reed, Chair Grievance Committee

The North Carolina State Bar

.
,
I

;

,,'

"

~1~"
...

'.

-~;

t>,'

'I,

,.>,

,00910'
','

~ ...

