----. --

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96GO 160(IV) & 96GO 182(IV)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
-EARLE D. ROBERTS, JR.
ATTORNEY At;LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On July 25, .1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to ~ection .0113(a) ofthe-Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information availa:ble to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cauSe is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bat is gUilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action,. "
The rules provide that after a finding ofprobable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the :filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are npt required and the-Grievanoe Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition,
reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand, is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or
a member of the pablic, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievan.¢e Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this ca~e and
issues this reprimapd to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina
State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you will understand
fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
!

-

You failed to: perfect the appeals of William Davis, Toney Recoe King, and Nathaniel
Stewart. Your neglect in handling these appeals violates Rule 1.2(d), Rule 6(b)(3), and Rule
7.1(a) (1)(2) and (3).

,/
I

.".

....J.?t

--OO~1.:1

I

You were notified ofthe grievances which alleged your failure to perfect the appeals of.Mr.
Davis, Mr. King, and Mr. Stewart. You accepted service of the ietters of notice, 'but you failed
to respond to the grievances within the time allowed by the State Bar's rules. You appeared in
the State Bar's office and responded to these grievances pursuant to a subpoena to appear and
produce documents.
Your failure to respond promptly to these grievances violates Rule 1.1 (b) and Rule 1.2(d)
of the Rules of Professional Conduct. You are advised to·respond promptly to any grievance YQ»
. may receive in the future ..
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimaI1d, that it wlll be'
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you Will never again allow your~elf
to departfrom adherence to the high e~cal standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 bythe Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the:Grievance Committee, the costs of this actionjn the fl111():qnt
of ~SO.OO are hereby taxed to yoU~

Done and ordered, this

~ day of

d.F96.

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

,I'

.

"
,

....
:.
: "

.

,{>"

,,

~;...

,~

00912
"

