.~~ 89;0//

,~

NORTH CAROLINA

...tIIII.,p
~

JtJl ~

?::.~\
~~

I:ll. '0,

BEFORE THE
HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08 DHC 1

.~.~ISCIPLINARY

0)..1S"D
'ie

WAKE COUNTY

~'4.

~//

~~J;1

~ \'};,-

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,

AND ORDER

OF DISCIPLINE


ERNEST C. DUMMIT, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was heard on May 29, 2008 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair; Robert F.
Siler; and Donald G. Willhoit. The defendant, Ernest Clarke Dummit was present at the
hearing represented by Urs Gsteiger. Leanor Bailey Hodge and Brian Oten represented
the North Carolina State Bar. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at
the hearing, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT:
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Ernest Clarke Dummit (hereinafter "defendant" or "Dummit"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on September 26, 1986, and is, and was at all
times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina,
subject to the rules, regulations, and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, defendant was actively engaged in the practice
of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained law offices in Forsyth and Stokes
Counties, North Carolina.
4.
Before December 2004, Mark Badgett (hereinafter "Badgett") was a practicing
attorney engaged in the general practice of law in Stokes County, North Carolina and
maintained an office in the town of King.

5.
Badgett became a district court judge in Stokes and Surry Counties and had
wound down his private law practice by December 2004.
6.
Defendant was not a partner, associate, or otherwise a member of Badgett's law
firm before Badgett was sworn in as district court judge.
7.
As district court judge for Stokes and Surry Counties, Badgett routinely presided
over trials involving traffic offenses, rendered verdicts from the bench and approved plea
bargains for disposition of traffic offenses, among other matters.
8.
Beginning in or about December of2004, defendant leased Badgett's former
office space in King, North Carolina, from Badgett.
9.
The lease was in effect and defendant occupied the leased premises during a
period oftime that included February and March, 2005.
10.
During the lease term, Badgett was serving as district court judge in Stokes and
Surry Counties.
11.
For approximately six months of defendant's lease term, there was a sign in the
front yard of the leased premises that read "Mark Badgett Attorney at Law."
12.
For approximately six months of the lease term, defendant hung a banner in the
front yard of the leased premises that read "The Dummit Law Firm" at the same time that
the sign that read "Mark Badgett Attorney at Law" hung in the front yard of the leased
premIses.
13.
For approximately six months of the lease term, the sign that read "Mark Badgett
Attorney at Law" and the sign that read "The Dummit Law Firm" were both clearly
visible to pedestrians and to motorists passing by the leased premises.
14.
Hanging the banner that read "The Dummit Law Firm" at the same time that the
sign which read "Mark Badgett Attorney at Law" was posted created the impression that
Badgett and The Durnmit Law Firm were at that time involved in a professional
association or relationship.
15.
Badgett and The Dummit Law Firm were not involved in a professional
association or relationship (other than a landlord-tenant relationship) at the time the
banner that read "The Dummit Law Firm" and the sign which read "Mark Badgett
Attorney at Law" were posted on the leased premises.
16.
During the month of February 2005, defendant, on behalf of the Dummit Law
Firm, mailed direct mail solicitation letters to persons who had received traffic citations
in Stokes and Surry Counties.

17.
Defendant mailed the direct mail solicitation letters for the purpose of persuading
persons who had been charged with traffic offenses to retain the Dummit Law Firm to
represent them in connection with those traffic offenses.
18.
The direct mail solicitation letters contained the sentence" [m]y Firm's [sic] new
office is located in the building which Judge Mark Badgett just left to become a judge."
19.
The direct mail solicitation letters contained the sentence" [w]e will make a more
formal announcement in the near future, to let all of Judge Carter's and Judge Badgett's
former clients know that they can still be served at the same location by our Firm [sic]."
20.
The direct mail solicitation letters contained the sentence "I have agreed to store
and maintain all of the old files as a courtesy to Judge Carter's and Judge Badgett's
clients."
21.
The direct mail solicitation letters contained the sentence "[m]y firm will be able
to represent you in the areas of Criminal and Traffic Matters, Personal Injury and Auto
Accidents, Workers' Compensation claims and Domestic and Family Law."
22.
The direct mail solicitation letters contained the sentence" [c]ourthouse records
show that you were charged with a Speeding Ticket which is set for court on 3/16/2005."
The entries in bold in the preceding sentence are variables that stated the nature of the
offense and the date shown on the citation for the first court date.
23.
The direct mail solicitation letters contained the sentence "[e]ven if you are guilty,
we may be able to get you a judicially approved plea bargain to a lower speed or to a
different charge such as Improper Speedometer."
24.
The content of the direct mail solicitation letters implied to prospective clients
that, at the time the letter was sent out, defendant or The Dummit Law firm had a
relationship with Judge Badgett which enabled defendant or The Dummit Law Firm to
obtain results for his or its clients which were more favorable than the results which
could be obtained by a different attorney who did not enjoy such a relationship with
Judge Badgett.
25.
The direct mail solicitation letters could be construed to imply an ability to
influence a government official improperly.
26.
In a letter dated March 7, 2006, defendant mailed to Judge Mark Badgett and to
District Attorney Ricky Bowman a document entitled "Remittal of Disqualification."
27.
The March 7, 2006 letter stated "Paul Ross suggested we sign and file" the
Remittal of Disqualification in Stokes County.
28.
Paul Ross is the Executive Director of the North Carolina Judicial Standards
Commission.

29.

Defendant drafted the Remittal of Disqualification.

30.
The Remittal of Disqualification states "[n]ow come the undersigned, pursuant to
an opinion rendered by the Judicial Standards Commission of the State of North Carolina
in accordance with Canon Three of the Judicial Code of Ethics, finding the relationship
of landlord-tenant which exists between Mark Badgett and Clarke Dummit to be both
insubstantial and immaterial to the administration of Justice in the District Courts of
Stokes County, and hereby provide Public Notice that the relationship is insubstantial and
immaterial pursuant to the opinion rendered by the Judicial Standards Commission, and
do hereby remit any impuned [sic] disqualification pursuant to Canon Three of the
Judicial Code of Ethics."
31.

Paul Ross did not suggest defendant sign and file the Remittal of Disqualification.

32.

Paul Ross did not suggest Badgett sign and file the Remittal of Disqualification.

33.
Paul Ross did not suggest District Attorney Ricky Bowman sign and file the
Remittal of Disqualification.
34.
Defendant sent the March 7, 2006 letter and Remittal of Disqualification to the
District Attorney, at Judge Badgett's suggestion, with the intention of obtaining the
District Attorney's signature on the Remittal of Disqualification and then filing the
Remittal of Disqualification in the court file of cases pending before Badgett in which
defendant or the Dummit Law firm represented a client.
35.
At the time he mailed the March 7, 2006 letter and Remittal of Disqualification,
defendant did not reasonably believe that the Judicial Standards Commission had not
rendered an opinion finding the relationship of landlord-tenant between Mark Badgett
and Clarke Dummit to be both insubstantial and immaterial to the administration of
Justice in the District Courts of Stokes County.
36.
At the time he mailed the March 7, 2006 letter and Remittal of Disqualification,
defendant should reasonably have been aware that Paul Ross had not suggested
defendant, Badgett or Bowman sign and file the Remittal of Disqualification.
37.
Defendant's representation that the Judicial Standards Commission had rendered
an opinion finding the relationship of landlord-tenant between Mark Badgett and Clarke
Dummit to be both insubstantial and immaterial to the administration of Justice in the
District Courts of Stokes County was false and misleading.
38.
Defendant made the representation that the Judicial Standards Commission had
rendered an opinion finding the relationship of landlord-tenant between Mark Badgett
and Clarke Dummit to be both insubstantial and immaterial to the administration of
Justice in the District Courts of Stokes County intentionally and without exercising
proper diligence to determine its truth or falsity.

39.
Defendant intentionally made the representation that the Judicial Standards
Commission had rendered an opinion finding the relationship of landlord-tenant between
Mark Badgett and Clarke Dummit to be both insubstantial and immaterial to the
administration of Justice in the District Courts of Stokes County for the purpose of
inducing the District Attorney to execute the Remittal of Disqualification.
40.
Defendant's representation that "Paul Ross suggested we sign and file" the
Remittal of Disqualification was false.
41.
Defendant made the representation that "Paul Ross suggested we sign and file"
the Remittal of Disqualification intentionally and with knowledge of its falsity.
42.
Defendant made the representation that "Paul Ross suggested we sign and file" for
the purpose of misleading the District Attorney.
43.
The District Attorney was not misled by Defendant's false representations and
refused to sign the Remittal of Disqualification.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant, Ernest Clarke Durnmit and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Dummit's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N. C.
Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By sending out direct mail solicitation letters that referenced Dummit's
landlord-tenant relationship with Judge Badgett coupled with the language "[e]ven if you
are guilty, we may be able to get you a judicially approved plea bargain to a lower speed
or to a different charge such as Improper Speedometer" Dummit implied an ability to
influence improperly a government official in violation of Revised Rule of Professional
Conduct 8.4(e).
(b) By failing to take down Judge Badgett's former law office sign for
approximately six months after Judge Badgett assumed the bench and Dummit began
practicing out of Judge Badgett's old law office Dummit implied that he practiced in a
partnership or other professional organization with Mark Badgett when this was not a fact
in violation of Revised Rule of Professional Conduct 7.5(e).
(c) By signing and sending to District Attorney Ricky Bowman the remittal of
disqualification and associated cover letter that falsely stated that (i) Paul Ross of the
Judicial Standards Commission suggested that the parties sign the remittal of
disqualification, and (ii) the Judicial Standards Commission had rendered an opinion
finding the landlord-tenant relationship between Dummit and Badgett insubstantial and

immaterial to the administration ofjustice in the District Courts of Stokes County
Dummit engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Revised Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(c).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the Hearing
Committee hereby makes the following additional:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDTI\fG DISCIPLTI\fE
1. Dummit's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a) dishonest or selfish motive;
b) multiple offenses;
c) refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct;
d) substantial experience in the practice of law; and
e) prior disciplinary offenses, including a reprimand in 1994 and censure in 1999.
2. Dummit's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
a) remoteness of prior offenses.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. Dummit's misconduct had the potential to cause significant harm to the administration
ofjustice and to the profession as a whole as a result of Dummit' s misconduct. However,
there was no evidence that the defendant's misconduct caused any actual harm to the
public. Additionally, while Dummit's misconduct had the potential to cause harm to the
administration of justice and the profession, there was no evidence that the misconduct
caused any actual harm to the administration ofjustice or the profession. There is no
evidence that the misconduct was a matter of public knowledge before the proceedings
involving Judge Badgett and Dummit were made public.
5. The Hearing Committee considered less serious discipline but concluded that because
of the potential significant harm to the administration ofjustice and the profession less
serious discipline is not appropriate.
6. The Hearing Committee considered more serious discipline but determined that under
the particular circumstances of this proceeding, the defendant's misconduct does not
require an active suspension of his license and there are no conditions that could be

imposed that would make a stayed suspension meaningful. The Hearing Committee
believes that Dummit is unlikely to repeat this misconduct.
7. The expenses incurred by Plaintiff for stenographic assistance in the taking of
defendant's deposition in this matter, the production of the deposition transcript, and the
acquisition of a certified copy of defendant's testimony before the Judicial Standards
Commission were reasonable and necessary in the litigation of this case. These costs
should be taxed to defendant.

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of the
parties the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant, Ernest Clarke Dummit, is hereby censured for his misconduct.
2. Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action, which costs shall specifically include,
but are not limited to, the expense of the deposition taken of the defendant on May 21,
2008, as assessed by the Secretary and the expense of the certified copy ofthe transcript
of the defendant's January 18,2007 testimony in the matter of the Inquiry Concerning a
Judge, Mark H. Badgett, Respondent, as assessed by the Secretary. The defendant shall
pay the costs assessed within thirty days of service of the notice of costs upon the
defendant.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this the
,2008.

~dayof

o-uy

