NORTH CAROLINA

lLfl ~ (

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
LUTHERJ. BRITT; III
ATTORNEY AT LA!W

)
)
)
)
)

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G0861(1)

REPRIMAND

I

On January 11,1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met
and considered the ~ievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Plirsuant to secti6n .Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar,the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievanc~ Committee found probable cauSe. Probable cause is defined in
the rules as "reason~ble calise to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty ofmiscpnduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probabJe cause, the Grievance Committee
may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commissibrt. are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
i

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issue.d
in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does not :require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required iIi this
case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now.my duty to issue this reprimand and I am
certain that you will iund81'stand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
,

Between February 1995 and August 1995, members of your staff sent form letters
to prosecution witnesses informing them that they may be contacted by investigators
or defense attorneys in an effort to gain information to use against the witnesses in
court. These letters read in pertinent part "(w)hile this case is.being prepared for
trial, you may be contacted by member's of the Public Defender's office, their

,.

"

·009t3
of'

,.

,

I

investigators, or other defense attorneys who will ask you questions about thecal3e
and use your answers against you in court." They further stated "you have no
obligation what so ever to talk with anyone other than our staff."
These letters were misleading to witnesses because they communicate that defense
attorneys and their investigators are simply trying to gain information to use agai-nst
the witnesses in court. Defense attorneys may not necessarily use Information they
gather when interviewing 'prosecution witnesses against the witnesses in court.
Defense attorneys have a duty to gather all available, rel~vant informa.tion concerning
their client's case before trial.
\
l

I

/

These letters are also misleading to witnesses because it implies that witnesses
have an obligation to talk with representatives from your office when, in fact, the
witnesses have no obligation to talk with anY0n.e including representatives from your
.
office.
By sending these misleading letters to prosecution witnesses, you en.gaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherep.ce to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15,1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs' .
to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee; the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

I

tlkatL!J

jSZK
.. day of i~ ~, 1996.

Ann Reed
Chairman, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

i

,,'

"

r',. •

"J.~

'

