BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G 1390(III)R

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

)
)
)
)
)

IN THE MATTER OF
EDWARD R. GREEN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

I

REPRIMAND

On July 25; 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by Dennis Miller.
Pursuant'to section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable' cause is dermed in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the fiiing ofa complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not 'required
and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actu~ or potenti~l in!';ll'Y caused: and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may Issue an adtp.orutlOn, a repnmand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

.
A reprimjmd is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or p,otential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but me misconduct does not require a censure..
The Grieyance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this repriIij.aIld to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you Will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty i~ performed.
I

• .. • • r

:

..

,.(>••

: '

009:1.5

.

Dennis M. Miller's wife and her brother confronted Miller about his having had an affiar. Miller
admitted the affair and he and his wife separated. Miller's wife and her brother made an appointment
with you. Dennis Miller accompanied them to the appointment. They all knew you. You were asked by
both parties to prepare a separation ~greem~nt. Over four days; Mill~r and his wife advised you of'the .
tenns th~y would agree to. You prepared an agreement that gave Miller's wife 97% of the marital
property. Miller paid you $4,700 for the drafting of'tl1e agreement. You filed a lawsuit, on Miller's
wife's behalf, to enable the court to incorporate the separation agreement 'by a consent order. YOUi'
having prepared the separation agreement and presented it to Miler to sign while knowing that it was
unfair to Miller, and without advising Miller to seek independent counsel, violated Rule 7A(c).

I

You ar~ hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Cottunittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it Willbe
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow y()urselfto
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. '
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 19tH by the Council of'the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued f;J.
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
,

Done and ordered, this J.&.

~

day of

¥1996.

.~&
Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

-

I

-

:""

:..

:

.

",-I."
.;

",

~

