NORTH CAROLINA '
---~---~------------

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
WILLIAM A. GEAALD,
. ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

----

-

BEFORE TIlE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
9510GR017 & 95G1337(II)

CENSURE

I

On July 25, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Janice Harris and the North Carolina State Bat.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information avail~ble to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary actiQn."
I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance COlliIIlittee may
determine that the :filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline dependi:rg upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
.aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.
A censuteis a written fonn of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential sign.ificant harm to a client, the administration of justice,
the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attorney's license.
I

In 1995, one of your employees misappropriated client funds from your attorney trust
account. The Grieyance Committee concluded that you were unaware of the employee's
activities and had no reason to suspect her ofwrortgdoing. Had there been evidence of
intentional wrongdoing on your part, the Grievance Committee would have imposed far more
substantial discipline. Nevertheless, your conduct in this matter violated several provisions of
the Rules ofPtofessional Conduct. Specifically, you failed to supervise your employee properly,
failed to maintain proper trust account records and failed to reconcile your trust account
statements quarterly.

I

...

~

'

..
August 1995. Additionally, the deed of trust was not recorded until May 11, 1995, some,eight
months after the closing. The Grievap.ce Committee concluded that you were unaware of these
problems for some period of time because your paralegal failed to advise you of the letters and .
calls from the lender. Consequently, while it appears that you ,did not intentionally neglect this.
matter, the Committee did find that you failed to adequately supervise your paralegal, in
violation of Rule 3.3 of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
The Grievance Committee found that your misconduct in this matter was mitigated. by the
fact that you demonstrated remorse for your conduct, cooperated with the State Bar, that you
have no prior discipline and by the fact that you were suffering frQm serious emotional ap.d
physical·difficulties at the time of your employee's misconduct.

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State. Bar for your violation of the Rules .
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again alloW' yourself to depart
from ad,herence to the high ethicai standards of the legal professiop.. This censure should serve 8$
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh c1:11'efully in the future your responsibility to
the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the elld that you demean yourself
.
as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon withollt
question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North .
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any·
attorney issued a.censure by the Grievance Conunjttee, the costs oftrus action in the amoQnt 6f
$50;00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

L ~day of

1996.

Ann Reed, Chair . rievance Committee'
The North Carolina State Bar

I

"

....
'.
, . .
,;,'

.

'lR'~

.

