NORTH CAROLINA

~

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE. BAR
96G0602(II)

WAKE COUNTY .

INTHEMATTER,OF
ROBERT BROWN, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

Ort July 26, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievan.ce filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
, considering the information availabl~ to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grieva~ce Committee found :probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee
may determine th~t the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commissi.on are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of di.scipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued
in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does not require a censure.

·1

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this
case and. issues thi~ reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolin~ State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am
certain that you w~ll understan.d fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
The Grievance Committee found that on April 30, 1996, you assaulted S.L.
Burnette, a female client, by grabbing her buttocks with your hand; that on May 8,
1996, you were charged with misdemeanor assault on a female in violation ofG.S. 1433(b)(2); and that on. May 29, 1996, you pled guilty and were ,sentenced to 60 days in
I

I

,.,"

:

.

;.

jail suspended for six months upon various conditions, including a $500 fine and the
completion of 60 hours of community service.
The committee determined that this conduct violated Rule 1.2(b) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct which states: "It is professional misconduct for a lawyer to
commit a criminal act that reflects adversely on the lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness,
or fitness as a lawyer in other respects." The committee decided not to imposem6resevere 'discipline in light of your lack of prior discipline.

,
I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State :Bar due to your
pro£ession;;rl misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherenG~ to the high ~thical
standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the CoulJ.cH ofth~ North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amoull.t of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
, Done and ordered, this

l3~

day o~ ~1996.

Ann Reed
Chairman, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

1
,

-

I·

",."

/

" ,

-.

'.

"

-

