NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
-OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
.96GOI28(1)

WAKE COUNTY

)
)
)
)
)

INTHE MATTER OF
SAMUEL S. POPKIN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

~-'

CENSURE

On July 26, 1996, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina. State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Mark Loncar.

I

Pursuant to section .OH3(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted apreliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause.
1

_

,

Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the
North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint an4 a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various ievels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.
,

o

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
Which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofProfessiortal Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential significant harn'J. to a client, the administration of justice,
the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the. North Carolina .State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I
am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.

The Grievance Committee found that complainant was convicted of first-degree burglary and
second-degree sexual offense and received a total of 26 years in prison; that attorney Norman
Butler was appointed to represent complainant with an appeal; that complainant Was not satisfied
with Mr. Butler's representation and in September 1994, hired you to take over the appeal; that
from September 1994 until April 1995, you did not do any work on this case; that hi April 1995,
you notified Mr. Butler that complainant had hired you to pursue the appeal; that by this time,
o

00941.

-" ~

...,,.,:;

.r

0 •

.-/'
o

••

.

I

Mr. Butler had filed the record on appeal and a brief on behalf of complainant" which i~ what
complainant had hired you to do; that when questioned about this, you assured' ~oinprainant and
his family that you would immediately file an amended record and brief for the Court of Appeals
to consider before making a decision; that on May 2, 1995, however,before anything was filed
on behalf of complainant, the Co~ of Appeals held that there Was no error it). complainant's
case; that after the decision was 'render~d by the Court of Appea1~, you promised to file a motiot).
for appropriate relief on behalf of complainant; and that you made t).umerouspromises to file, the
motion in a timely fashion but failed to do so until July 1996. The committe~ also fOUt).d that you
failed to reasonably conununicate wit4 complainant and refused to respond to reasonable
requests for information in connection with the motion for appropriate re1i~f. ','

I

The committee concluded that this conduct violated Rules 6(b)(3) of the Rul~s of Professional
Conduct which states: "A lawyer shall act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing the client." As stated in paragraph 12 of the comment to Rule 6: •"Perhaps no
professional shortcoming is more widely resented than procrastin~tion. A ¢li~tJ,t"sin,tere~ts often
can be adversely affected by the passage of time or the change of conditiQns .',. Even when the
client's interests are not affected in substance, however, unreasonable delay can cause a client
needless anxiety and undermine confidence in the lawyer's trustworthiIless."
i.

The committee, also concluded that the above conduct violated Rule 6(b)(1}pftlle Rules or
Professional Conduct which states: "A lawyer shall keep the client reasonably ird'ormed about
the status of a matter and promptly comply with reasonable requests fO,r infotmation."
In aggravation, the committee considered your extensive prior dis~ipline for similar
misconduct. In mitigation, the committee considered evidence that you rece~tly filed the motion
for appropriate relief on behalf of complainant.

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violatipnof the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,'
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should Serve as
, a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future yOW' responsibility to
the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that yotid~qJ.ean YO\l1'self
as a respected member or the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without
question.
In ,accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the 'C01,UlCil of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the' administrative and investigative costs to any attorney Issued
a censure by the Grievance Committee; the costs pfthis action in the amount of $50.00 are
hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

P 'fit. day o~ \996.

~~'<-

Ann eed

' , '
Chairman, Grievance .Committee ' :
The North Carolina S~te Bar

I

