-

'~(16
BEFORE THE
----- ---- ___ J GRIEV ANtE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G1138(IV)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
STEVEN M. KURZER,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On Aprii 11, 1996, th~ Grievance Gommittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed ag~nst you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Catolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, inc1udin~ your ~esponse to the letter ofnQtice, the Grievance
Cotnmittee found probable cause. Probable cauSe is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carol~a State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grieyahce Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grieyance Committee may issue various levelS of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Gdevance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice,
the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attorney's license.

I

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case an.d issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I
am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which ~is duty is performed.
In January 1995, ·you commenced representation of Amanda Dalton in her efforts to seek
custody of her sister's children. During. t~e course of the attorney/client relationship with
Amanda Dalton, you met with her on several occasions. Prior to August 14, 1995, you and
Amanda Dalton commenced a sexual relationship. On August 14, .I 995, you filed a complaint

I
.:.~00943

"'

for divorce from bed and board on Amanda Dalton's behalfagain~t her husband, Heath Dalton.
That complaint requested a writ of exclusive possession of the marital home the couple had
shared. On August 15, you filed.an amendment to th~ complaint 'r¢questing .a temporary
restraining order against Heath Dalton because he had allegedly assaulted Amanda Dalton after
learning about the complaint she had filed against him in Burke County District Court. Your
having filed the complaint for divorce from bed and board after c01llll)encing the sexual
relationship with Amanda Dalton allowed your personal interest to conflict with·the interests of
Amanda Dalton and, after Heath palton's discovery of the rel~tionship"prejudi9~dAmanda
Dalton's domestic relations case. Your conduct violated Rules5.l(p}atid 7J(a)(3). 'The 5.1(b}
violation could have been avoided simply by having other couns~l repres~nt heJ;'fnthe domestic
matter.

1

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation ofthe Rules'
. of Professional Conduct. The GrievanceCotmrtittee trusts that you will ponder this censure;,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow YOliself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to
the public, your clients, your fellow attol11eys and the courts, to the end that you·d¢mean YO'!l1'self
as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be reli~d upon. without
'
question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the COUllci!ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
.$50.00 are hereby taxed to you. "'"
Done and ordeted, this

I

I

·

.

'

I

¥.

day of _

., 1996.

Ami eed, Chair Grievance Connnttfee
The North Carolina State Bar

