NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANte 'COMMiTTEE

OFTfIB

WAKE COUNTY

NORTH CAROLINA STATE B,AR
9600524(11)

I

IN THE MATTER OF
J. ALLEN MAST,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 16, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina Stat~ Harmet and'
considered the grievance, filed against you by th~ North Carolina St4te' Bar, '
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability'Rides ofth¢ North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Commit1;ee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Co_ttee found probable
cause. Probable cause is, defined in the rules as "reasonable caUSe tqbelieve that g;member of the J:'iJ"orth
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary actiQn,;'

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Gdevance CO$111jttee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing ,Commission are not required
and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline ,depending uppn the mi'scopdli,ct, ,the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprim;;md i,s a written form of discipline more serious thIDian admonition i$s~ed incases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rul~s of ProfessiontU :Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the admini$tration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censut~ is not required in ,this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committ¢eofthe NorthCatolina SUlte Bar,
it is now mY duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
Between 1987 and 1995, you made a number ofmaterjal, false statementsab01.lt YOllr
academic credentials to employers and the UNC School of Law. Speclfically, the Grievance
Committee found that in your 1986 application to the UNC School of Law, which was

I
00948

unsuccessful, you correctly stated that you graduated from Davidson College hi the top 30% of
your class. In your 1987 application to UNC, you incorrectly stated that you graduated in the top
15% of your class at Davidson. This application was successfuL
Thereafter, you made a number of false statements about your academic qualifications to
various law firms to which you had applied fot.: employment. For example, in 1989 you told
Petree, Stockton & Robinson that you scored a 42 on the LSAT when in fact you scored a 30 on
the LSAT on two occasions in 1985. In 1990, you told the law firm of Kennedy, Covington, ,
Lobdell & Hickman that you had a 3.2 GPA at the UNC School of Law and that you had scored
a 42 on the LSAT. As of the end of the 1990 academic year, you in fact had a 2.7 GPA.
In 1991, you falsely told the firm of BlJist, Moore, Smythe & McGee that you graduated,
from the UNC School of Law with a 3.0 GPA and that you scored a 42 ort the LSAT. In fact,
you graduated from UNC with a 2.7 GP A. In i1993 you told Parker, Poe, Adams & Bernstein
that you graduated from the UNC School of Law with a 3.0 GPA. Finally, in 1995, you falsely
represented to the Executive Director of the N,C. State Bar and the IOLTA Board of Governors
that you graduated with honors from the UNGSchool of Law. Your conduct in making repeated
false statements about your academic qualifications constituted conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violatiolli of Rule 1.2(c) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Cotnmittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from aclherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

;,lll dayor()Au

, 1996.

I

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Comtnittee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

