NORTH CAROLINA :

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANQE:"COM'MITTEE
OF'rHE"
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G 1265(11)

WAKE COUNTY

IN TlIE MATTER OF

I

CONRAD A. AIRALL,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 25, 1996, the Grievance Cpmmitteeofthe North Catalina State Bat l;llet
and consIdered the grievance filed against you by Dr. Nathaniel Carter.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the Notth ..
Carolina State Bar, the G:devance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considering the information available to it, including your respohse to the letter of .
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probabie caJlse ~sdefined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a mern.be;r of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
.
. The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grieva,nce Committee
may determine that the filing of a cOl;llplaint and a hearing before theP)sciplina).'y
Hearing Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee~tnay issue
various leve~s of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual potential
injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.

or

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an adPlonition issued
in cases in which an attorney has violated one or mOre provisions ofthe Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm: to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, ·but the
misconduct does not require a censUre.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is UQtrequired in this
case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievanc~ Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, if is now my duty to issue this repriIJ:u,nd and I ~m
certain that YOll will understand fully the spirit in which this dutyis.performed.
In Apdl of 1994, you began representing Dr. Nathaniel Carter,iii an employment
discrimination action. On June 5, 1995, Dr. Carter forwarded ache~k to you in the
amount of $1,500.00 .. The check included a notation of Hdepositions.;'; Additionally~
enclosed with the check was a lett~r from Dr. Carter which stated in, pertinent part
that, "I have forward [sic] to you a check for $1,500.00 to be placed in your trust f\lnd.

I

These moneys ... should be ample fUnding to conduct a minimum of four Or five
depositions." However, regardless of Dr. Carter's specific instructions that thosefunds be used for depositions, you applied the $1,500.00 toward payment of your fees.
By ignoring your client's specific instructions regarding the distribution of those
funds, you engaged in conduct in violation of Rule 10.2(e).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional miscOllduct. 'The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yours~lf to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopt~d October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs
to any attorney issued a reprimand b~ the Grievance Committee; the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are h~l,'eby taxed to you.
-

IJA

Done and ordered, this...w

'fit day of

, 1996.

. ~&

Ann Reed
• Chairman, Grievance Committee
: The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
009-51

