.
.

"

,-~:::

"

,

,"

THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
.

-~ OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
.~

95 DaC 20

------.- - - - -

lG/1$lf
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )

I

)
)
)
)
)

. Plaintiff,
vs.

HAROLD H. MARTIN, ATTORNEY
Defendant.

CONSENT ORDER OF OISCIPLINE

)
)
)

This matter came on before the hearing committee of the Discfplinf,U'y Hearing
Commission composed of James R. Fox, Chair, Franklin E. Martin .and' .Anthony .13. Foriest
pursuant to Section .0114(h) of the Discipline ancl Disability Rllles of the North Carolina State
Bar. Mr. Martin has agreed to waive a formal hearing in the a,bove referenced matter. All
parties stipulate that these matters may be resolved. by the undersjgned Hearing Committee, and
that Defendant further hereby waives his right to appeal this consent order 9r challeng~ in any
way the sufficiency of the findings. The hearing committee therefore enters the following:

I

FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly Qrganized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina,. and the R\lles: and RegUlations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
The Defendant, Harold H. Martin, was admjtted to the. North Carolina State Bar
in 1989, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice law in
North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional CQnduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

I

3.
DU1:'ing all of the periods referr~d to herein; the Defenqant, who was also liGensed
in Pennsylvania, was actively engaged in the practice oflaw in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania with the
finn of McNees, Wallace & Nurick ("the McNees firm").
4.
Defendant was hired by the McNees firm in February 1993 as an associate. Early
in the morning of January 3, 1994, Defendant drove to the home of Mr. Rod Pera, a partner in
the McNees fmn. At 12:46 a.m., Defendant removed a .22 caliber rifle from his car and fired
17 rounds of anununiti9n into the Pera home shattering several windows on the first floor and
causing approximately $5,000.00 in damages. At the time, Mr. Pera and his wife were asleep
in their home but were not harmed.
5.
On February 22, 1994, Defendant was charged with 2 counts of aggravated assault
with a weapon (felony), two counts of recklessly endangering another person (misdemeanor) and
one count of .criminal mischief (misdemeanor).

1-'
-

6.
On April 14, 1994, Defendant entered a plea agreement whereby the charges of
aggravated assault with a weapon Were dismissed in exchange for his plea of guilty to two
misdemeanor' counts of recklessly endangering another and one misdemeanor count of criminal
mischief. Sentencing was postponed so that; Defendant could undergo a psychiatric evaluation
to be used by the Court in sentencing.
7.
On August 1, 1994, Defendant was sentenced as follows: for the first count of
recklessly endangering another person, $50.00 fine and not less th~ five months nor more than
23 months in prison; for the second count of ,recklessly endangering another person, $50.00 fine
and not less than five months nor more than: 23 months to run concurrent with the first count;
and for the charge of criminal mischief, $25.00 fine and not less than five months nor more than
23 months to tun concurrent with the first colint. In addition, Defendant was given credit for the
160 days served from February 22, 1994 to ~ugust 1; 1994 and Was granted inimediate parole.
8.
Between 7:00 p.m. on January 16, 1994 and 6:30 a.m. on January 17, 1994,
Defendant attached an anonymous note to a brick and threw it through the window of the offices
of the McNees firm. The brick broke a winflow valued at approximately $500.00.
9.
The note demanded that John ,Oyler, one of the McNees Firm partners, terminate
Rod Pera's employment with the firm. The note also said that if Oyler did not obey this demand,
violence would come to both Oyler and Pera similar to the Janwuy 3 incident in which shots
Were fired into Pera's home.

I

10.
On February 22, 1994, Defendant was charged with one count of making terroristic
threats (misdemeanor) and one count of criminal mischief (misdemeanor) arising out of this
incident.
11.
On August 1, 1994, Defendar,tt entered a plea of guilty to the terroristic threats
charge and was sentenced to 23 months probation and a fine of$100.00 plus costs. On the same
2

I

.'

.

day, Defendant entered a plea of guilty to the criminal mischief charge .and was s~nt~nced to 90
days probation and costs.
12.
On July 24, 1995, the Defendant's law license was suspended onap..interim basis
by the Chairman of the DisCiplinary Hearing Commission pending the di!?position of this
disciplinary proceeding pursuant to .011 S of the Discipline and. pisabilityRules .of the North
Carolina State Bar. T<he Defendant's i~terim suspension became ~ffective AlJgust 24;. 1995 and
.
.
he is presently suspended from the practice of hiw.

I

13.
The Defendant was diagnosed as having a bi-polar disorder for the. first time in
1994. The Respondent presently suffers from bi-polardisorder, which disord.er i,s.also referred
to as manic-depressive illness or disorder.
14.
There was uncontradicted psychiatric opinion evidence presented: to the Committee·
in support of the proposed consent order by counsel for the North Carolina State 8arand counsel
for the Defendant that, at the time of Defendant's criminal conduct in January of 1994, Defendant
was following his treatment plan and was taking the medication as prescribed ·by his treatipg
psychiatrist; however, the Defendant's medication for his disorder was, not adequatelycoiltrolling .
the disorder.
. .
.
15.
There was uncontradicted psychiatric opinion evidence presented to the Committee
in support of the proposed consent order by colinsel for the North Carolina State Bar and counsel
for the Defendant that, the inadequacy of the medication taken qy Defendant in .1994 to control
his bi-polar disorder contributed to Defendant'scrimin~l conduti
16.
After his arrest on February 18, 1994, and his resulting hospitalization, the
Defendant's treatment for his bi-polar disorder was modified to include the drugs Tegretol and
the anti-psychotic Haldol, both taken in addition to Lithium.

I

17.
The Haldol medication is taken tocQnttol the parattoia~d voi~es the Defendant
heard during the acute phases of his bi-polar disorder.
18.
Tegretol.

The Defendant will have an indefinite need fot at least the Lithium and the

19.
According to Robert H. Davis, M.n.., a psychiatrist whorecentlo/ treated the
Defendant, the Defendant's medic~tion regimen, as modified, has controlled hisbi-p{jlar disorder.
20.
According to Dr. Davis, the Defepdant, since his 1994 hospitaliz~tiQns, has not
suffered from mood swings as m~ifested by depressive and/or mMic episodes .and he has
ftitlctioned normally.
I

.

'

.

•

21.
The medical prognosis is "favorable" for the Defendant's ability to avoid mood
swings caused by his bi-polar condition as long as he remains on medication and ill psychiatric
3

I
"

..'

"

.'

.

treatment for the disorder.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the following:
CONCLUSION OF LAW
1.
Defendant's convictions of the offenses of Reckless End~germent, Criminal
Mischief, and Terroristic Threats reflect adversely on his fitness to practice law in violation of
Rule 1.2(b) of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.

Based on the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLUSION OF LAW and upon
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Gommittee enters iP-e following:

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
The license of Harold Martin to practice law in the State of North Carolin~ is
hereby suspended for five years. The Defendant shall receive credit for the one year his license
was suspended pursuant to the Order of Interim Suspension. The remaining four years of
suspension shall be stayed so long as the Defendant strictly complies with the following
conditions:
(a) During the period of$e stay, a board certified psychiatrist licensed to practice
medicine in North Carolina who is approved bY. and continues to be approved by the North
Carolina State Bar shall advise the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar, on at least
a quarterly basis, whether: (l) the D¥ertdant is complying with his prescribed coUrSe of
treatment, and (2) the treatment plan is controlling the bi-polar disorder. The report shall be
based upon a psychiatric assessment conducted by the psychiatrist within the past three months
and a blood test to determine whether th~ Defendant is taking the prescribed medicine. All costs
associated with this report will be paid by the Defendant. The first report shall be due no later
than October 1, 1996 with the other reports being due no later than J~uary 1, 1997,. April 1,
1997, July 1, f997, October 1, 1997, Jahuary 1, 1998, April 1, 1998, July 1, 1998, October 1,
1998, January 1, 1999, April 1, 1999, July 1, 1999, October 1, 1999, January 1, 2000, April 1,
2000, July 1, 2000, and October 1,2000 respectively. If at any time the psychiatrist has reason
to believe that Defendant is not complying with his prescribed course of treatment or that the
treatment plan is proving to be inadequate to control Defendant's disorder, he/she shall
immediately notify the State Bar. In thr event that the Defendant moves out of state, a board
certified, psychiatrist licensed to pra<;:tict:( medicine in the state in which Defendant resides and
subject to the State Bar's approval shall submit the reports referred to herein. By his signature
consenting to this order, the Defendant authorizes any physician, hospital, or other medical
provider to furnish the State Bar with all information which may be requested with respect to the
Defendant's physical and/or mental co~dition provided the treating psychiatrist has reason to

I-

4

I
. '0:0'0.55
.
J.;]I,,-

I

,

'.

believe the Defendant is not complying with his prescribed course of treatment.
(b) During th~ period of the stay, -the Defendant agree$, to submjJa: blood :sample to an independent lab designated by the Stat~ Bar within 24 hours of notice-bY the State Bar.
Defendant shall direct the lab to send the report to the State Bar. The putpose of the blood
analysis will be to detennihe whether the Defen.dant is taking· the prescribed m~dicifie on a
regular basis. The cost o.f the analysis will be paid by the Defendant.

I

dtirlng

th~

(c) Defendant shall violate no provisions of the Rules of Prpfessional Conduct .
stay period.
(d) Defendant shall violate no laws of the State of North Carolina during.the stay

period.
(e) Defendant shall be assessed with the costs of this proceeding
by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.

as determined

Signed by the undersigned chairperson with the full knowledge and consent of the other
' .
.
members of the hearing comnrittee.
This the ~~ay of August, 1996~

I

5

.1·.... ~.;,!f

•

~1 .~~:

. ,-00956
,

.~

I

'f

"

consented to:

1A-VVI/v~/ !If lVLevv4yLHarold H. Martin, Defendant

{~iL~

I

Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

Ti~~

R. David Henderson
Attorney for Plaintiff

I

6

.

{)O~5~

