NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE'fHE
GiUEVANCE QOMMI1TEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G0321 (I)

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
J. DAVID DUFFUS, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 25, 1996, the Grievance Committee ofthe North CarolimlSt~teJ3a,r met and consid~red
the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina,8tate Bar.
.'
.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Disciplin~ an4Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committe~ conducted a prelimin~ hearing. After con~id~ring the infonnation
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable 9ause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is gUilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after.a finding of probable gause, the Grievance C(i>inl;i1ittee may qetenilir'le
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing COlnmissfon are not required
and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline dependirig upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury causeq, and any aggravating or mitiga,ting factors. The··Grievance Committee
may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney. .
.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an adl11onition issued in caSes in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rul¢s of Professicmal Conduct and has.
caused harm or potential harin to a client, the adminil3tration of'ju~tice, the profes.sioll, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
.
The Grievance Colnmittee was of the opinion that a censure is not reqUired hi: this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Gri~va,nce Committee pfthe NQrth Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and 1 am certain that you will understand fully the spirit hi
which this duty is performed.
.
.
You ran an adv~rtiseinent in the Jacksonville Daily News that id~ntitled your firm and indiqated
that the firm was composed of personal injury attorneys. Thead listed: four CIties - Jacksonville,
.'
Kinston, New Bern and Goldsboro - where the firm presumably had ()ffic~s.the ad also listed a toll,,:

......

free telephone nUmber. The same ad was placed in the local papers in Kinston, New Bern and
Goldsboro. Since your firm does not have 9ffices in either of the four cities listed in the ads, but only
has offices in Greenville and Fayetteville, your ad was misleading. Your aqs violated Rule 2.1(a).
i

You are hereby reprimanded' by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee tru~ts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15; 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the laxing of'the administrative and investigative costs to arty attorney issued Ii
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this ~~

d

I

: 11~~~~AI--

day pf ~,199~.

~/&Q

Ann Reed
I
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

t.

0098.5

