BEFQRETHE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE

NORTH CAROLINA

OF-r.;PHE

WAKE COUNTY

NORTH CARdLINA STATE BAR
95G0817(IV)
IN THE MATTER OF

I

WAYNE O. CLONTZ,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

.

REPRIMAND

)
)

On January 11, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Cl;trolirta State. B~tmet
and considered the grievance fued against you by Jessie M. Sii:np~on.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hea.ting. After
considering the information available to it, including yout response to the lett~~ of .
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable, caUse. Probabie .cause is, de:£ined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina state
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding ofprobable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and.a hearing before the -Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required a:p.d the Grievance Committee ~ay Issue. various Javels
of discipline depending upon the misconduct, ~he actual or potentia.l injury caused,and
any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee IIlay issue an
admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney..

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than t;ln~dmonition issQed in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of:th¢ Rul~s. of
'
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but tlie
misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion' that a.censure is llotrequite'd in-this
case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Gd~yance~ Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to.js·sue this repriin,andand I am
certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In AUgust 1994, Ms. Jessie M. Simpson hired you to represent her ina domestic
dispute with her husband James Simpson. Your representation was to incl:y.de private
prosecution of Mr. Simpson for a$sault against Ms. Simpson. :J)u,ring August,
September and October 1994, there were at least two court hearjngs schedule-d.in this
case, You either did not appear at those hearings to represent Ms. Simpson or you
were late in attending the hearings. On at least one occasion you communicated

......

-f'O?86
, .

'-t""".

directly with the court concerning your faihi~.e to appear. Each of the scheduled
hearings was contj.nued to a later date. Ms. Simpson was present in court each time
the matter \vas sclieduled for a heari~g.
On or about October 17, 1995, Ms. Simpson terminated your services after a district
court judge advised her that she should discharge you since you had failed to appear
each time the matter was scheduled for hearing.
You undertook to represent Ms. Simp'son in tlris serious domestic dispute knowing
that the parties were residents of McDowell Coup.ty, North Carolina, and that the
court hearings required you to provide adequate representation of Ms. Simpson in
McDowell County.' You failed to keep your client properly informed of the status of the
proceedings in court and your availability for attending court on the dates of the
various hearings, in violation of Rule ;6(b)(1) and 6(b)(3) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

I

In aggravation, you have received pribr discipline including an admonition in July
1993, a letter of warning in April 1995 and an adm,onition in July 1995.
In .'mitigation, you refunded the entir~ fee of $800 that Ms. Simpson had paid you for
your representation. In addition, yOU! apparently performed a substantial amount of
legal work for Ms: Simpson relating to other aspects of her domestic dispute such as a
property settlement.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committ¢e trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that
it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never
again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the
legal profession.
.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the tax~ng of the administrative and investigative costs
to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered,

t~.l~_~ day of , 1"<~=L'f 1996.

I

- a-- if<'----Ann Reed
Chairman, Gtiev~nce Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I
00987

