NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVA,NCE COMMITTEE
.'
afTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96GO 109(111)

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
THOMAS F. KASTNER,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

OnJuly 25, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bat met a11d .
considered the grievance filed against you by Loyd E. Shearin.
Pursuant to section .0113(~) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminarY hearing~. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the lett~iQf notice,. the Gricv~ce
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined inth~ rules llS "t~asonable.eatise to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guiity ofmisconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
.
.

I

The rules provide that after a finding' of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary H¢aring
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Conmlittee may issue an admonition,
reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition iss\led in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure,
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this Cllse and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North C~olina
State 13ar, it is now my'duty to issue this reprimand and I am certaintha,t you will und¢rstand
fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
.
You agreed to represent Loyd E. Shearin in a traffic casein late 1994. Mr. Shearin's case
was scheduled for court, but you were unable to be there due to .an· illness. Another lawyer had
the case continued and you believed that the new coqrt date was April 13, 1995. You achnit that
you (lid not check with the clerk's office to confirm the date thatM:r. Shearin's case was'

I

"

OO~98~

continued. You later learned that his case had not been continued to April 13, 1995. Mr.
Shearin's case was sent to the Division of Motor Vehicles as a 20-day failure.
i

Mr. Shearin's case was set for June '1.7; 1995 and you did not appear in court dUe to an
illness. You indicated that you asked another attorney to continue the matter. However, Mr.
Shearin's case was not continued.
Your conduct with regard to handling Mr. Shearin's case violates Rule 6(b)(3). As your
client's attorney, -you have an obligation to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing him. You can not abdicate your responsibility to represent your client to another
attorney.
"

I

I

In addition, you did not respond profTIptly to this grievance YoU were served with a letter
of notice in this grievance on February 27~ 1996. You failed to respond to the grievance within
15 days of receiving it. You were sent a follow up letter on March 21, 1996. You were asked
to respond no later than April 1," 1996, but you did not submit a response to the grievance.
I

The State Bar office later sent by certified mail a subpoena to appear and produce
documents. The post office gave you two notices, but you did not claim the certified letter. The
State Bar office was finally forced to atterttpt service of the subpoena to appear and produce
document$ by the sheriff. You were supposed to appear at the State Bar office on May 14, 1996
pursuant to. the subpoena.. You did not appear at the State Bar's office, but you did respond on
May 31', 1996.
Your failure to respond promptly to :this grievance viol~tes Rule 1.1 (b) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. . You are advised to respond promptly to any grievances that you may
receive in the future.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your profeSSional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be 'benefi~ial to you, and that you will never again allow yow-self
to depart from adherence to the high ethic~l standards of the legal profession. .

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15. 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee. the costs of this action in the
amount of ~50.00 are herebi;,taxy; to you. ~
Done and ordered, this ~ day of "

1996.

~~

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance COn1lllittee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

