--

BEFORE: THE
GRIEVANCE' COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G0286(1V)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
WILLIAM C. SHUMWAY,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)

On October 16, 1996, the Griev~nce Committee of the North Carolina State Bar :plet
and considered the grievance filed against you by Gail D. Trinef.
Pursua.nt to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committ¢e conducted a preli.n.rinafY hearing. Mer
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the NOl,1thCarolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the-Grievance Committee
may determine that the filing of a complaint ahd a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission are not required and the Grievance Committ¢e may issl,le
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
injury ca\lsed, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attor:pey.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than ap:~dmonition issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one o:r more provisiOI):$'oftheRules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client., the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the publlc, ,but the
misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this
case and issues this reprimand to you. As cha.irman of the Grieva·rice COlllll,littee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand ~nd 1 am
certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
Gail Triner hired you to represent her as Executrbt of the estate of her father, Neil
Triner. Ms. Triner contacted you on numerous occasions between October 16, 1995
and February 20, 1996, requesting that yotJ. provide her with certam documents

I
-

-_

..
"

OOS.SO

necessary to settle the estate. You failed to respond to any of~hese requests or to
notify Ms. Triner that you no longer intended to represent her.
On March 28, 1996, you were issued a letter of notice from this Committee and
asked to respond to Ms. Triner's allegations. You failed to do so. Additionally, you
failed to respond to a May 23, 1996 subpoena ordering you to appear before the North
Carolina State Bar Counsel. On June'1~, 1996, you were subpoenaed to appear before
the Grievance Committee at its July If)96 meeting. You appeared at that meeting and
met with a SubCommittee appointed l1y the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee.
You assured the SubCommittee that ypu would provide a written response to the
grievance, that you would withdraw from the court file as counsel of record in the
Trinerestate, and that you would provide a copy of your entire fue to Ms. Triner.
Although you did provide a written response to the grievance, you failed to formally
withdraw as counsel of record in the Tdner estate or to provide Ms. Triner with a copy
of her file. You also did not respond to two follow-up letters from State Bar counsel
requesting that you do so. In your wdtten response to the Grievance Committee, you
admitted the allegations of the grieva~ce without excuse or explanation.

I

Accordingly, your conduct violated Rules 6(b)(1) and 6(b)(3) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct which require a lawyer to keep his client reasonably informed
about the status of a matter, to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information, and to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing the
client.
Your conduct also violated Rules 7.1(a)(1) and 7.1(a)(2) which prohibit a lawyer
from intentionally failing to seek the lawful objectives of his client and from failing to
carry out a contract of employment entered into with a client for professional services.
You also withdrew from Ms. Triner's c~se prior to taking reasonable steps to avoid
foreseeable prejudice to her rights, including giving due notice to her and delivering to
her all the papers to which she was entitled. This conduct violated Rule 2.8(a)(2).
Additionally, by failing to respond to Ms. Triner's grievance and the fIrst subpoena
frO:Q1 the State Bar and by failing to co:mply with the representl;ltions you made to the
SubCommittee of the Grievance COInD;littee in July of 1996, you violated Rule 1.1(b).
That Rule prohibits a lawyer from knowingly failing to respond to lawful demands for
information from a disciplinary authority.

I

In voting to issue this Reprimand, the Committee took into consideration the fact
that you had not received prior discipline.
You are hereby reprimanded by t4e North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.

I
I

,

00991

In accordance with the policy adopted October 151 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and invest~gative costs
to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs,'of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

I.rr

day of 11~
~_, 1996.

.

k£~

I

Ann Reed
.
.,"
Chairman, Grievance Committee .
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
'-.

.'

00992

,"

