I ?/q3

tD

STATE 0:

COURT OF JUSTICE

I

-

.. _-

1

96 DEC 31 -p
ROCKINGHAM COUNTY

DISTRICT COURT DIVISION

POCiW':u,";\J~;: (~ " c~s.c.
'

.
. BY
LESLIE TAYLOR SWARTZLANDER"
Plaintiff

,FILE NO. 94 CVD 1008

r_

ORDER OF CENSURE OF ATTORNEY

vs.
JAMES MATTHEW DWAYNE DAVID
SWARTZLANDER,
Defendant

I

This matter came on to be heard before the undersigned on August 20,
1996, on the court's Order to Show Cause issued against the defendant,
James Matthew Dwayne David Swartzlander, and his counsel, William L.
Funderburk, Jr., to appear and show cause as to why each of them should
not be held in contempt for failure to abide by the rules of court
regarding scheduling 6f this case on the July 8, 1996, term of civil
district court.
FIND~NGS

OF FACT

1.

That the defendant by mailing a copy of the said notice to
defendant's attorney of recdrd, William L. Funderburk, Jr. on
March 27, 1996 ~ That the sa;id case was not reached for hearing
during the May 6, 1996, term of court.

2.

That the-court placed this matter on the July 8, 1996, calendar ahd
counsel for both parties weie properly notified. Defendant's
attorney was present on July, 8, 1996, when the calendar was called.

3.

That on July 8, 1996, at cal:endar call counsel for defendant stated
that defendant had traveled ,outside the State of North Carolina,
and counsel implied defendant's travel was due to the alleged
illness of defendant's mothe.r. In fact, the defendant was in
California on a: scheduled pr:earranged visit with his mother. No
written motion to continue was filed. Attorney Funderburk never
appeared for hearing on his oral motion. No continuance was
granted.

4.

That in the regular course qf business of calendaring for the week,
the undersigned announced in open court at around 10:30 - 11:00
a.m'. on Juiy 8, 1996, the or;der in which cases would be heard with
this case being set for 9:00 a.m. Friday, July 12.

I

I

I

5.

That William L. Funderburk, Jr. failed to inqui;re of the legal
assistant to the judge or of the clerk of ¢ourt as to the~etting
of the case.

6.

That on July 10, 1996, counsel for defendant was reminded as a
courtesy by the office of the district cOUJ:t judge that the· said
case was scheduled for hearing at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, July 12,
1996.
That William L. Funderburk, Jr. failed to Secure court approval for
a continuance of the case herein prior to counsel's au·tho;r::i,zat.ioIl
to the defendant to leave the state of Notth~aroliIla;

8.

That William L. Funderburk, Jr. failed tob-ave his client'present
when there was a pending show cause order for the defendamt for
failure to comply with a support order, which was issued by the
Clerk of Superior Court on 10-9-95 as well as pending rqot·:i.ons of
'both the plaintiff, filed February 6, 1996, and the defendant,
filed August 30, 1995.
.

9.

That at 8:45 a.m. on July 12, 1996, the of:fice' of th.e dist'J:,ict
court judge received information from cOilnsel for de;fendan.t that
said counsel was allegedly ill froIn food poisoning anq, was· going to
tne doctor.
.

10.

That William L. Funderburk, Jr. failed to have hi$ client present
for hearing on July 12, 1996, even though the case w~s set for the
12th o'f July on Monday, July 8th. That at 9:00 a.IIi. on July 12,
1996, wh.en the said case was called for :hearing, the deferic;lant nor
defendant's counsel appeared.
'
That William L. Funderburk, Jr. alleged and implied that the
undersigned judge could not be fair and impartial hecauseof some
political, professional or business relationship betwe~ncounsel
for the plaintiff and undersigned judge,suchinformatioh being
the unverified assertion by Counsel Funderburk that counsel. for
the plaintiff, Ms. Jones-Obeng, had acquired a law pract;Lce from
the judge, said information not being true; and further tpat
Attorney Funderburk and his client alleged that,the court would
not be fair and impartial or appear to be faira:hdirnpa~tial as a
result of such relati6nship.
'.

12.

That at all times, William L. Funderburk, Jr. was an attorhey
licensed to practice in North Carolina and maintainj"nga p:l:'actice
in partnership with Douglas R. Hux in Eden, NQrthCarolin~!
Rockingham County and, therefore, an 6.fficer of the Court.,

I
..-

~~.

13.

The court notes that the def,endant, James Matthew Dwayne David
Swartzlander, in open court :has issued an apology for his absence
and the untruthful allegati~ns in his affidavit both to the court
and to Mrs. Eunice Jones-Obeng, counsel for the plaintiff, Leslie
Taylor Lipford, formerly Mrs'. Swartzlander; and the court has
accepted that apology. Attorney William L. Funderburk, Jr. did
not offer any apology nor make any effort to amend his written
motion or af~idavit upon le~rning that his allegations were
untrue.

14.

That the actions of AttorneY: William L. Funde+burk, Jr. were
willful and grossly negligent.

15.

That Attorney William L. Furideburk, Jr. has previously been cited
for contempt for his failur~ to be on time for a one-day session
of juvenile court when he w~s assigned as "attorney for the day"
by court appointment. All matters before the juvenile court were
delayed several hours awaiting arrival of Attorney Funderburk
following a call by the count to inquire about the attorney's
absence. The undersigned found Attorney Funderburk not to be in
.contempt ·of court.

16.

That Attorney Funderburk was' warned off the record by the
undersigned in chambers reg~rding his several-hour tardiness at
another juvenile court day. On that occasion, Attorney
Funderburk's office notified the undersigned that he was
unavailable because he was in cqurt in Guilford County. Upon
inquiry, this information proved to be false. When confronted by
the undersigned, Attorney F4nderburk admitted to the deliberate
communication of untruthful information about his whereabouts and
admi tted that his absence wa;s due to a "personal problem" and not
a court conflict. Attorpey 'Funderburk was wi'lrned at that time to
be truthful with the court .. His tardiness caused substantial
delay in and interferencew~th the busines's of the court and
inconvenienced parties, witnesses, and other attorneys.

I

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.

Attorney William L. Funderbunk, Jr. is an attorney licensed to
practice in North Carolina and maintains a practice in partnership
with Douglas. R. Hux in Eden, 'North Carolina, Rockingham County and,
therefore~ is an Officer of ihe court.
I

2.

I

The court has jurisdiction over the attorney and subject matter
jurisdiction.
I

I

it

3.

The willful and grossly negligent failure of,,Attotney WiliLl,am L.
Funderburk, Jr. to abide by the Rules of Practice for the Superior
and District Courts, the Local Rules of Practice and the Code of
Professional Conduct of the N. C. St-ate Bar ca.used a substantial
interference with the business of the co~rt.

4.

T,he court has the inherent a1:1thority to qiscipiine

att6rn~ys.

The actions of Attorney William L. Funderburk" Jr. caused
sUbstantial delay in and interference with the busine$s o:f the
court and the administra.tion of justice.
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED tha·t;: AttorneY William L.
Funderburk, Jr. is hereby censured by t4e undersigned. The court
orders that this censure'be established as notice on the record of the
attorney's violation of N.C.G.S. SA-II (7), the Gene'ral Rules of
Practice over the Superior and District Courts, the.LoGal Rules of
Practice, and the Code of Professional Conduct of tPe North Carolina
State Bar.
1. Signed this the
August 20, 1996.

I

$ L day of

December, 199.6,_ nunc pro tunc

