-------~

...

NORTH CAROLINA

JAN 1997

FILED

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE aAR,
. Plaintiff
v.
WILLiAM R. SHELL,
Attorney
Defendant

I

)
)
)
)
) CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
).
)
)
)

This matter was heard on the 19th day of December , 1996, before a hearing
comrrtittee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Robert B. Smith,
chairman; Michae~ L. Bonfoey, and AD.thony E. Foriest. The North Carolina State Bar
was represented by Fern E. Gunn. Th~ defendant, William R. Shell, was represented by
Auley M. Crouch ill.
Pursuant to an order entered 01) October 16, 1996 by Henry C. Babb, Jr., chairman
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commissipn, DHC case file numbers 95 DHC 19 (a motion
to .show cause), 96 DHC 2, and 96 DIIC 11 concerning the defendant were consolidated
for hearing. The defendant does not o~ject to the consolidation of these matters for
disposition.
:

I

Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Based upon the consent of the
parties, the hearing committee hereby .enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The North Carolina State Bar, the plaintiff, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the propier party to bring this proceeding urtder the
authority granted it under Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina; and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I
.

"
,~

2. William R. Shell, the defendant, was admitted to. the:NQrth CarQlina State Bar .
in 1973, and was at all times referred to. herein, an attQrney at law licensed to. practice in
NQrth CarQlina, subject to. the rules, regulatiQns, and Rules ofprofessiQnalCQnduct Qfthe
NQrth CarQlina State Bar a,iid the iawsQfthe State QfNQrth Carolina.
3. During all Qf the periQds referred to. herein, defendant was actively engaged in
the practice Qflaw in NQrth CarQlhla and ~aintained a law Qffice 4t Wilmingtoh, NQrth
CarQlina.

I

4. The defendant is cQmpetent to. enter into. this CQnsent Qtd~r Qfdisciplint:, and
he dQes so., UPQn the advice Qf his cQunsel.
.
5. The defendant failed to. answe~ the State Bar's cQmplaint in the ml:itter ofibe.
NQrth CarQlina State Bar v. Shell, 96 DHC 2 and an entry Qf def~tilt was entered by the,
Secretary Qfthe NQrth CarQlina State Bar.
6. A mQtiQn fQr Qrder to. appear and shQW cause was filed. by the State Bar and an
Qrder to. appear and shQW cause was entered by the chairman of the Disciplinary Hearing
CQmmission in the matter Qfthe NQrth CarQlina State Bf,ll' v. SheU, 95 DaC 19.

7. A cQmplaint was filed in the m~tter Qfthe NQrth CarQlinaState Bar v. Shell, 96
DHC 11 and the defendant answered the cQmplaint.
.
8. The defendant has waived his right to. a fQrmal he~g in the afQrementiQned
matters.
9. In 1991, Ted BigfQrd hired the defendant to. handle several cQllectiQn matterS
against Leader CQnstructiQn CQmpany.

I

10. During the three years that defendant had Mr. BigfQrd's cases, the defendant
misled Mr. BigfQrd abQut the status Qfhis cases.
11. The Defendant neglected to. cQllect any mQney froJ1l Leaqer'CQnstructiQn
CQmpany fQr Mr. BigfQrd.
12. On December 28, 1994, the defendant sent Mr. Bigford a statement Qf
services. Defendant indicated that a tQtal Qf$435.00 was due: $365.00 fQr attQrney's fee;
$(jO.OOfQr the filing fee and $10.00 fQr service QfprQcessfee. A part ($265.00) Qfthe
$365.00 was the attQrney's fee due to. the defendant to. pay fQr $¢t:Vices rendered in
anQther matter against Daniels CQnstructiQn CQmpany. In early Janqary 1995, Mr.
BigfQrd paid a tQtal Qf $435.00 to. the defendant.
13. The Defendant did nQt have to. spend the $60.00 fQrfiling fe~ and the $10,00
fQr service Qfprocess fee since he never filed an actiQn in COl.lrt Qn Mr. BigfQrd's behalf.

I
r

;'

,

,.J

;~ ;~:t

Ill!,

!'....

01(Jl0
.
i~

,.I

i

,

14. The defendant has not refunded to Mr. Bigford the money he obtained from
him to pay various court costs, fees and the balance of the attomey's.fee ($100.00) which
was not earrted.
15 .. By letter dated March 9, 1~95,
his client files to another attorney.

Mr. Bigford asked th~ defend~t to turn·oyer

16. The defendant did not release Mr. Bigford's files until several months later.

I

17. On June 8, 1995, Mr. Bigford filed a grievance against the defendant with the
Fifth Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee.
18. The defendant waS sent tWo letters dated June 13, 1995 and June 14, 1995
from the Fifth Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee wherein he Was asked to
respond to Mr. Bigford's grievance., :
19. The defendant did not respond to the Fifth Judicial District Bar Grievance
Cortunittee regarding Mr. Bigford's gtievance.
20. On September 20, 1995, the defendant WaS served with a letter of notice and
substance of Mr. Bigford's grievance py certified mail, return receipt requested by the
North Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee. The defendant was required to respond
to the letter of notice within 15 days of receiving the grievance.
i

21. The d,efendant did not respond to the grievance within the IS-day deadline.
Defendant did not request an extensionI to respond to the grievance.
22. On November 3, 1995, th¢ State Bar issued a subpoena to produce documents
or objects to the defendant, requiring 4im to appear at the State Bar office on November
20,,1995. The defendant received the subpoena. He asked to be excused from the
subpoena because of another obligation. The State Bar and the defendant agreed that he
would appear on November 27, 1995 ~t the State Bar office.

I

23. The defendant appeared at the State Bar office on November 27, 1995 and
spoke with a deputy counsel and hive~tigator about Mr. Bigford's grievance. '. The
defendant was asked to respond in writing to the grievance no later than December 4,
1995. On December 11, 1995, the defendant sent by facsimile his response dated
December 5, 1995 to the State Bar.
24. On February 15, 1996, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission ofthe North
Carolina State Bar entered a consent order of discipline, finding that the defendant
violated the Rules of Professional COJiduct.
25. The February 15, 1996 order of discipline directed that the defendant's
license to practice law be suspended for three years. The suspension was stayed for three
years on several conditions including that the defendant pay the $850.00 which he owes

,

"
1."\'

•

I
,1

i
,

,
,,
i

...

01011
.
-

--

~'

j

to the N.C. State Bar Lawyers Management Assistance Program (LMAP) and arrange by
March 15, 1996 to participate in LMAP for another year.
26. The defendant failed to pay the $850.00 fee which he owes to LMAP 8J1d lias
failed to contact LMAP to enroll in the pro~r~ for another year.
27. The defendant failed to comply with the consent 'order ofdisciplineent~red
on February 15, 1996.

I

~8. In late 1994, Chen-Yu Sun hired the defendant toobtaih an early tertniha,tion
of his probat~on. Mr. Sun's probation was scheduled to terminate in July 1996.

29. Mr. Sun paid the defendant $1,500.00 as his attorney's fee.
30. The defendant did not file an action to seek early termination of Mr.
probation.

Sun's

31. The defendant did not earn the attorney's fee paid to him. The defendant did
not refund the unearned fee to Mr. Sun.
32. In January 1996, Michael George retained the defendant to fiie a bankruptcy'
petition on behalf of Mr. George and his wife, Nonna George.
.
33. Mr. George paid $300.00, which represented a portion of the attorney's fee he
agreed to pay the c;lefendant, and $175.00 for th~ filing fee! Defendant agrees to waiV~
the balance of the fee owed him by Mr. George.

I

34. On several occasions Mr. George telephoned the def~ndant to detennlnethe
status of his case. Although the defendant.did call Mr. and Mrs. George and met with
them to obtain additional information neceSsary to the preparation of their p~tition? th~
defendant did not return Mr. George's telephone calls each tjme Mr. George l~,ft a
message.
35. On March 2, 1996, the defendant told Mr. George that he (the defendant)had
completed the Georges' bankruptcy petition and the petition had been mailed to the-court
for filing. Mr. George later learned that the defendant had not filed the bankti,tptcy
petition on the date he claimed. In fact, defendant did not file Mr. apd Mrs. George's
bankruptcy petition until April 1, 1996.
36. The defendant was retained to assist John H. Sloan innegotia,ting apay-off ,of
a judgment that First Union National Bank had against him.
37. The defendant was paid a portion of-his fee by James Webb; Mr. Sloan's S9,rl.
38. On May 31, 1996, Eliza Sloan, Mr. Sloart's'wife, telephoned the. defendant to
inquire about the status of her husband's case.

I

"

39, The defendant advised Mrs. Sloan to bring her husband to his office on June
1, 1996 to discuss the case.
40. Mr. and Mrs. Sloan met ~ith the defendant in his office on June 1, 1996 to
discuss Mr. Sloan's case.

41. The defendant had researched the public records in New Hanover and
Brunswick Counties to determine whether there were other judgments against Mr. Sloan.
The defendant told the Sloans to pay him $300.00 and that he would take care of Mr.
Sloan's matter.

I

42. The Sloans gave the defendant a check in the amount of $300.00 as his
attorney's fee.
43' .. When the defendant acc¢pted the Sloans' check for $300.00, he knew he was
upable to practice law since he had sPn'endered his law license· to Superior Court Judge
Ernest B. Fullwood and Judge Fullwood had transferred the defendant to inactive status
effective as of May 28, 1996, the da~e of the consent order entered in that.matter.
44. The defendant did not inform the Sloans of the status of his law license when
he accepted the $300.00 check.
45. Since 1989 the defendant has suffered from periods of severe depression
which has been 4iagnosed and treated by a psychiatrist.
46. In 1991 the defendant married Dolly thompson Shell.
.

I '

47. Since shortly after his marriage to Polly Thompson Shell, the defendant has

I

lived in a virtual state of"living hell~' and in a constant state of mental abuse, turmoil,
torment, and financial and emotional pressure from Dolly Thompson Shell. When
combined with the enorm()us work l<;lad required to meet the financial demands of the
marriage, the stress of his marital problems resulted in the defendant again seeking
psychiatric treatment in 1993 for severe, clinical depression.
48. Upon his doctor's advict'1, the defendant attempted to reduce his work load to
alleviate his depression and took pre~cription drugs for his depression.
49. Despite c()ntinued strife in his marriage, the defendant and his wife attempted
a reconciliation in May 1994. They }verecounseled by H. Mac Wallace of the North
Carolina Baptist Hospital Counseling Center in Wilmington.
50. The defendant assisted his wife in attempting to handle her mother's estate in
1995; such efforts required defendant to be in Florida and away from his law practice.
Mrs. Shell had gone to Florida in lat~ December 1994, refused to return to Wilmington
and urged the defendant to give up his law practice and make a life with her in Florida.

I
,I

;

"

51. The defendant decided to close his law practice and 'enrolled with a .personnel
search firm in Florida. He evert allowed his wife to move most oftheir household goods
to Florida.
,

.

52'. In July 1995, Mrs. Shell was tried in New Hanover Couiltyon chm-ges of
driving while impaired, assault on twQ police o~flcers and. resisdn~ arrest.
.

I

53. Mrs. Shell was not satisfied with the result of her trial ~d plea bargain and
publicly accused the defendant of "selling her out." She left Wilmington, retmned to
Florida and cut off all communication with the defendant.
54. The defendant has taken numerous prescription clrugsfor depression 'afiq
sleep disorders. Following an automobile accident in 1995 he began taking prescription
medications for pain.
55. As the pressures from his deteriorating marriage ahd declining mental and
physical condition mounted, the defendant neglected. all aspects .0£ his life including his
law practice.
56. III April 1996 the defendant and Dolly Thompson Shell were divorced.
57. In May 1996, the defendant realized he was unable to continue to practice
law. After consultation with friends and colleagues, on May 28, 1996, he surrenderecl his
law license to the Honorable Ern,est B. Fullwood,Seruor Resident ,Stip<;}rio~ Court Judg¢
for the Fifth Judicial District a,n.d was transferred to disability inactive st~tus.

I

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings ofFact"the
hearing committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

,.:"

1. All parties are properly before the heating committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of'Fact a1;>ove, cOl1stitutes
grounds for discipline purSUatlt to N.C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28(1)) as follows:
(a) By failing to take prompt action in collecting the debts that Mr. Bigford
claimed against the Leader Corporation, defendant failed to act With reasonable diligence
and promptness in representing his client in violation of Rule 6(b)(3); faile!! to seek the
lawful objectives of his client through reasonably availabJe means p¢nnirted by law and
the Rules of Professional Concluct in violation of Rule 7.1(a); failed to carry Ol,lt a
contract of employment entered into with a client for professiol1al.setvices in violation of
Rule 7. 1(b); prejudiced or damaged his client during the course of the professional

I
,I

j

j
"

!

relationship in violation of Rule 7.1 (c)~ and engaged in conduct prejudicial to:the
administration of justice in violation of Rule I.2(d).
(b) By misrepresenting the status of Mr. Bigford's case, defendant engaged
in conduct involving misrepresentation in violation of Rule I.2(c); engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justjce in violation of Rule 1.2(d).
(c) By not refunding the money that defendant obtained from Mr. Bigford to
pay litigation costs when no action was filed in court, defendant failed to pay promptly or
deliver to the client funds to which the .client is entitled in the possession of the lawyer in
violation of Rule IO.2(e).

I

(d) By not promptly returning Mr. Bigford's file to him as he requested,
defendant failed to deliver to the cIientlall papers to which the client is entitled in
violation of Rule 2.8(£1)(2).
.
(e) By not responding to the Fifth Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee
regarding the grievance filed by Mr. Bi~ford, defendant has knowingly failed to respond
to a lawful demand for information frOJ;ll a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule
I.1(b).

(f) By 110t responding to the State Bar regarding the grievance filed by Mr.
Bigford until he was subpoenaed to appear and testify about the matter, defendant has
knowingly failed to respond to a lawful: demand for information from a disciplinary
authority in violati9n of Rule I.l(b).
(g) By failing to file an action to get Mr. Sun's probation terminated before
July 1996, the defendant failed to act wjth reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing the client in violation of Rule 6(b)(3); failed to seek the lawful objectives of
his client through reasonably available means permitted by law and the Rules of
Professional Conduct in violation ofR4le 7. 1(a)(l); failed to carty out a contract of
employment entered into with a client for professional services in violation of Rule
7.1(a)(2); and prejudiced or damaged his client during the course of the professional
relationship in violation of Rule 7. I (a)(3).

I

I

(h) By not refunding the un¢arned attorney's fe~ paid by Mr. Sun, the
defendant failed to refund promptly any part of a fee paid in advance that has not been
earned in violation of Rule 2.8(3).
(i) By not promptly filing the Georges' bankruptcy petition, the defendant
failed to act with reasonable diligence ahd promptness in representing the client in
violation of Rule 6(b)(3); failed to seek ~e lawful objectives of his or her client through
reasonably available means permitted by law and the Rules of Professional Conduct in
violation of Rule 7.1 (a)(1); and prejudited or damaged his client during the course of the
professional relationship in violation·ofRule 7. I (a)(3).

I
,I

!

,

,i

..'. .

l

j
i

........

,./

...

0)

By not returning Mr. George's telephone calls', the defendant failed to keep,
the client reasonably informed about the status of a matter and failed to comply promptly
with reasonable requests for information in violation of:Rme 6(b)(I).
(k) By telling Mr. George that he.had filed the bankruptcy petition when he

had not, the defendant engaged in conduct. involving misrepresentation in violatioQ of
Rule 1.2(c).

I

(1) By failing to disclose to the Sloans that he coqld no longer practice law and
thus could not represent Mr. Sloan in his legal matter, the defendant has engaged in
conduct involving misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(c).

(m) By accepting money from the Sloans as aIla,ttoni~y's fee when he \mew he
could not practice law pursuant to a court order, the defendant has' engaged in conduct .
involving dishonesty or misrepresentation in violation of Rqle 1.2(c).
(n) By failing to disclose to the Sloans that he had surrendered his law license
and had been transferred to di!;ability inactive status, the defendant engaged in conduct
involving misrepresentation in v'iolation' of Rule 1.2(c) and'engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(d).
3. By failing to pay the $850.00 which the defendailt·owed to the N.C'.StateBar
Lawyers Management Assistance Program and by failing toartangeto participate hi
LMAP for another year no later than March 15, 1996 as requited by the February 15,
1996 consent onter of discipline, the defendant failed to comply with the terms which
were conditions precedent to the stay of the three-year suspension of his license to
practice law.

I

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing c01;hmittee also enters the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

(a) prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) substantial e~perience in the practice of law;
(c) multiple offenses; and
(d) issuance of a letter of warning to the defendant within the three years
immediately preceding the filing of the complaint by the State Bar.
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the foI1oWing factor:

I
!

"

i

,I
i
.I"

.. ./··"tllo.16
,

"

'

.

(a) severe and prolonged depression, a destructiye marriage and.other
serious personal or emotional problems..
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings
regarding discipline and based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee
enters the following:
ORDER .OF DISCIPLINE

I

1. The defendant is hereby suspended from the practice of law for four years,
effective as of the date of this consent order of discipline.
•

i

2. The defendant has submitted his law license and membership card to the
Honorable Ernest B. FullwoOQ, Senior Resident-Superior Court Judge of the Fifth
Judicial District. Defendant shall not seek to obtain either his law license or membership
card from Judge Fullwood or any Superior Court Judge Without first having petitioned the
State Bar for reinstatement ofms law lic~nse.
3. The defendant may seek reinstatement of his law license to practice law upon
filing a written petition and ciemonstratirlg compliance With the following conditions:
a. The defendant shall receive treatment from a board certified psychiatrist
during the period of suspension of his law license and that such treatment shall continue
for as long as the psychiatrist dictates. The defendant's treatment is to begin no later
than 30 days from th~ date of this consent order of discipline. At least 30 days before the
defendant petitions for reinstatement of his law license, .he shall submit to the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar ~ statement from his psychiatrist that he is
mentally and'emotionally able to resume1the practice of law. The defendant shall execute
a release that permits the Office of Coun$el of the North Carolina State Bar to obtain his
treatment records and receive other pertinent information from his psychiatrist relating to
his treatment and prognosis.

I

h. The defendant shall pay $170.00 as a refund of a retainer and court costs to
Ted Bigford.
c. The defendant sh~ll pay $850.00 to Lawyers" Management Assistance
Program for his prior participation in the Iprogram.
d. The defendant shall pay $1,500.00 as a refund of a retainer to Chen-Yu Sun.
e. The defendant shall pay $300.00 as a refund of a retainer to Mr. and Mrs.
John H. Sloan;.
I

f. The defendant shall violate no state or federal laws.
I

I
i

;
,I

/
i

.'

l/

;,",01-017

i

.,'

,..:'

,/

..':~:'

:, :

/

·.'

g. The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding, as assessed b.y·th~
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
h. The defendant shall pay the costs of the proceedin~ in the North Cat~lina
State Bar v. Shell, 95 DHC 19, as assessed by the Secretary of the North CarolirtaState
Bat.

I

i. The defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Rule .0124 of the N.C. State Bar"s Discipline and Disability
Rules.
j. comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. CodeCh~pter 1, Sub~h~pter
B, Rule .0125(b) of the N. C. State Bar's Discipline and Disability Rules.

Signed by the undersigned hearing committee chair With the,consent.ofthe
other hearing committe~embers.
This the

I 'f

day of

~..,.e..c...

,1996.

~(J.~~ ...
Robert B. Smith
Chairman
Hearing Committee

,.

I~~:L

. e E.Gunn
Attorney for the North Carolina State Bar

Aul~y

M. C ouch III
,Attorney . '. e Defend

L~
William R. Sh~ll
The Defendant

I

"

l

