;-----_._-------

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE ._
GRIEVANCE GOMMrtTEE
OF THE
.
NORTH CAROLINA STATEBAR
96G072S,(U)

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
AUBREY BLANCHARD, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
.)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 16, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North·CaroljnaState:a~ met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar., .'
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the' North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Aft~r considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a-member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action.. "
The rules provide that after a finding ofprobable cause, the Gtiev~e~ COrimlittee may detehnine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing. COJllltllssion are not required
and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating f~ctor:;.· The Grievance Committee
may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent .attotn.ey.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious thanan~dm6niti0n issued in c~ses in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions onhe Rule:; of :profes:;ional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a cenSllre.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues thi$ reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofth~ North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you wiUun4erstand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
.
.
The Bar's investigation of this matter indicated that you failed to promptly disburse fund$,
relative to a number of residential real estate closings which you undertook in the spring of 1996.
use, however.
There was no evidence that you misappropriated any of the funds to your

own

I

.i
,

P",.,.......--....,-...........---...".........~---.,.,...---:~~-.......,...,...~~~~~=-~.­
,

Yout clients were considerably inconvenienced by your neglect of their real estate matters, which
constituted a clear violation of Rule 6(b)(3) and Rule 1O.2(e) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct. The Grievance Committee was further concerned by the fact that, at least initially, you
were uncooperative with the State Bar. However. you did ultimately consent to the entry of an
injunction by the Wake County Superior Court and a later order Which requires yOU to properly
disburse sums in your trust account. The Grievance Committee determined not to impose more
serious discipline in this case primarily becau~e the Wake County Superior Court has already
ordered you to make regular accountings to the Bar and comply with other safeguards.

I

In deciding to impose a Reprimand rather than more serious discipline, the Committee
took into account that you may be suffering: from certain personal problems which contributed to
and somewhat mitigated your misconduct. Having said this much, the Committee stresses that it
is essential that you deal effectively with any such problems. Future violations of the rules
governing trust accounts wi1l11ot be tolerat~d, whatever the cause.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Catolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be benefici~ to yOu, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to th~ high ethical st~dards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the admi~strative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
.

.

tIl

:

Done and ordered, this -""S'----_ day of

rn
f)~
J{PiLtnt!?t1)

996.

Ann4::~P-~

I

Chair,: Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I
"

}

010~1
.'
I'w
,"

