! .

.;

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner

PATRICK H. COLLINS, Attorney,
Respondent

,"l,'

BEFORE THE GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTHCAROLmASTATEBAR
, 96GOd.8'5(1V)·
,. ,

)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF RECIPROCAL
01SCIPLINE

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chairperson of the GrieV/:Ulce .cOniniittee of the
North Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subch~pter B, § .OI0S(a)(12) and
.OI16(b) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina-State Bar; and based upon
the record in this matte):", the undersigned finds as follows:
1. By order dated October 11, 1996, the Supreme Court - Appellate Division, Third
Judicial Department, in New York issued an order suspending youtlicense for six months.
2. On or about December 11, 1996, a Notice of Reciprocal Disc;ipline Proceeding
was mailed to you by certIfied mail, ret1.Im receipt requested.

I

3. On December 16, 1996, you were served with the Notice ofReciprocaJ Discipline
Proceeding, as evidenced by the signature of your agent, Sheila D. Cochran, on the return receipt.'
4. Although'you filed a response to the Notice of Reciptocal Discipline Proceeding,
you failed to show that any of the provisions of §.OI16(b)(3) applied,Such that imposition of the
identical discipline would by unwarranted.

BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS, the Chairperson of the Giievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1. The North Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the s1.Jbject matter ofthis
proceeding and over the person of P!lttick H. Collins.
2. The procedure for imposition of reciprocal discipline pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0116 of the Discipline and Disabiljty Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar has been complied with.

I
j
.1

ii

l

i"
i
I

"

"/6\026
,
I'

"

~.

il

"

I

~t.

'f .
'\.

3. The order of the New York court found that you engaged in dual representation, you
neglectfully allowed the filing of a satisfaction of judgment against a client when the judgment
had not been paid, you failed to respond to a request for a more detailed information from the
Committee on Professional Standards, which constitutes conduct in violation of Rules 5.1,
6(b)(3), 7. 1(a)(l) and 1.1 of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct and which
justifies the imposition of reciprocal discipline in this state.
4. The six months suspension imposed by the New York court should be imposed on
Patrick H. Collins' right to practice law:in the State of North Carolinil.

I

THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

1. The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of Patrick H. Collins is
hereby suspended for six months, effective October 11, 1996.
2. The effect of this order is stayed during the period between October 11, 1996 and the
date of service of this order upon Patrick H. Collins. Upon service of this order by certified mail
or otherwise, the stay is no longer in effect. Patrick H. Collins will be eligible for reinstatement
of his license in North Carolina pursuant to the procedures in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, §.0125(b) on or after Aprjilll, 1997.
3. Patrick H. Collins shall forthwith surrender his license certificate and membership
card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
4. Patrick H. Collins is hereby ~axed with the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary.
5. Respondent shall comply with the wind down provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina"State

.

B~

This the

atJ

'fA

i

I

day of January, 11997.

Ann Reed
Chairperson, Grievance Committee

I
.~

...

.'

i

"

