~"\f\~T.rlO?i'-:"
c:} ).
.. 'Vl
~
.. ,
...
.'

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

tt

\"

A.

/0

f~.:

tf'?

i@\

- I

~lfa

.·\1'

DEC '2008

3::~lt:;:D
Ii J

c

DHC

C J'\

<";""",)10
~2

~}~
.
BEFORE THE
~IDISCIPLINARYI-IEARING COMMISSION
~7

/fi

\~.
(~~.7'
'~S
..
\~y
",.tI.."C ..;

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.	
SCOTT B. SPRANSY, Attomey,
Defendant

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08 DEC 14

)

)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT

FINDINGS OF FACT,

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCPLINE

This matter came before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Theodore C. Edwards,Il, Chair, Donna Rascoe, and Donald G. Willhoit; withA
Root Edmonson representing the North Carolina State Bar and with the defendant appearing pro
se. Based upon this consent order, the hearing committee finds that the following facts have
been established by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Scott B. Spransy (hereinafter "Spransy"), was admitted to the NOIih
Carolina State Bar on September 10, 1993, and is, and was at all times refcned to herein, an
Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct ol'lhe North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.
3. During the times relevant herein, Spransy actively engaged in the practice of law in the
State of North Carolina and maintained a law oftice in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North
Carolina.
4. In August 2005, Spransy was retained by Adam Alexander (hereinafter "Alexander")
to represent him on a number oftraftic and other charges.
5. Alexander paid Spransy $1,000 for his services.

6. Alexander's mother, Patsy Roberts (hereinafter "Roberts"), called Spransy's office to
determine whether Alexander needed to appear in court on his October 5, 2005 court date and
was advised that Alexander needed instead to appear on October 13,2005.
7. On October 13,2005, Spransy did not appear in court for Alexander.
8. On October 13, 2005, Alexander appeared for court and leamed that a failure to appear
walTant had been issued against him for nol appearing in court on October 5, 2005, and he was
taken into custody.
9. Thereafter, afier not being able to get Spransy to return her numerous calls, on October
15,2005 Roberts paid a bondsman $740 to secure Alexander's release.
10. In August 2006, Alexander filed a grievance with the Mecklenburg County Bar.
11. On August 25,2006, Spransy was notified of Alexander's grievance by Mark A.
Michael, chairman of the 26 th Judicial District Grievance Committee, and was directed to file a
written response within 15 days ofreceipt of Michael's letter.
th

12. Thereafter, the attomey assigned to investigate Alexander's grievance for the 26
Judicial District, I-leather L. Taraska (hereinafter "Taraska"), contacted Spransy via e-mail and
voice mail seeking to get a response to the grievance.
13. Spransy failed to respond to Michael or Taraska and did not ever provide any
response to the Alexander grievance.
14. Spransy was retained by Philipp Stahala (hereinafter "Stahala") to represent him on a
boating while intoxicated charge.
15. Stahala was advised that he would not have to appear on his February 24, 2006 court
date, but needed to send Spransy $110 for the court costs prior to that date.
16. On February 3,2006, Stahala sent Spransy his check number 570 for $110 which
Spransy received and negotiated.
17. Spransy failed to pay Stahala's court costs, resulting in Stahala being arrested and
held for nine hours until the court costs were paid.
18. On January 5, 2007, Stahala filed a grievance with the State Bar.
19. On April 20, 2007, Spransy was served with a Letter of Notice requiring a response
to the Stahala grievance within 15 days.
20. Although Spransy knew about the grievance and signed for it, he did not provide a

timely response to the Stahala grievance, although a response was eventually sent.


21. On June 29,2006, Renee M. Allen (hereinafter "Allen") paid Spransy $375 to handle
a speeding ticket for her that she had received in Wadesboro, NC.
22. As Spransy requested, Allen executed a waiver of appearance form on August 23,
2006 and delivered it to Sprans)'.
23. Spransy failed to appear in court in Anson County on Allen's behalf on her October
12, 2006 court date.
24. Allen received an October 17,2006 letter from the State of North Carolina
Depm1ment of Motor Vehicles (hereinal1er "NC DMV") indicating that her license would be
suspended for her failure to appear.
25. Thereafter, Allen wrote and called Spransy to get a response to her inquiries
concerning her driver's license.
26. Spransy failed to respond to Allen's inquiries.
27. As a result ofSpransy's failure to communicate with her, Allen had to retain other
counsel to make sure she did not lose her driver's license.
28. On February 9, 2007, Allen filed a grievance with the State Bar.
29. On April 20, 2007, Sprans)' was served with a Letter of Notice requiring a response
to the Allen grievance within 15 days.
30. Although Spransy knew about the grievance and signed for it, he did not provide a
timely response to the Allen grievance, although a response was eventually sent.
31. On April 17,2007, Lawrence Burke (hereinafter "Burke") paid Spransy $175 to
represent him in a traffic matter.
32. The day prior to Burke's court date, Spransy's office informed Burke that he did not
need to attend court.
33. Spransy failed to appear in court for Burke.
34. As a result of Spransy failing to appear in court for him, Burke received a July 17,
2007 letter tram NC DMV advising him that his driving privilege would be suspended ifhe did
not comply with his citation.
35. Burke called Spransy's oaice concerning the NC DMV letter and was told that it was
probably a clerical error.

36. Sprans)' did nothing further on Burke's behalf. As a result, Burke had to take care of
resolving his traffic ticket on his own.
37. On August 22, 2007, Burke filed a Petition for Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution
with the North Carolina State Bar seeking to recover the $175 he paid to Spransy.
38. On August 23, 2007, Spransy was notified by certified mail of Burke's fee dispute
and directed to provide a written response within] 5 days of receipt ofthe letter.
39. Spransy received the notification of Burke's fee dispute on August 27,2007.
40. Spransy failed to respond to the Burke fee dispute petition.
41. On June 28, 2007, Wendy S. Gm'bus (hereinafter "Garbus") retained Spransy to
represent her in a criminal matter in CabalTus County and paid Spransy $500.
42. Garbus appeared in court on her scheduled court date, July 9, 2007.
43. Sprans)' failed to appear in court for Garbus on July 9,2007.
44. Garbus got her case continued and notified Spransy's office of the new court clate of
August 6, 2007.
45. Spransy failed to appear in court for Gm'bus on August 6,2007.
46. On August 15, 2007, Gm'bus sent Spransy a certified letter stating that since she had
been tlying to contact Spransy for over a month with no response and since Spransy did not
appear for her court dates, Gm'bus was discharging Spransy and requesting a refund of her
payment.
47. Sprans)' did not renmd the fee to Garbus.
48. On March 26,2007, Jeffrey Ditesheim retained Spransy to represent him and his
wife, Dana Ditesheim, on traffic citations each had received.
49. Thereafter, Dmla Ditesheim received a June 5,2007 letter from NC DMV advising
her that her driver's license would be suspended for her failure to appear in com1 on her citation.
50. The letter from NC DMV was faxed to Spransy's office. In a subsequent telephone
call, Spransy's administrative assistant told Ditesheim's representative that Sprans)' was in court
taking care of the matter at that time.
51. On August 14,2007, Spransy sent a billing statement tor attorney fees, costs and

fines in reference to both citations.


52. On August 15,2007, a check was mailed to Spransy to pay the bills for both
citations.
53. Thereafter, Jeffrey Ditesheim received a September 4,2007 letter from the NC DMV
advising him that his driver's license would be suspended for his failure to appear in court for his
citation.
54. The letter from NC DMV \vas faxed to Spransy's office. Despite numerous attempts
to reach Spransy by email and telephone, the Ditesheims received no response from Spransy.
55. After receiving no communication from Spransy, JetJrey Ditesheim retained another
attorney to resolve the matter prior to NC DMV's deadline.
56. The new attorney found that Spransy had finally resolved both citations, but that the
costs for the citations remained unpaid. That attorney also discovered that Dana Ditesheim's
license had been suspended on August 4,2007.
57. John D. Biggs (hereinafter "Biggs") retained Spransy to handle a traffic ticket for him
and paid Spransy $400.
58. Spransy failed to appear in court for Biggs.
59. As a result of Spransy failing to appear in court for him, Biggs' license was
suspended by South Carolina.
60. Biggs left messages for Spransy advising him of his license suspension problem and
seeking assistance.
61. Spransy failed to timely respond to Biggs' requests for assistance.
62. In March 2007, Tomcka Wilson (hereinafter "Wilson") retained Spransy to represent
her on a driving while license revoked charge.
63. Wilson paid Spransy $370 including $120 for court costs.
64. After having the case continued from the initial court date, Spransy failed to appear

in court for Wilson on April 28, 2007.

65. As a result of Spransy failing to appear in court for her, Wilson was alTcstcd.
66. After not being able to reach Spransy, Wilson had to get a bondsman to get her out of
jail.

67. Wilson went to Spransy's oiTice to advise him of her new court date of August I,
2007. Spransy was not there, so Wilson left the information with Spransy's administrative
assistant.

68. Unsure of whether Spransy would appear on August 1,2007, Wilson attended court.
While she was in the courthouse, Spransy's administrative assistant called to advise Wilson that
Spransy had her court date put off. Wilson left the courtroom.
69. Because Spransy had not continued Wilson's August 1,2007 court date, Wilson was
again arrested.
70. Wilson made numerous attempts to communicate with Spransy, including leaving
messages with Spransy's assistant advising Spransy of her next court date of September 6, 2007,
but Spransy never retumed any of her calls.
71. Spransy failed to appear in court for Wilson on her September 6, 2007 court date.

72. Much ofSpransy's failure to communicate with these clients and others was caused
by hisadnlinistrativeassistallt ,vho failed to advise Spl;allsy oftlie illquides niadeby his clients.
However, Spransy is ultimately responsible for his employee's failure to advise him of his need
to communicate with his clients.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly belore the hearing committee of the Disciplinary I-Iearing
Commission and the hearing committee has jurisdiction over Spransy and the subject matter.

2.	 Spransy's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds tor discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b) (2) in that Spransy violated the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct as follows:
(a)	

by failing to have Alexander's case properly continued from the docket on October
5, 2005 and by failing to appear in court for Alexander on October 5, 2005 and
October 13,2005, Spransy failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a cl ient in violation of Rule 1.3;

(b)	

by failing to respond to Roberts' communications on behalf of Alexander, Spransy
failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in violation or
Rule 1.4(a)(4);

(c)	

by failing to respond to the 26 1h Judicial District Bar's attempts to get a response to
the Alexander grievance, Spransy failed to respond to a lawful demand for
information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b);

Cd)	

by failing to pay the costs he had received from Stahala to the Clerk of Superior
Court, Spransy failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to promptly deliver entrusted
funds to a third person as directed by the client in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);

(e)	

by failing to respond to the Letters of Notice sent to him in the Stahala and Allen
grievances, Spransy failed to respond to a lawful demands for information from a
disciplinmy authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b);

(1)	

by failing to appear in court for Allen on October 12, 2006, Spransy failed to act
with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of
Rule 1.3;

(g)	

by f~liling to respond to Allen's communications concerning her driver's license,
Spransy failed to proinptly comply with reasonable requests for information in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

(h)	

by failing to appear in court for Burke on his court date, Spransy failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule
1.3;

(i)	

by failing to take any action on Burke's behalf after his ofJice had been told by
Burke that he had galien a letter from NC DMV advising him that his license would
be suspended for his failure to appear in court, Spransy failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

G)	

by failing to provide a response to Burke's fee dispute petition, Sprans)'
failed to participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process in
violation of Rule 1.5(£)(2);

(k)	 by failing to appear in court for Gm"bus on each of her court dales, Spransy failed to

act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of
Rule 1.3;
(l)	

by fail ing to refund the fee to Garbus that he had fai led to cam, Spransy railed to
take steps reasonably practicable 10 protect his client's interest by refunding an
advance fee that he had not earned in violation of Rule 1.16(d);

(m)	 by failing to appear in court for each of the Ditesheims on their court dates, Spransy
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in
violation of Rule 1.3;

(n)	

by failing to pay the costs he had received on behalf of the Ditesheims to the Clerk
of Superior Court, Spransy failed to promptly deliver entrusted funds to a third
person as directed by the clients in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);

(0)	

by failing to refund the costs and fines collected for the Ditesheims' cases that he
failed to pay to the court, Spransy failed to take steps reasonably practicable to
protect his clients' interest by refunding an advance expense in violation of Rule
1.16(d);

(p)	 by failing to appear in court for Biggs, Spransy failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
(q)	 by failing to respond to Biggs' communications concerning his driver's license,
Spransy failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
(r)	

by failing to appear in court for Wilson on April 28, August 1, and September 6,
2007, Spransy failed to act with reasonable diligellce and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3; and

(s)	

by failing to respond to Wilson's communications concerning her pending case,
Spransy failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4).

BASED UPON the foregoing FINDfNGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, and the
arguments of counsel, the hearing committee hereby makes the following:
Fn~DlNGS

1.	

2.	

AND CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

Spransy's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

A pattern of misconduct;

(b)

Multiple offenses; and

(c)

Substantial experience in the practice of law.

Spransy's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

Absence of a prior disciplinary record;

(b)

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

(c)

Personal or emotional problems;

(d)	

Interim rehabilitation; and

(e)	

Remorse.

3.	

The mitigating factors outweighed the aggravating factors.

4.	

Prior to the relevant time of his misconduct, Spransy was experiencing significant
personal problems in his life that caused him to suffer from depression.

5.	

In 2006, Spransy sought treatment for his depression from a psychiatrist. Spransy
took medication for two months. Spransy also began therapy with a clinical
psychologist, Dr. Matthew Alexander, Ph.D. M.A. who he saw until the Fall of
2007.

6.	

Just prior to the time of his misconduct, Spransy became erratic in the taking of his
medication due its unpleasant side effects. The lack of appropriate medication
contributed to Spransy's loss ofjudgment that led to his misconduct.

7.	

Spransy's conduct is serious enough to wanant more than a Censure, but
does not warrant an active suspension of his license.

BASED UPON the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLUSIONS OF LA W, the
FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE, the hearing committee hereby
enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of the defendant, Scott B. Spransy, is hereby suspended for a period of
six months.
2.
The sLlspension of Spransy's license is stayed for a period of three years on the
following conditions:
(a)	

Spransy shall, at his own expense, be examined by a psychiatrist approved
by the 0 fllee of Counsel, and continue therapy with Matthew Alexander,
or other therapist approved by Spransy's psychiatrist, as long as
recommended by the psychiatrist; and shall comply with the comse of
treatment prescribed by his psychiatrist for the next three years, or until
Spransy is released from treatment, whichever first occurs;

(b)	

Spransy shall be responsible for ensuring that a written report is received
in the Office of Counsel from his psychiatrist on January 1, 2009-2011,
April 1, 2009-2011, July 1,2009-2011 and October 1,2009-2011. Those
reports shall indicate whether Spransy is following his treatment plan and
whether the condition for which he is being treated impairs his

professional judgment, performance or competence as an attomey. If the
psychiatrist releases Spransy from any further treatment, the reports may
be discontinued;
(c)	

Within 30 days of service of this Consent Order of Discipline, Spransy
shall provide the Office of Counsel with a written release, authorizing the
Office of Counsel to contact Spransy's psychiatrist for the purpose of
determining whether Spransy is following his treatment plan and whether
the condition for which he is being treated impairs his professional
judgment, performance or competence as an attorney. Spransy shall not
revoke his written release given to his psychiatrist, prior to November 1,
2011 ;

(d)	

Spransy shall make refunds of the following amounts to the following
clients by December 5, 2009:
(l)	
(2)	
(3)	
(4)	

Adam Alexander
$1,000.00
Renee M. Allen
375.00
Lawrence Burke
175.00
Jeffrey Ditesheim - the part ofthe $650 Ditesheim paid
Spransy that was for costs and fine

(d)	

Spransy shall not violate any state or federal laws during the period of the
stayed suspension;

(e)	

Spransy shall not violate any provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct during the period of his stayed suspension;

(1)	

Spransy shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina
State Bar within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner; and

(g)	

Spransy shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and comply with all Continuing Legal Education (CLE)
requirements on a timely basis.

If the stay of the suspension of Spransy's law license is lifted, the DH C may enter an
3.
order providing for the imposition of such conditions as it deems necessary for reinstatement 0 I'
Spransy's law license at the end of the suspension period.
4.
Spransy is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary and shall
pay those costs within 90 days of service of notice of those costs.
Signed with the knowledge and consent of the other members of the hearing committee

_ .12/B4/2008
- -...
~

thj~

15:32

704--358-0100

FEDEX KINI<O' S

49B3

the __ day of December 2008.

Theodore C. Edwards, fl, Chair
Hearing Cotl1mittee

CONSENTED TO:

PAGE

£11

-th

~

this the ~ day of October 2008.

~(,~R
Tbeodore C. Edwards, II, Chair
I-Iearing Committee

CONSENTED TO:

A. Root Edmonson

Scott B. Spransy

