-------~

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G 1084(III)

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

1

RICHARD DAILEY,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 23, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina Stat~ Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Sherman White.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted .a preliminary hearing, After considering the
information availa,ble to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the ruies as 'ireasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductju~tifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cauSe, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing b~fore the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition,
reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused h~ or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a cenS1.l1'e.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not reqllired in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina
State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you will understand
fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On August 11, 1995, you were appointed to represent Sherman White in the appeal of
several criminal charges. Mr. White wrote you letters dated December 13, 1995, February 21,
i996, March 20, 1996, and May 16, 1996. It appears that you did nQt respond to any ofthQse
letters from Mr. White .

.1

~

.....

.,~

...

..

~--------------------------------------------~------------------------------

On July 8, 1996, Mr. White filed a motion to dismiss his court appointed att~rney. On
August 9, 1996, Judge Catherine Eagles directed you to file an affidavit concerning the status of
Mr. White's appeal. You filed the affidavit on August 20, 1996.
In the 12 months that you represented Mr. White, yoU took little or no substantive action in
perfecting his appeal. Furthermore, you did not communicate with Mr. White unless you were
directed by the court.
,

Your conduct in representing Mr. White is in violation of Rule 6(b)(1)(2) and (3). Those
rul~s require an attorney to communiGate with his client about the status of his case and to attend
diligently and promptly to the client's matter. Furthermore, your conduct was prejudicial to the
adnlinistration of justice and thus you violated Rule 1.2(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
relll;embered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15. 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bat regarding the taxing of the arJministrative and investigative costs to anY
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee. the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00are hereby taxed to you. '
.
. Done and ordered, this

~ay of1~ 1997.

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance COnimittee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
I

~

-~

_

... "-

.;..

09008

.

