\L\ SO
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITtEE
.
' OFTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G 1007(111)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

HARRY E. FISHER,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 23, 1997,the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bat.
:pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bat is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of prob~ble cause, the Grievance Conmrittee m~y
determi.ne that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a cen~ure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused signific~t harm or potential significant harm to'a client, the administration of justice,
the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now lllY duty to issue this censure. I
am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In 1994 you undertook to represent Matthew R r~specting a DWI charge which had been
brought against Matthew R in September 1994. Matthew R paid you an initial fee oI$500.
Thereafter, you told him that ifhe paid you another $1,500 you could "clear up" the matter
without the necessity of a trial. At the time when you made these statements you had no

I
-,.~OPQ11
,
i

I

I"

reasonable basis for believing that the case could in fact be favorably resolved without trial. In
fact, you were not able to work out a satisfactory res()luti()n of the matter and a trial was held in .
July '1996. In that proceeding, Matthew R was convicted ofDWI.
Your conduct in promising your client that you could dispose favorably of his DWI case
without a trial in return for payment ofa $1,500 additional fee created an unjustified expectation
about the results you could achieve, in violation of Rule 2.1(b) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for y()ur violation of the Rules
of Pt:ofessional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you Will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censUre should serve as
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to
the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself
as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without
question.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

sf-

Done and ordered, this~ /

day of

, 1997.

. L. f2~Q~

Ann Reed, Chair Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
.;..J)0012
.
"

"

!

