ll\l08
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFOIffiTBE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G9301(1)

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

PETER GEMBORYS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 17, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North CarolinaState Bar met and
considered the grievance filed again,st you by the State Bar.
Pursuan,t to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disCiplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, .
reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand isa Written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issl.led in,cases
in which an attorney has violated one or mote provisions of the Rules of Professiomd Conduct
and has c~used harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a cenSure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina
State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you will understand
fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You practiced law in Wilmington from June 1989 to December 1993. DlU'ing that time,
you settled two or three personal injury cases for your clients. In each instance, you received a
settlement check for the client. You and the client went to the bank, cashed the check, and you
received your attorney's fee and the client received his or her portion ofthe ,settlement check.
You did not deposit the ~ettlement check into a trust account.

I

~---------------------------------

Your conduct in this regard violated Rules lO.l(b) and lO.l(c) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct. Rule 10.1 (b) requires a lawyer to maintain one or more bank accounts separately
identifiable from any business or personal account ofthe lawyer, which is to be labeled and
designated as a trust accoUnt when the lawyer receives any money or funds belonging to another
person or entity, either from a client or from third parties. Rule lO.1(c) requires that all money or
funds received by it lawyer eith~r from a client or from a third party to be delivered to a client
shall be deposited in a lawyer trust account. The Grievance Committee understands that you
later opened a trust account when you started a law practice in Havelock.
Also, duririg the time that this grievance was investigated, your law firm operated under a
trade ,name, Gemborys Legal Services-. You did not register your trade name with the North
Carolina State Bar until it was pointed out to you by counsel. Your conduct violated Rule 2.3(a)
of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you; and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
pone and ordered, this

21-rf1 day of tJ~

,1996.

I

I
0001.4

