1 \ 0·£1
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLrnA STATE BAR,
96G0720(IV)

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN TIlE MATTER OF
BRUCE ELMORE, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 23, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
av~lable to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Comniittee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe th!it a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required
and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors, The Grievance Committee
may issue an admonit~Qn, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

a

I

i
• j

i

!,

A reprimand, is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Condllct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of j\lstice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman ofthe Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
.i

You solicited a crime against nature from an undercover police officer during a sting operation.
When other offic~rs participating in the sting approached you to arrest you, you sped away . You failed

I
,1

(

,. ~"OO()'1S
/

.'

,-

i

to stqp when the police pursued you with blue light and siren evident. You pled guilty to the solicitation
charge and a charge of speeding to allude arrest. Your conduct violated Rule 1.2(b).
In deciding what discipline to impose, the Grievance Committee took into consideration that you
had previously been arrested for a crime against nature on January 30, 1990. You pied no contest in that
matter and were given a suspended sentence. The Committee also considered that you had come under
the Il1edical care of Dr. Anthony Sciara of the Grove Clinic and continued treatment un~er the care of
Dr. Eric Peterson.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to ypur professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
,

; In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount 0:f$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.

Done and ordered, this

1'1

'f1'\

~
~. /J£)

day of

, 1997.

Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
.

00016

,i

./
i
/{

/

