,

----

-~----~ ------~-----~----:

BEFORE THE SECRETARY
OF THE

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
95 BSR 1

IN THE REINSTATEMENT Of:
ORDER OF REINSTATEMENT

I

J. MARSHALL HAYWOOD

This matter is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to a
petition for reinstatement filed on or after February 3, 1995 by J. Marshall Haywood.
I

It appears from a review of the Consent Order of Discipline entered on July 7,
1994 that petitioner was ordered suspended from the practice of law for two years
effective February 20, 1993.
It further appears from the verified petition filed by petitioner that petitioner:

1. . Complied with the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar concerning winding down his practice;
2. Complied with the Order of Discipline;
3. Did not engage in the unauthorized practice of law during the period of
suspepsion of his license; and
4. Did not engage in arty conduct during the period of suspension constituting
grounds for discipline under NCGS ยง 84-28(b).
After conducting the necessary investigation regarding the compliance of the
petitioner with the requirements set forth in ยง 25(B)(3), counsel for the North Carolina
State Bar did not file any objection to the petition within the time required by ยง 25(B)(4).

I

THEREFORE, pursuant to ยง 25(B)(5) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of
the North Carolina State Bar, petitioner was entitled to have his license reinstated from
the disciplinary suspension thirty days from the filing of his petition. However, because
H~ywood was also under an administrative suspension for non-payment of dues and noncompliance with CLE requirements at the end of his disciplinary suspension, no order of
reinstatement was entered at that time.
On April 14, 1995, petitioner was reinstated to active status by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar after complying with his dues and CLE requirements.

I
OOOZ2
,,/
,/

/'

i

However, no order was ever entered reinstating petitioner from his disciplinary
suspension. Haywood is entitled to have such an order entered nunc pro tunc.
~

~

THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
1. J. Marshall Haywood is reinstated to the practice of law in North Carolina as
of April 14, 1995.

I

2. The license certificate and membership card of J. Marshall Haywood should
be returned to him forthwith.
This is the iL~11<! day of April, 1997.

L. Thomas Lunsford, II I
Secretary
North Carolina State Bar

I

I

