"

BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96 BCRl

I

IN THE MATIER OF
)
PETITION FOR REINSTATEMENT OF )
E. CLAYTON,SELVEY,JR.
)
**********************************************

RECOMMENDATION
OF
HEARING COMMITIEE

This-matt~r coming on to be heard and being heard on March 15, 1996 by
a .hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission comprised of
Frank E.Emory, Chair, Richard L. Doughton, and A. James Early, III; with E.
Clayton Selvey, Jr. ("petitioner") appearing and being represented by Nelson M.
Casstevens, Jr. and with R. David Henderson representing the North Carolina
State Bar ("'respondent"); and based upon the evidence presented and the
arguments of counsel, the hearing committee finds and concludes as .follows:

1. Petitioner was licensed to practice law in North Carolina in August
1958.

I

2. On or about ·March 27, 1979, petitioner was employed by Sandra C.
MilleI: to represent her as executrix of the estate of Dwight B. Miller.

3, During his representation of Ms. Miller, petitiener failed to perform
the necessary legal services on behalf of Ms. Miller as executrix to close
the estate including failing to publish the notice to creditors, failing to
file a claim. for spousal allowance, failing to respond to claims. filed
against the estate, and failing to prepare accountings. For example, on
October 31, 1980, the Clerk of Superior Court ordered Ms. Millerto file
an accounting but p~titioner failed to take any action on behalf of Ms.
Miller in response to th~t order.

i

4. Ms. Miller contacted petitioner on several occasions cmd was advised
that the. matter was being handled. In early 1981, Ms. Miller hir~d
another attorney to accomplish the legal services for which petiti0Rer
was employed to perform.

I

,, ..

.

~::.

.-'.. '
'

..

i
..
.;

.a:.

,00043

......

_....----------------------------------------

--

-

-

.'.

5. In March 1979, petitioner was einploy~d by Ms. Louise Dyson and her
husband to represent them in an adoption proceeding of Ms. Dyson's
granddaughter. Petitioner was paid $530 in cash on April 4, 1979.
6. P~titioner failed to perform any legal services in connection with the
adoption other than obtaining the consent of the child's father in
February, 1980.

-

I

7. From the date of employment through January 1980; the Dysons were
assured by petitioner on numerous occasions that the matter was being
handled, including being advised by petitioner that the matter was set
for-hearing before the court, which was not true. On August 5,1980,
Ms. Dyson filed a complaint with the Mecklenburg County GrievaI1ce
, . 'Committee. In December,1980, petitioner returned the $530 fee and
the Dysons deferred proceeding with the adoption.
8. In late November, 1979, petitioner was employed to represent Mr.
Michael Flaherty, a Charlotte police officer, who was charged with
three counts of involuntary manslaughter arising from an automobile
accident While Mr. Flaherty was on duty. Mr. Flaherty paid petitioner
$7,500 as his fee.
.
9. In March, 1980, a jury trial was held in the Superior Court of
Mecklenburg County~ and Mr. Flaherty was convicted. Petitioner
entered notice of appeal to the North Carolina Court of Appeals in
open court and was given 80 days to serve the record on appeal.

I

10. Thereafter, petitioner repeatedly assured Flaherty that he was
handling the appeal. Flaherty contacted petitioner about the
expiration of time for appeal and was assured by petitioner that the
necessary extension of time had been secured.
11. At no time did petitioner fRe or serve a proposed record on appeal,
receive any extension of time for serving the record, or file arty
petitions in the Court C?f Appeals. On January 13, 1981, Mr. Flaherty
hired a new attorney and the Court of Appeals granted certiorari to
review the case.

2

... ; .

.. .'-

-.. . . 00044
"

-.

12. On February 5, 1981, petitioner voluntarily ~uP'endered his law license
to the North Carolina State Bar. (Findings of Fact 1 through 12 were
contained in the July 27, 1981 Order disbarring petitioner.)
13, In the order disbarring petitioner, the Council determined that the
foregoing conduct constitutf;!d "inexcusable neglect of his legal dlltie~,
knowingly :making false statements of fact, and making
misrepresentations concerning the status of the cases, which are
violations of Disciplinary Rules 6-101(A)(3) A lawyer shall not
neglect a legal matter entrusted to him"], 7-102(A)(5) ["In his
rep:re~entlltibn of a client, a lawyer shall not knowingly make a false
statement of law or fact"] and 1-102(A)(4) [" A lawyer shall not engage
in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation"]
of the Code of Professional Responsibility of the North Carolina State
. -Bar."

I

r'

14. In addition to the above misconduct, the Council, in deciding to disbar
petitioner; considered that petitioner was suspended from the practice
of law for four months beginning January 1, 1975 for failing to perfect
c;ln.appeal inState v. Fred William Hobbs, 72 CR 9261 '(Mecklenbu:rg
County), and was suspended from the practice of law for six months
beginning April 1, 1976 for failing to perfor:tll the necessary legal
services in the civil claims of three clients such that the statute of
limitations barred the claims.
15. Not more than six months or less than 60 days before filing the petition
for reinstatement, a notice of petitioner's intent to seek reinstatement
wa~ published in an official publication of the North Carolina State Bar
in compliance with Rule .0125(a)(3)(A) of the Discipline and Dislibility
Rules.

I

16. Not more than six months or less than 60 days before filing the petition
for reinstatement, petitioner notified the complainants in the
disciplinary proceeding Which led to his disbarment of the notice of
intent to seek reinstatement in accordance with Rule .0125(a)(3)(B).
17..Petitioner has never been convicted of or sentenced for the commission
of a felony; therefore, it was not necessary to have his citizenship
.
restored pursuant to Rule .0125(a)(3)(E).

3

I
.........

.

,'.

....

"

..

'

.

:",'

•1

..
.,

."

18. Petitioner has submitted an affidavit verifying his compHance with
Rule .0124 as required by Rule .0125 (a) (3) (F).
19. Petitioner has complied with all applicable orders of the commission
and the council pursuant to Rule .0125(a)(3)(G).
20. There were no orders or judgments of any court relating to the matters
resulting in the disbarment; therefore the requirements of Rule
.0125(a)(3)(H) do not apply.

I

21. There was no evidence that petitioner had engaged in the
unauthorized practice of law during the period of his disbarment. See,
Rule .0125(a)(3)(I).
22.. There was no evidence that petitioner engaged in any conduct during
the period of disbarment constitutihggrounds for discipline under
G.S.84-28(b). See, Rule .0125(a)(3)O).
23. No funds were· disbursed by the Oient Security Fund as a result of
petitioner's misconduct; therefore the requirements of Rule
.0125(a)(3)(K) do not apply.
24. The Council; in the order of disbarment, did not find that petitioner
had misappropriated funds which were not reimbursed by the Client
Security Fund; therefore, the requirements of Rule .0125(a)(3)(L) do not
apply.
25. Seven years or more have elapsed between the effective date of
disbarment and the filing of the petition for reinstatement. Therefore,
pursuant to Rule .0125(a)(5), any order reinstating petitioner to the
practice of law mustbe conditioned upon petitioner attaining a
passing grade on a regularly scheduled written bar examination
administered by the North Carolina Board of Law Examiners.
26. Concerning Rule .0125(a)(3)(C) which reqUires the petitioner to prove
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he has reformed and
presently possesses the moral qualifications to practice law in this state
taking into account the gravity of the misconduct which resulted in the
order of disbarment, the cortunittee found:

4

·

~

...

·· '.,:..'

~.

.:. 00Q46
.

;....:."~i·

-:

-.'

}""

,

I

.-

a. Subsequent to petitioner's disbarment, he became associated
with New York Life Insurance and spent approximately ,six
years with various insurance companies as Cl field underwriter.
Beginning in December 1992, petitioner has been employed as a
legal assistant with the law firm of Downer, Walt~rs &
Mitchener.

I

b. Petitioner presented evidence that during his tenure as a field
underwriter he had good work habits, was conscientious,
competent and appeared to genuinely care about his
policyholders. Petitioner also presented evidence that while a
legal assistant, he has been dedicated, hardworking,
responsible, capable of meeting deadlines, dependable and
disciplined.
c. Various witnesses testified that p~titioner was honest, free of
addiction, and of good moral character. An individual who has
been as Assistant Clerk 9f the Superior Court of Mecklenburg
County for 35 ye~rs testified that petitioner is organized,
focused, responsible and prompt in carrying out th~
responsibilities assigned to him by his employer.
d. However, petitioner failed to present evidence of reformation
with respect to the problems which were central to his earlier
transgressions; that is, the performance of and discharge in
fiduciary relationships and the truthful communication in
difficult circumstances and problems.

I

27. Concerning Rule .0125(a)(3)(D) which requires petitioner to prove by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that permitting petitioner to
resume the practice of law in the state will not be detrimental to the
integrity and standing of the bar, to the administration of Justice, or to
the public interest, taking into account the gravity of the misconduct
which resulted in the order of disparment, the committee found:
a. Subsequent to his ,disbarment, petitioner was deeply involved in
the promotion of youth sports in Charlotte, NC. For
approximately eight years after his disbarment, petitioner
devoted ort the average of 20 hours per week as either baseball
coach, football coach, softball <;oach or basketball coach. On
some occasions, he coached two teams at the same time.
5

I

,

,

..........

.:

.

.

~

~

:

..... '.

'

..

'.'

O(1~47

.-'"

>it.:

,

.

'
'

.-

b. In addition, petitioner served as a director, vice president and
president of Winterfield Booster Club, an organization of
approximately 600 families in Charlotte, NC.
c. Petitioner also served on the board of directors and was
president of East Mecklenburg Girls Slow Pitch Softball League,
and was a member of the board of directors of East
Mecklenburg Youth Sports.

I

d. In fulfilling the obligations imposed upon him by reason of his
offices, petitioner was responsible, conscientious, organized and
capable of meeting deadlines.
e. However, during most of the time petitioner was involved with
these leagues, either petitioner's son or daughter participated in
one or more of those leagues. Furthermore, petitioner has not
done any work with youth sports leagues in the past six years.
Petitioner acknowledged that he is a private pe~son and prefers
to spend his free time at home with his family.
f. Also, other than petitioner's work with the youth sports
leagues, petitioner has not otherwise been involved in any other
civic organization ot community activity in the past 15 years.
g. Except for his immediate family and very close friends,
petitioner failed to talk with others about his earlier problems in
an effort to help them learn from his mistakes. Petitioner had
numerous opportunities while participating in the youth sports
leagues to discuss his past transgressions with parents and the
children who played on his teams, but failed to do so.
h. Evidence was presented that petitioner had a good reputation
among lawyers and court personnel, and was highly regarded
by those who knew him. All witnesses called by petitioner
stated that they did not believe petitioner's reinstatement would
be detrimental to the standing and integrity of the bar, to the
administration of justice, or to the public interest.
i. The one Witness called by respondent was Mr. Michael Flaherty.
As described in paragraphs 8-11 above, petitioner represented
6

.. : .
.' ..

~~.~. ,0-C,O"'/1 ~
..

,

~~A

-

,'~~.

-,

I

."'"

'.

Mr. Flaherty with charges of involuntary manslaughter and
failed to perfect his appeal. M1;~ FlahertY testified that in his
opinion, permitting petitioner to resume the practice of law
would be detrimental to the standing and integrity of the bar, to
the administration of justice, and to the public jnterest.

I

j. Respondent notified all District and Superior Court Judges in
Mecklenburg County and the District Attorney of the petition
for reinstatement and invited ~ response. Most did not respond.
Of the few that did respond, most indicated that they did not
know petitioner and therefore, did not have an opinion. Three
District Court Judges wrote in favor of the petition. The District
Attorney indicated that he would not object to the petition.
28. Concerning Rule .0125(a)(3)(K) which requires petitioner to prove by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he understands the current
Rules of Professional Conduct, the committee found:
a. Petitioner and respondent stipulated that petitioner wouid take
and obtain a passing grade on the Multistate Professional
Responsibility Exam ("MPRE") which would satisfy the
requirements of Rule .0125(a)(3)(K) and that petitioner's
agreement to take and obtain" passing grade on the MPRE
would be a condition of his reinstatement. This stipulation was
necessary because when petitioner WaS disbarred in 1981, the
Code of Professional Conduct was in effect. In 1985, North
_ Carolina adopted the Rules of Professional Conduct whi~h is
different from the code in certain respects. Since 1985, there
have been numerous changes to the Rules of Professional
Conduct and numerous ethics opinions interpreting these rules.

I

Based upon the foregoing findings, the hearing committee concludes as
,.
follows:
1. petitioner has proven by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he
has satisfied the requirements of Rule .0125(a)(3)(A), (B), (E), (F), (G),
(H), (I), 0), (L), and (M).
2. Petitioner has not proven by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
that he has reformed and presently possess the moral qualifications
required for admiSsion to practice law in this state taking into account
7

I

. ,

,

,

'

"

,

.'
"~ .~

",' "

:~'.,

'.
,

'

,

';

.

"

.~,

'iJ

~O.o049

.

,

,

------------------------~-----~--------------------

.
.~.

.'

I

,..
...

the gravity of the misconduct which resulted in the order of
disbarment as required by Rule .0125 (a) (3) (C).
3. Petitioner has not proven by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
that resuming the practice of law in North Carolina Will be not be
detrimental to the integrity and'standing of the bar, to the
administration of justice, or to the public interest, taking into account
the gravity of the misconduct which resulted in the order of
disbarment as required by Rule .0125(a)(3)(D).

I

4. Petitioner has not proven by clear,- cogent; and convincing evidence
that he understands the current Rules of Professional Conduct as
required by Rule .0125(a)(3)(K). However, the committee believes that
obtaining a passing grade on the MPRE will satisfy the requirements of
. '-Rule .0125(a)(3)(K). Therefore, the committee recommends that any
order of reinstatement b~ conditioned upon petitioner obtaining a
passing grade on the MPRE.
5. Pursuant to Rule .0125 (a)(5), any order of reinstatement must be
conditioned on petitioner obtaining a passing grade on the bar
examination since it has been more than seven y~ars since his
disbarment.
.
.
WHEREFORE, the hearing committee recommends that petitioner's
.license to practice law not be reinstated. For the purposes of Section .0125(a)(10);
this recommendation shall be a final order unless petitioner seeks to bring this
recommendation before the Council of the North Carolina State Bar for their
.consideration. Petitioner shall pay the costs of this proceedirig.
Signed by the undersigned chair with the full knowledge and consent of
the other members of the hearing committee this the /if,{day of April, 1996..

8

.....
'-

'.

'

..

:

'. '-d

:

.~

00050

I

