4!678.9~
DEC 1996

$
WAKE COUNTY

.

'%

I Y "3 Cj 2-

~

FILED -:
BEFORETHE
D HC D~ IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION

.;::}'

~?2~1'''' C.\~\Y:-~
G

G.Ol.v

OF THE
NORTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
95 BCR 3

IN RE PETITION FOR REINSTATEMENT
OF LAW LICENSE OF
MARKT.DELK

)
)
)
)

)
)

RECOMMENDATION OF
HEARING COMMITTEE

)
)
)
)
)

The Petitioner's petition for reinstatement was heard on 'Friday, November 8,
1996, by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Connnission composed of
Henry C. Babb, Jr., Chair; James R. Fox and James Lee Burney. The Petitioner appeared
on his own behalf and Sylvia S. Wood appeared as counsel for the North Carolina State
Bar.
Based upon the stipulation on pretrial conference, the evidence presented and the
arguments of counsel an4 Petitioner, the Hearing Committee finds and concludes as
follows:

I

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Hearing
Committee has jurisdiction over the Petitioner and the subject matter of his petition.
2. The Petjtioner was admitted to the practice of law in North Carolina on
September 24, 1987.
3. From October of 1987 until August of 1988, Petitioner was engaged in the
private practice of law in Robbinsville, N;C.

"

<

..

,

. .;.
",

'.

.

,;:.,'

"

.

·W

...'

'

.

4. On or about August 28 and August 29, 1988, Petitioner was indicted by a
-. grand jury on one felony count of extortion and one felony count of conspiracy.
S. In June of 1989, following a jury trial in Graham County Superior Court,
-Petitioner was found guilty of extortion and conspiracy to commit extortion. Petitioner
, was sentenced to four years in the North Carolina Department of Corrections, ofwhich he
: served approximately seven and one-half months ..
6. Petitioner appealed from the convictions, which were affirmed by the N.C.
: Court of Appeals on August 7, 1990.
7. Based upon the convictions, Petitioner was judicially disbarred by order
•entered by Judge Marlene Hyatt in Graham County on May 2S, 1990. Petitioner appealed
, from the order of disbarment, Which was vacated by the N.C. Court of Appeals on
, jurisdictional grounds.

I

8. On February 3, 1992, Petitioner was judicially disbarred by Judge C. Walter
: Allen, based upon the convictions. Petitioner also appealed from that order of
disbarment;\Vhich was again vacated by the N.C. Court of Appeals on jurisdictional
i grounds. On discretionary review, the N.C. Supreme Court reversed and reinstated Judge
: Allen's order of disbarmept, on the condition that it be deemed effective as of May 2S,
. 1990. An amended order of disbarment waS entered on September 29, 1994.
9. On May 30, 1995, Petitioner filed a petition for reinstatement of his law
, license as required by Rule .012S(a)(3)(A) of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the
N.C. State Bar.
10. Petitioner published a notice of his intent to seek reinstatement as required by
; Rule .012S(a)(3)(A) of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
11. Petitioner was not disbarred as a result of a disciplinary proceeding; therefore,
the requirements of Rule .012S(a)(3)(B) are inapplicable.

I

12. Petitioner's citizenship was restored on December 29, 1990.
13. Petitioner has complied with Rule .0124, as required by Rule .012S(a)(3)(F).
14. Petitioner has complied with the applicable orde!s of the Disciplinary Hearing
, Commission, pursuant to Rule .012S(a)(3)(G).
IS. Petitioner has complied -with the orders and judgment of the Graham County
-Superior Court relating to his disbarment, pursuant to Rule .012S(a)(3)(H).
16. There was no evidence that Petitioner had engaged in the unauthorized
practice of law during the period of his disbarment.

"'.

. .:

.

-... -:
'..
;

:~

.

-.- 00053

..... '.

-

17. There was np evidence that Petitioner engaged in any conduct during the
period of disbarment constituting grounds for discipline under G.S. 84-28(b).
18. Petitioner's disbannent was not the result of any misappropriation and no
funds were disbursed by the Client Security Fund as a result of Petitioner's miscondUct;
therefore the requirements of Rules .0125(a)(3)(L) and .0125(a)(3)(M) do not apply.
19. At the time Petitioner filed his. petition for reinstatement, at least five years
had passed since May 25, 1990, the effective date' of Petitioner's disbarment.

I

20. Petitioner presented the following evidence regarding Rule .012S(a)(4)(A),
which requires Petition.er to prove by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has
the competency and learning in the law required to practice law in this state:
a, S.ince his disbarment, Petitioner has worked as a paralegal for several
attorneys, including Jack Mraz, Frank Wade Hall, William Eubanks and 10hn
Sutton. Petitioner's duties as a paralegal included preparation of legal
documents and pleadings, preparation of discovery and legal and factual
research.
b.· Petitioner has read numerous legal periodicals since his disbaQllent, including
advance sheets of cases argued in the N.C. Court of Appeals and N.C.
Supreme CQurt.
c. Petitioner ha~ met or exceeded the minimum requirement for continuing legal
education for licensed attorneys in each of the years since his disbarment in
order to keep himself current in the law, and the courses taken include Wake
Forest's General Practice Seminar, Wake Forest's 1991, 199Jand 1996
Annual Revie~ courses, a Civil Litigation seminar, and a Legal Research
seminar.

I

d. Petitioner presented affida,vits from three attorneys who are familiar with his
present knowledge of the law certifying that he is competent to practice law.
21. Petitioner presented the following evidence regarding Rule .012S(a)(3)(K)
which requires Petitioner to prove by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he
understands the current Rwes of Professional Conduct:
a. Petitioner has met or exceeded the minimum ethics requirement for continuing
legal education for licensed· attorneys in each of the years since his
.
disbarment, and the courses taken on the subject of legal ethics inclUde the
North Carolina Bar Foundation's 1993 Professional Responsibility course and
Wake Forest's Practical Legal Ethics course

".

"

'.

'

.

"

,

.

:

."

.;

00 0 5:J

b. The Petitioner has read and studied the Rules of Professional Conduct during
the period of his disbarment.
22. Petitioner presented the following evidence regarding Rule .012S(a)(3)(C),
which requires Petitioner to prove by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has
reformed and presently possesses the moral qualifications to practice law in this state,
taking into account the gravity of the misconduct which resulted in the order of
disbarment:

.'

I

a. During the period of his disbarment, Petitioner has continued to participate in '
church activities, including service as a vestry member, executive council
member, master of ushers, lay reader, intercessor, intinctionist, and chalice
bearer. Also through the church, Petitioner was the founding president of the
Men's Club and worked with the Thompson Childrens home in several
capacities.

"

b. During his tenure as a legal assistant, Petitioner has maintained good work
habits, is conscientious, dependable and trustworthy.

c.

Petitioner made multiple contributions in 1996 to the. Buncombe County Fuel
Fund, a charitable fund used to provide heating fuel to those less fortunate.

d. Petitioner presented a number of letters and affidavits from attorneys and
members of the public who testified to Petitioner's good character.
e. Petitioner presented live testimony of a number of attorneys and members of
the public who testified to Petitioner's good character.
f

One of Petitioner's witnesses testified that Petitioner had conveyed to him that
he was not guilty of the crimes of which he stands convicted and Which led to
his disbarment.

I

g. Petitioner's own testimony amounted to a· denial of guilt of the crimes of
which he stands convicted and which led to his disbarment.
23. Petitioner presented the following evidence regarding Rule .012S(a)(3)(D)
which requires Petitioner to prove by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that .
permitting him to resume the practice of law in this state wC?uld not be detrimental to the
integrity and standing of the bar, the administration of justice or the public interest, taking
into account the gravity of the misconduct which resulted in the order of disbarment:
a. Several attorneys testified by affidavit and in person that they believed the bar
would welcome Petitioner back, if his reinstatement petition is granted.

(,.

I
.

:~'.,

OOOGO

b. Several judges and other public officials gave statements by letter, affidavit or
in person in support ofPetitioner's petition for reinstatement of his law
license, including, John H. Peterson, the mayor of Brevard; Congressman
Charles H. Taylor; Hon. Cecil Hill; Hon. Bruce Briggs and Hon. Stephen F.
Franks.
c. Petitioner testified that he was remorseful regarding the events. which led to
his disbarment and testified further that, if reinstated, he would not commit
any further violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

<.

24. Melanie Hite Clark and Sharon B. Alexander submitted letters in opposition
to Petitioner's petition for reinstatement.
B~sed upon the

foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee makes the

following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. On'May .30, 1995, Petitioner filed a petition for reinstatemept ofhis law
license as required by Rule .0125(a)(3)(A) of the Discipline & Pisability Rules of the
N.C. State Bar.
2. Petitio:!1~r published a notice of his intent to seek reinstatement as required by
Rule .0125 (a)(3)(A) of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
3. Petitioner's citizenship was restored on December 29, 1990.
4. Petitioner has complied with all applicable orders of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission.

I

5. Petitioner has complied with the orders and judgment of the Graham County
Superior Court relating to his disbarment.

6. At the time Petitioner filed his petition for reinstatement, at least five years had
passed since May 25, 1990, the effective date ofPetitioner's disbarment by the ,Graham
County Superior Court.
7. Petitioner has demonstrated by clear, cogent and,convincing evidence that he
understands the clirrent Rules of Professional Conduct.
8. Petitioner has demonstrated'by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he
has. the competency and learning in the law required to practice law in this, state.
9. Petitioner haS not engaged in the unauthorized practice of law during the
period of disbarment.

I

~

<

. ..:
. '.

,

'

~

~"

.

"

'"

.

'0'0061

.

10. Petitioner has not engaged in any conduct during the period of disbarment
which would constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. 84-28.
11. Petitioner has not demonstrated by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that
he has reformed ~d that he possesses the moral qualifications required for admission to
practice law in this state, taking i1).to account the gravity of the misconduct that resulted in
t4e order of disbarment and in fact Petitioner's evidence provided cleat, cogent and
convincing proof that he has not in fact reformed.
12. Petitioner has not demonstrated by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
that his resumption of the practice of law within the state would not be detrimental to the
i1).tegrity and standing of the bar, to the administration of justice, or to the public interest,
t~ing into account the gravity of the misconduct which resulted in the order of

I

disbarment.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and ConclUsions of Law, the Hearing
Committee hereby enters the following
RECOMMENDATION TO THE COUNCIL
The Hearing Committee hereby unanimously recommends to the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar that Petitioner's petition for reinstatement be denied. For the
p;urposes of Section .OI25(a)(10), this recommendation shall be a final order unless
~etitioner seeks to bring this recommendation before the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar for their consideration. Petitioner shall pay the costs of this proceeding.
,
Signed by the. undersign~d chai~ with t~~ ~l knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Heanng Committee, this the ~day of November, nunc pro tunc
November 8, 1996.
.

".

· ...;

:

:

....

.~.

·0006Z

I

