BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G0873(1)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAI<E COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
BRUCE HUGGINS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 23, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by AEGIS Administrative ~ervices.
Pursu~t to

section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State'
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, inc1udjng your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Cpmmittee found prob~ble
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member ofthe North .
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required
and the Grievance Comndttee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an adlilonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused hannor potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand ~d I am certain that you will understand fully th~ spirit in
which this duty is performed.
AEGIS Administrative Services is the administrator of the N.C. Forestry Self Insurers Fund.
AEGiS paid yoW' client, Milton Moore, $10,397.70 in worker's compensation benefits in 1993 due to
Moore's work related injury. AEGIS had a statutory subrogation lien on any funds .generated from

I

,

,

,',

4,.:,."

" 000 ")

... v
,~

'

\.,)u

,
'

"

Moqre's third party claim which YQU represented Moore on. You were aware of AEGIS's subrogation
lien.: You were advised ofthe amount of AEGIS's lien by letter dated October 13, 1994. You settled
Moore's third party claim in early December 1994 for $60,000. You failed to pay AEGIS's lien as
teq~red by N.C.G.S. ยง97-1O.2. AEGIS made n~erous contacts with your office concerning the
status of the third party claim and when they could expect to receive the lien amount. Although you
had received the letters and received memos about the telephone calls, you failed to advise AEGIS that
your client's claim had been settled. Your office never advised AEGIS that the third party claim had
been, settled during any of their contacts with your office as late as May 17, 1996. Afttrr receiving a
letter of notice in this matter, you got an order from the Industrial Commission authorizing the
distribution of the third party recovery which allowed you to take an attorney;s fee for collecting
AEGIS's lien. This order also authorized distribution of Mr. Moore's portion of the proceeds and your
attorney fee for representing MOQre. Yon had disbursed those amounts without having an order
authbrizing those disbursements signed. Since you were receiving an attorney fee for collecting
AEGIS's lien, you had a duty to AEGiS to truthfully respond to their inquiries for a status update and
to promptly disburse their portion of the lien amount to them. Your failure to promptly distribute
AEGIS's lien funds to them violated Rule 10.2(e). Your failure to respond to requests for a status
update violated Rule 6(b)(1 ). Your having misled AEGIS about whether or not Moore; s claim had
been settled viplate.d Rule 1.2(c).

I~

The Grievance Committee was concerned about the management of your law office. The
Committee did not refer this matter to the LMAP program because they felt you deserved this
reprimand. However, the Committee wanted me to suggest that you voluntarily complete the LMAP
program.
,

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you,and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
repritnartd by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amourtt of $50.00 are hereby
taxed, to you.
Done and ordered, this

S

fh

I

day of~~-I---'-'-+-='-~.,c--' 1997.

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

'.

'

;
"

....
.

.. ..:

