BEFORE THE,
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G1132(III)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

)
)
)
)
)

IN THE MATTER OF

I

JENNIFER D. 'BROCK,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

On April 3, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolin~ State Bar met
and considere? !!le grievance filed against you by HSA.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolfua State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Mter
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is. qefined in th~
rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is
guilty of misconduct jqstifying disciplinary action. II
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance
Committee may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may
issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or
potential injury caused,. and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance
Committee may issue em admonition, a reprimand, or cit censure to the respondent
attorney.
'

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more Serious than art admonition
issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client,. the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct
does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a cehsure is not required in
this case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar; it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain .
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
Prior to May 1994, you undertook to represent BSA respecting a medical
claim. Although you filed a complaint on HSA's behalf, you were unable to

malpracti~e

I

,

.

/"
r""·", .. ••

.......

. . :.
-

.

"

"

.

.......

,

,
'

"

locate a medical expert who would testify on her behalf and ultimately dismissed the
case in May 1994. In 1996, HSA filed a complaint with the State Bar about your action
in dismissing the case. You were asked to respond tp the grievance on Dec. 3,1996, but
failed tp do so! You also failed to respond to the State Bar's follow up letter of Jan.14,
1997. Consequen.tly, the State Bar was forced to subpoena you to appear in Raleigh to
respond to HSA's grievance. Your conduct in failing to respond to the State B.ar's letter
of notice constituted a violation of Rule 1.1(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the-North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
reprim~nd, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the iegal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the
North C:::arolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative
costs to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the ain0urtt of $50.00 are ~reby tax~
pone and ordered, this /~

day of ~

, 1997.

Ann Reed
'Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
<:' .',"

..

.,"

