f

1~?~lS?/

•

t~ (),<~, ~>
~. JY() <> <:>",i:;;
WAKECOUNTY' v~
;62/'222/2' nj~\<6\
uc.

NORTH CARQLINA

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.

BEFORE THE
SCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OpTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97DHC 1

)
)
)
)

)

MALCOLM GRANDY, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)

FINDINGS of FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

Thi~' matter w~s heard on the 28th day of March, 1997, before a hearing committee
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Henry C. Babb, Jr., ~ha,ir;

Kenneth Smith and Robert Frantz. The Defendant, Malcolm Grandy, appeared on hi-~
own behalf. The Plaintiff was represented by Carolin Bakewell. Based upon the
ple~dingsand the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee h~repy ehters
the following:

I

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the properparty to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant, Malcolm Grandy, was admitted to the North. Carolina State
Bar in 1961, and is, and was at all times relevant hereto, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Grandy was actively
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina.
4. Grandy was properly s~rved with process and the hearing was held with due
notice to all parties. -

.......

~ 00067·

.-

·

,

5. In early August, 1995, Grandy undertook to represent Fred T. Moore (Moore)
respecting speeding and DWI charges then pending against Moore.
,

."

6. Moore paid Grandy a total of $725 as a fee in three installments.
7. In August 1995 Moore notified Grandy of his address and home and work
telephone numbers. Grandy assured MOOl:e that he would let him know when the case
was set for trial.
8. At Moore's request, Grandy had the hearing on Moore's traffic charges
continued until Sept. 7, 1995.

I

9. Grandy had car trouble which prevented him from attending the Sept. 7, 1995
court hearing and he therefore had the hearing on Moore's traffic charges continued until
Oct. 19, 1995.
10. Grandy was aware that the hearing in Moore's case had been set for Oct. 19,
1995 well in advance of the trial date.
11: Grandy did not notify Moore of the Oct. 19, 1995 hearing date.
12. Grandy knew by the afternoon of Oct. 19, 1995 that Moore h~d not appeared
for his court date and that an order for his arrest had been issued. Nevertheless, Grandy
failed to contact Moore to advise him of the arrest order and failed to assist Moore
respecting his traffic cases."
13. Moore learned about the arrest order in late October 1995 when he received a
notice from the Scotland County courts.
14. After receiving the notice, Moore made a number of unsuccessful attempts to
contact Gran.dy by telephone. Although he left messages for Grandy, Grandy did not
return these calls until Nov. 25, 1995.

I

15. Moore retained other counsel to represent him respecting the traffic charges
and the order for arrest, at an ultimate cost of approximately $2,300.
16. In 1996, Moore filed a grievance against Grandy with the North Carolina
State Bar. Grandy did not file a timely response to the letter of notice sent to him by the
N1C. State Bar respecting Moore's grievance.
17. In his response to the Grievance Committee, Grandy stated that he had
~~empted to call Moore on Oct. 18, 1995 at his.home and place of business to notify

Mporeof the Oct. 19 hearing date. Grandy stated further that he was unable to leave a

I

message at Moore's home because the telephone had been disconnected, but that he did
speak with Moore's "foreman" at Moore's business number.
18. Grandy's response to the Grievance Committee was untruthful, in that
Moore's home telephone was not disconnected at any time in October 1995 and in that
Grandy did not speak With or leave a.me!;sage with Moore's supervisor at his place of
business.

I

19. Grandy refunded $375 to Moore in March 1997, after he was ordere4 to do so
following a fee arbitration hearing conducted pursuant to Rule 2.6(E) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
20. Beginning in December 1996, the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel
sought copies of Grandy's telephone records covering the period during which he
represented Moore. The State Bar served Grandy with a request to produce the telephone
records on Feb. 5, 1997. Grandy did not respond to these requests and did not produce
any telephone records until ordered to do so by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
following ahearing on the State Bar's motion to compel production of the records oh
March 20, 1997. Grandy produced partial, original phone records to the N.C. State Bar
Office of Counsel on Monday, March 24 and produced additional copies of his phone
records during the hearing of this matter. Grandy failed to produce any telephone
records fOJ; October 1995, however.

21. In approximately March 1995, Grandy agreed to assist James Fitzpatrick to
seek a reduction in the prison sentence which Fitzpatrick received follQwing his 1992
guilty plea to arson charges.

I

22. Fitzpatrick's father, Dennis Fit~patrick, delivered a $5,000 check to Grandy
as an advance fee in March 1995. Grandy agreed to hold the advance fee i~ trust and to
refund any unearned portions of the fee.
23. Grandy cashed the $5,000 check promptly after receiving it and before he had
performed any services for Fitzpatrick or his family, without the knowledge or consent of
Dennis Fitzpatrick. Grandy failed to place any portion of the proceeds of the $5,000
check into a trust account.
24. Grandy did not maintain a client trust account at any time during his
representation of James Fitzpatrick.
25. Grandy failed to take any effective steps on James Fitzpatrick's behalf and he
remained in prison as of the date of this hearing. Despite promises to do so, Granciy did
not speak with the sentencing j1.!dge, Hon. Rohert L. Farmer, about the matter, did not file
any motions on Fitzpatrick's behalf~ and did not review N.C. Gen. Stat. § 15A-1415~ the
statute which governs motions for appropriate rel~ef filed more than 10 days after entry of
judgment.

I

26. Grandy visited James Fitzpatrick in prison on two occasions. He did not
respond to any of the letters which Fitzpatrick wrote to him and did not otherwise
communicate adequately with his client about the case.
27. Grandy also failed to communicate adequately with Dennis Fitzpatrick
~d other members of James Fitzpatrick's family about the case, although he was
~uthorized to do so.
28.. Grandy transferred $5,000 to Raleigh attorney George Barrett in Febrtlary
1997, after the State Bar's formal complaint in this matter had been filed. Later in
february, Barrett tendered a check for $2,500 to Dennis Fitz;patrick. Fitzpatrick returned
this check uncashed, as it was offered as a "resolution of the fee dispute" between
Fitzpatrick and Grandy and as it was made out jointly to Dennis, Oeirdre and James
FitilJatrick.
.

I

29. As of the date of the trial, Grandy had failed to refimd any portion of the
$5,000 advance fee to Dennis Fitzpatrick.
30. Grandy failed to provide any written accountings to Dennis or James
Fitzpatri~k regarding the $5,000 advance fee which he was to have held in trust.

31. Dennis Fitzpatrick did not authorize Grandy to transfer any portion of the
$5,000 advance fee to George Barrett or any other individual.
32. Dennis Fitzpatrick filed a grievanc~ against Grandy with the North Carolina
State Bar in 1996. Grandy did not provide a full, fair and accurate response to
fitzpatrick's grievance to the North Carolina State Bar.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jUrisdiction over the Defendant, Malcolm Grandy, and the subject matter.
2. The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing to notify Moore to be in court on Oct. 19, 1995 and by failing to
respond to Moore's numerous inquiries about his case, Grandy failed to cOinmumcate
a,dequately with a client in violation of Rule 6(b)(I).
I

I

(b) By failing to take adequate steps to assist Moore in resolving his traffic cases
Grandy neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 6(b)(3).
(c) By failing to take effective action to assist James Fitzpatrick to obtain a
reduction in his prison sentence or other post conviction relief, dhtildy neglected a cHent
m~tter in violation of Rule 6(b)(3).

I

(d) By failing.to communicate witb James Fitzpatrick and his family about James
Fitzp~trick's legal matter, Grandy failed to 90mmunicat~ with his client in violation. of
Rule 6(b)(1).
(e) By failing to refund .the unearned portion ofthe $5,000 advance fee paid to
him on behalf of James Fitzpatrick, Grandy violated Rule 2.8 and charged or collected an
excessive fee in violation of Rule 2.6.

(f) By failing to account to Fitzpatrick for the $5,000 advance fee, Grap.dy
violated Rule 10.2(d).
Based upon the Foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes the additional:
'

FINDINGS. OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

I

a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.

prior discipline
pattern of misconduct.
multiple'violations of the Rules ofPtofessional Conduct.
bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary process.
substantial experience in the practice of law.
indifference to making restitution.
issuance of a letter of warning in the last 3 years.

2. There are no mitigating factors,
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigatil1g factors, and the arguments
ofthe parties, the hearing committee hereby unanimously enters the following:

I
00071

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, Malcolm Grandy, is hereby disbarred from the practice of law
in North Carolina, beginning 30 days from service of this order upon him..
2. The Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than ~O days following service of this order upon
the Befendant.
I

3. On or before Sept. 1, 1997, the Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding
as as,sessed by the Secretary, including the costs incurred by the N.C. State Bar in
deposing James Fitzpatrick, Debbie Grumbles, Tina Sherrill, Dwayne Nelson and Boyce
GroQms.

I

; 4. The Defendant shall make full restitution to Dennis Fitzpatrick by remitting
$5,000 to Dennis Fitzpatrick by May 1, 1997. The Defendant shall provide to the
Secrytary of the N.C. State Bar written proof of payment of restitution to Fitzpatrick no
later:than 5 days after restitution is tendered.
5. The Defendant shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules.
!

, ' . ~~ed by the,chair with the consent of the other hearing cortnnittee members,
thIS the c ..\' day of Aprtl, 1997.

He" C.tBabb, Jr., Chair

He~ing C~mmittee

·.··00072

I

