----~--~ ~----

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97DHC2

NORTH CAROLINA

I
tHE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff .

v.
WILLIE R. BROOKS, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT
) AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)

This matter was heard on the 30th day of May, 1997 before a he~ng committee of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Henry C. Babb, Jr., Chair; Richard T.
Gammon and James Lee Burney, The defendant, Willie R. :Brooks, appeared on his own
behalf and Carolin Bakewell represented the N.C. State Bar. Based upon the pleadings
and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the
following:

I

FlNDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plain.tiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes ofNotth Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations oithe North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereUnder.
2. The Defendant, Willie R. Brooks, (hereafter, Brooks) was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1982, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.
.
3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Brooks was actively
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in the Town of Monroe, Union County, North Carolina.

I

00081

4. Brooks was properly served with process and the hearing was held with due
n;otice to all parties.
5. Prior to December 22, 1995, Ruth Dillard, then an associate in Brooks' law
~ffice, undertook to handle the closing ofthe sale of real property by Mr. & Mrs. Leonard
Williams to Mr. & Mrs. James Small.
6. Dillard left her employment with Brooks on Dec. 22, 1995 and returned to
Florida to practice law. As of December 1995 and January 1996, there were no
attorneys or associates in Brooks' law office who were competent to handle real est~te
closings.
7. Brooks is not familiar with real estate practice and has -conceded that he was
not competent to handle real estate closings as of December 1995 and January 1996.
8. In early January 1996, Brooks contacted Frank C. Creft, another attorney with
whom Brooks was acquainted, and whom Brooks knew to be competent to handle ryal
estate closings. At Brooks' request, Creft agreed to assist in the Williams-Small closing,
which
occurred on Jan. 2 or 3, 1996.
,
9 .. Creft and Brooks both attended the Williams-Small closing. Creft presided
oyer the signing of the various closing documents by Williams and Mr. ~ Mrs. Small and
completed the HUD-1 settlement statement by incorporating information provided to him
by Brooks and his staff.
10. At the conclusion of the closing, Brooks told Mr. & Mrs. Small that, owing to
tlle lateness of the hour, he would make copies of the closing materials the following day
mid deliver the documents to them later. Despite these assurances, Mr. & Mrs. Small
n~ver received copies of the closing documents from Brooks or his office.
11. Mr. Small placed approximately 12 c,alls to Brooks' office in the month
fo,llowing the clOSing, to request copies of the closing documents and discuss other
problems associated with the closing. Brooks did not return any of these calls, with the
exception of one occasion, when Brooks telephoned Small very late one evening at
Small's home in response to a call which Small had placed to Brooks; home. Brooks
asked Small to call him the next day at Brooks' office. When Small telephoned the
fo~lowing day, however, Brooks was not available and he did not return Small's call.
12. Owing to a mathematical ~rror in the HUD-1 closing statement, too much
money was disbursed to Williams following the Williams-Small closing. As a
consequence, Brooks' trust account was approximately $1,000 short of the amount
needed to pay the various creditors listed on the HUD-1 settlement statement.
,

....,.

OOObZ

I

13. Brooks learned of the error in the HUD-l settlement statement within a clay or
two after the closing. An associate in his office, Phillip Penn, wrote a letter to Williams
on Jan. 16, 1996, requesting Williams to refund the excess distribution. WilliaIlls did not
respond to this request or refund the money, however.

I

14. All of the funds generated by the Williams-Smal1 closing were deposited into
and flowed out of Brooks' attorney trust account. Creft did not have access to any of the
closing funds. All of the checks disbursing funds from Brooks' trust account relative to
the Williams-Small closing were signed by Brooks.' -Creft was not involved in the
Williams-Small closing after the parties met to sign the closing documents on Jan. 2 or 3,
1996 and Brooks did liot request further assistance from Creft after that date.
15. Brooks did not disburse the funds which remained in his trust account
relative to the Williams-Small closing in a timely fashion. Rather, the checks were
issued in several batches between mid-January and late February, 1996, including the
following:
a. The $390 payment for the Smalls' homeowner warranty contract
was not disbursed until on or about Jan. 29, 1996.
b, The $230 payment to Derrick L. Miles, surveyor, was not disbursed
until on or after Feb. 12, 1996.
c. The $427 payment to State Farm Ins. Co. for the Smalls' homeoW11er
. insurance premium for was not disbursed until on or about Feb. 28,
1996.

I

d. The $122.72 payment to Union County for the Smalls' share of
the 1995- real estate taxes on the property which they purchased was not
disbursed until on or about May 7, 1996.
16. The Smalls' State Farm Ins. Co. policy would have lapsed, owing to Brooks'
failure to disburse. the premium to State Farm on a timely basis, but for the fact that the
Smalls were owed a refund on a prior policy.
17. Brooks ultimately made up the shortfall in the Williams-Small closing funds
by making at least two disbursements on Small's behalf out of personal funds in .his
office operating account.
18. Brooks knew or should have known prior to the Smalls' closing that he was
not competent to handle a real estate trartsaction and to complete disbursement of the
closing funds in a timely fashion.
19. After it became clear that an error had been made respecting the disbursement
to Williams, Brooks failed to handle the disbursement of the funds ina timely, competent.

I

".-

fashion and failed to associate with him an attorney competent to handle the disbursement
6fthe Smalls' closing funds in a timely, competent fashion.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing cottliIlittee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant, Willie R. Brooks and the subject matter.
2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

I

(a) By failing to promptly disburse sums from the Smalls' closing funds
promptly after the closing, Brooks failed to promptly disburse sums held in trust to third
parties as directed by the client in violation of Rule 10.2(e).
(b) By failing to provide copies of the closing documents to the Smalls
promptly after the closing, despite requests from the Smalls, Brooks failed to comply
with a reasonable request for information from a client in violation 6(b)(1).
(c) By undertaking the Smalls' real estate closing when he knew or should
have known he was not competent to handle disbursement of the funds in a timely and
competent way, without associating a lawyer who was competent to handle the
qisbursements, Brooks violated Rule 6(a)(I).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes the additional
FINDINGS OF FACt REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant willfully failed to comply with orders of the Chair of the
hearing cOnimittee relative to discovery requests of the N.C. State Bar.
2. The defendant's conduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a) the defendant did not act from a dishonest or selfish motive.
(b) the defendant made restitution to Mr. & Mrs. Small from his personal
funds.
(c) the defendant retained competent counsel to assist with the WilliamsSinall closing.

·00084

I

3.

Th~

defendant's conduct is aggravated by the following factor:

(a) the defendant engaged in bad faith obstruction ofthe disciplinary
process by failing to comply with the h~aring committee's orders r~garding discovery.

I

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of
the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant, Willie R. Brooks is hereby admonished for his misconduct.
2. The defendant shall pay the costs ofthis proceeding, hicluding the costs of
depositions taken by the plaintiff, within 10 days of service of notice of the amount of the
costs, as assessed by the Secretary.
.
3. The defendant shall not conduct any real estate closings or engage in any real
estate transactions'in the capacity as an attorney without first completing 25 hours of
continuing legal education courses approved in advance by the N.C. State Bar and
dealing with the subject of real estate.

Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this
the~dayofJune, 1997.

I

I
,00085

