WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.
WILLIAM M. SHEFFIELD, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)

)

.

I

)
ORDER
) OF DISCIPLINE ACTIVATING
)
STAYED SUSPENSION
)
)

a

TillS MATTER was heard by Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Richard L. Doughton, Chair; Franklin E. Martin and A. James
Early III, on Thursday, June 12, 1997 pursuant to an order of the Chair of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission dated April 17, 1997, directing the Defendant herein to
appear and show cause why the stayed suspension of the Defendant's law licens~ should
not be activated based upon the Defendant's alleged failure to comply with a Nov. 15,
1996 consent order of discipline of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. At the show
cause hearing the Defendant was represented by Manuel Costa. The Plaintiff was
r~presented by Carolin Bakewell. Based upon the pleadings, the stipulations entered into
by the parties following the presentation of opening statements and the evidence
introduced at the hearing, the hearing cotnmittee makes the following:
FINDINGS FACT

I

1. The North Carolina State Bar is. a body duly organized under the laws of North
C~olina ap.d is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar.
2. The Defendant, William M. Sheffield (hereafter, Sheffield), was admitted to
th~ North Carolina State Bar in 1972 and was at all times relevant hereto licensed to
prflctice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar.
3. During all times relevant hereto, Sheffield actively practiced law in Orange
County, North Carolina, where he maintained a law office.

I

4. Sheffield was properly served with process and the pleadings herein and the
hearing was held with due notice to all parties.
5. On Nov. 15, 1996, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered a consent
order of discipline (hereafter, consent order) rmding that Sheffield violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct in several respects.

I

6. The consent ord~r directed that Sheffield's license to practice law be
suspended for a period of one year, but stayed the suspension for three years, on
condition, inter alia, that Sheffield:
a. "[s]elect a member of the Orange County Bar, to be approved by the
Secretary of the N.C. State Bar, who will supervise [Sheffield's] practice
throughout the three-year stay period. [Sheffield] shall meet with the
supervising attorney at least once each month ... [Sheffield] shall ensUre that a
writt~n report is submitted to State Bar counsel on January 1, April 1, July 1
.and October 1 of each year during the stay period verifying that these meetings
have taken place ... The first report is due to the State Bar on January 1, 1997."
b. "provide written reports confirming that he is complying with the :tr~atment
'plan [of Dr. Richard Mangum and Paula Browder] ... The first report shall be
due no later than January 1, 1997."
c. "pay the costs of this proceeding on or before January 1, 1997.;'
7. Sheffield, through his attorney, stipulated that Sheffield violated the consent
order in the following respects:

I

a. Sheffield f~iled to select a supervising attorney to be approved by the State
Bar, fa:ned to meet with the supervising attorney and failed to ensure that
quarterly reports were submitted. to the State Bar beginning on Jan. 1, 1997
regarding the supervision of his law practice.
b. Sheffield failed to provide quarterly reports to the State Bar beginning .on
Jan. 1, 1997 confirming that he was continuing to comply with th~ treatment
pl~s of Dr. Richard Mangum and Paula Browder.
c. Sheffield failed to pay ~he costs of the 1996 disciplinary proceeding.
8. The parties further stipulated that Sheffield met periodically with Dr. Mangum
and Ms. Browder following entry of the Nov. 15, 1996 consent order and followed their
treatment plans..

)
".

0.00.87

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee hereby makes
the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Sheffield's failure to file with the State Bar quarterly written reports beginning
Jan. 1, 1997 respecting his treatment by Dr. Mangum and Ms. Browder as required by
the consent order of discipline is in clear violation of the order of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission.
2. Sheffield's failure to pay the costs of the 1996 disciplinary proceeding by Jan.
I!, 1997 is in clear violation of the order of Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
3. Sheffield's faihtte to have a supervising attorney approved by the State Bar by
jan. 1, 1997, his failure to meet with the supervising attorney oil a monthly basis and his
failure to file quarterly reports beginning Jan. 1, 1997 respectit~g those meetings is in
clear violation or the order of the order of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
4. Sheffield has failed to show adequate cause why the one-year suspension of his
law license should not be activated, based upon the cleat violations ofthe Nov. 16, 1996
consent order of discipline.
WHEREFORE, it is ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED as follows:
1. The Defendant's license to practice. law in the State of North Carolina is

hereby suspended for a period of one year, beginning 30 days from service of this order
upon the Defendant.
2. Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding.

This the dctay of June, 1997.

Signed by the chair with the consent of the other

zg

I
co

.chard L. Doughton, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Cominittee

I
00088

