-----~----------~~~-----~~~--------...".---,----,....---,..-....,..---,..----

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
JAMES P. GREEN JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

I

1351.(P

)
)
)
).

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G0736(I1)R

CENSURE

)

On April 3, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by James L. Robinson.
Pursuant to section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina St~te Bar, the Grievance Committee ~onducted a prellminary hearing. After
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the
Grievance COll1l11ittee found probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of
the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committ:ee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary'Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levell3 of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
-aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession or a member of the public, but the miscoriduct does not
require ,suspension of the attorney's license.
-'--,.

the Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required- in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I
am ~ertain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In 1993, you undertook to represent James L. Robinson in a medical malpractice
action. After having that case for some period of time, you attempted to file and serve a
summons and complaint. The summons served was not signed by the clerk and the complaint
was not signed by you. Accordingly, the defendants in that action successfully moved to dismiss
the complaint based on insufficient service of process. Because the statute of limitations had
already run, the defend~ts could not be served again and you appealed the court's ruling.

I

I

't' ..

!

.'~ ~

I

.

/

;;'\.'000 "

' . " 89

"

.

Knowing that the case had been dismissed for insufficient service of process, you
kno}Vingly misrepresented to Mr. Robinson in a letter dated October 17, 1995 that the case had
been dismissed on a motion for summary judgment. The reason stated in your letter for the trial
judge's dismissal of the letter was that the caSe was not strong enough to merit a full jury trial.
This statement was an intentional misrepresentation designed to mislead your client and prevent
Mr. 'Robinson from discovering the real reason for the dismissal of his case.
Additionally, you were asked by this cOnlmittee to respond to Mr. Robinson's
grie~ance and specifically to the allegation that you had told him that the case had been
disrrtissed due to insufficient evidence. In your response, you explicitly stated that you told Mr.
Robinson that the case had been dismissed on a technicality and that you did not tell him that the
case, had been dismissed for insufficient evidence. This statement was another misrepresentation
designed to cover up your prior aCtions -- this time made to the committee.

I

these actions violated at least two rules of professional conduct. First, yout
misrepresentation to Mr. Robinson about the reason for the dismissal of his case involved
dishonesty, fraud, deceit and misrepresentation in violation of Ruie 1.2(c). Second, your
response to the committee regarding the reaSons you had given Mr. Robinson for the dismissal of
his case was a knowing false statement of material fact ma~e in connection with Ii disciplinary
matter, in violation of Rule 1.1(a).
.
In imposing its discipline against you for these offenses, the committee considered the
fact your response set forth yout stated efforts to make reforms in your practice to assure this
l
type of situation would not reoccur, an4 that you had no prior discipline by the committee.
These factors were considered in mitigation. As aggravating factors, the committee considered
the ~act that you failed to keep yom: client reasonably informed as to the status of matter and
faile~ to respond to his reasonable requests for information.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation pfthe Rules
of Ptofessional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from: adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a strQng reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your respon~ibility to
the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself
as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without
question.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance COll1h1ittee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

. n3IJ.day of .

Done and ordered, this

, 1997.

I

:

I

"

I

.

