1L10'6\

'-

WAKE COUNTY

GREGO;RY S. CURKA,
ATTORJNEY AT LAW

-------------------........

-~-----~

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G 1291(IV)R

NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE MATTER OF

~

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)
)

On April 3, 1997 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Ms. Melissa A. Citron.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina: State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the rule$ as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty ofinisconductjustifying disciplinary action."
I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee
may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an Admonition, Reprimand, or Censure to the respondent attorney.
A Reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued
in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
miscond'Q,ct does not require a Censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this
case and issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am
certain that you will understand ~ully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
The Complainant hired you to represent her in an action for contempt, modification.
of child custody and change of visitation. A hearing on the contempt motion was
scheduled on August 16, 1994. An order was entered in the case on January 12,1995
that included a visitation schedule for the parties. You did not send your client a: copy
of that order, although she had requested that you provide her with a copy. You told
her that the order had not been entered. On July 22, 1995, your client sent you a

/

I

letter detailing her concerns about the manner, requesting a prompt reply. No
adequate reply was forthcoming. On November 1, 1995, the Complainant selit you a
letter requestjng a return of her files, and a return of all documents signed in your
office. You failed to respond or to return the files. It was not until the matter went to
fee arbitration that you returned the file. When the arbitrator asked you whether or
not you owed any portion of your fee to the Complainant, you told the arbitrator on
several occasions that all of her retainer had been billed against. Copies of the bill
subsequently produced indicat~d that a balance was owed to the client of
approximately $449.00. ' This amount was subsequently l,'epaid, but only after the
arbitration proceeding revealed the amount owed. Complainant asserted that she
never received an itemized copy of the bill. You assert that you in fact. previously
forwarded copies of the bill to the Complainant. Based on the evjdence presented, the
Committee resolyed this factual controversy in the Complainant's favor.

I

By failing to keep your client reasonably informed as to the status of the matter '
following repeated requests for information, and by failing to forward itemized bills to
your client as requested, you violated Rule 6(b)(1) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
By failing to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in ascertaining that an
order had been entered by the court and in forwarding that order to your client, you
violated Rule 6(b)(3) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. By supplying false
information to the arbitrator prior to verifying its accuracy in your records, you
violated ,Rules 1.2(c) and 2.6(e)(2) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. By failing to
return your client's file when requested, you violated Rule 2.8(a)(2}. By failing to
refund the unearned portion of your client's fee, you violated Rule 2.8(a)(3) of the
Rule$ of Professional Conduct.
The fl;lct that you have received no prior discipline was considered by the Committee
as a mitigating factor in electing not to impose more s~vere discipline.
You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct, rhe Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
Reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yours~lf to depa.rt from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs
to any a.ttorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

~ day of ~ 1997.

b~.

Ann ,Reed ,
.
Chairman, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

'.

,i

,i
I
/.
,

.'

/"

i

