,--

----

, - - - - - - - - - - ~----~-----~

_ BEFOR:ETHE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G0132(IV)

NORtH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN TFlE MATTER OF

J. MIGHAEL EDNEY,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On April 3, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Michael A. Parker, Sr.
PurSuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Mter
conside;ring the information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the
Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as
"reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar ~s guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules pr()vide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are n()t required, ~nd the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending-upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimap.d, or a censure tq the respondent attorney.

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in 'which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure ..
The Grievance Comm:ittee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
l

You were appointed to represent Michael A. Parker on several sex offense criminal
charges, for which he was convicted on February 4, 1994. The trial court then appointed you
to repres¢nt Mr. Parker on appeal. Mter you were court-appointed to represent Parker on
appeal, you agreed to accept a fee ()f $15,000 for the appellate representation and collected
$3,500 of,that fee from Parker's mother. You did represent him before the Court of Appeals.
After the Court of Appeals found no error and upheld Parker's convictions, you advised
him by letter that you were preparing a petition to the Supreme Court. You failed to file the
petition. Although you claim that you subsequently told Parker that he would be better off

,/

/- oon~c:')
/':o,oo~r
I

-

-r-

I

filing a motion for appropriate relief rather than the petition, there is no evidence to sl.\pport
your assertion nor any indication that you filed that motion .. To the contrary, your fee records
indicate no entries after. the letter sent to PaJ;'ker indicatlng that YOll were preparing a
Supreme Court petition.

'I

Additionally, you did not notify the trial judge that you had accepted a fee to represent
Parker until after the current grievance was filed against you and counsel for the Bar
contacted the trial judge. ]further, you never sought to be released from your obligations as
appoint~d counsel for Parker. Finally, you failed to respond to at least three written reqllests
for information from the State Bar regarding this grievance.

Your conduct violat~d several Rules of Professional Conduct. ,First, in failing to file the
petition for appeal with the Supreme Court, you did not act with reasonable diligence in
. representing your client, in violation of Rule 6(b)(3). Second, by failing to inform Parker that
you r~commended that he file a motion for appropriate relief rather than a Supreme Court
petition, you did not explain the ~atter to the e:x:tent rea,sonabl!:J necessary to permit him to
. make an informed decision regarding the representation, in violation of Rule 6(b)(2). Third,
by accepting money for representing Parker without seeking to be removed as appointed
counsel and be privately retained, you collected an "illegal fee," in violation of Rule 2.6(il),
RPC 52 and 27 NCAC ID .0406(f). Fourth, by knowingly failing to respond to requests from
the State Bar for information regarding this grievance, you violated Rule 1.1(b).
.
In deciding to impose a reprimand, the committee considered as a mitigating
circumstance the complimentary remarks of Judge Guice regarding your representation of
Parker at trial anq, Judge Guice's failure to sanction you for not informing him earlier of the
privately accepted fees, in graIlting your motion for attorney's fees.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
miscondllct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will
be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow
yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
carolina State Bar regarding the taxing ~f the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the
amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
.
·fl~

Done and ordered. this.

~

lft.. daYOf~ 1997.

~,flf2

Ann Reed
Chairman, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I
,
I

-f

,

.

