BEFORE THE
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
ORiH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97DHC 15

NORTH CAROL

'FHE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF

v.
WILLIAM GERALD, ATTORNEY
DEFENDANT

)
)
)
) CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)
)

.
This matter came on before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commissi.on composed of Joseph G. Maddrey, Chair; Vernon Russell and B. Stephen
Huntley. The defendant, William Gerald, was represented by Alan M. Schneider. The
plaintiff was represented by Carolin Bakewell. Both parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline
imposed. The defendant waives the necessity of a finding of probable cause by the
Grievance Committee as to the matters referred to in paragraphs 52 - 68 which are not
referred to in the Complaint and stipulates that the hearing committee has jtrrisdiction to
consider those matters. Based upon the consent of the parties the hearing committee'
h~reby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The North Carolina State Bar is ,a body duly organized under the laws of North
Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authodty granted it in
Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and Regulations ofthe
North Carolina State Bar.
2. The defendant, William Gerald{Gerald), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1981 and was at all times relevant hereto licensed to practice l,aw in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulatic;ms and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar.
,
3. During all times relevant hereto Gerald was engaged in the practice of law in
Wake County, North Carolina and maintained a law office in Raleigh, N.C.

.
,/

I

.,
!

j~:

.,It

I

I

4. Gerald waived his right to a formal hearing in this matter b~fore the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
5. Gerald was properly served with process and had due notice of the proceedings
herein.
6. Gerald has waived his right to a finding of probable cause by the Grievance
Committee as to the matters referred to in paragraphs 52 - 68 herein which are not
mentioned in the State Bar's Complaint and stipulates that the hearing committee' has
jurisdiction to hear and resolve those matters as well as all other matters mentioned

I

herein.
7. On or about April 6, 1995, Gerald undertook to represent Jawan Gary
(hereafter, Gary)? respecting drug trafficking charges which had been filed against Gary
in New Hanover County.
8. Charles W. Gary (hereafter, Charle~ Gary), who is Gary's father, paid,
respolldent $5,000 to handle his son's case.

9.

Gerald neglected Gary's case.

10. Gerald failed to communicate adequately with Gary or Charles Gary about
the case.
11. Prior to September 1996, Gerald closed his office in New HanQver, County.
Gerald did not advise Gary or Charles Gary that he was closing his office, nor did he keep
them informed of his new llumber and address.
12. Thereafter,the Assistant DA assigned to prosecute Gary's case, Mike DiSilva
(hereafter, DiSilva), determined to dismiss the charges against Gary, as he had previously

I

determined that the charges were not strong.
13. Gerald did not accompany Gary when Gary appeared to have the charges
dismissed by DiSilva and did not advise Gary of his court date.
14. Gerald did not fully earn the $5,000 fee paid to him by Charles Gary on
behalf of his son.
15. Gerald has not refunded the unearned portion of the $5,000 fee paid to him
for handling Jawan Gary's case. .
16. On or about Oct. 2, 1996, the N.C. State Bar sent Gerald a letter of notice and

~ubstance of grievance respecting Charles Gary's grievance.

..

I

~

-.~

.i
i

i

,
I

.I,
t

I"~
00 (0 (

17. Gerrud received the letter of notice on Oct. 3, 1996. Pursuant to the State
Bar's Discipline & Disbarment Rules, Gerrud's response Was due no later than Oct. 18,
1996.
18. Gerrud did not respond to the letter of notice respecting Gary's grievance.
19. On Nov. 25, 1996, the State Bar sent a follqw up letter to Gerrud, reminding

, him that he had not responded to Gary's grievance.
20. Gerrud did not respond to the Nov. 25, 1996 follow up'letter, nor did he file a
, response to Gary's grievance.

1

21. On or about Dec. 12, 1996, the N.C. State Bar issued a subpoena to Gerrud,
cotnmanding to appear in the State Bar's offices to respond to Gary's grievance on Jan.
,20, 1997.
.
22. Gerrud filed a written response to Gary's grievance on or about Jan. 23, 1997.
23. In January 1995, Gerald undertook to represent Victor Lee Zenuh (hereafter,
Zenuh), respecting a charge of possession with intent to deliver marijuana and a charge of
,possessi,on of a weapon on s,?hool grounds, both of which are felonies, then pending
against Zenuh in Wake County Superior Court.
24. On or about Oct. 26, 1995, Gerald appeared in Wake County Superior Court
ion Zenuh's behalf. The court entered a prayer for judgment and continued the matter
,until Dec. 21, 1995 to enable Zenuh to enlist in the military.
25. Zenuh's case was not heard on Dec. 21, 1995 and was ultimately rescheduled
for May 28, 1996.
26. Gerald failed to communicate with Zenuh or respond to his telephone calls
after February 1996.

1

, 27. Gerald did not appear with Zenuh for the May 28, 1996 court date nor could
he be reached by court officirus who attempted to contact him on that date.

28. Because Gerald did not appear in court on his behalf, Zenuh was for~ed to
negotiate a plea bargain on his own behruf with the Assistant District Attorney assigned
'
to the case, Joshua Tharrington.
29. In November 1995, Gerald undertook to represent James Blue (hereafter,
Blue), respecting charges of sexual assault and indecent liberties With a minor then
pending against Blue in Wilson County.

"I
,
i

,!
I

.
!

)~QOlf)2

30. Bertha Smith (here~er, Smith), a friend of Blue's, paid Gerald a $3,500 fee
to handle Blue's cases through trial.
.
31. Gerald p,eglected Blue's case.
32. Gerald failed to communicate with Blue or Smith about the case.
33. In January 1996, Blue discharged Gerald,

I

,34. Gerald has failed to refund the unearned portion of the $3,500 fee paid to
him, despite requests for arefund.
35. 011. or about Aug. 5, the N.C. State Bar sent Gerald a letter of notice and
substance of grievance respecting the grievance which Smith had filed against Gerald.
36. Gerald received the letter of notice on Aug. 21, 1996. Pursu~t to the State
Bar's Discipline & Disbarment Rules, Gerald's response was due no later than Sept. 6,
1996.
37. Gerald did not respond to the letter of notice respecting Smith's grievance.
38. On Sept. n, 1996, the State Bar sent a follow up letter to Gerald, reminding
him that he had not responded to Smith's grievance.
39. Gerale}. did not respolld to the Sept. 11, 1996 follow up letter and did not
respond to Smith's grievance until Sept. 23, 1996.
40. Prior to September 1995, Gerald undertook to handle a personal injury action
for Alicia Hundley Dunn (hereafter, DUM).

I

41. In September 1995, Gerald settled DUnn's case for $7,000. At Gerald's
direction, his staff issued a check to Dunn in the amount of $3,000, which represented
Dunn's share of the settlement proceeds.
42. Pursuant to his agreement with Dunn, Gerald was entitled to a fee of 113 of
the settlement amount, or approximately $2,331. Dunn directed Gerald to pay the
remaining proceeds of the $7,000 settlement check, some $1,669, to Dunn's medical care
providers.
43., Gerald directed his paralegal, Jan Hornsby (hereafter, Hornsby), to disburse
the appropriation make the necessary disbursements, but she failed to do so. Instead,
Hornsby converted some or all of the funds which should have gone to Dunn's medical
care providers to the benefit of third parties other than Dunn or her medicalcate
providers, without Dunn's knowledge or consent.

I

,

,

,

.

,i
I

i'

:

/-:
"

001 0 3

44. Gerald failed to take reasonable efforts to ensure that Hornsby's conduct was
~ompatible with Gerald's professional obligations to Dunn respecting th.e handling of
trust funds belonging to Dunn.
45. Gerald failed to reconcile his attorney trust account at least quarterly.
46. Gerald has failed to make restitution to Dunn for the losses which she
incurred as the result of the dishonesty of his staff, despite requests therefore from Dunn.
47. On or about July 23, 1996 the N.C. State Bar sent Gerald a letter of notice
and substance of grievance respecting Dunn's grievance.

I

48. Gerald received the letter of notice respecting Dunn's grievance on July 31,
1996. Pursuant to the ~tate Bar's Discipline & Disbarment Rules, Gerald's response was
due no later than Aug. 15, 1996.
49. Gerald did not respond to Dunn's grievance.
50. On Sept. 11, 1996, the State Bar sent a follow up letter to Gerald, reminding
hjIn that he had not responded to Dunn's grievance.
51, Gerald did not respond to the ~ept. 11, 1996 follow up letter nor did he file a
response to Dunn's grievance until Sept. 23, 1996.
52. Prior to Oct. 10, 1996, Bethany Haas (hereafter, Haas), retained Gerald to
represent her in a traffic matter. Haas paid Gerald $750 as a fee.
53. Thereafter, Gerald failed to notify Haas of at least one court date in her case.
Neither Gerald nor Haas appeared in court on that date and a warrant was issued to Haas
for failing to appear in coUrt.
54. Gerald neglected Haas' case and Haas ultimately had to·retairt other counsel
tq represent her respecting the traffic matter·and arrest warrant.
55. Gerald has failed to refund arty portion of the $750 which Haas paid to him.
56. Prior to Sept. 16, 1996, Gerald undertook to represent Irvin Winstead
(4ereafter,
Winstead), respecting a matter
in Edgecombe County Superior Court.
,
.
57. Gerald knew that Winste~d's case was set for hearing on Sept. 16, 1996 in
Ei;lgecombe County Superior Court.
58. Gerald did not appear in Edgecombe County Superior Court on Sept. 16,
1996. Thereafter, the presiding Judge, Frank R. Brown, held Gerald in criminal
contempt for failing to appear in court.

;

l

I

59. Prior to Oct. 29, 1996, Gerald undertook to represent Philip Nordi (hereafter
Nordi), respecting a traffic matter. Nordi paid Gerald a $200 fee.
60. Ger~ld failed to appear in court on Nordi's behalf and, as a result, a warr@nt
was issued for Nordi's arrest. Gerald failed to return a number of calls which Nordi
placed to him, inquiring about his case.
61. Nordi ultimately had to hire other counsel to handle his traffic case.

I

62. Gerald has failed to refund any portion of the $200 fee which he received
from Nordi.
63. In 1995, Gerald undertook to represent Bobbie Bass (hereafter, Bass)
respecting taX charges then pending against her in Wake County.
64. Bass paid Gerald· a $500 fee to represent her in the tax matter.
65. Gerald failed to appear in Wake County Superior Court o~ Bass' behalf at
hearings held in Bass' case on Jan. 20, 1997, Jan. 27, 1997 and Feb. 3, 1997.
66. Following Gerald's failure to appear on Bass' behalf, Judge Gordon Battle
issued an order to Gerald to appear and show cau~e why he should not be held in
contempt. As a result of that order, Gerald ultimately tendere4 his law license to the
W~e County Superior Court on Feb. 17, 1997 and was transferred to disability inactive
status by the Court.
6.7. Gerald has refunded the $500 fee which he received from Bass.

I

68. On April 22; 1997, Gerald was served with letters of notice from the N.C.
State Bar respecting grievances which had been filed against Gerald concerning the Ba~s,
Haas, Winstead and N ordi matters. Gerald did not respond to any of the letters of notice
respecting those fQur grievances.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings ofF'act, the
hearing committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee ~d the committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant, Wi.1l1am Gerald, and the subject matter 9fthis pr9ceedipg.
2. Gerald's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) a.s follows:

I
i

!

i

.

,! .

j\ .
.J

'.

a. By neglecting the legal matters of Jawan Gary, Victor Zenuh; James Blue,
aethany Haas, Philip Nordi and Bobbie Bass, Gerald neglected client matters in violation
qfRule 6(b)(3).
b. By failing to communicate adequately with Jawan Gary, Victor Zenuh,
Bethany Haas and James Blue, Gerald failed to communicate with clients in violation of
Rule 6(b)(1).
c. By failing to refund the unearned portion of the fees paid to him to handle legal
matters of Jawan Gary, James Blue, Philip Nordi, and Bethany Haas, Gerald charged or
collected an excessive fee in violation of Rule 2.6.

I

d. By failing to respond in a timely fashion to the State Bar's letter of notice and
follow up communications respecting grievances filed respecting Jawan Gary, Victor
Zenuh, James Blue, Alicia Hundley Dunn, Irwin Winstead, Bobbie Bass, Philip Nordi
~d Bethany Haas, Gerald failed to respond to a lawful inquiry of a disciplinary authority
in violation of Rule 1. 1(b).
e. By failing to appear in court on behalf of Victor Zenuh, Bobbie Bass, Philip
Nordi artd Bethany Haas, Gerald neglected client matters in violation of Rule 6(b)(3) of
the Rules 'ofProfessional Conduct and prejudiced clients in violation of Rule 7. 1(a)(3).
I

f. By failing to take reasonable steps to' supervise his paralegal, Jan HornSby, and
to ensure that her conduct Was compatible with his own obligations respecting the
handling of Dunn's trust·funds, Gerald failed to supervise a non-lawyer assistant in
violation of Rule 3.3(b).
g. By failing to make restitutiort to Dunn of funds improperly converted by
flomsby as a result of his "Own failure to supervise Hornsby, Gerald prejudiced a client in
violation of Rule 7. 1(a)(3) and failed to pay over to a client sUms belonging to the client,
iIi violation of Rule 1O.2(e).
h. By failing to reconcile his attorney trust account at least quarterly, Gerald
f~led to reconcile his trust account quarterly, in violation of Rule 10.2(d).

i. By failing to appear in Edgecombe County Superior Court on Sept. 16, 1996,
Gerald engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in Violation of Rule
1.,2(d).

.

.. -.;,. .....

;

,

,!

I

.

I

Baseq upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. Gerald's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. Pattern of misconduct.
b. MUltiple acts of misconduct.
c. Failure to make restitution.
2. Gerald's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. Physical ~d/or emotional probl~ms, including the break up of
Gerald's family, diabetes and depression.
.b. Gerald was addicted to several sub~tances at the time of the
misconduct, which addiction is causally linked to the misconduct.
c. Gerald voluntarily turned in his license to the Wake County Superior
Court on Feb. 17, 1997.
d. Gerald sought treatment for his substance abuse problem prior to the
filing of the complaint herein.
e. The misconduct respecting Alicia HUIldley Drum. occurred at the
same time as other similar misconduct regarding Gerald's trust account,
for whieh Gerald has previously been disciplined by the State Bar.

I

f. Gerald was not motivated by selfishness as to the Dunn matter and
did not have actual, contemporaneous knowledge of the misconduct of
his paralegal, Jan Hornsby.
3. The hearing committee concludes that imposition of additional discipline as to
the Winstead matter is not warranted, as Gerald has alreaqy been held in
criminal contempt of court by Judge Frank Brown, arising out of Gerald's
failure to appear in Edgecombe County Superior Court on Sept. 16, 1996.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings
regarding discipline and based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing cotnmittee
enters the following:

;

,.

-.~.-

I
,/
I

i

,
,,

j~>

0 01 07"
-.

\.J .....

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Gerald is hereby suspended from the practice for law for three yeats, beginning
,on Feb. 7, 1997 the date on which Gerald tlirned in his license to the Wake County
Superior Court and ceased the pra,ctice of law.
2. Gerald shall submit his law license and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from service of this order upon the
.defendant.

I

I

3. Gerald shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary by
:Jan'. 1, 1998.
4. Gerald shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin, Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
5. Prior to seeking reinstatement of his license, Gerald shall.comply with all
'provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the N:C. State
.Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
6. Prior to seeking reinstatement of his license, Gerald shall demonstrate .by clear,
:cogent and convincing evidence that he no longer suffers from any mental or physical
condition which would prevent him from competently engaging in the practice oflaw in
North Carolina. Contemporaneously with the filing of any petition for reinstatement,
Gerald shall provide written waivers to the N.C. State Bar to permit the Bat to obtain
irecords from and consult with Gerald's physicians, therapists, psychologists, counselors
and other clinicians regarding Gerald's treatment and medical condition.
7. Prior to seeking reinstatement of his license, Gerald shall demonstrate by
clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has arrested his chemical dependency by
'performing the following:
a. That during the two year period immediately preceding his
reinstatement petition, he has not consumed any alcohol and/or illegal
subst~ces and/or any mind altering prescription medication (except
where the prescribing physician is aware of Gerald's chemical
dependency and finds such prescription medically necessary).
b. That he haS submitted to monthly random drug screens for alcohol,
cocaine, marijuana and other mind altering drugs throughout the two
year period immediately preceding his reinstatement petition and has
not had a positive screen.

.

,/

,

I

,

j~' - 001 0lil

-

. ......
~

I

c. That he has worked a twelve-step program of recovery within AA
or NA and that he demonstrates that he has satisfactorily worked
thrQugh each of the twelve steps since hi~ l~t sobriety date.
d. That he has attended an average of at le~t three AA or NA
meetings a week, and no less than eight meetings iIi anyone month,
during the two year period immediately preceding his petition for
reinstatement.

I

e. That during the two years immediately preceding his reinstatement
petition, he has obtained such other counseling and/or treatment as has
been prescribed or recommended by his treating physicians, clinicians
and/or counselors to ensure his recovery and freedom from active
chemical addictiop..
8. Prior to seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law, Gerald shall
provide written evidence to the Secretary of the N.C. State Bar that he has made
restitution to the following individuals in the following amounts:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e~

$4,000
Charles Gary
Bertha Smith
$3,500
Alicia Hundley Dunn $934
Phillip C. Nordi
$200
Bethany Haas
$750

Signed by the undersigned hearing committee chair with the consent of the other
hearing cOmIl1ittee members.

I
Seen and consented to:

Carolin Bakewell, Plaintiff s Attorney

()to- tJ~,,-Alan M. Schneider, Defendant'sAttomey

: '''-''.''-

I
"

,r
I

j~'

