THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
v.

FREDRICK R. PIERCE, Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed ofT. Richard Kane, Chair, M. H. Hood Ellis, and Pamela U.
Weis. Margaret T. Cloutier represented the Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar. The
Defendant, Fredrick R. Pierce, was represented by Alan M. Sclmeider. Both parties
stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent
order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all
right to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations
of fact and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee makes the following
findings of fact by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Fredrick R. Pierce, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on
or about March 24,2001 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attomey
licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. Defendant's license to practice law was suspended for two years effective May
19,2006, which suspension was stayed for three years upon certain terms and conditions.

4. At all times referred to herein, Defendant was engaged in the practice oflaw in
the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of Raleigh, Wake
County, North Carolina.
5. Defendant was properly served with the summons and complaint in this action.
6. Defendant waived hearing and consented to entry of this Order.
7. On January 19, 2007 Norvej Scott filed a petition for resolution of disputed fee
with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. ID §.0700. Scott's fee
dispute petition was designated file number 07FD0033.
8. By letter dated February 13, 2007 Joseph W. Eason (hereinafter "Eason")
Chair of the Tenth Judicial District Bar Fee Dispute Resolution Committee notified
Defendant of Scott's petition by sending Defendant a copy of the petition and directed
Defendant to respond to the petition by March 6, 2007. Defendant received Eason's
February 13, 2007 letter by certified mail on February 15, 2007.
9. Defendant failed to respond to Eason's February 13, 2007 letter.
10. By letter dated March 12,2007 Eason reminded Defendant that his response
to Scott's petition had not been received and directed that he respond by March 19,2007.
Defendant received Eason's March 12, 2007 letter by certified mail on March 13, 2007.
II. Defendant failed to respond to Eason's March 12, 2007 letter.
12. After receiving no response to the fee dispute, the Tenth Judicial District Bar
Fee Dispute Resolution Committee closed the fee dispute file and referred Defendant's
file to the disciplinary department of the North Carolina State Bar where a grievance file
was opened and assigned file number 07G0394.
13. On May 17,2007,pursuantt027N.CAC.IB §.0112(b), the Chair of the
Grievance Committee sent Defendant a Letter of Notice accompanied by a Substance of
the Grievance. Defendant received the Letter of Notice and its attachment by certified
mail on June 9, 2007.
14. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0112(c) Defendant was required to respond to
the letter of notice within 15 days of receipt.
IS. Defendant failed to respond to the letter of notice within 15 days. On July 12,
2007, Respondent delivered to the North Carolina State Bar a response to the Letter of
Notice.
16. On May 24, 2007 Glenn Guy filed a petition for resolution of disputed fee
with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. ID §.0700. Guy's fee dispute
petition was designated file number 07FD0279.

- 2-

17. By letter dated June 20, 2007 Joseph W. Eason (hereinafter "Eason") Chair of
the Tenth Judicial District Bar Fee Dispute Resolution Conunittee notified Defendant of
Guy's petition by sending Defendant a copy ofthe petition and directed Defendant to
respond to the petition by July 11,2007. Defendant received Eason's June 20, 2007 letter
by certified mail on June 21, 2007.
18. Defendant failed to respond to Eason's June 20, 2007 letter.
19. After receiving no response to the fee dispute, the Tenth Judicial District Bar
Fee Dispute Resolution Conunittee closed the fee dispute file and referred Defendant's
file to the disciplinary department of the North Carolina State Bar where a grievance file
was opened and assigned file number 07G0850.
20. On August 24,2007, pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0112(b), the Chair of the
Grievance Committee sent Defendant a Letter of Notice accompanied by a Substance of
the Grievance. Defendant received the Letter of Notice and its attachment by certified
mail on September 1, 2007.
21. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0112(c) Defendant was required to respond to
the letter of notice within 15 days of receipt. Defendant failed to respond to the letter of
notice within 15 days.
22. In November 2006 Frances J. Wright engaged Defendilllt to represent Wright
in a pending action for equitable distribution. Wright filed with the North Carolina State
Bar a grievilllce against Defendant to which was assigned file number 07G0847.
23. On August 24,2007, pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0112(b), the Chair of the
Grievilllce Conmlittee sent Defendant a Letter of Notice accompanied by a Substance of
the Grievance. Defendant received the Letter of Notice and its attachment by certified
mail on September 1, 2007.
24. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0112(c) Defendant was required to respond to
the letter of notice within 15 days of receipt. Defendant failed to respond to the letter of
notice within 15 days.
25. In January 2005 Ronald Mayberry engaged Defendant to represent Mayberry
on pending federal criminal charges. Mayberry's criminal matter was tried in Federal
Court on June 8, 2006. Mayberry was sentenced on January 29, 2007 and under the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure Mayberry had ten days during which to file an
appeal.
26. On several occasions after the trial and both before illld after sentencing
Mayberry andlor his wife asked Defendilllt about filing illl appeal. Defendant did not
advise Mayberry about his rights pertaining to an appeal.

-3-

27. Before terminating his representation of Mayberry, Defendant did not protect
Mayberry's rights by fIling a notice of appeal on Mayberry's behalf within the time
limits.
28. In July 2007 Jermaine Johnson engaged Defendant to represent Johnson for a
traffic citation in Wake County District Court. Johnson paid Defendant $300.00 for the
representation.
29. Defendant did not appear in court on Jolmson's behalf.
30. In January 2008 Jolmson received notification from the North Carolina
Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) that Johnson's driver's license was set to be
revoked for his failure to appear in court.
31. Thereafter, Johnson spoke to Defendant about the DMV notice. Defendant
asserted to Jolmson that Defendant would take care of the matter in court to avoid the
suspension of Jolmson's license.
32. Defendant did not appear in court on Johnson's behalf to resolve the pending
traffic ticket and to resolve the revocation of Jolmson's driver's license. In March 2008
Jolmson discovered that his driver's license has been suspended by the DMV and that no
action had been talcen in court on his behalf.
33. On March 25,2008 Johnson filed a petition for resolution of disputed fee
with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1D §.0700. Johnson's fee
dispute petition was designated file number 08FD0204.
34. By letter dated March 25, 2008 Krista 1. Bathurst (hereinafter "Bathurst")
Mediator for the North Carolina State Bar Fee Dispute Resolution Program notified
Defendant of Jolmson's petition by sending Defendant a copy of the petition and directed
Defendant to respond to the petition within fifteen days ofthe date of receipt. Defendant
received Bathurst's March 24, 2008 letter by certified mail on April 19, 2008.
35. Defendant failed to respond to Bathurst's March 25, 2008 letter.
36. After receiving no response to the fee dispute, the North Carolina State Bar
Fee Dispute Resolution Program closed the fee dispute file and referred Defendant's file
to the disciplinary department of the North Carolina State Bar where a grievance file was
opened and assigned file number 08G0758.
37. On June 19,2008, pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.01l2(b), Counsel of the
North Carolina State Bar sent Defendant a Letter of Notice accompanied by a Substance
of the Grievance. Defendant received the Letter of Notice and its attaclmlent by certified
mail on June 21, 2008.

- 4-

38. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IE §.0112(c) Defendant was required to respond to
the letter of notice within 15 days of receipt. Defendant failed to respond to the letter of
notice within 15 days.
39. In November 2003 Michael White engaged Defendant to represent White in a
civil action filed in Wake County District Court against White regarding a contract
dispute captioned Debra Chavis v. Michael White, docket no. 03 CVD 15034.
40. Defendant did not file a responsive pleading on White's behalf in the civil
action and as a result, the Clerk entered default against White. Thereafter, plaintiff s
counsel obtained a default judgment against White.
41. Defendant filed motions to set aside the default and to set aside the default
judgment, but Defendant's efforts were ultimately unsuccessful.
42. Defendant entered into an agreement with White providing that Defendant
would personally pay the money judgment entered in favor of plaintiff and against White.
Before entering into the agreement with White to pay the judgment against White,
Defendant did not advise White in writing to seek the advice of other legal counsel.
Defendant did not pay the entire money judgment against White.
43. White filed with the North Carolina State Bar a grievance against Defendant
to which was assigned file number 08G0365. On March 26, 2008, pursuant to 27
N.C.A.C. IE §.0112(b), the Counsel to the North Carolina State Bar sent Defendant a
Letter of Notice accompanied by a Substance of the Grievance. Defendant received the
Letter of Notice and its attaclunent by certified mail on April 19, 2008.
44. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IE §.0112(c) Defendant was required to respond to
the letter of notice within 15 days of receipt. Defendant failed to respond to the letter of
notice within 15 days.
45. On June 18,2007 Rebecca Loney-Beckford filed a petition for resolution of
disputed fee with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. ID §.0700.
Beckford's fee dispute petition was designated file number 07FD0324. By letter dated
July 16, 2007 Joseph W. Eason (hereinafter "Eason") Chair of the Tenth Judicial District
Bar Fee Dispute Resolution Committee notified Defendant of Beckford's petition by
sending Defendant a copy ofthe petition and directed Defendant to respond to the
petition by August 6, 2007. Defendant received Eason's July 16, 2007 letter by certified
mail on July 18, 2007.
46. Defendant failed to timely respond to Eason's July 16, 2007 letter in that he
submitted a response on August 23, 2007.
47. The mediator assigned to the matter requested additional information from
Defendant. Defendant failed to submit the additional information requested by the

-5-

mediator, despite assuring the mediator on or about October 9, 2007 he would comply
with the mediator's request.
48. On November 5, 2007 Jeff Crawford filed a petition for resolution of disputed
fee with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. ID §.0700. Crawford's
fee dispute petition was designated file number 07FD0589.
49. By letter dated November 20,2007 Joseph W. Eason (hereinafter "Eason")
Chair of the Tenth Judicial District Bar Fee Dispute Resolution Committee notified
Defendant of Crawford's petition by sending Defendant a copy of the petition and
directed Defendant to respond to the petition by December II, 2007. Defendant received
Eason's November 20,2007 letter by certified mail shortly after November 20,2007 as
Defendant acknowledged to the assigned mediator in a telephone conversation.
50. Although Defendant refunded fees to Crawford, Defendant failed to respond
to Eason's November 20, 2007 letter.
51. On July 9, 2008 Reggie Gilchrist filed a petition for resolution of disputed fee
with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. ID §.0700. Gilchrist's fee
dispute petition was designated file number 08FD0409.
52. By letter dated July 9,2008 Krista L. Bathurst 01ereinafter "Bathurst")
Mediator with the North Carolina State Bar Fee Dispute Resolution Program notified
Defendant of Gilchrist's petition by sending Defendant a copy of the petition and directed
Defendant to respond to the petition within fifteen days of receipt of the letter.
53. Defendant did not sign for Bathurst's July 9,2008 letter and the letter was
returned by the postal service marked "Unclaimed".
54. Bathurst sent a copy of her July 9, 2008 letter to Defendant by fax on August
4,2008. On or about August 20, 2008 Bathurst spoke to Defendant on the telephone,
during which conversation Defendant acknowledged receiving Bathurst's July 9, 2008
notification of Gilchrist's fee dispute and asserted he would respond to the fee dispute by
"this Friday" [August 22, 2008].
55. Defendant failed to respond to Bathurst's July 9, 2008 letter.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Connnittee makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. All the parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Conunittee
has jurisdiction over Defendant, Fredrick R. Pierce, and over the subject matter.

- 6-

2. Defendant's condnct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. by failing to respond to the notices of petition for fee dispute resolution sent by
the Tenth Judicial District Fee Dispute Resolution regarding Norvej Scott, Glenn Guy,
Rebecca Loney-Beckford, and Jeff Crawford, Defendant failed to participate in good
faith with the fee dispute resolution process of the North Carolina State Bar in violation
of Rule 1.5(f);
b. by failing to respond to the notices of petition for fee dispute resolution sent by
the North Carolina State Bar Fee Dispute Resolution Program regarding Jernlaine
Jolmson and Reggie Gilchrist, Defendant failed to participate in good faith with the fee
dispute resolution process of the North Carolina State Bar in violation of Rule 1.5(f);
c. by failing to respond to the Letters of Notice within the time provided by rule
regarding Norvej Scott, Glenn Guy, Frances Wright, Jermaine Johnson, and Michael
White, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1(b);
d. by failing to perform the legal services for which he was engaged by Glenn
Guy, Jermaine Jomlson and Michael White, and by failing to advise Mayberry regarding
his rights of appeal, Defendant did not act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
e. by failing to retum Glenn Guy's telephone calls or otherwise communicate
with Guy, Defendant failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of the
representation and failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and (4);
f. by receiving $2,500.00 from Guy and $300.00 from Jolmson and not
performing the work agreed upon, Defendant charged and collected clearly excessive fees
in violation of Rule 1.5(a);
g. by failing to return unearned fees to Guy, Defendant did not take steps
reasonably necessary to protect the client's interests in violation of Rule 1.16(d) and did
not promptly payor deliver to tlle client entrusted property belonging to the client and to
which the client was currently entitled in violation of Rule 1. I 5-2(a) and (m);
h. by failing to file a notice of appeal on Mayberry's behalf before terminating
his representation of Mayberry, Defendant did not talee steps to protect a client's interest
in violation of Rule 1.16(d); and
i. by entering into the agreement with White to pay the judgment against White
without advising White in writing to seek tlle advice of other legal counsel, Defendant
entered into a business transaction with a client without advising the client in writing of

-7 -

the desirability of seeking the advice of independent legal counsel on the transaction in
violation of Rule 1.8(a).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and the consent of the parties concerning appropriate discipline, the Hearing
Committee hereby makes additional
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Hearing Committee finds the following aggravating factors:
a. Defendant has engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
b. Defendant has engaged in multiple offenses; and
c. Defendant has prior discipline as follows:

i. Defendant received an Admonition from the Grievance
Committee in file number 04G0987 in January 2005 for a violation of
Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; and
ii. Defendant's license was suspended for two years, which
suspension was stayed for three years, by Order of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission dated April 13,2006 for violation of Rules 1.3, 1.4,
1.5, 1.16 and 8.4.
2. Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. Defendant has a cooperative attitude toward this disciplinary
proceeding;
b. Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive; and
c. Personal or emotional problems.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. Defendant has engaged in conduct that has caused significant harm to his
clients. GleIm Guy paid Defendant $2,500.00 for services that were not perfonned.
Defendant returned one-half ofthose fees to Guy only after the complaint in this matter
had been filed. Mr. Mayberry was able to appeal his case only after engaging another
attorney to petition the court. Mr. Johnson's license was revoked and he had to pay an
additional $50 to have it restored. Mr. White had ajudgment entered against him. None
of the clients who attempted to address their concerns through the fee dispute resolution

- 8-

program were able to resolve their disputes because Defendant failed to participate in the
process.
5. Defendant's conduct caused harm to the standing of the legal profession,
undermining his clients' trust and confidence in lawyers and in the legal system.
6. Defendant's failure to participate in the mandatory fee dispute resolution
process and the grievance process interfered with the State Bar's ability to regulate
attorneys which tends to undermine the privileges oflawyers in tlus state to remain selfregulating.
7. Defendant has previously engaged in similar conduct as set forth in the
Consent Order of Discipline in file 05 DHC 42 dated April 13, 2006. Although
Defendant's interactions with his clients described above regarding Mr. Guy and Mr.
White occurred before the entry of the 2006 order, his interactions with Mr. Mayberry
and Mr. Johnson occurred since the entry of that order. In addition, all of the conduct
described above regarding Defendant's failure to participate in the fee dispute program
and the grievance process occurred after the entry of the April 2006 order. Tlus
evidences Defendant's unwillingness to learn from prior discipline and to adhere to the
rules and regulations governing the conduct of all attorneys in this state.
8. This Hearing Committee has considered lesser alternatives and fmds that a
public censure or reprimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of
the harm and potential harm caused by Defendant's conduct to the public and to his
clients.
9. For the reasons cited above, tius Hearing Committee believes and so finds that
an Order of Discipline suspending Defendant's license to practice law is necessary and
appropriate to protect tile public.
10. In considering the appropriate discipline, the Hearing Committee has
considered the personal and emotional issues described by Defendant in his letter to the
North Carolina State Bar dated July 11,2007, introduced at the hem'ing as Plaintiffs
Exhibit 9. The Committee determines tilat these issues might have contributed to
Defendant's conduct and must be addressed by Defendant before he continues in the
practice oflaw.
Based upon the foregoing fmdings of fact and conclusions oflaw and based upon
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:

-9-

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I. Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is hereby
suspended for four years effective thirty days after service of this Order of Discipline on
Defendant.
2. Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following service of this Order on
Defendant.
3. Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B, §.OI24, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within
ten days of the effective date of this Order of Discipline certifying he has complied with
the wind down rule.
4. Within fifteen days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant will provide
the State Bar with a street address and mailing address at which clients seeking return of
their files and records in Defendant's possession or control may obtain such files and
records and at which the State Bar may serve any notices or other matters upon him.
5. After the completion of eighteen months of active suspension of his license,
Defendant may apply for a stay of the balance of the suspension upon filing a petition
with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar at least thirty days before any
proposed effective date of the stay and demonstrating the following by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence:
a. That Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change;
b. That Defendant has responded to all communications from the North Carolina
State Bar, including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and has participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process
for any petition received after the effective date of this Order;
c. That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or any state or local government during his suspension;
d. That Defendant has properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the requirements of27 N.C.A.C. lB, §.OI24, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules;

- 10-

e. That Defendant has complied with the requirements of27 N.C.A.C. lB,
§.0125(b), the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules;
f. That within six months of the date of this Order Defendant made restitution to
Jermaine Jolmson in the an10unt of $350.00 representing fees and license restoration
costs;
g. That within three months before the filing of his petition applying for stay of
his suspension, Defendant has 1) obtained, at his own expense, an evaluation by a
qualified psychiatrist or psychologist approved by the Office of Counsel for the purpose
of detern1ining if Defendant has any mental, psychological or physical impairment,
addiction, substance dependence, personality disorder or other condition or illness that
would affect his ability to practice law and comply with the rules of Professional Conduct
or cause ham1 to the public if he is allowed to resume the practice oflaw, 2) served the
North Carolina State Bar with a copy of a written report of the psychiatrist/psychologist
with his petition for stay, and 3) executed written waivers and releases authorizing the
Office of Counsel to confer with Defendant's psychiatrist/psychologist for the purpose
discussing all aspects of the psychiatrist/psychologist's evaluation, report, opinions and
recommendations;
h. That Defendant has paid the costs of this proceeding in accordance with the
statement of costs within sixty days of service upon him by the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar; and
i. That Defendant has complied with all provisions of the Order Lifting Stay and
Activating Suspension in 05 DHC 42.
6. If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as he complies with the following
conditions:
a. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses;
b. Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State
Bar, including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for
any petition received during the stay;
c. Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States or any state or local govermnent during his suspension;
d. Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements and shall pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;

- 11 -

e. Defendant shall comply with all treatment, if any, prescribed by a psychiatrist
and/or psychologist. If any such treatment is recommended, Defendant shall ensure that
the mental health professional provides written reports to the State Bar Office of Counsel
conceming Defendant's compliance with the treatment plan each quarter during the
stayed suspension. The reports shall be due each January I, April I, July I and October I
throughout the stayed suspension. All expenses of such treatment and reports shall be
bome by Defendant;
f. Defendant shall execute written waivers and releases authorizing the Office of
Counsel to confer with Defendant's psychiatrist/psychologist for the purpose of
determining if Defendant has cooperated and complied with all requirements of treatment
and Defendant shall not revoke such releases during the period of stayed suspension; and
g. Defendant shall comply with all provisions of the Order Lifting Stay and
Activating Suspension in 05 DHC 42.
7. If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed
suspension provided in paragraph 6 above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as
provided in §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
8. If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension or if
some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must
comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs 5(a) through (i) above before seeking
reinstatement oflus license to practice law.
9. The terms oftlus Order shall run concurrently with the terms of the Order
Lifting Stay and Activating Suspension in 05 DHC 42.
10. Defendant is taxed with tile costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary.
Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the consent of the other
Hearing Committee members, this the ,2tRfI day of ~ ~
,2009.

f

- 12 -

