I

)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STAtE BAR, )
Plaiptiff
)

v.
JOSEPH F. LYLES, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT
AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter was heard on the 25th day of July, 1997, before a hearing committee
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of JosephG. Maddrey, Chair;
James R. Fox, and B. Stephen Huntley, The defendant, Joseph F. Lyles, represented
himself. Fern Gunn Simeon repr~sented the State Bar. Based upon the pleadings and the
evidence introduced. at the hearin~, the hearing conunittee hereby enters the fpllowing:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The North Carolina State Bar, the plaintiff, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina andis the proper party to bring this proceeding l,1l1der
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rul~s and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
/
.....
2. The defendant, Joseph F. Lyles, was adntitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1987 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney ~t law
licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. During all times relevant hereto the defendant was actively engaged in
the practice/of law in Charlotte, North Carolina, and maintained a law office in Charlotte,
North Carolina.
4. The defendant was properly served with process and the hearing was h~ld
with due notice to all parties.

5. In 1995, defendant agreed to represent Orlando Brown (Brown) in a
personal injury case.
6. In July 1996, defendant settled Brown's claim. On July 8, 1996,
defendant deposited the settlement proceeds of $2,000.00 into his attorney trust accoUnt
(~st account) at NationsBank, account number 001810027.
7. Defendant was supposed to pay $672.00 to Keith Chiropractic Clinic
•
(cltmc) on Brown's behalf for services that the clinic provided to Brown.

I

8. On July 8, 1996, defendant spoke with Billie Scarboro, an employee of
Keith Chiropractic Clinic. Defendant told Ms., Scarboro that he would send a check in
the amount of $672.00 to pay Orlando Brown's bill.
I

9. Defendant's trust account balalice dropped below $672.00 on September
10, 1996 and the account balance remained below the amount needed to pay the clinic
until November 25, 1996, the date that defendant closed his trust account.
10. At all periods when defendant's trust account balance was below
$672.00, this amount should have been in his trust account on Brown's behalf since the
clinic had not been paid the money due it.
, 11. Defendant did not have permission to use any part of the $672.00 that he
was to pay to the clinic on Brown;s behalf.
12. Defendant appropriated Brown's money to his own use.

1

"

13. Defendant testified that he used Brown's money to travel to Florida in
September 1996.
14. At the time that defendant misappropriated Brown's money, he had
several financial obligations which totaled approximately $87,000.00, including a
substantial child support arrearage.

I

,I

....

15. Defendant paid Brown's $672.00 obligation to Dr. Keith on July 22,
1997, three days before the hearing.

•

16. Defendant failed to withdraw promptly his earned attorney's fees from
his attorney trust account.
17. Defendant did not maintain the minimum records of funds he received
and disbursed on behalf of clients. For example, defendant had only two trust account
bank statements for 1995 and two trust account bank statements 1996. Defendant did not
have his trust account checkbook or register. He did not maintain ledgers for his clients'
funds.
18. Defendant did not reconcile the trust account balances of client funds at
le~t quarterly.

I
'_.
• 1

.~.,.

• ~ ,

19. Defendant did not file timely his .state income tax returns for 1991
through 1995.
20. Defendant testified that he filed his state incoIlle~ returns for 1991
through 1995 in April of 1997.
21. Defendant has not paid his state income tax liability for 1991 through
1995.
22. Defeqdant did not file timely his federal ip.collle tax return for 1995.
23. Defendant testified that he filed his federal income tax return for 1995 in
April of 1997.
24. Defendant has not paid his federal income tax liability for 1995.
25. In 1994, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) levied a tax lien against
defendant for unpaid taxes.
26. Defendant testifiec;i that he did not maintain a personal or business bank
account because he believed that the IRS would levy against his personal funds.
27. Defendant placed his personal funds (such as attorney's fees he had
earned) in an account called Guerrilla Consulting Inc. so as to conceal his income from
theIRS.

I

28. Defendant testified that he knew he could file his state and federal
income tax returns, althQugh he did not have the money to pay the tax liability at the time
of filing.
29. Defendant's failure to file his state and federal income tax returns was
willful and intentional.
.

.

.~

"

30. In late 1994, defendant agreed to represent Jerry Hill (Hill) in a~tort
claims action before the North Carolina Industrial Commission captionecl, Jerry Lee Hill
v. N.C. Department of Human ResourceslHenderson County Department of Social"
Services (Hill case).
31. Assistant Attorney General Richard L. Griffin (Griffin) represented the
N. C. Department of Human Resources and the Henderson County Department of Social
Services.
32. On April 24, 1995, Griffin gave defendant written notice of his intention
to take the deposition of a medical doctor on May 16, 1995.
33. Defendant did not tell Hill about the scheduled deposition of the medical
doctor.

/

34. Neither defendant nor Hill appeared for the deposition.
{

35. Defendant and Griffm were ordered by the Industrial Commission to
prepare a pre-trial agreement in the Hill case.
36. Defendant did not participate in the preparation of the pte-trial
agreement.

I

37. On or about May 23, 1996, Griffm filed a motion for summary judgment
in the Hill case. Griffin served defendant with the mo~!on fot summary judgment.
38. Defendant did not tell Hill about the motion for summary judgment or
the scheduled hearing on the motion.
39. Neither defendant nor Hill appeared at the sUIIUIiary judgment motion
hearing.
40. The Industrial Commission allowed the State's motion for summary
judgment.
41. Defendant did not tell Hill that the State's motion fot summary judgment
was allowed by the Industrial Commission.
42. Defendant testified that he did not have an alcohol or drug problem.
, 43. Defendant testified that he believes he has suffered from depression since
the summer of 1993. However, he has never been diagnosed as suffering from any
mental illness.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
./
followin.g:

/

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter.
2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for,discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By failing to preserve funds received in a fiduciary capacity separate and
apart from his funds in a trust account, defendant violated Rule 10.2(a) and (c).

I

b. By failiIlg to disburs~ the funds he received in a fiduciary capacity for the
benefit of Brown as directed by Brown, defendant violated Rule lO.2(e).
c. By failing to disburse promptly the money due to the clinic on Brown's
behalf, defendant violated Rule 6(b)(3).
d. By failing to withdraw promptly his attorney's fees from his trust a~count
when he had e~ed the fees, defendant has commingled his money with client money
and failed to mflintain client funds separate from his funds, in violation of Rule lO.l(a)
and (c).

I

e. By failing to maintain adequate minimum records of fun,ds he received and
disbursed on behalf of clients, defendant violated Rule lO.2(b} and (c).
f. By failing to reconcile the trust account balances of funds belonging to all
clients at least quarterly, defendant violated Rule 'I O.2(d).
g. By not filing titnely federal and state income. tax returns and by not paying
federal and state income taxes, defendant has committed a criminal act th&t reflects
adversely on the lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects
in violation of Rule 1.2(b); engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud~ <iecelt, or
misrepre~entation in violation of Rule 1.2(c).
h. By failing to communicate adequately with Hill about 'his case, defendant
failed to cODlPlunicate with a client in violation of Rule 6(b)(1).
i. By failing to represent Hill diligently and promptly in his case, defendant
neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 6(b)(3), failed to seek the lawful objectives
of a client in violation of Rule 7.l(a)(l), failed to carry out a contract of employment
entered into with a client for professional services in violation of Rule 7. 1(a)(2),. ~d
prejudiced or damaged a client during the course of the professional relationship in
violation of Rule 7.l(a)(3).
I

I

.'

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evi<ience and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes the additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a. prior discipline - a reprimand issued by the Grievance Committee in
1993;
b. dishonest or .selfish motive;
c., pattern of misconduct;
d. multiple offenses;
e. subs~tia1 experience in the practice of law; and

:.
./'

00'127,'

'

f. two letter~ of wanrlng issued by the Grievance CoJ.llIfiittee in 1995 and
1997.
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.. full disclosure to the hearing committee; and
b. personal or emotional probiems.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

I

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of
~e parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant is hereby disbarred from the pmctice of law beginning 30 days
from service of this order upon the defendant.
2. The defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
the defendant.
3; The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary.

4; the defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code

~hapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
uSigned b;:::p:th the consent of the other hearing committee members, this

+ day of

th<1

1997.
/

I

Jose
Hearing Committee Chair

I

