( loS 20
BEFORE THE

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA
STATE
BAWI:P
-.
'.1' .
~

96DHC 16

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF

v.
JOHN L. HASH, ATTORNEY
DEFENDANT

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

THIS MATIER was heard on July 9 - 11, 1997 before a hearing committee
composed of Richard L. Doughton, Chair; Frailklin E. Martin and Anthony Foriest. The
Defendant, John L. Hash, was represented by David Pishko. The N.C. State Bar was
represented by A. Root Edmonson and Carolin Bakewell. Based upon the pleadings and
the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
.'
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statute~ of North Carolina, ~d the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunde!~ .
<

2. The Defendant, John L. Hash (hereafter, Hash) was admittedtQ the North
Carolina State Bar on Sept. 8, 1989 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.
3. Joseph E. Downs (hereafter, Downs), who was named in the original
Complaint herejn, died in April 1997, prior to the date of the hearing herein.

I
"'00129
.
,

4. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, except as otherwise
specified, Hash was actively engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina
and maintained law offices in Stokes County, North Carolina.
5. Between 1968 and 1986, Downs was employed as a lawyer by the Firestone
Tire & Rubber Co., (now known as BridgestonelFirestone, Inc. and hereafter referred to
a~ Firestone) in Akron, Ohio.
6. For a number of yeats prior to and during Downs' employment, Firestone
D;lanufactuted a multi-piece wheel known as an RH5 degree wheel which was used on
o'ne-to-five ton trucks.

I

,
7. Throughout and after Downs' employment at Firestone, a substl:!lltial number
of products liability lawsuits were filed against Firestone which alleged that design
defects in the RH5 degree wheel rim caused the wheel to "explode" during or after
inflation of a tire mounted on the wheel.
8. During his employment at Firestone, Downs had substantial involvement in the
direction and coordination of Firestone'$ defense of multi-piece rim product liability
claims and lawsuits. He served as trial counsel in rim cases, attended many other trials,
apd selected and trained outside counsel and defense witnesses in a number of wheel rim
cases.
9. During his employment at Firestone, Downs also interacted with government
regulatory bodies concerning safety and .regulatory compliange of rim and wheel
products.
1O. During his employment at Firestone, Downs learned secrets and confidences
of Firestone relative to multi-rim piece rim litigation and other matters.
,
11. Multi-piece rim litigation is not a new or developing area of the law. The
allegations and claims of the plaintiffs in the various rim cases against Firestone have nQt /
cfuanged over time. Many of the same expert witnesses, issues, documentary evidence·
and lawyers reappear in rim iitigation across the country.

I

12. Multi-piece rim litigation cases are both expensive and complicated to try.
The liability portion of these cases ordinarily turns upon the testimony of expert
wItnesses and involve sophisticated engineering concepts. Acquiring the expertise to
p~osecute a multi-piece wheel rim case is a time consuming and difficult process. Many
0:( the documents regarding previous wheel rim cases were stored in a facility in Kansas
City, to which access was very limited.
.
13. In 1983; officials at Firestone demoted Downs and directed him to obtain
counseling and treatment for alcohol abuse. Downs no longer had any responsibility for
wheel cases.

I

14. Downs did not complete the course of treatment which he began at the Betty
Ford Center and denied that he was an alcoholic. It was apparent to Downs'sup~rvisor,
Dave Thomas, that Downs was unhappy with his job assignments.following his demotion
in 1983 and that he believed he had been mistreated by Firestone.
15. In 1986, Downs left Firestone and accepted a position as counsel to R. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. (hereafter, R. J. Reynolds) in Winston-Salem, N.C.

I

16. Downs served as corporate counsel to R. J. Reynolds until the summer or fall
of 1988, when he was discharged by Reynolds. Thereafter, he left R. J. Reynolds and
engaged in the private practice oflaw in Stokes County, N.C.
17. In approximately August 1986, Hash, who then lived in West Virginia,
undertook to assist Anna Workman, whose husband and son had been seriously injured
in an accident involving a Firestone multi-piece wheel rim. Ms. Workman's husband
later died of the injuries he received in the accident.
18. Hash had neVer handled a wheel rim case before August 1986 and had limited
experience in handling other kinds of product liability cases.
19~ Shortly after undertaking to represent Ms. Workman, Hash moved from West
Virginia to Winston-Sa,lem, North Carolina. He continued to represent Ms. Workman,
although he had not yet filed suit on behalf of her husband and son.
20. In October or November 1987, Hash met Downs and the two quickly became
friends.
21. When the two met, Hash knew of Downs' connection with Firestone and his
involvement with wheel rim litigation. Early in their acquaintance, Hash informed
Downs that he had a cliep.t with a potential wheel rim case against Firestone and
described Mr. Workman's injuries to Downs. Hash and Downs recognized that it would .'
constitute a serious conflict of interest for Downs to become involved in any way in .
wheel rim litigation against Firestone.
.
"

I

22. In July 1988, Hash filed the complaint in Workman Vo General Motors et aI..
in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio (hereafter, Workman). That
action was a multi-piece wheel rim product liability action which named Firestone,
General Motors (hereafter, GM), and others as defendants.
23. Hash and Downs were both admitted to the N.C. State Bar in 1989.
24. From October 1989 until October 1990, Hash sub-let an office from Downs
in a small shopping center in King, N.C. While Hash and Downs shared office space,

......

,/'

I

I

I
...._.

~'

!

they also shared the same fax line and post office box. There were no oth~r attorneys in
the office with Bash and Downs and the only employee was Mary Downs, Downs' wife.
25. After October 1990, Hash rented other office space in rung, N.C.
26. At all times while Workman was pending, Hash concealed his King, N.C.
address from Firestone's attorneys and from the court. To conceal the fact that he shared
an office with Downs~ Bash used a post office box in Winstol1-Salem on all
.correspond~nce with Firestone's lawyers and the court in Workman. Hash was aware
that if Firestone's lawyers learned that he practiced law in the same town with Downs and
had shared office space with him, that they would become suspicious and might move to
disqualify him from the· Workman case.

I

27. While Workman. "vas pending, Hash used his King, N.C. address on
·correspondence and ple~dings in matters other than the Workman case which did not
involve· Firestone.
28. Between approximately October 1987 and October 1991, Downs provided
Hash with information and insights gathered during Downs' career at Fireston~ which
were useful to Hash.in pursuing the Workman case against Firestone. Among other
thiIlgs, Downs:
a. told Hash that Stephen Blate, a former Firestone employee, had
been treated badly by Firestone. This information, which was not
generally known to plaintiffs' attorneys, added to Hash's resolve to
take Slate's deposition.
b. assessed the capabilities of Frances Prell, one ofFir~stone's
~ttorneys with whom Downs had worked very closely before he left
Firestone.

I

c. discussed the capabilities of Max Nonnamaker and Robert Lee, tWo.'
of Firestone's expert witnesses.
.
d. helped Hash draft an amended complaillt in the Workman case
and other documents.
e. met with Hash and Michael Maddox to prepare Maddox to testify
as an expert witness in Workman. Maddox billed the Workmans
for at least some of his time in this meeting, which took place
~t Downs' home in Stokes County.
f. referred Hash to Ken Willjford, a competent plaintiffs attorney,
from Texas to assist Hash in trying Workman.

.'
.~.I

g. discussed the Workman case with Hash by telephone. These
calls occurred on a number of occasions when Hash was out of
town for conferences or other appearances in the Workman case and
continued even after Hash and Downs no longer shared office space.
29. Downs neither sought nor .obtained Firestone's pennission to provide any
assistance to Hash regarding the Workman case or any other wheel rim litigation against
Firestone. Firestone would not have consented to any involvement by Downs in any
wheel rim litigation against Firestone.
30. For a brief period in early 1990, Hash represented Downs respecting a civil
d,spute in which Downs was involved with an airplane broker named ~li Graubert.

I

31. During 1990, while they were sharing office space, both Hash and Downs
p~icipated in a domestic case filed in Surry County on behalf of Danny Goings.
32. In approximately September 1991, Hash settled the Workmans' claims
against Firestone for $1.2 million. Hash's fee in the case was $469,418.66. Hash paid
$30,000 ofthe fee to David Looney, an Ohio lawyer who had served as local counsel in
the Workman case.
33: In November 1991, within a day or two of receiving his fee, Hash wrote a
check to Downs in the attlount of $234,709.33, which sum represented exactly 50% of
Hash's fee in Workman. The fee paid to Downs by Hash represented payment for the
as.sistance which Downs had provided to Hash during the Workman case.
34. Hash and Downs Were not law partners at any time between 1986 and
November 1991.
35. The clients in Workman were not advised of Downs' participation in the
la~suit or the risks to them of such participation and did not agree to it. The clients in
Workman were not advised of and did not consent to any sharing of the fee in the case.
I

I

36. Hash reported only Y2 ofthe fee in Workman as income on his 1991 income
tax return, thereby treating the payment to· Downs as a straight fee split.
37. After settling the Workman case, Hash undertook to represent the plaintiffs in
three other wheel rim cases known as the Baker, Kelling and Logan cases.
.
38. In 1993, Hash accidentally sent a facsimile transmi~sion bearing his King,
N.C. office address to Fran Prell, a lawyer who was representing Firestone in the Baker
cm,e. The 1994 facsimile transmission constituted the first notice which any Firestone
laWyer had received that Hash was practicing law in King, N.C. and not in WinsonSalem.

I
001;1·~
.. .
.
~.,.

'

.

;"

39, Following the discovery of Hash's tnie address and after conducting some
investigation, Prell and other lawyers for Firestone filed motions to disqualify Hash in the
Baker, Kelling and Logan cases.
40, Hearings were ultimately held in the Baker and Kelling cases on the motions
to disqualify. Hash was represented by counsel in both proceedings and was afforded an
opportunity to participate. Following the hearings, the federal judges in Baker and
Kelling found that Hash had engaged in ethical misconduct by obtaining assistance and
inside information from Downs. Hash was disqualified ·from proceeding in the Baker,
Kelling and Logan cases and was forbidden to acc~pt a, fee in any of the three cases.
41. Hash opposed the motions to disqualify him and originally contended that
Firestone had brought the motions in bad faith. He also testified at the Kelling
disqualification hearing on July 26, 1994 that he 'had not tried to conceal his relationship
with Downs. At the disciplinary hearing herein, however, Hash acknowledged that he did
attempt to conceal the office sharing arrangement and his King address from Firestone's
lawyers.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The defendant is properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the person of John L. Hash and the subject matter of this complaint.
2. The defendant's conduct as.set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitute
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

I

(a) By permitting Downs to assist him and provide legal advice in the Workman
case when he knew or should have known that Fireston~ was not aware of and had pot
consented to Downs' involvement in the case, and when he 'knew that Workman was
substantially related to prior wheel rim cases in which Downs had represented Firestone,
Hash knowingly assisted Downs to engage in conduct which constituted a conflict of
interest in violation of Rule S.l(d), which conduct by Hash violated Rule 1.2(a).
(b) By giving half of the fee in Workman to Downs, when the Workman clients
had not agreed to the arrangement in writing, Hash improperly divided a legal fee with a
non-partner, in violation of Rule 2.6(d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and argument of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes the additional

I
.# ..

.

'

,#.'

001,34

FINDINGS OF FACt REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. Dishonest or selfish motive;
b. Submission of false evidence, false statements or other
deceptive practices during the disciplinary process;
c. Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct; and
d. Substantial experience in the practice of law.

I

2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
a. Absence' of a prior disciplinary record.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factor.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors, the arguments of
co;unsel and the evidence, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

l. The defendant, John L. Hash, is hereby disbarred from the practice oflaw,
effective 30 days from service of this order upon the defendant.
2. The defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of
the N,C. State Bar no later than 30 daY$ following service of this order upon th~
defendant.
I

3. The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary no later than 1 year from the date of this order. Said costs shall include the
costs incurred by the N.C. State Bar in obtaining the testimony of its expert witness, Prot: .'
H~len Aristar-Dry and the cost of ensuring the attendance of the State Bar's witnesses at
the disciplinary hearing.
.

I

4. The defendant sha11'comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code
Cb,apter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
I

Signe~~e cha7=~ri~ consent of the other hearing committee members, this the

.

[Ldayof

~"'I

'1997~

~

/t

YA

-

RiCllllfdLI)()Uhton, Chaif'
Disciplinary Hearing COrnnlittee

I
/ .'. e0135

