BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97G0539(1V)

NORTH ;CAROLINA
WAKECOUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
William W. Pettit,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On July 16th and 17th, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar met and considered the grievance filed against you by William Culton, Jr. of Net
Realty Holding Trust.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ()fthe North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considering the information available to it, ·including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable caUse is defined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rul¢s provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee
may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue
various leyels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue 'an admonition, reprimand, or censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline I.l1ore serious than an admonition issued
in cases in; which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this
case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am
certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In approximately June 1996, you agreed to represent Net Realty Holdings Trust in
an action against Lillian Lukic d/b/a Churchill's. You agreed to file and prosecute a
summary ejectment action on behalf of Net Realty against Mis!; Lukic. The
Committee found that, after agreeing to pursue the litigation, you repeatedly failed to

I
.00143
r-..

..

respond to l~tters and telephone calls requesting information about the status of
summary ejectIllent action against Miss Lukic. The Committee also found that you
twice continued the trial of the summary ejectment action without consulting with,
notifying or obtaining the consent of Net Realty. Finally, the Committee found that
youeith~r failed to appear at the trial of the matter on September 3, 1996 or failed to
take reasonable steps to avoid foreseeable prejudice to the client after withdrawing
from representation. Your client's summary ejectment action was dismissed with
prej-qdice as a res\llt of your inaction.

I

Your above described conduct violated Rules 6(b)(1), (2) & (3) and 2.8(a)(3) of
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
In deciding to issue you a reprimand, the Committee considered as mitigating
circumstances: (1) your lack of any prior disciplinary record; and (2) the circumstances
surrounding the illness of :;in associate in your office who was handling the matter. As
aggravating circumstances, the Committee considered: (1) the multiple rule violations;
(2) the prejudice to your client caused by your actions; and (3) what the Committee
considered to be misleading answers in your response, in potential violation of Rule
1.1(a) and 1.2( c)
.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance, CC!>mmittee trusts that you will heed, thi~
reprimand, that it will be remembered by YOQ, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the N()rth
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs
to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the cost~ of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you, Failure to pay these costs
within 15 days of receipt of this reprimand constitutes contempt of the Council alld"
thus is grounds for independe~t discipline by the Committee pursuant to N.C. Gen.
Stat~ § 84-28(b)(3).
Done and ordered, this

5'

day o~J)td

L?
U;a;
/l "g~~~
, ,.~---...:.------..;...~=
...........~
..

. 1997.

Ann Reed
eo'
Chairman, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I
.'

00144

