·

,

i

!L\Y3l

L_______ .___ ~_

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF
v ..

SCOTTL.WILKINSON,ATTORNEY
DEFENDANT

)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)

I

THIS MATTER was heard on the 20th day of June, 1997 before a hearing
c.otnmittee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofHetrry C. Babb, Jr.,
Chair; James C. Fox, and James Lee Burney. The defendant, Scott Wilkinson, Was
represented by Eileen C. Moore. The plaintiff was represented by Carolin Bakewell.
Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the heari~g
cortunittee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. The Defendant, Scott Wilkinson, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar
il), 1987, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional
Conduct ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Wilkinson was actively
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and was employed by the
U.S. government as art assistant U.S. attorney in the City of Raleigh, Wake County,
North Carolina.

I
!

4. Prior to Dec. 15, 1993, the United States government instituted an
investigation of alleged criminal misconduct by Mark C. Kirby, then an attorneY in
practice in Raleigh, N.C..
. .
5. Prior to Dec. 15, 1993, pursuant to his duties as an assistant United States
attorney, Wilkin$on was assigned to handle the investigation and prosecution ofKirby .

I

6. On the morning of Dec. 15, 1993, Wilkinson appeared before a federal grand
jury and presented a sixteen count indictment against Kirby which included charges of

racketeering, mail fraud, bank fraud and impeding the functions of the Resolution Trust
Corporation? a federal agency.

7. Before 1 p.m. on Dec. 15, 1993, Wilkinson had a telephone conversation with
Sarah Avery, a reporter for the Raleigh News & Observer newspaper. Wilkinson told '
Avery a number of details about the Kirby indictment, including the number of couilts
and some of the substantive violations set out in the indictment.
8. After speaking with Wilkinson, Avery telephoned Thomas C. Manning, one of
Kirby's attorneys, and told Manning about the Kirby indictment. Manning indicated that
he was unaware of the indictment and could not comment on it.
9. At 1 p.m. on Dec. 15, 1993, after speaking with Avery, Manning telephoned
Wilkinson and recounted his conversation with Avery. Manning asked Wilkinson
whether an indictment had in fact been returned against Kirby.
10. Wilkinson knew that the Kirby indictment had been returned at the time of
the telephone call from Manning.

I

11. During the telephone conversation with Manning, Wilkinson falsely told
Manning that Kirby had not been indicted and stated that he did not know what the
reporter was talking about.
12. Mannin~ then asked Wilkip.son if Wilkinson planned to seek an indictment
against Kirby that week or before Christmas or before New Year's 1994. To each of
these questions, Wilkinson 'said no.
13. On Dec. 16, 1993, Wilkinson telephoned Manning and apologized to
Manning for lying to Manning in their telephone conversation of Dec. 15, 1993.
14. On Dec. 16, 1993, Manning drafted a letter to Douglas M.cCullough, then the
acting United States Attorney and Wilkinson's supervisor, memorializing ~d describing
the Dec. 15, 1993 conversation between Manning and Wilkinson.

I
/

15. Manning gave the Dec. 16, 1993 letter to Joseph B. Cheshire V, then his law
partner, to review and edit. Cheshire edited the letter to remove some of the harsher
language. The edited version of the letter to McCullo~gh is dated Dec. 23, 1993.
16. On Oct. 18, 1995, the N.C. State Bar notified Wilkinson that a grievance file
had been established, in which it was alleged that Wilkinson had made false statements to
Manning in the Dec. 15, 1993 telephone conversation.
17. On Nov. 2, 1995, Wilkinson responded in writing to the State Bar's letter of
notice.
18. In his Nov. 2, 1996 response to the Grievance Committee, Wilkinson
indicated that the Kirby indictment had not been returned and was not public at the time
of his telephone conversation with Tommy Manning on Dec. 15, 1993.

I

19. Wilkinson's response to the N.C. State Bar Grievance Committee contained
materially false statements and was misleading in that Wilkinson knew that the Kirby
itldictment was public at the time of the phone conversation between Wilkinson and
Manning in which Wilkinson stated that Kirby had not been indicted and that Wilkinson
did not know what the reporter was talking about.
20. In his Nov. 2, 1995 respop.se to the N.C. State Bar Grievance Committee,
Wilkip.son further stated that he did not "at any time during [the Dec. 15, 1993
conversation with Manning] ... or at any other time, state or represent to Manning that
'no indictment was imminent' or that Kirby "would not be indicted until well into 1994"
Of words to that effect, nor did I "specifically assure Manning ... that no indictment
would be issued until 1994."
21. Wilkinson's response to the N.C. State Bar Grievance Committee contained
materially false statements,and was misleading, in that Wilkinson had in fact told
Manning that Kirby would not be indicted, in effect, until after the 1993 Christmas
holidays.

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the cOl1l1l)ittee has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, Scott L. Wilkinson, and of the subject matter.

,I

"

....

. "0'- 0.1'
If ~
_.'
/I,
~

· ..

2. The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
~ounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3) as follows:

I

a. By telling Manning that Kirby had not been indicted and that he did not know
what the newspaper reporter was talking about at a time when he knew that the
indictment was public and when he had already disclosed the indictment to the news
media, Wilkinson engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(c) and knowingly made a false statement of
fact in violation of Rule 7.2(a)(4).
b. By falsely stating to Thomas C. Manning that the government would not seek
an indictment against Mark C. Kirby during the week of Dec. 15, 1993, or before
Christmas 1993 or before 1994, at a time when Wilkinson had .already presented the
Kirby indictment to the Grand Jury, Wilkinson engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit ormisrepresentl;ltion, in violation of Rule 1.2(c) and knowingly made a
fal~e statement of fact in violation QfRule 7.2(a)(4).
c. By filing a response with the State Bar Grievance Cortunittee in which he
indicated that the Kirby indictment was not public at the time when Wilkinson told
Manning that Kirby had not been indicted, Wilkinson knowingly made a false statement
ofmateriaI fact to a disciplinary authority jn violation of Rule 1.1(a).
d. By filing a response with the State Bar Grievance' Committee in which he
denied that he had told Manning that Kirby would not be indicted until 1994, Wilkinson
knowingly made a false statement of material fact to a disciplinary authority in violation
of Rule l.1(a).

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concemingthe appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby l11akes the additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The Defendant's conduct is aggrl;lvated by the following factors:
a. Submission·offalse statements during the disciplinary process.
b. Refusal to acknowledge wrongfulness of miscondQct.
c. Subst~tial experience in the practice of law.
2. The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

I

.<

001·48'

-a. Good reputation for honesty and truthfulness.
b. No prior discipline.
,
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of
the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1. The Defendant is hereby reprimanded.

I

2. The Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members this

th~ J::J... day of-fL.~~~ 1997.

I

I

WAKE COUNT
NORTH CAROL

I

TBE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF

v.
SCOTT L. WILKINSON, ATTORNEY
DEFENDANT

BEFORE THE
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA StATE BAR
96DHC9

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)
)
)
)

On June' 20, 1997, following a hearing, a hearing committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission voted to impose a Reprimand against you in this matter.
A Reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition
issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Cond~ct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profes~ion, or a member of the public, but the misconduct
does not require a Censure.
The hearing committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this
case and issues this Reprimand do you. As chairman of the hearing committee assigned
to this matter, it is my duty to issue this Reprimand to you and I trust that you will fully
understand the spirit in which this duty is performed.

I

Prior to Dec. 15, 1993, you were the Assistant U.S. Attorney a~signed to handle
the investigation of certain alleged criminal violations by Mark C. Kirby. Kirby was
represented by Joseph B. Cheshire V and his then-law partner, Thomas C.Manning. By
the fall of 1993, it was apparent to the defense attorneys that the government intended to
seek Mr. Kirby's indictment. The timing of the expected indictment was a matter of
considerable concern to Mr. Kirby and his attorneys, as Mr. Kirby had small children
with whom he wished to spend the 1993 Christmas holidays.
On the morning of Dec. 15, 1993, you appeared before a federal grand jury and
presented a lengthy, 16-count indictment respecting Mr. Kirby. The indictment recited a
number of alleged offenses, including RICO violations, bank frauc;l and obstructing the
Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), a federal agency.

I

.....

00,150

Prior to 1 p.m. on Dec. 15, 1993, you had a telephone conversation with Sara
Avery, a reporter for the News & Observer Newspaper, who had been covering the Kirby
investigation for some time. In that conversation, you told Ms. Avery about the Kirby
indictment, including information about the substantive allegations and the number of
counts in the indictment. After her conversation with you, Ms. Avery telephoned the law
finn of Cheshire, Parker & Manning. She spoke with Mr. Manning and asked him for a
comment about the Klrby indictment. Mr. Manning told Ms. Avery that he had no
information and declined to comment. At 1 p.m. on Dec. 15, 1993, Mr. Manning
telephoned you and indicated that a reporter had told him that Mr. Kirby had been
ill-dicted. Although you Were aware that the Kirby indictment had been returned by this
time, you nevertheless told Mr. Manning that Mr. Kirb) ~_. ~!1ot been indicted and that
you did not know what the reporter was talking about. . In i'!~sponse to further questions
from Mr. Mantling, you told hini that Kirby would not be indicted until after the 1993
Christmas holidays, or words to that effect.

I

After this conversation, you evidently thought better of your conduct and
c0nsuhed Douglas McCullough, who was then the acting u.S. Attorney. You told
McCullough that you had misled Mr. Manning about the timing of the Kirby indictment
and he advised you to apologize to Mr. Manning. The following day, Dec. 16, 1993, you
djd apologize to Mr. Manning for lying to him.
In October 1995, you were served with a letter of notice respecting these matters
by the Grievance Committee of the N.C. State Bar. In your response, dated Nov. 2, 1995,
you denied thaf you had lied to Mr. Manning about the timing of the Kirby indictment.
You took the position that, at the time of the telephone conversation, the indictment had
been presented to the grand jury but had not been returned before a magistrate judge and
therefore, technically speaking, there was no indictment. You denied having told Mr.
Manning that Kirby would not be indicted until after the Christmas 1993 holidays or until
after New Year's 1994 or words to that effect.
.
In fact, the evidence presented in this case demonstrates that the Kirby indictment
was public at the time of your conversation with Mr. Manning on Dec. 15, 1993.
Consequently, your statement that Mr. Kirby had not been indicted and that you did not
know what the reporter was talking about was false and misleading. Your conduct in
this regard involved dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in VIolation of Rule
1.2(c) and a knowing false statement of fact in violation of Rule 7.2(a)(4), You violated
these same rules by telling Mr. Manning that Mr. Kirby would not be indicted before
Christmas or until New Year's 1994 or words to that effect. Finally, your response to the
Grievance Comrtlittee regarding your conversation with Mr. Manning was untruthful and
therefore violated Rule 1.1.
Of all the trOUbling aspects of this case, the one most disquieting to the hearing
committee was your refusal to acknowledge your own misconduct. The committee is
wiJling to believe that your initial false statement to Mr. Maiming, while certainly

OD:151'

I

improper, was made in the heat of the moment. Had you simply admitted this
misconduct when the Grievance Committee inquired about it, perhaps nothing further
would have cqme of the matter. As it was, you submitted false evidence to the Grievance
Committee and compounded a relatively minor violation of the Rules by a much greater
one. By so doing, you damaged both the legal profession ~d your own previously good
reputation for honesty. Indeed, but for your l~ck of prior discipline and the fact that the
Grievance Committee had recommended imposition of admonition, the hearing
committee would have imposed much mpre ~ubstantial discipline in this case.

I

The h~aring committee reminds you that attorneys cannpt continue to remain self
regulating if members of the Bar do not respond forthrightly and honestly about matters
before the Grievance Committee. The committee also reminds) '~lril of the cpmment to
Rule 7.3, which specifies that a prosecutor is not simply an advocate for a party, but has
a higher duty to seek justice. 'Concpmit~t with the enormous power wielded by an
attorney for the government is the obligation to avoid being influenced by personal
disiike for an opponent or falling into a win-at-any-cost Inentality.
The hearing committee trusts that you will take this Reprimand to heart, -benefit
from it and never again allow yourself to stray from strict adherence to the R~les of
Professional Conduct.
Signed by the chair with the consent of all committee members.

This the

~-tb
day of

2f1

I

I

.....

i

~~

,1997.

