BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G0711 (IV)R

/'

.'

./

/;

--------------------------------------------------------------------IN THE' MATTER OF
EDMOND R. JOHNSON,
ATTOR;NEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On" July 17, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
con~jdef,ed the grievance filed against you by Jerry Thompson. .

...

/

"."

-'"

Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance' Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending
upon Q1e misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating
factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, reprimand, or censure to the
.respond~nt attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline mOre serious than an admonition issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a
member :of the public~ but the misconduct does not require a cenSure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues thjs reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance-Committee of the North Carolina
State Bat, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully
the spirit in which this duty is performed.
JeITy Thompson discharged you as his attorney in his worker's compensation case in January
1996. Mr. Thompson indicated that he asked you to file a motion to withdraw with the North
Carolina Industrial Commission.

I
--. '00153

In your response to Mr. Thompson's grievance, you stated that you instructed a member of
your staff to send a letter of release to Mr. Thompson, as well as a motion to withdraw to the
Industrial Commission. You further stated that your instructions were not carried out by your
staff. For approximately six months, various parties tried to get you to file the motion to
withdraw with the Industrial Commission. You were even contacted by a tnember ofthe
Industrial Commission's staff and a member ofllie State Bar's staff about this matter. The
Industrial Commission fInally received your motion to withdraw in June 1996.

I

Your failure to fIle timely the motion to withdraw with the Industrial Commission violates
Rule 6(b)(3) of the Rules ofProfessional Conduct. That rule requires a lawyer to attend diligently
to his client's legal matters. Also, yout failure to withdraw formally from representation in the
worker's compensation case is in violation of Rule 2.8(b)(4) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
The Grievance Comtnittee took into consideration that your staff may have been less than diligent .
in carrying out your instructions about sending the motion to withdraw to the Ind1.Jstrial
Commission. Nevertheless, you are responsible for your staffs actions. Your failure to
withdraw promptly from Mr. Thompson's case delayed the Industrial Commission's approval ofa
settlernent of his claim.
The Grievance Co~ittee was also conce:rned about you placing a lien on Mr. Thompson's
recovery from the Industrial Commission. The Grievance Committee directs your attention to the
case of Mack v. Moore, 107 N.C. App. 87 (1992).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professionill
misconduct. The Grievance COl11l11ittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be benefIcial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
U

Done and ordered, this

.R9 t1rday of

¥.
•

•

•

1997.

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

,.

./

•

•

•

