I 55L\q
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96GO 121 (II)R

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN tHE MATTER OF
LINPA M. PITTS,
ATtORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

1

On October 16, 1996, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Marc Bagwell.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
calise. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are nQt required
and tb.e Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actu~ or potential in!~ry caused: and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may lssue an admomtlon, a repnmand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I'

, A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
whic~ an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional-Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misc()nduct does not require a censure.
, The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that it censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issl:le this reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully the'spirit in
which this duty is performed.
Marc A. Bagwell was injured when an elevator in the Commerce Building fell from the third
floor to the basement. Bagwell retained you to represent him in claims arising out of the elevator
accident. You filed a workers' compensation claim on Bagwell's behalf which you concluded. You

1
,00155

al~o filed a civil action against the elevator company and the managers of the Commerce Building.
Bagwell's civil action was ultimately discontinued for your failure to renew summonses and have them
served on the defendants. The statute of limitations on Bagwell's claim expired. You discovered that
Bagwell's claim had been discontinued in June 1995. You failed to promptly advise Bagwell thl:tt his
claim had expired and that he might have a malpractice claim against you. Your neglect of Bagwell's
civil claim constituted violations of Rules 7.1(a)(I), (2) and (3). Your failuret<;> promptly communicate
to Bagwell tilat hi~ claim had peen dismis~ed constituted a violation ofR'\lles 6(b)(1), (2) I;tlld (3).

I

During the 10th District Bar's Investigation of Bagwell's grievance, you provided an initial
response dated April 20, 1996. Th~t response contained a detailed chronology of all of yoUr activity in
your representation of Bagwell up through a final entry for June-July 1995 at Which time you indicated
you discovered the summonses had ll:tpsed for lack of renewal. After receiving a telephone call from the
investigating member of the 10th District :aar's Grievance Committee concerning whether you had any
communication~ with Bagwell after discovering that the summonses had lapsed, you filed a
supplemental response dated May 15, 1996. In that response, you indicated that you had had a
conversation with Bagwell on or about August 2, 1995 in which you had disclosed that you had failed to
renew the summonses in a timely maqner. In addition, you indicate<;l that the lapsed su.mmonses
problem arose because of the following sequence of events:
June 3, 1994
September 2, 1994
November 15,1994
December 2, 1994
JUne 3,1995

Summons issued and complaint filed
Summons renewed because no service on defendant(s) yet
Instructions to secretary to renew summonses because no .serVice
on defendant(s)
Secretary tells me she renews summonses
Discovered summonses not renewed in December 1994

The last three of the dates in the supplemental response were each important events and were
new events which had not been included in your April 20, 1996 response. Particularly important
because of its exculpatory nature was the'December 2, 1994 entry i~dicating that your secretary had told
you that she had renewed the summonses. That additional fact, were it true, certainly would have been
included in your April 20, 1996 response.
Bagwell also denied having received any communication from you on August 2, 1995. He states
you had not told him about the lapsed swnmonses. He only learned about the lapsed sunimonses after
filinghi's grievance in February 1996. Your May 15, 1996 response indicates that you discovered the
lapsed summonses on June 3, 1995. However, you wrote a letter to Bagwell on June 23, 1995 without
revealing the lapsed ~ummonses problem to him. The fact that you failed to tell Bagwell of the lapsed
summonses in your June 23, 1996 letter and the fact that he filed his grievance todetertnine the status' of
his claim strains the credibility of your response that you told Marc Bagwell about the potential for your
malpractice prior to his grievance being filed. Your false statements in response to Marc Bagwell's
grievance constitute a violation of Rule 1. 1(a).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it wi1l be

I
...

...

\

rem.embered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
Sta~e Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney jssued a
rep~imand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed

to you.

.

Done and ordered, this

3rz1- day of~ta.~~~::.-> 1997.

I

Chair, GrievaIice Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

l

001.57
..... - ..

Ih..

