BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITIEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA srATE BAR
96Gid63(II)R

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

(

IN THE MATIER OF

1

THOMAS H~ CLEMENTS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

.

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

Ort April 3, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered .the grievance filed against you by KDC.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolin~
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After consjdering th¢
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable c~use. Probable cause is defined in the rules a$ "reasonable cause to .
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action." .

'I_

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determirle that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Oisciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending ~pon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggr.avatin
, g or mitigatingfactors. The Grievance Committee may issue art admonition, a
repl'1mand , or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline-more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated Qne or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the aclministration ·of
justice, the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does ·not requjre
suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, itis now my duty to issl,le this censure. I
am certCJ.m that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In February 1996, you undertook to represent KDC respecting an uncorttested diy,or~e.
KDC paid you $160. Shortly after this, however, KDC told you to "hold off" on filing the
complaint which you had drafted. In late May 1996, KDC directed you to proceed with the
divorce. You filed the complaint and had the case was calendared for trial in late January

1

1997. KDC attempted to call you on numerous occasions during the period of
repres¢ntation, but you failed to return most of these calls or otherwise COmn:1unicate
adequately with yout client. Because of this lack of communication, KDC was not even
aware that you had filed a complaint for him and he ultimately hired other counsel, who
obtain~d a divorce for him in October 1996.
KDC filed a grievance against you concerning this matter, and you Were notified of
the complaint and asked to respond by the 12th Judicial District Grievance Committee on
Sept. 11,1996. You did not respond to the local committee, however, and the State Bar was
forced to s~bpoena you to obtain a response to the complaint.
Your failure to cominunicate adequately with KDC violated Rule 6(b)(1) of the Rules
of Prof~ssional Conduct a:.tl.d your failUre to respond to the local committee constituted a
violati6n of Rule 1.1(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Your rrrlsconduct in this matter
was aggravated by the fact that you have been previously disciplined by the State Bar. In
1994, you were reprimanded for neglecting a matter, failing to communicate and failing to
respond ~o the local grievance committee. In 1995, you Were again reprimanded, this time for
engag41g in a conflict of interest, failing to communicate with a client and failing to respond
to the Bar's requests for information. In light of your prior history of discipline, the
Grievance Committee wishes to stress to you that any future violations of the Rules of
Professional Conduct on your part may well result in much more substantial discipline being
imposed againSt you.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the
Rules df Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this
censure, recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow
yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This
censure should ~erve as a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the
future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to
the enq that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose
condu~t may be relied upon without question.
~n accordance

with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.qO are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

AA·• (. )
I d ~day of .---.:.~~~-..!..,-.
/7.

'

1997.

_-J.

tk&l

Ann Reed, Chair Grievance Committee
The No~th Carolina State Bar

/

.QQ:15S

I

I

