9325
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMiTTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINASTATB BAR
97G0599(1V)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
BOBBY A. LEDFORD,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 17, 1997, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and considered'
the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable caU!~e is.defmed in the rules as "reasonable caus~ to believe that a memb~r of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine.
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various l~vels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, th~ actual or pote]1tial injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issu~ an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and' has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a cenSllfe is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Cirievance Cotnmittee of the North Carolina State Bar;
it is now: my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in.
which this duty is performed.
In 1997, you were convicted of failure to file income tax returp.s for the years 1993 1995. For these offenses, you were sentenced to 30 days in jail, suspended for 18 months and
were fined $3,000. You wer~ also .ordered to perform 150 hours of community service work.

I
. . -.. *'

Of!:16r. ,-

,
>

By f~iling to abide by the state and federal tax laws, you engaged in criminal conduct which
reflects adversely on your honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer, in violation of Rule
1.2(b} of the Rules of Professional Conduct. But for the fact that you had no prior discipline,
were cooperative with the Bar, showed remorse, made efforts to file your returns before you were
cont~cted by the taxing authorities and suffered a substantial criminal penalty for your offenses,
the Grievance Committee would likely have referred this matter for hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Connnission.
you are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remetnbered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will neVer again allow yourself to
depar;t from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you..
Done and ordered, this :2.'jW,dayof .

, 1997.

Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

/

00161·

