BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE,
OFTHE ,
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G0691(IV)R
..

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

CHARLES L., MORGAN,
.ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 17th, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met
and considered the grievance filed against you by Ms. Hellen G. Taylor.
Pursuant to section .0113(~) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action.!1
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee
may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the DisciplinarY
Hearing Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an Admonition, a Reprimand, or a Censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A Reprimand is a written for~ of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued
in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration. of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does not require a Censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this
case and issues this Reprimand to you. As Chair of the Grievance Committee of the
N01;th Carolin~ State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand.and I am certain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You were hired on September 30, 1994, to file the petition for remission or
mitigation of the forfeitl,lre of a 1988 Nissan Pathfinder seized by the Charlotte
Mecklenburg Police Department. From the end of 1994 through the end of 1995 your
client tried on numerous occasions to contact you concerning the status of the matter.
You did not return her phone calls and letters. In January 1996, your client was

/

,
i

I

:

/~.

,.

)

,

forced to hire another attorney to assist her with this matter. After several attempts
the other attorney was able to reach you about the matter and you promised to provide
a written statement as to the work that you had performed on this matter; however,
as of June 11, 1996, you had not produced anything. In fact, while you drafted a
petitio~ for expedited review and finalized it in October of 1994, you never filed the
petitio~. The declaration of forfeiture Was entered on December 27,1994. Your actions
violated Rule 6(b)(1) and Rule 6(b)(3) of the Rules of Professional Conduct, which
require you to keep the client reasonably informed about the status of a matter and
promptly comply with requests for information and to act with reasonable diligence
and prpmptness in representing the client. Your conduct was aggravated in this
matter by your subsequent failure to communicate with the client and take any
corrective action.

I

You!are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
Repril'ij.and, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standa~ds of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981, by the Council of the North
CaroliIi.a State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs
to any attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby t ed to you.
Done and ordered, this

r21~day ofu~~ld'~_:

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
/

,
I

!

00163

