I 24

'\ <09 10 11/"
.
..
~
t>~ 1( ~
~f<J

WAKE COUNTY

lo l _

BEFORE THE
~ ~/ ».9,9 ~ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
r;; <>,,<~~,,? ~F THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
NORTH CAROLlN~ ~
.. TO ()#'~
97 DHC 12

~

~

~(?92521]2IT..tl,t~

I

)
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE.BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)

v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)

BOYD L. LAMBERT, JR, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)

This matter was heard on the 13th through the 15th day of August, '1997, before a
hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Henry C.
Babb, Jr., Chair; James R. Fox and Robert B. Frantz. The defendant, Boyd L. Lambert,
was represented by Wade M. Smith and Douglas E. Kingsbery. The plaintiff was
represented by Douglas J. Brocker. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence
introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.
2. The defendant, Boyd L. Lambert, Jr. (hereinafter "Lambert"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar in 1984 and was at aU·times relevant hereto licensed to .
practice. law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regl,Jlations and Rules of
Prof(9ssional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar.
3. During all times relevant hereto· Lambert was actively engaged in the practice'
of law in Durham, North Carolina, and maintained a law office in the City of Durham,
Durham County, North Carolina.
4. Lambert was properly served with process and the hearing was held with due
notice to all parties.

1

I
,,-./
.J

. -' . .... ),.,

OQ178

5. Anthony Samuel ("Samuel") was charged with second degree murder in 1992
in qurham County ("murder charge").
6. Samuel was represented by the Durham County Public Defender's Office on
the :murder charge. Assistant Public Defender Elaine Gordon ("Gordon") assumed
resplonsibility for Samuel's murder charge in the Public Defender's Office in February

199,3.
7. In 1994, Samuel was arrested for the possession of a firea'rm by a convicted
felon ("gun charge"). For a $1,500 retainer, Lambert agreed to represent Samuel on the
gun: charge and other related charges.
8. In January 1995, both cases against Samuel were still pending and were
being handled by Durham County Assistant District Attorney David Saacks ('ISaacks").

1-

9. Both Lambert and Gordon understood from communications with Saacks,
thatSaacks would not proceed with the gun charge untii the murder charge Was
resdlved.
I

10. During plea negotiations on the murder charge, Saacks disclosed to Gordon
that :the State was having difficulty locating the necessary witnesses for the murder
charge and confirmed that the murder charge might be dismissed.

11. In the course of dealing with Lambert on Samuel's gun charge, Saacks
subsequently communicated to Lambert on several occasions in May 1995 that the
State was having witness problems in the murder case. Saacks also communicated to
Lambert in these conversations that he had set a thirty day deadline for the widow of
the rnurd~r victim to find additional witnesses or the murder charge would be qismissed.
Gordon later called Lamb~rt and told ·him that the murder charge was likely going to be
dismissed, that she would be on vacation the week of June 5 - 9, 1995 - the week the
gun charge was set for trial -- and that she had not told Samuel about the impending
dismjssal of the murder charge. This conversation occurred sometime prior to June 5,
1995.
12. On or about June 5, 1995, Lambert met with Samuel.

1

,13. During that meeting, with knowledge that Gordon w~s out of town on
vacation that week and that the murder charge was going to be dismissed, Lambert told
Samt!Jel that if Samuel paid him $10,000 that week he could guarantee that he could get
the murder charged dismissed. Lambert emphasized to Samuel that he could only do it
.
that week.

114. In this and subsequent conversations, Lambert implied that he could get the
murder charge dismissed that week because he had influence with the District
Attorney's Office.
15. When Samuel told Lambert that he did not have $10,000, Lambert suggested
that Samuel pay him $5,000 at the time and $5,000 later.

2

I
.
. '

...

• ~ l, .....

.

./

00:179

-'

16. Samuel obtained several personal loans, giving his automobile as collateral,
and sold various personal items to raise the $5,000.
.
.
17. On June 8, 1995, Samuel met Lambert in the Durham County courthouse to
enter a guilty plea in the gun case. Samuel gave Lambert the $5,000 in cash" with the
clear understanding that it was for the dismissal of the murder charge and not
representation on the gun charge.
18. Samuel previously had paid Lambett the entire agreed upon fee of $1,500 for
representing him on the gun charge before Samuel gave Lambert the additional $5,000.

I

19. After Samuel entered a guilty plea on the gun charge, Saacks dismi$sed the
murder charge.
20. Lambert gave Samuel a copy of the order dismissing the murder charge on
June 8, 1995, and at that time ciaimed credit for obtaining the dismissal.
21. Lambert did not disclose to Samuel Lambert's knowledge that the murder
charge was going to be dismissed or his conversations with Gordon and Saacks'about
the impending dismissal, at any time prior to accepting the $5,000 payment from
Samuel or prior to the dismissal of the murder charge.
22. Prior to JUne 8', 1995, Samuel did not know that the State had communicated
to Gordon and lambert that it was having witness problems and that the murder charge
likely would be dismissed.
23. Lambert never had a written fee agreement with Samuel, on the murder
charge, never filed an appearance for Samuel on the murder charge, never
communicated his alleged representation to Saacks, had nothing to do with the
dismissal of the murder charge or the setting of the deadline for dismissal of the charge,
and took no action to represent Samuel on the murder charge" other than obtaining a
copy of the order dismissing the charge.

I

24. Saacks was never aware, at any point during the pendency of Samuel's
murder charge, that Lambert was representing Samuel on the murder charge and neve~
had any communications with Lambert about the murder charge, in which Saack$
knew, thought or understood that Lambert was representing Samuel on the murder
charge.
25. After the dismissal, Gordon had a conversation with Sam4el in December
1995.
26. During this conversation and in res.ponse to Gordon's question, Samuel told
Gordon about Lambert's misrepresentations that he had gotten the murder charge
dismissed. Gordon related to Samuel for the first time her conversations with Saacks
and Lambert in approximately May 19Q5 regarding the impending dismissal of the
murder charge.

3

../
•

I ...

¥

....

~

.......

/

.-

00180

.

27. On December 28,1995, after his conversation with Gordon, Samuel sent a

lett~r to Lambert demanding a r~fund of the $5,000 fee.

28. After receiving' Samuel's letter, Lambert asked Samuel to come into his office
fora meeting on January 4, 1996.
. 29. At the January 4 meeting, Lambert implied to Samuel that he had earhed the
$5,000 fee because he had "pull" with the District Attorney's Office. Lambert also
represented that Gordon had been handling the murder case for over a year and had
not done anything on it and that he had had the case for less than a week and had
gotten it dismissed almost instantly. Lambert still did not disclose his earlier
conversation with Gordon and refused Samuel's request to meet with her to discuss the
matter.

I,

30. During this conversation, Lambert told Samuel that he could file a request
with the fee arbitration board and report any complaints to the State Bar. Lambert also
represented to Samuel in that meeting, however, that if Samuel made such a complaint
to the State Bar that he would waive the attorney-client privilege and that he would be
forc~d to reveal confidential communications that Samuel made to Lambert.during the
cour,se of their attorney-client relationship.

31. Lambert and his law office did not give receipts for cash payments made by
all clients and did not give one to Samuel for the $5,000 paid to Lambert for the murder
charge.

32. At the request of the Chairman of the Panel on August 14, 1997, Lambert
agreed to produce documents demonstrating how the Samuel's payment of $5,000 was
treated in his office books and accounting records.

• 33. Lambert decided on August 15,1997 to consent to disbarment and not
. proceed further with the hearing.
34. Lambert never produced the accounting books and records requested by the
Chairman that he had agreed to produce.

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
follOWing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over Boyd L. Lambert, Jr. and the subject matter.
. 2. Lambert's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(d}(2) as follows:

4

·
.
I
.' ,

' ..... ,.,

.~

OQ~
,

.....

".

81.

a. By knowingly making misrepresentations to Samuel that he could get
.
the murder charge dismissed and that he had influence with the District
Attorney's office, which misrepresentations were made with the intent to deceive
Samuel into giving him money, and which in fact did deceive Samuel and induce
him to give Lambert $5,000, Lambert:

I. committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness, and fitness to practice law in violation of Rule
1.2(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct, by obtaining money .by
false pretenses from his client, Samuel, in violation of North
Carolina General Statutes section 14-100;
II. engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1,2(c) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct;
III. entered into an agreement for and collected .anillegal and
exoessive fee in violation of Rule 2~6(a) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct;
IV. made false and misleading communications about his services in
violation of Rule 2.1(b) of the RUles of Professional Conduct; and
V. implied an ability to influence improperly a government official in
violation of Rule 1.2(e) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
b. By telling Samuel in the January 4, 1996 meeting that he had earned
the $5,000 fee because he had influence with the District Attorney's office and
because Elaine Gordon had had the murder charge for over a year but that he
had gotten it dismissed almost instantly, Lambert:

I

I. made a· false and misleading communication about his service$ in
violation of Rule 2.1(b) of the Rules of Profe$sional Conduct; and
H. stated or implied an ability to influence improperly a government
official in violation of Rule 1.2(e) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
c. By threatening to disclose confidential information he gained about
Samuel during the course .of his professional relationship and by threatening
Samuel that the murder charge might be reinstated if he filed c;i Gomplaint with
the State Bar, for the purpose of dissuading Samuel from reporting the incident
and thereby retaining the $5,000 fee and preserving his law license, Lambert:
I.

committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on 'his honestly,
trustworthiness and fitness to practice law in violation of Rule 1.2(b)
of the Rules of Professional Conduct, by threatening Samuel to

5

I

/

.

':

.. - ..I;., .......

00-1.8£
.J...
.

wrongfully retain something of value and to wrongfully gain an
advantage, in violation of North Carolina General Statutes section
14-118.4;
II. engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 1.2(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct; and
III. knowingly made false statements of law and fact in violation of
Rule 7.2(a)(4) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon th~ foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon
the ~vidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the
hearing committee hereby makes the additional
i

I

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. 4ambert's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(A) dishonest or selfish motive; the committee finds that Lambert's
actions and motives amount to stealing money from a client and as
such are as eggregious and serious as an attorney who takes or steals
money from a client trust account; in fact, the committee finds that
Lambert's actions and motives are more eggregious in that he
committed an active fraud to steal money from his client, Samuel;
(B) a pattern of misconduct;
(C) multiple offenses;
(0) submission of false evidence, false statements or other deceptive
practices during the disciplinary process;
(E) refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct;
(F) vulnerability of victim;
(G) substantial experience in the practice of law; and
(H) indifference to making restitution.
2. Lambert's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
(A) absence of a prior disciplinary record .

. 3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factor.
. Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments
of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant, Boyd L. Lambert, Jr., is hereby disbarred from the practice, of
law be,ginning 30 days from the service of this order upon Lambert;

6

......

,~

I

2. Lambert shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days foflowing service of thi$ order upon
'.
Lambert.
3, Lambert shall pay the costs of this proceeding al? assessed by the Secretary
within 30 days of receiving notice of the costs in this action.
4. Lambert shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. 'Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

I

5. Lambert is required to keep and maintain indefinitely all documents requested
in the attacheq SUbpoena for Cause Audit and is required to tum over those qocuments
and records to the State Bar should he file a petition for reinstatement at any time in the
future, subject to the resolution of any Fifth Amendment objections he m~y raise at that
point to producing those records; provided, however, the condition precedent to·
reinstatement will not be satisfied if defendant does not produce the records because
those records have been lost or destrQyed; provided further that if lambert applies for
reinstatement, to satisfy the condition precedent, he must tum over sufficient
documents and records to permit the State Bar to audit the records set forth in the
attached subpoenas and determine whether he was in compliance with State Bar rules
regarding client and fiduciary funds and with State and Federal tax and other laws.
Sign;!by the chair )N,it~'rhsent of the other hearing committee members,
V.
1997.
this the OJ" .. day of

~~Il'.rn •• ,

Chair
aring Commission

I

7

I
,/
.j

~'~00184

