-

--

gClOG

.

-------~------~--

WAKE
COUNTY
I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner

MARK CLAYTON KIRBY, Attorney,
Respondent

FORE THE GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
9:3G 1265 (II)

)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF RECIPROCAL
DISCIPLINE

I

Pursuant t~ the authority vested in me as Chairperson of the Grievance Committee of the
NQrth Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, SUbchapter B, § .0105'(a)(12) and
.0116(c)(4) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar; and based
upon the record in this matter, the undersigned fmds as follows:

1. On or about January 13, 1995, Mark Clayton Kirby (hereinafter referred to as Kirby)
entered a plea of guilty in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North
Carolina to a violation of 18 U.S.C. §1032(2), a class D felony, for impeding the function of the
Re~olution Trust Corporation.
2. On or about April 3, 1995, United States District Court Judge W. Earl Britt entered a
Ju4gment in a Criminal Case sentencing Kirby to fifteen months imprisonment and ordering him
to remain on supervised release for 36 months following his period of incarceration. As art
interim measure, Britt also ordered Kirby not to practice law in North Carolina during the same
period of time covered by the imprisonment and supervised release. By separate order, Judge
Britt ordered a disciplinary proceeding to be held to determine the final discipline to be imposed
as a result of Kirby's criminal conviction.

I

3. On July 12, 1996, a disciplinary proceeding was held before Judge Britt in the United
Sta~es District Court for the Eastern District of North Catolina with Kirby, his counsel, Thomas
COlli-tland Manning, and counsel for the North Carolina State Bar present and participating.
I

4. On December 12, 1996, Judge Britt ordered that Kirby was to be DISBARRED from
the practice of law in his court effective upon the termination of Kirby's term of supervised
release preViously ordered.

I
,

..i

i

.,

I-

/-

/.00185

5. On or about December 19, 1996, a Notice of Reciprocal Discipline Proceedip.g was
mailed to Kirby by certified mail, return receipt requested notifying him that the North Carolina
State Bar intended to impose reciprocal discipline of Judge Britt's Deceniber 12, 1996 order.
6. On December 26, 1996, Kirby was served with the Notice of Recjprocal Discipline
Proce~ding, as evidenced by his signature on the return receipt.
"
7. Kirby failed to file a response to the Notice of Reciprocal Discipline Proceeding.

I

BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS, the Chai:rperson of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1. The North Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this
proceeding and over the person of Kirby.
2. The procedure for imposition Qfreciprocal discipline pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .OI16(c) of the Discipline "and Disability Rules of the North
CaroliJ,m State Bar has been cOlllplied with.
3. The December" 12, 1996 Order of Judge Britt found that Kirby was convicted of a
class D felony which constifutes conduct in violation of Rules 1.2(b) & (c) of the North Carolina
Rules ofProfessional Conduct which justifies the imposition of reciprocal discipline in this state.
4. The disbarment ordered by Judge Britt should be imposed upon Iqrby's right to
practice law in the State of North Carolina.
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1. Mark Clayton Iqrby is DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in the State QfNorth
Carolina effective at the end of Kirby's period of supervised release imposed by the Appl3,
1995 Judgment in a Criminal Case in the U. S. District Court for the Eastern District of North
Carolina.

I

2. Mark Clayton Kirby is hereby ~ed with the costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the

S~cretary.

This the

I (rA day of February, 1997.

d::::~~
Chairperson, Grievance Committee

----1

.

it

,-

-

4 ;." - ,

,

"

·~-f~~;:-:"',

"

