--

WAKE COUNTY

G. PHILLIP DAVID,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

----'

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G1508(1) & 9700763(1)

NORTH CAROLINA

iN TaE MATTER OF

~ ----------~-~------

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On .tuly 17, 1997, the Grievance Comtnittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonn~tion available to it, including your resp()nse to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a rmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determiJ:le that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending
upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating
factors. The Grievance C()mmittee may issue an adinonition, reprimand, or censure to the
respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused harm or potential harm t() a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a
member:ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

I

Th~ Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and

issues thIs reprimand to you. As .chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina
State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am certain that y()u will understand fully
the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You ran a television advertisement in which the narrator stated that one deserved to have the
best representation possible. The viewers of your televisi()n ad Were told to call you if they were
injured iri an accident.

I
001.9.5

Your television ad violated Rule 2.1 (c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. that rule
prQvide$ that a lawyer should not make a false or misleading communication about the lawyer or
his services. A communication is false or misleading if it co~pares the lawyer's services with
other lawyers' services, unless the comparison can be factually substantiated.
In addition, you sent a direct mail solicitation letter dated October 23, 1995 to Kevin
Chatfield. You included the words, "This is an advertisement for legal services," at the beginning
of the body of your letter to Mr. Chatfield. However, the disclaimer language w~ not in print ~
large or larger than your name on your letterhead.

I

Your direct mail soliCitation letter to Mr. Chatfield did not fully comply with Rule 2A(c) of
the Rules of Professional Conduct because the disclaimer language was not in print as large or
. ,
.
larger than your name on your letterhead.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
mi:;conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
re.rnelllbered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15. 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee. the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed 'to you.
.
. Done and ordered, this :)/

I

I

~ day of ~1997.

.•.
~
'Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar
Ann Reed

