--

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH
CAROLINA
I

f.ol39
---~-

..

-.--~-~------.

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97DHC29

I
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
JOHN B. EVANS, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming before the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Co1l1lhission pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .OI17(d) of
the N.Q. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon the defendant's affidavit pf
Consent to Disbarment executed on the 12th day of November, 1997 and filed with the
updersigned on the 12th day of November, 1997 and the undersigned finds from that
Consent to Disbarment the following:
I

1. The defendant's Consent to Disbarment was freely and voluntarily rendered,
was not the result of coercion or duress and the Defendant was fully aWare of the
implications of submitting this Consent to Disbarment.

I

.,
2. The defendant i,s aware that a hearing has been scheduled respecting the
allegations contained in the State Bar's complaint in this matter and that by submitting
this Consent to Disbarment he is giving up the right to defend himself against those
allegations at that hearing.
3. The defendant has admitted that the material facts contained in the State Bar's
c9mplaint are true.
4. the defendant has admitted that he is guilty of the misconduct alleged in the
State Bar's complaint which is incorporated herein by reference.

I
'. 0019?

,

\

5. The defendant's Consent to Disbarment was submitted because the defendant
knows that he could not suc~essfully def~nd against the allegations in the State Bar's
complaint in this matter.
BASED UPON the for~going findings; the undersigned concludes as follows:

I

(a) The affidavit of the defendant contained in his Consent to Disbarment meets
the requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0117(d) of the
N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
(b) The Consent to Disbarment filed by the defendant herein should be accepted.
(c) The facts as found constitute grounds for disb~ent.
THEREFORE it is hereby ORDERED:
1. The defendant, John B. Evans is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law
in North Carolina.
2. The defendant shall submit his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this
order upon the defendant.
3. The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary no later than 30 days following service of this order upon the·defendant.

I

4. The defendant shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules.

This the

..t.6.y

of November, 1997.

Chair, H~ru.:!ng Committee

. .....

~

00198

