•

!t

•

I

,~1f,\\
~.g-

WAKE COUNTY

,~~

'l34"~
v a

J&

~

i ZLi '39

1( t.9

~. o/,p/,

~

BEFORE THE
ilii ()~~~..9cPDI PLINARYHEARINGCOMMISSION
NORTH CAROL ~
~"<J
c::;
OF THE
~'>'
~ ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

0

C"?c?1?D26t~.~ /

I

0."

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTiFF

v.
RANDY MEARES, ATTORNEY
DEFENDANT

97 DHC 24

)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT
) AND CONCLUSIONS OF LA"V
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)

THIS MATTER was heard on the 14th day of November, 1997 before a he~ring'
committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Co.mmission composed of Henry C. Babb, Jr.,
Chair; R. B. Smith. and Robert Frantz. The defendant, Randy Meares, was repr~sented by
Roger Smith, Hill Allen IV and Paul Ridgeway. Carolin Bakewell represented the
Plaintiff. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the
hearing committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina apd is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the Gen~ral Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant, Randy Meares, (hereafter, Meares) was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1984, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Meares was actively
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in the City of Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina.

I
002'
96:
'Ar!

4. Meares was properly served with process and the hearing herein was held with
due notice to all parties.
5. Between Jan. 13, 1997 and Feb. 28, 1997, Meares wrote to himself eight
:checks totaling $34,200 drawn on Meares' attorney trust accountnUhlber 421040316 at
Central Carolina Bank (hereafter, CCB trust account).
6. Meares deposited the proceeds of the eight trust account checks. into his
operating account number 421046212 at Central Carolina Bank (hereafter CCB operating
account).

I

7. The proceeds of the eight trust account checks represented funds belonging to
Meares' clients.
8. After the proceeds of the eight trust account checks were deposited into his
9perating account, Meares transferred a total of $34,230 from his operating account into
his personal checking account at Branch Banking & Trust Co. (hereafter, BB&T), by
writing to himself 10 checks between Jan. 17, 1997 and March 21, 1997.

.
9. Meares used the client funds which he removed from his trust account and
~hich wer~ ultimately deposited into his personal account at BB&T for the benefit of
4imself and his family members without the knowledg~ or consent of his clients.
10. Between Jan. 21, 1997 and Feb. 28, 1997, Meares issued to himself 17 checks
drawn on his CCB trust account. Each of these checks was earmarked as representing the
fee relating to a particular client's real estate closing. At the time the checks were issued
and negotiated, however, none of the clients referred to on the checks had any funds on
deposit in Meares' CCB trust account. Consequently, the 17 checks were drawn on
funds belonging to other clients of Meares, who did not know of or consent to
disbursement of their funds to Meares.
11. Meares used the proceeds of the so-called "early fee" checks referred 1<;> in
paragraph 10, which totaled more than $7,000, for his own benefit. No client
permanently lost money as a result ofthis activity, however, as Meares. ultimately
d,eposited settlement funds into the trust account on behalf of the 17 clients Whose names
appeared on the "early fee" checks.

I

12. On March 21, 1997, Meares received a fee totaling more than $65,000 which
he had earned in a personal injury caSe. On the same day, Meares deposited
approximately $55,000 of the fee into a new business account which he had opened at
dCB, assigned account number 421056607 (hereafter, CCB business account). Meares
deposited the remaining portion of the fee into his older CCB operating account number
421046212.

2

I

·00227

13. On March 19, 1997, Meares was served with a subpoena for cause audit,
letter of notic~ and substance of grievance by the North Carolina St~te Bar; The
subpoena for cause alldit commanded Meares to produce to the State Bar records relating
. to his attorney trust account, including his monthly bank statements, canceled checks,
deposit slips and deposited items.

I

14. On April 2, 1997~ after he was on notice that the State Bar intended to audit
his tru~t account, Meares withdrew $35,000 from his CCB business account and used the
funds to purchase a $35,000 bank check.
15. That same day, Meares deposited the $35,000 bank check into his CCB trust
account, thereby replaCing the $34,200 in client funds he had previously embezzled from
the ~ccount.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fa,ct, the Hearing Committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing comhlittee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, Randy Meares, and the subject matter,
2. Meares' conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
.

I

(a) By withdrawing $34,200 in client funds from his attorney trust aCC01lllt and
using those-funds for the benefit of himself and/or his family, without the clients'
knowledge and consent, Meares committed criminal acts which reflect adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 1.2(b), engaged in_
conduct h;lVolving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation hi violation of Rule
1.2(c), failed to maintain client funds in trust separate and apart from his own funds in
violation of Rule 10.1 (a) and failed to promptly payor deliver to his clients funds
belonging to the clients in violation of Rule 1O.2(e).
- (b) By writing to himself 17 checks totaling over $7, ood in January and February
1997 which were earnlarked as fees for designated clients when those clients had no
funds in the trust account, with the result that other clients' funds were temporarily
misappropriated for Meares' benefit, without the knowledge or consent of the clients,
Meares committed criminal acts which refle9t adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness,
or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 1.2(b), engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(c), failed to
maintain client funds in trust separate and apart from his own funds in violation of Rule
10.I(a) and failed to promptly payor deliver to his clients funds belonging to the clients
in violation of Rule 10.2(e).
3

I
00228'

. ,

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the heating
committee hereby makes the additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REG~ING DISCIPLINE
1. On April 17, 1997, Meares consented to the entry of an order of preliminary
·I injunction, forbidding him from handling
client funds until further order of the Wake
"
I County Superior Court.
The order foUnd that funds belonging to Meares' clients had
i been mishandled.

I

2. On May 5, 1997, Meares :filed an application for a salesman's license With the
, N.C. Real Estate Cortunission. Question 16 of that application required Meares to
· disclose, inter alia, whether there were "currently any charges pending against [him] in
connection with any real estate or other professiona1license [he] hold[s]."
I

3. Meares failed to disclose to the N.C. Real Estate Commission that he had been
! served with a letter of notice and substance of grievance and subpoena for cause audit by
: the N.C. State Bar on March 19, 1997 respecting a grievance filed by a client named
; Johnny Myatt. Meares also failed to disclose that he had conseD:ted to the entry of an
, order of preliminary injunction in Wake County Superior Court on April 17 which
· forbade him from handling client or fiduciary funds until further order of the court.
4. Meares met with the N.C. State Bar's investigator, Edward White, on March
1 19 and April 1, 1997, to discuss issues related to the grievance filed by Johnny Myatt and
·the audit which the State Bar was conducting of Meares' attorney trust account. During
! the March 19 meeting, Meares falsely told White that he had taken a fee designated for a
',particular client when that client had no funds in the account on only one occasion and
that he had done so as a result of a clerical error by a staff member. Atthe meeting on
~Aprill, 1997, Meares falsely told White that he had taken so-called "early fees" on a
number of occasions, but had only done so in January and February 1997, because he was
! experiencing a cash flow problem as a result of the break up between Meares and his
lormer law partner, Kevin Byrd. In fact, Meares had taken so-called "early fees" ort 12
.other occasions in November and December 1996, substantially before the break up of
the partnership between Byrd and Meares.

I

,

5. When Meares initially produced records in response to the State Bar's March
,19, 1997 subpoena, he intentionally withheld copies of the eight CCB trust account
'checks whereby he had removed the $34,200 in client funds from the trust account.
Those checks were not produced to the N.C. State Bar Until approximately April 19,
1997, after a second subpoena was served upon Meares and after he retained counsel to
represent him.

4

I
00229:

· '"

'.' r

6. Immediately prior to and during January and February 1997, when Meares was
misappropriating client funds, he expended substantial sums of money on, items such as
jewelry, automobiles and clothing for himself.

I

7. Although Meares testified at the hearing that he took client funds as a result of
panic brought on by th~ dissolution of his partnership with Byrd and the prospect of
being unable to meet the expynses of his law practice, Meares failed to present
convincing evid~nce th,at he had incurred any extraordinary business exp~nses at the time
ofthe defalcations. Moreover, Meares presented no evidence that he attempted to find
other, legitimate sources of funds prior to resorting to misappropriating client funds.
8. M~ares presented the testimony offoUr character witnesses during the second
phase of the disciplinary hearing herein. These witnesses, three of whom were attorneys
and one of whom was a b~ilder, all testified that they believed Meares was an honest and
competent attorney and that the misconduct in which he had engaged was out of
character.
9. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a) The defendant was actuated by a dishonest or.selfish motive.
(b) The defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct.
(c) The defendant engaged in multiple violations of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
(d) The defendant engaged in bad faith attempts to obstruct the Stat~ Bar's
investig~tion.

(e) , The defendant had substantial experience in the practice of law at the
time of the misconduct.
10. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

I

(a) The defendant has no prior disciplinary record.
(b) The defendant made full and free disclosure to the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission at the disciplinary hearing herein.
(c) The defendant produced evidence of good character or reputation.
(d) The defendant expressed remorse for his misconduct at the disciplinary
hearing herein.

5

I
0023{}

..

11. The Comrhittee did not consider, nor did it rely upon evidence presented by
the N.C. State Bar regarding the handling or disposition of funds of a client named
Richard Williams.
12. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon th~ foregoing Fin.dings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and upon the
:aggravating and mitigating factors, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I

I

-

1. The defendant is hereby disbarred from the practice of law begimrlng 30 days
,from service of this order upon the defendant.
2. The defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of
the N.C. State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon the
defendant.
3. The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary no later than 30 days following service of this order upon the defendant.
.
4. The defendant shall comply with all proVisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
Signed by the committee chair with the express consent of the other coh11t1ittee
inembers.

This the

f- day of r4~

,199.a-.

I

L

abb, Jr., Chair
is i~linary Hearing Committee

6

I
·00231

