BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

BARRY NAKELL,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On October 23, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Mter considering the
inform~tion available to it, including your response to the lett(i:!r of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable caqse. Probable cause is defined in the rqles as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I
.

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused signi£icant harm or potenticl1 significant harm to a client, .the
administration of justice, the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does
not require suspension of the attorney's license.
the Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On October 1,1996, you concealed a Triangle Dining Guide v,alued at $30 and $6 worth
of deli food in your jacket at a Southern Season in Chapel Hill. You were charged with
shoplifting in violation of N.C.G.S. Section 14-72.1. You admitted your responsibility for the

off~nse and received a prayer for judgment continued. Your shoplifting offense violated Rule
1.2(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
The Grievance Committee was particularly concerned because this was your second
shopliftin.g offehse. However, the Grievan!2e Committee weighed the severity of this second
shoplifting offense against your 27 years of public service and your efforts to prevent future
occurrences of this type of behavior by seeking therapy. The Committee also considered the
fact. that you had been discharged from your employmenf'as a Law School professor as a
peri,alty or sanction already imposed for your conduct. As a result of the weighing of these
factbrs, the Committee determined that, rather than sending you to the Disciplinary Hearing
Corrunission for a trial, this Censure was the appropriate sanction.
I

"

. You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the
Rules of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this
censure, recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure
sho-illd serve as a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future
yout responsibility to the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end
thafyou demean yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may
be relied upon without question.

I

In accordance with the poHcy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Car<!>lina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Co:trimi.ttee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you,
f

"+It of "-Done and ordered, this Zq~ay
~~99.=L.

T. Paul Messick, ., Chair 'Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
_-00233

