Co

BEFORE THE~
..
0
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISS
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97BSR3

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN RE REINSTATEMENT PETITION
OF GERALD E. RUSH

I

~ 33

I

)

)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS
OF LAW AND ORDER

This cause was heard on November 14, 1997 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Franklin E. Martin, chairman; Joseph G.
Maddrey, and Anthony E. Foriest. The petitioner, Gerald E. Rush, was represented by
Eric C. Michaux. The respondent, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by
Fel'n Gunn Simeon. Based upon the pleadmgs herein and the evidence admitted at trial,
the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The petitioner, Gerald E. Rush (hereafter referred to as "petitioner") was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on October 6, 1975.

I

2. Petitioner was suspended from the practice of law for three years by an order
of discipline dated January 24, 1997 in the case of The North Cl:!l"olina State Bar v. Gerald
E. Rush, 94 DHC 1. The orde~ of discipline provided that after six months of active
suspension, petitioner could apply for a stay of the balance of the suspension UPOll filing
a written petition and demonstrating compliance with several conditions. These
conditions included the conditions for reinstatement set forth in Rule .0125(b)(3)ofthe
Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Caroiina State Bar (hereafter referred to as
"State Bar Rules").
3. Petitioner WaS se~ed with the order of discipline ill 94 DHC 1 on January 31-;
1997. The effective date of the order of discipline was March 3, 1997 and the petitioner
had to wind down his practice no later than March 3, 1997.
4. Petitioner filed.a petition for reinstatement on August 6, 1997 in which he
verified that he bad complied with all the conditions of this order of discipline, including
those conditions set forth in Rule .0125(b)(3) ofthe State Bar Rules.
5. The respondent, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter referred to as
"respondent"), is a body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina 'and is the
proper party to respond to the petitioner's petition under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and Rule .0125(b)(4) ofthe'State
Bar Rules.

I

6. Respondent filed a response to the petitioner's reinstatement petition on
A~gust 27, 1997 and the response was served upon the petitioner. Respondent's petition

alleged that petitioner had not complied with all of the conditions for the stay of his
remaining suspension and requested that this matter be referred to the chair of the
Disciplinary Hearing Cortunission so that a hearing could be scheduled to determine if
p~titioner had satisfied the conditions of the order of discipline and all of the provisions
of Rule .0125(b)(3), and whether additional sanctions should be imposed.
7. Henry C. Babb Jr., chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission signed an
order appointing a committee and notice of hearing was given to all parties on or about
September 5, 1997.

I

.
8. The order of discipline in petitioner's disciplinary case required him to submit
his law license and membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no
later than 30 days following service of the order upon the petitioner.
9. Petitioner did not turn in his law license to the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar within 30 days following service of the order of discipline upon him. As of the
date of the hearing in petitioner's reinstatement case, he had not turned in .his law license
to the North Carolina State Bar.
10.- Petitioner's former secretary, Carolyn Nance, testified that she sent
petitioner's membership card to the North Carolina State Bar When she mailed
petitioner's affidavit dated March 12, 1997 to the North Carolina State Bar. Dottie
Miani, deputy clerk of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, testified that she never
re~eived petitioner's law license or membership card.
11. Petitioner testified that he sent letters to his clients with pending matters
notifying them of his suspension from the practice of law. Petitioner did not keep copies
of:the letter he sent to his clients; but kept a couple of' form letters he used to notify them..
12. Petitioner began representing Edgar Ware (hereafter referred to as "Ware") in
a personal injury case on August 21, 1996.

I

13. Petitioner continued to represent Ware in his personal injury case after the
effective date of petitioner's suspension from the practice of law.
14. After March 3, 1997, petitioner telephoned Sandra Slade, the insurance
adjuster handling Ware's case. On several occasions after March 3, 1997, petitioner left
mejssages for Sandra Slade (hereafter referred to as "Slade") on her voice mail and h~
inquired about the status of Ware's personal injury claim.
.

15. On April 11, 1997, petitioner delivered Ware's medical bills and records to
Sl~de at the Allstate Insurance Company in Charlotte, North Carolina.
I

I

16. On April 30, 1997, petitioner left a message on Slade's voice mail at Allstate
and asked about the st;itus of Ware's claim. Petitioner said that his client's family was
eager to settle Ware's case.
17. On May 5, 1997, Slade made an offer to petitioner to settle Ware's claim.
Petitioner told Slade that the offer was too low and petitioner did not acbept the offer.

I

18. Petitioner testified that he had: 'authorization from Attorney Vernon Russell
(hereafter referred to as "Russell"), to whom Ware's case had been referred, to handle
Ware's case during the period of petitioner's suspension.
19. Russell testified that he did not give petitioner al.lthority to deal with, the Ware
case in any way, after petitioner's law license was suspended.
20. On ,May 5, 1997, Slade was informed of the status of petitioner's law license
by talking to a co-worker; Carolyn Lomax. This was the first time that Slade 'had heard
tha,t petitioner's law license was suspended. Slade confirmed that petitioner was
suspended from the practice oflaw by conta~ting the North Carolina State Bar.
21. During the period of petitioner's suspension, petitioner never told Slade that
his law license was suspended.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF FACT, the hearing
committee makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee ha,s
jurisdiction over the person Qfthe petitioner, Geral<;l E. Rush, ~d the subject matter.

I

2. The petitioner has the burden of proof to show that he has complied with all
conditions of the order of discipline, including Rule .OI25(b)(3) in order to be eligible for
reinstatement to the praGtice of law.
3. Rule .0125(b)(3)(A) requires cOlllpliance with Rule .0124 of the State Bar
Rules.
4. The petitioner has failed to comply with the conditions set forth in Rille
.0125(b)(3) in that:
a. Petitioner did not withdraw from the Edgar Ware case before the
effective date of the suspension as required, by Rule .0124(b).
b. Petitioner did not keep and maintain records of the various steps taken
under Rule .0124 so that, upon any subsequent proceeding, proof of compliance with this
section and with the suspension order would be available as required by Rule .OI24(e).

I

00236

c. Petitioner did not comply with all applicable orders of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission in that he did not submit his law license to the Secretary of the
NoFili Carolina State Bar in a timely manner as required by Rule .. OI2S(b)(3)(B).
d. Petitioner failed to abstain from the unauthorized practice. of law
during the period of suspension in that he continued to represent Ware by trying to settle
his.personal injury claim with the insurance adjuster and this conduct violated
RuJe .OI2S(b)(3)(C).
I

e. Petitioner failed to abstain from conduct during the period of
suspension constituting grounds for discipline under N.C.G.S. 84-24(b) in that he
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty in violation of Rule 1.2(c) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct when he did not tell the insurance adjuster that he was suspended
froin the practice of law and could not represent Ware in his personal injury claim after
March 3, 1997.

I

BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF FACT AND
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, the hearing committee enters the following:
ORDER
1. The petitioner's law license is not reinstated. The three-year suspension as
ordered by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission in the order of discipline dated January
24, i 1997 is not stayed and continues to be in full force and effect, subject to the
cortdltions as stated in that order of discipline.
2. After July 1, 1998, petitioner will be eligible to apply for a stay of the balance
of the suspension of his law license upon filing a written petition and demonstrating
compliance with the conditions set out in the order of discipline dated January 24; 1997
andi the provisions of this, order.
3. Petitioner is ordered to pay the costs associated with this proceeding, including
those expenses attributable to the investigation and processing of the petition pursuant to
Rule .OI25(b)(8), the costs of his deposition taken by the respondent and all travel
expenses of the respondent's witnesses.

I

I

00237

