BEFORETItE

WAKE COUNTY

DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OFTItE

NORTH CAROLINA.

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97 DHG19

THE NORm CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

I

vs.

FINDINGS OF FACT AND
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

THOMAS WAYNE WHITE, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was calendared for trial and heard on the 17th day of October, 1997 before a
duly appointed committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission consistipg of Henry C. Babb,
Jr., Chair, Franklin E. Martin, and B. Stephen Huntley. The Plaiptiffwas represented by Clayton
W. Davidson III, Deputy Counsel. The Defendant appeared pro se.
BASED on the evidence presented at the trial of this matter, and the pleadings and pretrial stipulations. of record, the committee makes the following:

FiNDINGS OF FA.CT

I

1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (the "State Bar") is a body duly
organized under 'the laws of the State of North Carolina and is the proper body to bring this
pr0geeding under the authority granted to it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina and the rules apd regulations of the S4lte Bar promulgated pursuant thereto (the "State
Bar Rules and Regulations").
2.
The Defendant,Thomas Wayne White, (the "Defendant") was admitted totl}.e
State Bar in July, 1983 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorn~y at law licensed
to pr~ctice in North Carolina subject t(} the State Bar Rules and Regulations and the Rules of
Professional Conduct of North Carolina.
3.
During allot a part of the relevant period$ referred to herein, Defendant was
engaging in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a laW office in
Bladenboro, North Carolina (the "Law Office").
4.
From 1987 to the present, the Defendant has had employees who worked for him
in his Law Office and to whom he paid wages or salary, including but not limited to Delores
Deaver Kelly, Terri Lynn Martin, Connie Hilburn, Barbara S. Henry, William C. Fields, 10 Dean
Bryan, and Andrea B. White (the "Employees").

I

· 5.
The Defendant computed the amounts payable to the Employees by taking their
gro~s earnings and subtracting out F.I.C.A. tax, federal withholdin~ tax, and state withholding
tax.:
6.
During the period from 1990 through 1996 the Defendant neVer prepared the
reqUired tax returns or other documents, including but not limited to 940 and 941 returns, and
fail~d to pay to the Internal Revenue Service or other appropriate governmental agency all or
some of the amounts withheld from the Employees gross earnings for F.I.C.A. tax and federal
wi~olding tax.
In June 1993, a Notice of Federal Tax Lien Under Internal Revenue Laws was
7.
filed with the Clerk of Superior Court of Bladen County, North Carolina. The Defendant
rece.ived actual notice in 1993 that the lien had been filed. The lien provided that ta.Xes Were
owed for 940 and 941 taxes beginning in 1987.

I

, 8.
After receiving actual notice of the requirement for filing 940 and 941 returns in
1993, the Defendant failed to prepare and file 940 and 941 returns through 1996, and failed to
pay all amounts withheld from employee salaries as F.I.C.A. tax and federal withholding tax.
The. Defendant has received income from the operation of his law practice during
9.
some or all of the years from 1991 to 1996.
, 10.
to 1996.

The Defendant owed personal income tax fot some or all of the years from 1991

11. . Without regard to whether or not the Defendant owed any income tax, the
Defe1J.dartt was required to prepare and file with the Internal Revenue Service personal tax returns
ot other tax returns for the years 1991 to 1996.
12.
The Defendant has not filed with the Internal Revenue Service, personal income
tax rc;:turns or other tax returns, including but not limited to Fotm 1040 for the tax years 1991 to
1996~ and has failed to pay any personal jncome tax for those years.

-

I

13.
The Defendant willfully failed to collect or pay over a tax in violation of26
U.S.C;::. § 7202, and willfully failed to file returns, supply information, or pay tax hi. violation of
26 U;S.C. § 7203.
14. The Defendant's actions as described herein in violation of26 U.S.C. § 7202 and 26
U.S.C. § 7203 reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other
respects.
: 15.
The conduct of the Defendant described herein involves dishonesty, fraud, deceit
or mi~representation.

2

I
00239

16.
of justice.

The conduct of the Defendant described herein' is prejudicial to the administration

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing comrtlittee makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. By willfully failing to collect or pay over a tax in violation of26 U.S.C. § 7202, @d
willfully failing to file returns, supply information, or pay tax in violation of26 U.S.C. § 7203,
the Defendant has committed criminal acts which reflect adversely on the Defendarit's honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as ~ lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 1.2(b) ofthe North
Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. By willfully failing to collect or pay over a tax in violation of26 U.S.C. § 7202, and
willfully failing to file returns, supply information, or pay tax in violation of26 U.S.C. § 7203,
the Defendant has engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit 01' misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 1.2(c) of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
3. By willfully failing to collect or pay over a tax in violation of26 U.S.C. § 7202, and
willfully failing to file return!;!, supply information, or pay tax in violation of26 U.S.C. § 7203,
the Defendant engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation
of Rule 1.2(d) of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
.
Signed by the undersigned chair with the full ,~ consent of all other
members of the hearing committee this 3l day o f J .
.
, 1997.

I

3

BEFORE THE

DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION

WAKE COUNTY

OF THE

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97 DHC 19

NORTH eAROLINA

THE NORTH CARQLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v,s.

THOMAS WAYNE WHITE, Attorney,
Defendant
I

This matter was calendared for trial and heard on the 17th day of October, 1997 before a
duly appointed committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission consisting of Henry C. Babb,
Jr., Chair, Franklin E. Martin,.and B. Stephen Huntley. The Plaintiffwas represented by Clayton
W. Davidson III, Deputy Counsel. The Defendant appeared prO se.
I

Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law entered by the hearing cOIIUIiittee at
the first ,phase, of the he~g and based upon the evidence and arguments presented in the second
phase of the hearing, the hearing committee makes the ,following additional:
I

FINDINGS OF FACT CONCERNING DISCIPLINE
I

1.

The Defendant's conduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a.
b.
c.

d.
e.
2.

I

The Defendant's conduct is mitigated by the, following factors:
a.
b.
c.

B.

A dishonest or selfish motive,
A pattern of misconduct,
Multiple offenses,
Substantial experience in the practice of law,
Indifference to making restitution.

Absence of a prior disciplinary record,
Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings,
Remorse.

The mitigating factors do not outweigh the aggravating factors.

,

~ASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Concerning Discipline, the hearing
committee makes the following:

00241.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, Thomas Wayne White, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for a period of five yefl1'S.
2. The last two years of the suspension may be stayed for the balance of the term of the
suspension upon the following conditions:

I

a.
Prior to the filing of any petition for any stay of suspension or
reinstatement, the Defendant shall meet all tax obligations for which he is currently in default,
including but not limited to the filing of all past due federal and state tax returns, and the
payment to the appropriate taxing authority of all taxes, withholdings, penalties, anel interest due
and owing on all state and federal tax returns. '
,
b.
Both prior to the filing of any petition for any stay of suspension or
reinstatement, and during the period of any stay of suspension, following the date of the hearjng
of this matter, the Defendant shall timely file all tax returns or other tax related filings which he
is required to make by state or federal law, and shall time1y pay all taxes or payments that are due
and owing pmsuant to those filings or by law.
c.
The Defendant shall provide to the North Carolina State Bar sufficient
evidence that he has fulfilled the requirements of subparagraphs a and b above, and shall execute
any authorizations or releases requested by the North Carolina State Bar to enable the Bar to
verify with any appropriate taxing authority that Defendant has fulfilled the provisions of
subparagraphs a and b above. Dming the period of any stay of suspension, the Defendant shall
forward copies of all filings and evidence of all payments required by subparagraph b above to
the North Carolina State Bar simultaneously with the filing of such documents.

I

d'.
Prior to the 'filing of any petition for any stay of suspension or
reinstatement, the Defendant shall pay any and all costs assessed against the Defendant in this
matter.
e.
The Defendant shall comply with the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct, and all provisions of the Rules and Regul~dons of The North Carolina State Bar,
including but not limited to the provisions of27 Admin. Code Chapter 1 Subchapter B § .0124.
Any violation of the Ruies following the date of this order shall be grounds for denial of or
lifting ofthe stay.
f.
The Defendant shall not violate the laws of the State of North Carolina,
the United States, or the various States that make up the United States.
3.
During the p~riod of any stay of the suspension, as continlling conditions of the
stay of the suspension, the Defendant shall comply with all provisions of subparagraphs b, c, e,
'
and f of paragraph 2 above.

2

I

,

,4.
In the eveJ;lt that the Defendant fails to petition for or meet the requirements for
any stay of the suspension, or in the event that any stay of the suspension is lifted, and the
suspension is re-activated, as a condition of reinstatement following the suspension, the
Defendant must meetthe requirements of subparagraphs a, b, c, and d of paragraph 2 above.
This requirement is in addition to? and shall not be deemed to limit the provisions of27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1 Subchapter B § .0125.
The Defendant sh~l pay the costs of this proceeding within thirty days of service
of noti~e of the amount of costs as assessed by the Secretary.
,5.

Signed by th~ undersi~ed ch~ withthe full :J~onsent of all other
day of
1997.
members ofthe heanng conumttee this

Ja

31

.. ,

--

I

I

3

I

