.,

Co55l
NORTH CAROL

I

BEFORE THE
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97DHC23

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)

)
LAURENCE D. COLBERT, ATTORNEY,)
Defendant
)

This matter coming before the undersigned Hearing Committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission pursuant to Section .0114 ofthe Discipline and
Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "aar Rules"), both parti¢s
have agreed to waive a formal hearing in this matter and stipulate and agree to the
following findings of fact and conclusions of law and to the discipline imposed, the
Hearing Committee enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "Plaintiff'), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Car()lina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rldes and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Laurence D. Colbert, (hereafter "Colbert"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1975, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, ali
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations,
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the
State of North Carolina.
3. During all of the periods referred to herein, Colbert was actively engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina aJ1d maintained a law office in the City
of Durhmn, Durham COUlJJy, North Carolina.

I
.'

i
,

.
/

00244
,/
-

;

j

,, .

4. On June 7, 1989, Colbert waS appointed to represent Santieago Elliott
;(hereinafier "Elliott") on two separate cases both involving charges of first degree rape,
(first degree Sex offense, and taking indecent liberties with a child.
.
5. A jury convicted Elliott in both cases on April 8, 1991, of first degree sexual
offense and taking indecent liberties with a child.

I

6. Also on April 8, 1991, Colbert was appointed as Elliott's appellate counsel and
of Elliott's appeal of his convictions.
gave
notice
,

I

7. Colbert never served a proposed record on appeal or otherwise perfected
Elliott's appeal of his convictions, although he did perfonrt a significant amount of work
to perfect the appeal.
8. On May 22, 1996, Colbert was served by plaintiff with a Letter of Notice
concerning the grievance filed by Elliott.
9. Colbert failed to respond in a timely manner to this letter of notice and several
bther lawful demands for information from the North Carolina State Bar.
10. The defendant waived his right to a formal hearing.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jUrisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to North Carolina General Statute Section 84-28(b)(2), in
that:
(a) By failing to perfect Elliott's appeal, Colbert: (i) neglected to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing Elliott, in violation of Rule
6(b)(3); (ii) iritentionally failed to carry out a contract of employment, in violation
of Rule 7. 1(a)(2); and (iii) intentionally prejudiced or damaged Elliott during the
course of the professional relationship, in violation of Rule 7. 1(a)(3);
(b) By knowingly failing to respond to a lawful demand for information from the
North Carolina State Bar, Colbert violated Rule 1.1(b).

2

I
"

i

,,

00245

i

;

.~ ::"

,/

l

~/

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters the'
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The defendant's miscollduct is a~gravated by the following f~ctors:

a. Colbert previously has been reprimanded by the North Carolina

1

State Bar on August 10, 1993, for failing to perfect the appeal of
felony convictions for another criminal defendant client;
b. a pattern of misconduct of failing to perfect appeals for criminal
defendants whom he is appointed to represent;
c. multiple offenses; and
d. substantial experience in the practice of law.
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. personal or emotional problems;
b. character and reputation; and
c. remorse and cooperation with client's new appellate counsel.
3. The aggravating factors· do not outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon the foregoing findings offact and conclusions oflaw and the findings
regarding discipline and based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee
enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1

1. The defendant, Laurence D. Colbert, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina for a period of six months from the date this Consent
Order of Discipline is filed. The period of suspension is stayed for three years upon the
following conditions:
(a) The D¢fendant attend and complete a Law Management Practice
Program approved by the State Bar. Colbert must schedule an initial
appointment within 60 days of the filing of this Order of Discipline and must
complete the program within the period of the stayed suspension. Defendant
shall be responsible to pay all costs associated with attending and completing
the program as a condition of the stayed suspension. Defendant shall send
the State Bar quarterly progress reports from the program administrator no
later than Jant,tary 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1, for each year of the
stayed suspension. Defendant also shall send the State Bar docUinentation

3

'I

that the program has been satisfactorily completed no later than 60 days
before the expiration of the stayed suspension.
(b) Defendant shall continue psychotherapy and comply with all
recommendations fot treatment and counseling throughout the course of the
stayed suspension. Defendant shall be responsible for having his
psychotherapist forward quarterly progress reports to the State Bar
throughout the course of the stayed suspension. The'reports must be sent to
the State Bar no later than January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1, for each
year of the stayed suspension.

I

(c) Defendant must designate an active member of the North Carolina State
Bar, practicing in Durham County, to monitor any appeals he agrees or is
appointed'to handle ("monitor"). The State Bar reserves the'right to approve
or reject any person submitted by the befendant as a monitor. Throughout
matter the course of the stayed suspension, Defendant shall notify the
monitor within one business day 6fbeing appointed or agreeing to represent a
client on an appellate and shall meet as soon as practical, and no later than 5
business days, with the monitor to discuss all relevant deadlines regarding the
appeal. Defendant also shall meet monthly with the monitor at arty time he
has an appeal pending.
Defendant also shall be responsible for filing a quarterly progress report
with the monitor. This quarterly report shall include the following
information for each case in which Defendant has been appointed or agreed
to represent a client on appeal:
(1) The conviction date, (2) the date the notice of appeal waS filed, (3)
any extensions for appeal deadlines, (4) the date the record on appeal
was required and perfected,. (5) the date the appellate brief was
required and filed, (6) any resolution in the appellate courts; and (7)
the dates of meetings between the monitor and Defendant.

I

This report shall be reviewed and signed by the monitor and filed with the
State Bar on a quarterly basis no later than January 1, April 1, July 1, and
October '1, in each year of the stayed suspension. If Defendant is not
handling any active appellate matters, Defendant must file a quarterly report
with the State Bar signed by the monitor so stating.
The State Bar shall not be responsible for making arty compensation 'or
reimbursement for any person selected by Defendant as a monitor.
(d) Defendant shall not violate any provisions of the Rilles of Professional
Conduct at any time during the three year suspension;

4

I
,1

.i

,

/
;
t'

,l
f

/

/'

,.I

i

(e) The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding, as assessed by the
Secretary, within 30 days of entry of this order.

Signed by the undersigned hearing committee chair with the ccil1~ent of the
other hearing committee members.
.

This the

b <1

day of

j),JvU~11997.

..

..

I
We Consent:

~~~
Douglas J. B cker
'~~u~

Counsel for Plaintiff

ence D. Colbert
Defendant

5

,1

/
,

",

/

,
"

..

.~,

,

"

.

,

