WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02BCS04

NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE MATTER OF THE
TENDER OF LICENSE OF:
MICHAEL L. YOPP

)
)
)

)
)
)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar
pursuant to Section .0017 of Subchapter B of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar upon an
affidavit of tender of license executed by Michael L. Yopp and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State
Bar on July 15,2002.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Michael L. Yopp's conduct of misappropriating client
funds for his own personal benefit, over-disbursing client funds, and failing to reconcile his trust account, were
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28(b)(2) in that Michael L. Yopp violated Rules
8.4 (b) & (c), 1.1S-2(a), and l.lS-3(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon motion being duly made and seconded, the Council enters the following order:
1.	 The tender of surrender of license of Michael L. Yopp be and hereby is accepted.
2.	 Michael L. Yopp be and hereby is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina.
3.	 Michael L. Yopp shall comply with the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .0024 of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required
by Subchapter B, Section .0024.
4.	 That the costs of this action be taxed against Michael L. Yopp.

th

Done and Ordered this 19 day of July, 2002.

E. Fitzgerald Parnell III, President
North Carolina State Bar

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE
AFFIDAVIT
TO:	

The Council of the North Carolina State Bar

I, Michael L. Yopp, hereby tender my license to practice and desire to resign from the North Carolina
State Bar. My resignation is extended freely and voluntarily, and is not the result of coercion or duress, and I
am fully aware of the implications of submitting this, my resignation.
1am aware that there is presently pending an investigation or other proceedings regarding allegations
that r have been guilty of misconduct, specifically that:
1.	

In July 1997, I deposited a personal injury settlement check for my client, Roena Rogers, into one
of my personal bank accounts and thereafter used the funds for my own personal purposes.
Several months later, I replaced the funds and, in October 1997, transferred them to my trust
account and disbursed Ms. Rogers' portion to her.

2.	

I represented Tommy W. Neal in a personal injury matter. After the matter settled and the funds
had been disbursed, I received a refund check for $1,979.10 from one of Neal's medical
providers who had received a portion of the settlement proceeds. I deposited the refund check
into one of my personal back accounts and used the funds for my own personal purposes. At the
time I deposited the refund check for Neal and used these funds, I had been enjoined from
handling any client or fiduciary funds by the Wake County Superior Court.

3.	

I represented Rodney Turlington and his minor son, Daniel, in a personal injury matter. I
collected my one-third contingent fees for both cases at the time the matters settled in December
1995. In March 1996, I took an additional "fee" from the settlement proceeds. I was not entitled
to the additional fee and, as a result, there were insufficient funds left from the settlement
proceeds to pay all the Turlington's remaining medical providers.

4.	

In numerous instances, I disbursed funds from my trust account for clients who did not have
funds on deposit in the account. I did not have personal funds in the trust account to cover these
disbursements but was holding funds in trust in these accounts for other clients. Therefore, [
used the trust or fiduciary funds of other clients to pay these client's expenses.

5.	

III addition to the specific instances set forth above, I commingled other client funds with my
own funds in several different business and personal accounts.

6.	

I failed to reconcile my trust account balances with the funds I was supposed to be holding in
trust for all my clients on at least a quarterly basis.

,

"
I acknowledge that the facts as set forth in paragraphs 1-6 above are true. I am submitting my
resignation because I know if charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not
successfully defend against them. 0',:
This the

Swo~n tl~ alld

,

~iE

-----l~ of
etc

L 1 )"1
'!

,',

1.

/:
) i)'.J c

2002.

subs..:ribed before me,
".
.,J",
2002.

..i-'>,'t'k
. __ .)[

v+-_

1\ '

G- -------=.-----,-- - - - ­
\

j.,Totary Public

My Commission Expires:

_b_'1:.....i_5....!.i_l _.~-_,_

