.~?~

/..4\1'0

[I

(.~ -,>'

/

ii/':".::-,.
"";":»­

10'
q~ wt '<;-~\
r
OJ
./.:-.
STATE OF NORTH CAR~TNA ".( ,. ~Oa
:'::';\
r...

r--

t.o

,,_;\

BEFORE THE

<)A.~;" <:t:>lS~ rNARY I-IEARING COMMISSION

'" 70 V

WAKE COUNTY.j.'"

'V'{,,~

""

OF THE

~ ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

_~\})

OBDHC6

'~-JJtE ~I(. \\ '

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

FINDlNGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

SHERRY M. MORRIS, Allomey,
Defendant

This matter was heard before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair; and members Robert F. Siler
and Johnny B. Freeman on November 21, 2008. William N. Farrell represented the
North Carolina State Bar. Cindy Huntsberry represented ShelTY M. Morris. Based upon
the admissions in the Answer, the stipulations of fact in the Pre-Hearing Order, and the
evidence presented ntlhe hearing, the hearing eornmi L1ee finds that the following has
been established by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules
and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
I
Defendant, Sherry M. Manis, (hereinafter "defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on March 19, 1994, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the State of North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the Stale of North Carolina.

3.
During all or a p0l1ion of the relevant periods referred to herein, defendant
was actively engaged in the private practice of law in the City or Benson, Johnston
County, North Carolina.
4.
On or about the year 1992, defendant and Ronald D. Pressley (hereinafter
"Pressley"), while both were law students at North Carolina Central UniversilY School of
Law, began what would become a long-tenn intimate relationship,

5.

Pressley graduated from law school in 1995 and sat for the July 1995 Bar

Exam.
6.
Pressley's 1995 application for a license to practice law was set for a full
hearing before the Board of Law Examiners of the State of Norlh Carolina (hereinafter
"lhe Board"), in January 1996.
7.
Defendant was subpoenaed to testify ancl did testify before the Board in
January 1996 regarding their relationship, criminal charges involving Pressley, and
matters relating to Pressley's character and general fitness.

8.
Following the January 1996 hearing the Board denied Pressley's
application to praclice law.
9.
Pressley.

On February 1, 1996, defendant gave birth to a child that was fathered by

10.
relationship.

Between 1996 and 2001, defendant and Pressley continued their

11.
Pressley was frustrated and angry over the Board's decision in 1996 to
deny him a law license.
12.
Pressley blamed defendant for "testifying against him" and believed
defendant's disclosures to the Board in 1996 regarding their relationship and the criminal
charges were the reasons his application for a law Iicense was denied.
13.
Between 1996 and 2001, Pressley did not visit with his child regularly,
although defenclant asked bim to do so. Pressley repealeclly stated he "resented" the birth
of the child and stated he thought that was one of the reasons he was denied his lil:cnse in
1996.

14.

Pressley repeatedly explained to defendant that once he had his law
license and that burden was lifted from him, he would be able to have a n0n11al
relationship with their child and be the father he had not been.
15.
PreSSley continuously expressed to defendant that any future decision by
the Board would weigh heavily on her testimony and that her testimony must support him
to ensure a favorable decision for him from the Board.
16.
Pressley was adamant that disclosure of their on-going intimate
relationship to the Board would be fatal to his reapplication.

-2­

17.
Prior to the bearing, defendant and Pressley discussed the testimony they
would both give at the hearing related to their ongoing and intimate relationship.
Pressley was concerned that admitting t11at their intimate relationship was continuing
would hurt his chances La have his application approved.
18.
Defendant and Pressley agreed that if the Board asked about the current
status of their relationship, they would both falsely testify that the sexual relationship had
ended.
19.
At the hearing on October 17, 2001, as had been anticipated, defendant
was asked, under oath, about the current statlls of her relationship with Pressley.
20.
Defendant untruthfully testified that their intimate relationship had ended
and had ended years earlier.
21.

In October 2001, the relationship between defendant and Pressley had not

ended.
22.
Following the October 17, 2001 hearing before the Board, Pressley'S
application to stand Ule Bar Exam was approved, but he was unsuccessful on the
exam ination.
23.
Pressley next applied to stand the Febnlary 2002 Bar Exam, but again was
unsuccessful. He next applied to stand the July 2002 exam and was again noticed to
appear before the ii.ill Board.
24.
Various lawsuits between defendant and Pressley delayed the actual
hearing on Pressley's application to stand the July 2002 exam. When these lawsuits were
Enally resolved, the hearing on Pressley's July 2002 application was set for October 17,
2007.
25.
Prior to the October 2007 hearing, defendant advised the attorney for the
Board that she had given lU1truthfl11 teslimony to the Board during her testimony at the
October 17,2001 hearing.
26.
On October 17-18, 2007, defendant appeared before the Board ancl
testified that her testimony before the Board in October 200] had been untmthful
concerning her relationship with Pressley at that time.
27.
Defendant self-reported her misconduct to the Bar by phone on or abollt
October 19,2007 and by let1er datcd October 22, 2007.

-3­

Based on the foregoing Findings ofFaet, the Committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission, and the Commit1ee has jurisdiction over defendant and the subject
matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth above, constitutes grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that defendant violated the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct as foJ lows:
(a)
By giving untrul!Tflll testimony to the Board of Law Examiners of
the State of North Carolina, defendant:
(i)
knowingly madc a false statement of material fact in
violation of Rule 8.1 (n) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct;

(ii)
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation ofRuJe 8.4(c) of the Revised Rules
of Profession Conduct; and
(iii)
engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration
of justice in violation of Rule SA(d) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
1n addition to the foregoing Findings afFact and Conclusions of Law, the
evidence presented and the arguments of counsel, the Hearing Committee hereby makes
the following;
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant's misconduct is aggrava1ed by a dishonest or selfish motive.

2.

Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following

j~lctors:

(a)

Absence of a prior disciplinary record.

(b)	

Personal or emotional problems, to wit: problems and pressures
arising from defendant's personal relationship with Pressley and
her desire to provide for their child.

(c)

Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee.

Cd)

Character or reputation.

(e)	

Remorse.
- 4­

(1)

Voluntary self reporling of the misconduct to the Stnte Bar.

3.
Defendant has s1gnificantly hanned the Board of Law Examiners, the
public, the legal profession, and the aclministTUtion ofjustice.
4.
This committee has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a Censure
or Reprimand would not sufficiently protect the public, the legal profes!iion, or the
administration of justice because of the gravity of the harnl caused by the conducl of
defendant. No discipl ine short of suspension can maintain the reputation of tbe legal
profession and instilllhe public's trust in the legal profession and the administration of
justice.
5.
Entering an order imposing lesser discipline than a suspension would fail
to acknowledge the seriousness oflhe misconduct engaged in by defendant and would
send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expecled of
members of the Bar of this State.
6,
HO\'I'evcr because ofthe unique facts of this case, which are unlikely to
ever be repeated, the self reporting of the misconduct, the very strong mitigation, and tbe
lack of any disciplinary record, the committee does not find thal the protection of the
public, profession, and the administration of justice requires an active slIspension.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the Findings

Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the following:

ORDER OF DlSCLPLlNE
1.
The law license of Sherry Morris is hereby suspended for two (2) years
beginning 30 daysfi·om service if this order upon Morris. The suspension is stayed for a
period of two (2) years after its effective date so long as Morris complies with the
following conditions:
(a)
Defendant will not violate lhe Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct or the laws afthe United States, this state or any state during her
suspension;
(b)
Defendant will keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current business and home address in wriling
within 10 days of any change;
(c)
Defendant will respond lo all comnllU1ications from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in the communication;

-5­

(d)
Defendant will pay all Membership dues, fees and costs, as well as
Clienl Security fund assessments and comply with all Continuing Legal
Education (CLE) requirements on a timely basis during the stay of the
suspension; and
(e)
Defendant will pay the costs of this proceeding within thirty (30)
days of service upon her of the statement of costs from the Office of
Secretary.

2.
If defendant fails 10 comply with anyone or more of the conditions
referenced in Paragraph 1 above, then the stay of the suspension of her law license may
be revoked as provided in 27 N.c. Admin. Code 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the North
Carolina State Em Discipline and Disability Rules. If the slay is revoked the period of
active suspension will be two years.
3.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction oflhis
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period ol'the
stayed suspension.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
, 2008.
this the \ \"'l"'\.. day of 09-<'~~

~.. c..U~

Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Commit1ee

-6­

