'1- 1 1

DURHAM COUNTY

STATE OF NORTH CAROUNA

l)~"~ -OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS'

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

J

)
)

vs.

...

<

OF LAW, AND CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

)

.

I

...-. "'-.

:-IN THe'GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
'0:-'" Ff."D -, ') :~l!~lf.RIOR COURT DIVISION
I ...
;.J
"
..
I
n96 CRS 17322

JOHN M. CONSTANTINOU, Defendant)

This cause coming on for hearing before the Honorable

Orl~ndo

F. Hudson, Jr. ~ Senior

«

Resident Superior Court Judge, presiding over the February 2, 1998 session of the Durham
County General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, as a summary proceeding for the
discipline of a member of the Bar of the State of North Carolina, the court finds, based on the
evidence presented and consent of the parties, the following facts by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

The 4efendant, JoOO M. Constantinou, and his counsel, James B. Maxwell, were

present and in court on the 2nd day of February, 1998.

I

2.

The North

~arolina

State Bar's duly authorized representative,pouglas J.

Brocker, was also present in court on the 2nd day of February, 1998.
3.
and

i~.

The defendant was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 21. 1981.

and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in Nortb

Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

4.

During the time relevant to this order, Constantinou acttvely engaged in the

practic;e of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the City of
Durham, Durham County, North Carolina.

I
00260

5.

The defendant was arrested for felonious possession of a Schedule II controlled

substance, cocaine, in violation of North Carolina General Statute Section 90-95(a).
6.

The date of offense Was June 22, 1996.

7.

After his attest for violation of NC G.S. §90-95 (a) , the defendant voluntarily

ad~itted

himself to the Farley Institute in Williamsburg, Virginia, which Institute specializes

in working
with individuals who have a substance abuse problem. A significant portion of the
,
Institute'S patients are, in fact, professionals. The defendant received therapy and counseling

I

at tbe Farley InstitUte where he remained for a twelve (12) week period of time.
8.

Since .being released from the Farley Institute, the' defendant has successfully

continued treatment and has satisfactorily participated in the North Carolina State Bar Positive
Action for Lawyers ("PALS") Program.
9.

The defendant entered a plea of guilty to feloitious possession of a Schedule II

controlled substance, cocaine, on December 8, 1997, before the undersigned judge in the
Superior Court of Durham County. The court accepted the plea and found the defendant guilty
,

after! examining him under oath and rmding a factual basis for entry of the plea.
10.

The court entered a Prayer for Judgment Continued (PJC) on the defendant upon

ms plea on February 2, 1998, contemporaneous with this summary proceeding for discipline."
11.

The defendant did not receive a PJC for a:ny offense involving the sale or

distribution of cocaine or any other controlled substance.
: 12.

The offense for which the defendant received a PJC did not involve the

I

defentlant's practice as an attorney.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF
FACT, THE COURT ENTERS
.
.

THE !FOLLQWING:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
court

~o

All parties are properly before the court and were properly noticed to appear in

present any and all evidence deemed necessary by the parties for consideration by the

court respecting imposition of professional discipline on the defendant.

.,~

..

00261.

I

2.

Pursuant to Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the inherent

powers of this court, the court has authority to impose disciplinary sanctions upon the
defendant.
3.
that

ref1~cts

4.

I

The defendant has pled guilty to and been sentenced on a feloniQus criminal act
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer.
The defendant's conduct resulting in his conviction violated North Carolina Rule

of Professional Conduct 1.2(b).
5.

The defendant has committed misconduct warranting imposition of discipline

pursuant to North Carolina General Statutes Section 84-28(b)(I)& (2).
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF ACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF
LAW, AND THE CONSENT OF THE PARTIES, THE COURT ENTERS THE
FOLLOWING:
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

John M. Constantinou is hereby suspended from the practice of law in North

Carolina for a period of 3 years, effective February 2, 1998.
2.

The suspension is stayed for a period of 3 years as long as the defendant satisfies

all Qf the following conditions:
~.

The defendant must abstain from the use of all alcohol and non-prescribed

controlled substances.
b,

Defendant agrees to have random drug tests performed throughout the 3-year

stay. These tests must be performed

wi~in

12 hours after a telephoije. request by the Office

of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar. A written Notice. of Request for a drug test shall
be filed with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar, giving the date and time of the
request and the location where the test shall be performed. A copy of the Notice of Request
shall be sent to defendant when filed. Defendant shall file a Notice of Compliance with the
request, and the results of the test, with the Secretary no later than 10 days after the Notice of
Request is filed.

I
;"

... ,

00262

c.

The defendant shall continue to satisfactorily participate in the PALS program

throughout the 3-year stay. Defendant hereby waives any right to confidentiality with respect
to

~e~orts by the PALS program to ·the State Bar Office of Counsel as to his satisfactory

participation.
Defendant shall be responsible for having PALS program Director or his monitor
,
forward to. the Office of Counsel a report demonstrating his continued satisfactory participation.
I

Defenr;lant shall cause such reports of compliance to be sent every 6 months during the entire
3

year~

of the stay.

,d.

Defendant agrees to participate in at least one weekend reunion at the Farley

Institute every six months during the 3-year stay and shall provide an update report from the
Institute to the State Bar after each such weekend. Defendant waives any confidentiality with
respect to the Farley Institute providing an update report to the Office of CounseL
:The Defendant must comply with all of the above-mentioned conditions during the entire
3 year ;stay. Failure to comply with any of the conditions set forth above, or a positive drug
teSt re~ult, any time during the 3-year stay is sufficient grounds for the State Bar to file a
motion'to show cause why the stay shOUld not be lifted and the entire 3-year suspension
activated. If the State Bar files a motion to show cause and proves, by the greater weight ·of
,
I

the evidence, that defendant violated one or more of the conditions during the 3-year stay, the
entire 3-year suspension shall be activated, effective from the entry of an order finding a
violatioil.
Defendant shall provide all the above-mentioned required reports to the State Bar no

I

later th~n June 30 and December 30 of e~ch year of the s~y, beginning June 30, 1998 and
ending pecember 30, 2000.
~.

Defendant shall be responsible for all costs in this proceeding ami those

associated with complying with this order and the above mentioned conditions.

Under no

circumstances shall the State Bar be responsible to the defendant or any third parties for the
cost of qefendant's compliance with the conditions of this order.

• !..

~ ~

.' 00263

I

4.

The undersigned shall retain jurisdiction over this ~ause for such other and further

proceedings as might be deemed necessary by this court, by the North Carolina State Bar, oJ."
by the defendant.
This the 2nd ~ay of February, 1998.

I
~,,~~vJ~
0Ugiis JfOCker
7'
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

I

I

..,,"

.".,.

'"J .-

00264

