BEFORE THE

WAKE COUNTY

DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE

NdRTH CAROLINA

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97 DHC5

: CXcg5:A

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, '----~_

Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
vs.

C.

C. MALONE, JR., Attorney,
,

I

Defendant

This matter was calendared for.trial and heard on the 30th day of October, 1997 before a
duly appoiQ.ted COn1mittee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission consisting of Richard T.
Gar(nn,on, Chait, James R. Fox, and Robert B. Frantz. The Plaintiff was represented by Clayton
w. pavidson III, Deputy Counsel. The Defendant was represented by Eric C. Michaux.
Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law entered by the hearing committee at
the first phase of the hearing and based upon the evidence and arguments presented in the second
phase of the hearing, the hearing committee makes the following additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT CONCERNING DISCIPLINE
1.

The Defendant's conduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.
b.

2.

Substantial prior disciplinary offenses,
Substantial experience in the practice of law,

The Defendant's conduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.

I

Absence of a prior disciplinary record,
Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify the consequences
of-the Defendant's conduct,
Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings,
Good character and reputation,
Remorse.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Concerning Discipline, the hearing
comrhittee makes the following:

I
OO~81.
.
!

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1. The Defendant, C.C. Malone, Jr., is hereby ~uspended from the practice of law for a
period of two years, effective thirty (30) days from the date of service of this order.

2. The two year suspension is stayed for three years on the following condi~ions:

I

a.
The Defendant shall respond to all letters of notices,subpoenas and
reasonable requests for information from any district grievance committee and the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in the communication, or if none is so stated, by
the deadline provided by any applicable law or rules.
b.
The Defendant shall not violate the North Carolina Revised Rulel? of
Professional Conduct. Any violation of the rules shall be sufficient to activate this
suspension.
c.
The Defendant shall not violate the laws of the State of North Carolina,
the United States, or the various states that make up the United States;
d.
The Defendant shall handle all client matters promptly, shall respond to
requests for information from clients in a timely fashion, and shall ensure that the
Defendant's case load remains of a manageable size.
e,
The Defendant shall select a member of the Durham County Bar, to be
approved by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar (the ~'Supervising Attorney"),
to supervise the Defendant's practice during the three-year stay period. The Defendant
shall designate a Supervising Attorney and obtain the approval of the Secretary within
fifteen (15) days from the date of this order.

I

f.
The Defendant shall meet with the Supervising Attorney at least once a
month, and shall report to the Supervising Attorney as to the status of all current pending
client matters, and shall further cQoperate with the Supervising Attorney and shall
provide any additional information requested by the Supervising Attorney which the
Supervising Attorney feels is reasonably necessary to ensure that the Defendant's case
load remains of a manageable size, that the Defendant handles matters promptly, and that
the Defendant responds to requests for information from clients and the North Carolina
State Bar in a timely fashion. The cost, if any, of retaining the Supervising Attorney shali
be borne by ~e Defendant.
g.
The Defendant shall provide quarterly reports to the North Carolina State
Bar fn a, form approved by the Secretary of the North Carollna State Bar signed by the
Supervising Attorney and the Defendant which certify that the Defendant is in
compliance with the terms and conditions of this order. The reports must be received by
the Bar on or before the first day of January, April, July, and October of each year that the
stay of the suspension remains in effect.

I
'.;'

.

3.
The Defendant shall pay all costs of this proceeding permitted by law within thirty
days of service of notice of the amount of costs as assessed by the Secretary.
:
Signed by th: tindersig?ed ch~ir wi!h the full knowledge and consent of all other
m~mbets of the hearmg commIttee thIS _2>_/da;
ay of ~ ,199'/

~r.~

RichafiGalllIl1On, Chair

I

I

BEFORE THE

DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION

WAKE COUNTY

OF THE

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97 DHC5

NORTH CAROLINA

, THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

Plaintiff
ORDER
vs.

C. C. MALONE, JR., Attorney,
Defendant

------------------~~----~~----~--------~----.----~---~------~~

This matter was calendared for trial and heard on the 30th day of October, 1997 before a
duly appointed committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission consisting of Richard T.
Gammon, Chair, James R. Fox, and Robert B. Frantz. The Plaintiff was represented by Clayton
W. Davidson HI, Deputy Counsel. The Defendant was represented by Eric C. Michaux. At the
,close of the Plaintiff s evidence in this matter the Defendant brought a motion for dir~cted
verdict and for involuntary dismissal 'as to all claims in the Plaintiff s Complaint in this matter,
which motion was DENIED as to the First Claim for relief alleged in the Complaint in this
matter, and the decision on which the panel elected to defer until the close of all evidence as to
the Second Claim for Relief.
Following the close of all evidenc~, the committee unanimously decided to consider the
Defendant's motion Under Rule 41(b) of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure, and, based
on all the evidencepre&ented at the trial of this matter, and the pleadings and pre-trial stipulations
of record, makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
In The North Carolina State Bar v. Clarence C. Malone, Jr., 9S DHC 11, in an
order of discipline signed by Henry C. Babb, Jr. Chair of the Panel, and entered on the 6th day of
J~uary, 1996 (the "Order 'of Discipline"), the Defendant was suspended from the practice of law
for a period offive years, which order further provided that any time after the tirst year of the
five-year suspension, the 'remaining portion of the five-year suspension could be stayed, so long
as the Defendant complied with certain conditions. One of the conditions for the stay was that
the Defendant not violate the NOl:th CaroUna Rules of Professional Conduct.
2.
Subsequent to the order being entered, the North Carolina Court of Appeals
entered an order temporarily staying the Order of Discipline during the pendency of an appeal of
the matter, which stay r~mained in effect until March 29, 1996.
Page 1

I
'.~

.

3.
The violations ()fthe North Carolina Rules ()fProfessional Conduct alleged in the
Complaint in this matter occurred on or about December, January, and up until March l8 t1i, 1996.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing conunittee makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I
1. The Order of Discipline had no full force and effect ()flaw until after the stay of the
Order of Discipline was lifted on March 29th, 1996.

1'-'

2. Any and all alleged misconquct that occurred before the Order of Discipline had full
forc,e and effect of law c~>uld not be a violation of the Order of Discipline.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Second Claim for Relief
alleged in the Complaint in this matter is DISMISSED WITH PREJUDICE pursuant to Rule
41(b) of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
; Signed by th7 undersig?ed ch~ir wiJh the full knowledge and consent of all other
members of the heanng cOlrumttee thIS _~_ay of
,199$.

ยง7z4U.uzr-= '

'I(~7~
Richard T. Gammon
Chair

I

Page 2

I
002fj5
I

