------------ - -

.

l1Lo3l

BBFORETHE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97G0055(II)R

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
MELVIN L. WALL JR.
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On Jal1.uary 15, 1998, the Grievance Comtnittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by Ms. Karen W. Barnes.
Pursuant to Section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Caroiina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, .the Grievance
Committee fOWld probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may i~sue various levels .of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an adinonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofProfessional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is hot required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is how my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.

I

The complainant hired you in March or April of 1991 to represent her in a lawsuit against
a hospital. You failed to respond to discovery in the complainant's case. The defendant in
co~plainant's lawsuit filed a motion for sanctions on August 3, 1994. The court ordered that the
complainapt comply with the defendant's discovery request on or before September 9, 1994 or
the 'complainant's lawsuit would be dismissed.
I

You did not comply with the defendant's discovery request as ordered by the court and
the complainant's action was dismissed as of October 3, 1994.
You refiled a lawsuit in complainant's action against the hospital, but not within the
applicable statute of limitations. You did not appear at the. heating on April 8, 1996 wherein the
def¢ndant in complainant's action sought a dismissal of the complainant's action because it had
not been filed within one year of the dismissal of the action.

I',

You told the Grievance Committee that you were mistaken about the dismissal date of
complainant's first action. Therefore, you did not file complainant's action within one year of
the ~ismissal date.
.
The complainant was not fully apprised of the actions taken in her case.
Your failure to respond promptly to the discovery request violates Rule 1.2(d) and Rule
6(b)(3) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Your failure to refile the complainant's action
within one year of its dismissal is in violation of Rule 1.2(d) and Rule6(b)(3) of the Rules of
Pro~essional Conduct. Furthermore, you failed to explain adequately to the compl&inant the
sequence of events in her case, in violation of Rule 6(b)(1) and (2) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct. Your conduct in relation to handling the complainant's case also violated Rule
7.1(a)(1), (2) and (3) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct.
·. In September 1996, the complainant asked that you return her file. You did not promptly
return the complainant's file' in violation of Rule 2.8(a)(2) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
The complainant's grievance was referred to the 14th Judicial District Bar Grievance
C01ll!llittee for investigation. By letter dated February 14, 1997, you were advised to respond to
the c~mplainant's grievance within 15 days of receipt of the grievance. You did not respond to
the grievance until May 6, 1997.

1

Your failure to respond promptly to the 14th Judicial District Bar Grievance COm1nittee
violates Rule 1.1 (b) and Rule 1.2(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
i You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional

misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

1
OO~~O'

.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ZL\1h..dayof

~UA-f2..'j

I
TPRlkmc

I

I
-U,'

•

,_

.... t

