BEFORE THE
GlUEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G 1310(11)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER oP
CHARLES BOSTIAN,
AT'fORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

1-

On January 15, 1998, the Grievance Co:tnmittee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Clarence Caviness.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) ofllie Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
I

-

. The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline dependiIlg UPOIl the
misc0nduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grie~ance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Cond,uct and has
cause~ harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the PVblic, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is nbw my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
Between Novembet 1995 and September 1996, you and your law partner conducted a
numb~r of residential real estate closings for Chase Mortgage Brokers. Between approximately
May $d September 1996, your law firm did all of Chase's closings and you ultimately opened
four offices across the state for this purpose. These closings were handled primarily by nonlawyer assistants and on many occasions, neither you not any other attorney from your office
attending the closings. Additionally, it appears that some of the closing documents, such as
deeds ~d deeds of trust, were drafted by your non-lawyer assistants and were not properly

1-

'.

reviewed by you or another attorney prior to closing. Moreover, it appears that your office took
on more work than it could properly handle, as there was often a substantial delay before all
documents were recorded and the final title premium checks were mailed.
The Grievance Committee concluded that you failed to properly supervise your nonlaWYe;}r assistants in this matter, in violation of Rule 3.3 and that your failure to :;upenrise your
assistants, coupled with the excessive work load which your office evidently accepted, led to the
.
neglect ofa number of real estate closing matters, in violation ofRule6(b)(3).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance. Cotnmittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the;} North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the;} Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50;00 are hereby taxed
to you.

II-\-~

\.

Done and ordered, thisZ"'\" -day of~~

,1998.

T. Paul Messick, Jr.
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I
-,

...•

