...-------------------------------------

-------

Co 55l
13EFORETHE
GRiEVANCE COMMITTEE

NORTH CAROLINA

OF THE

WAKE:COUNTY

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97GOS09(II)R
-~

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

LAURENCE COLBERt,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

I

On January 21, 1998~ the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
conside~ed the grievance filed against you by Henry Wilson.
~urSuaht to section .Ol13(a) of the Di~ciplip.e and Disability Rules of the North C~olina State

Bar, the· Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
availabl~ to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance' Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defmed ill the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty or misconduct jqstifying disciplinary action."
I

the rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending Upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance COrninittee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
i

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harrrt to a client, the administration of justice, the profession; or a,member of
the public, but the misc.onduct does not require a censure.
'DIe Grievance Conunittee was of the opinion that a c~nstite is not required in this case and
issues th:is reprimand to you. As chairman. of the Grievance COmlilittee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is noWr my duty to issue this reprimand, an.q I ~ certain th~t you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
You
undertook to represent
.
. Henry Wilson respecting a medical malpractice case in
February 1996. Although you ultimately determined that it would not be possible to file a
complaiQ,t on Wilson's behalf until he provided the funds to retain an expert witness, you failed
to make this cleat to yoUr client. Your conduct in this regard violated Rules 6(b)(2) and 6(b)(3)
of the Rtdes of Professional Conduct. The Committee also determined that you failed to
cOnimunicate adequately with Wilson and that you failed to return his file to him promptly, in
I

'~

l - ----.. -..----- ·.
.

u

••

-

•

I

-

violation of Rules 6(b)( 1) 'and Rule 2.8 of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Your cHent was
clearly prejudiced by your misconduct, inasmuch as the statute of limitations has now run on his
claim.
Finally, the Committee was also concerned that you filed a misleading statement with the
court respecting Wilson's case. Specifically, on Nov. 18, 1996, you asked the court to extend
the statute of limitations, on the group,ds that you had retained one or more expert witnesses who
required additional time "to examine complicated documents .... " Since, as you stated in your
response to Wilson's grievance, you never contacted any expert witnesses, your statement that
experts had been retained and were examining the file WI;lS untruthful. Your misconduct in this
regard constituted dishonest conduct in violation of former Rule 1.2(c) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
,',

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again alloW yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby t;:tXed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

z.L\-~day of ~\M12.-'-1

,1998.

T. Paul Messick, r.
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
,.,~

00303

