~

-

1\0'39
BEFORE TBE~--~------

NORTH CAROLINA

GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF 'THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97G0857(II)

l

WA~COUNTY

I

IN TJiE MATTER OF
PAULA OGUAH,
ATTQRNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

I

'On January 15, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
consi~ered the grievance filed against·you by the North Carolina State Bar.
~Pursuant

to section .Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
inforII1-ation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, th~ Grievance
Co:mrrlittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as IIreasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action. Ii
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggrav;ating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprim,and, or a censure.

I

A. censure is a written form of discipline more seriotis than a reprimand, issued in cases

in whi¢h an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Condu!=t and has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does
. not reqti.ire suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Cornmjssion is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
While an Assistant Attorney General, you were assigned to defend a contested caSe
hearing in the Office of Administrative Hearings in which Ms. Pamela Robinson, a clerk typist
working for the Department of Corrections (DOC), alleged that the DOC's equal employment

I
003()4
,"

opportunity office (EEO) failed to properly investigate her complaint of sexual harassment by
her male supervisor, Robert Terry. You also defended a subsequent contested case hearing
filed by Ms. Robim~on alleging retaliatory discharge which was consolidated with the original
case for hearing.

I

I

Ms. Gwen Sanders did the initial investigation of Ms. Robinson's sexualh.aiassment
allegations for the EEO. She prepared a "case prospectus" which she submitted to her
supervisor, Mr. Alfonza Fullwood, manager of the DOC's EEO office. Ms. Sanders'
prospectus concluded that "Mr. Terry had engag~d in inappropriate condu~t.'i The
prospectus was sigiied by Ms; Sanders and Mr. Fullwood on or about February 7, 1996. The
February prospectus was submitted to the director of the Division of AdulfProbatiQn and
Parole (DAPP), Mr. Theodis Beck. After receiving the report, Beckcalled Fullwood and stated
that the case prospectus needed to include a specific fiilding concerning whether the
inappropriate conduct mentioned in 'the February 7 prospectus amounted to sexual
harassment under the law. Fullwood hand wrote a conclusion that Terry's conduct did not
rise to the level of seXual harassment on a copy of the February 7 prospectus and returned it
to Ms. Sanders. Ms. Sanders drafted a new prospectus with the language Fullwood had
suggested inserted in the prospectus~ This prospectus was signed by Sanders and Fullwood
on February 26, 1996 and again forwarded to Beck.
During the· litigation of the contested cases, Ms. Robinson's attorpey served several
sets of interrogatories and requests for production of documents. You were advised by
Fullwood about his having amended Ms. Sanders' initial prospectus after Fullwood's
discussion with Beck. You were concerned about the appearance that there may have been
improper colIusion between Fullwood and Beck in the final determination of Robinson's
sexual harassment complaint. Although you were aware of the existence of the February 7
prospectus when you responded to the petitioner's first set of interrogatories and request for
production of documents on August 13,1996, you did not produce the February 7 prospectus.
Instead, you objected to petitioner's request because the request" seeks to have respondent
provide privileged and confidential documentation protected pursuant to Rule 26(b)(1) of the
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure." In su:bsequent requests for production of
documents that would have required production of the February 7 prospectus, you filed
similar objections to production of documents that would be privileged and/ or work
product prepared in anticipation of litigation." You failed to produce the February 7
prospectus in response to the petitione:r's discovery because you were concerned about the
appearance of collusion between Fullwood and Beck. Your objections were not made in good
faith.
II

On November 1, 1996, you saw the February 7 prospectus and the EEO's file while
discussing th~ file with Ms. Sanders in preparation for her deposition. On Novernber 4, you
defended Fuilwood's deposition. During Fullwood's' deposition, petitioner's attorney asked
Fullwood whether there was a first draft of the report. He was also asked whether the one he
signed and sent to Beck was in the exact form in which Ms. Sanders had originally submitted
jt to him. In his deposition, Fullwood did not disclose the existence of the February 7
prospectus or the change that he had made to the initial prospectus after his discussion with
Beck. YOtI made no effort to get Fullwood to correct his deposition testimony. Ms. Sanders was deposed-on November 14, 1996. Ms. Sanders testimony failed to disclose the existence of
the February 7 prospectus. You failed to have Ms. Sanders correct her deposition testimony.

I
",.,

.,.-

.

Anticipating that the petitioner would file a motion to compel responses to the
discdvery requests that you had objected to, you coordinated a meeting between yourself,
Beck iand Fullwood. The three of you discussed whether or not you should admit the
exist~nce of the February 7 prospectus, and because a copy was no longer in the file, state that
a copy could not be produced. Mter a full discussion about how to handle the existence of
the F~bruary 7 prospectus, it was agreed among the three of you that the existence of the
Febrq.ary 7 prospectus would not be reported to Ms. Robinson's counsel.
'
Your having concealed a document having potential evidentiary value during the
discovery process violated Rule 7.2(a)(7). Your counseled your client to conceal the document
constituted a violation of Rule 7.2(a)(8). By failing to correct the testimony of Fullwood and
Sand~rs you violated Rule 7.2(a)(5). Your conduct was 'prejudicial to the administration of
justic~ in violation of Rule 1.2(d).

I'

In deciding to impose this censure rather than seeking a more severe discipline, the
Committee considered the fact that you lost your position as an Assistant Attorney General as
a form of sanction ,already imposed. '
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the
Rules of Professiortal Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this
censure, recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure
should serve as a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future
your responsibility to the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end
that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may
be relted upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you .
: Done and ordered, this

. -+~--day of -r--~
e;
J'3Jb~

I',

, 1998.

•1

T. Paul Messick, r., Chair Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I
0030{;

