BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G 13 09(II)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
MICHAEL STONE,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

..

REPRIMAND

On January 15, 1998, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the .grievance filed against you by Clarence Caviness.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina State
Bar, the Orievan.ce Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
~arolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hea,ring before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential hahn to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina St(J.te Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
Between November 1995 and September 1996, you and your law partner conducted a
number of residential real estate closings for Chase Mortgage Brokers. Between approximately
May and September 1996, your law firm did all of Chase's closings and you ultimately opened
four offices across the state for this purpose. These closings were handled primarily by nonlawyer assistants and on many occasiol1s, neither you nor any other attorney from your office
attending the closings. Additionally, it appears that some of the closing documents, such as

,--:

-

•

>l

'00307

deeds arid deeds of trust, were drafted by your non-lawyer assistants and were not properly
reviewed by you or another attorney prior to closing. Moreover, it appears that your office took
on more work than it could properly handle, as there was often a substantial delay before all
doc"QIIlents were recorded and the final title premium checks were mailed.
The Grievance Committee concluded that you failed to properly supervise your nonlawyer assistants in this matter, in violation of Rule 3.3 and that your failure to supervise your
assistants, coupled with the excessive work load which your office evidently accepted, led to the
negl~ct of a number of real estate closing matters,. in violation of Rule 6(b)(3).
, You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
reme,mbered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again ·ailow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

, In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
repri:tuand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

zt.\.~dayof ~\..Jt!fZ..:,/ ' 1998.

Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
\

