./~\t.. \S 161719/0

STATE OF NORTH CA

~r

~\

Q

~LIN~./P~OO~ ~

oJ

11_

~(""\

WAKE COUNTY

S'"

~

v(b

v

BEFORE THE

;l!2'h DiiiJ IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION

0"'10~

l}i

~

iJ..'\;

)S

OF THE
NORTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
08 DHC 7

c C I t£~ ~
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

SCOTT W. LAMB, Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was heard before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Tommy W. Jarrett, Chair; and members Donna R. Rascoe and
Michael 1. Houser on July 25, 2008. William N. Fan'ell represented the North Carolina
State Bar. Douglas J. Brocker represented Scott W. Lamb. Based upon the admissions in
the Answer, the stipulations of fact in the Pre-Hearing Order, and the evidence presented
at the hearing, the hearing committee finds that the following has been established by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNOlih Carolina, and the rules
and regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar promulgated theretmder.
?
Defendant, Scott W. Lamb, (hereinafter "defendant"), was admitted to the
NOlih Carolina State Bar on August 26, 2003, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the State of North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State ofNOlih Carolina.

3.
During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, defendant
was actively engaged in the practice of law as an Associate with the finn of Roberts &
Stevens, PA (hereinafter "the Fiml") in the city of Asheville, Buncombe County, NOlih
Carolina.
4.
In early December 2004, Mr. Richard Paul Freiling and wife, Ms. Deborah
Alme Freiling (hereinafter "the Freilings"), contacted defendant for estate planning.

5.
The Freilings received a letter from defendant dated December 8, 2004,
aclmowledgillg their contact with him and setting a date to meet with them on January 12,
2005.
6.
Carolina.

The Freilings met with defendant at the Firm's office in Asheville, North

7.
At this first meeting Defendant and the Freilings discussed preparation of
estate planning documents.

8.

Defendant quoted the Freilings a $500.00 fee for estate planning services.

9.
During the week of January 24, 2005, defendant was infonned by the Film
that the law firm was discontinuing his employment.

10.
The Film infol1ned defendant that he would continue to be employed until
March 1, 2005 and that he would have until then to close out his files and transition client
files to other attorneys in the fiml. Defendant continued as a full-time employee of the
Firm during this transition period.
On February 9, 2005, the Freilings returned to the Firm's offices to review
11.
and sign their respective Last Wills and Testaments, Living Wills, and General Durable
Powers of Attorney.
12.
After the aforementioned documents were executed and notarized, Mrs.
Freiling asked Defendant about the legal fees for services and wrote a check payable to
Roberts & Stevens, at the instruction of Defendant, in the al110tmt of $500.00 and gave it
to Defendant.
13.
The Freilings requested an invoice for the legal services. An invoice was
presented and it appeared to be a standard fonnat invoice prepared by the Firm for the
Freilings.
14.
After Defendant held the $500.00 check for a few days, he called the
Freilings and asked them to rewrite the check to make it payable to him rather than the
Finn.

15.
Defendant thereafter met with Mr. Freiling in order for Mr. Freil1ng to
mal<:e the check payable to Defendant.
At the meeting after receiving the original $500.00 check, Mr. Freiling
16.
marked through the original payee, "Robelts & Stevens", wrote "Scott Lamb" above the
nanle of the original payee, placed his initials, "RF", on the payee line of the check and
retunled the check to defendant. Defendant subsequently endorsed the check and
deposited the check in his personal account.

-2­

17.
Defendant was not entitled to the money paid by the Freilings to him. The
funds were the property of the Firm.
18.
Defendant did not have a fee sharing agreement with the Finn during his
employment, including the "winding down" period, including any agreement conceming
services rendered by him as an employee of the Firm, or any fee sharing provision.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission, and the Hearing Committee has jurisdiction over Defendant and
the subject matter of this proceeding.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth above, constitutes grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct as follows:
?

(a)	

By misappropriating funds ($500.00) belonging to the finn,
Defendant committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule
8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit
or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

(b)	

By requesting that the Freilings alter their check originally made to
the Firm and to make the check payable to him instead, Defendant
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

In addition to the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
evidence presented and the arguments of counsel, the Hearing Committee hereby makes
the following:
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.	

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by a dishonest or selfish motive.

2.	

Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)	

Absence of a prior disciplinary record.

(b)	

Timely good faith efforts to make restinltion or to rectifY
consequences of his misconduct. The Committee finds Defendant
made monetary restitution to the Firm, along with a written letter
of apology, within one week of the Bar's letter of notice to him.

-3­

(c)	

Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings. The Committee notes
Defendant's early acknowledgment of misconduct to the Bar as
well as fOID1al admissions of misconduct in his answer and
stipulations of fact.

(d)	

Inexperience in the practice of law. Defendant had been practicing
law for less than two years when the misconduct occurred.

(e)	

Character or reputation.

(f)	

Mental disability or impainnent. The Committee finds that the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar initially
considered this grievance at its July 14, 2005 quarterly meeting
and refened Defendant to the Lawyer's Assistance Program
("LAP"). Rule .01120) of the Discipline and Disability Rules
provides that the Grievance Committee may refer a grievance to
LAP, before a finding of probable cause, if it determines that the
misconduct is primarily attributable to substance abuse or mental
health problems.

(g)	

Delay in disciplinary proceedings through no fault of Defendant.
The Grievance Committee referred Defendant to the Lawyer's
Assistance Program and Defendant accepted this refenal and
participated in LAP. This case was referred to the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission by the Grievance Committee after
Defendant's successful completion of LAP. The delay in these
proceedings occuned because Defendant cooperated with the
Grievance Committee's LAP refenal and occurred through no fault
of Defendant's.

(h)	

Interim rehabilitation. Defendant successfully completed the two
year LAP referral without incident;

(i)	

Remorse. Defendant admitted misconduct and apologized in
writing to the Finn within one week of the receipt of the letter of
notice from the State Bar;

G)	

Mental health and substance abuse problems to which the
misconduct at issue was primarily attributable.

3.
This is not the usual misappropriation case. Defendant is not now
engaged in the private practice of law. This was a single act of misconduct OCCUlTing
during the time Defendant was leaving and winding down his work with the Firm. There

-4­

were no other instances of misappropriation from the Firm during his tenure with the
Finn and no instances of misappropriation of client funds. There was no pattern of
misconduct or multiplicity of offenses which are significant aggravating factors.
4.
Defendant made an early acknowledgment of his wrongdoing to his
fonner Firm and made fomlal admissions of misconduct to the Bar in his responses,
answer and stipulation of facts.
5.
The Grievance Committee initially considered this matter at its July 14,
2005 quarterly meeting and refelTed it to the Lawyer's Assistance Program. The Chair of
the Grievance Committee wrote Defendant and advised him that the Committee had
detennined he may benefit from a referral to LAP. Among other things, Defendant was
told that ifhe consented to the referral, the Complainant would be advised that the
misconduct was primarily attributed to his substance abuse or mental health problems and
that the Committee referred the matter to LAP to address the underlying problem.
6.
The letter fmiher advised Defendant that if he successfully completed his
rehabilitation program with LAP, the Chair of the Grievance Committee may.order the
grievance to be dismissed. Although the refelTal and applicable rule (27 N.C.A.C.
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0112U) does not promise or imply to Defendant that his
grievance would be dismissed, the Grievance Committee's action in January 2008 to send
this matter to the Disciplinary Hearing Commission ignores what transpired between its
initial referral to LAP and its later referral to the DHC.
7.
The action of the Grievance Committee allowed Defendant to continue to
practice law for over two years although he had been accused of misappropriation.
8.
Defendant's conduct has caused significant harm or potential significant
harm to his former Finn and the Freilings, whom Defendant made unwitting participants
in his misconduct.
9.
Defendant's conduct has caused significant harm or potential significant
harm to the standing of the legal profession in the eyes of the public because it shows
disdain for his obligation as an attorney and citizen to obey the law.
10.
To that end, the Hearing Committee has carefully considered all of the
different fonlls of sanction available to it and finds that any sanction less than suspension
would not be appropriate in this case. The Hearing Committee has considered lesser
alternatives and finds that a public censure or reprimand would not be sufficient
discipline because ofthe gravity of the harm caused by the conduct of the Defendant to
the Finn, the legal profession, and to the Freilings.
11.
The Committee finds that because of the significant harm or potential
hann to the Freilings, the Firm, and to the profession, caused by Defendant, entry of any
Order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses that the Defendant has committed and would send the wrong

-5­

message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the
Bar. The only sanction in this case that can adequately protect the public is suspension of
the Defendant's license for a period of time that is stayed only upon Defendant's
compliance with certain conditions.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and the Conclusions with Respect to Discipline, the Hearing
Committee enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
The Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is
hereby suspended for two years. The suspension is stayed for a period oftwo years after
its effective date so long as Defendant complies with the following conditions.
(a)	

Defendant will not violate the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct or the laws of the United States, this state or any state
during his suspension;

(b)	

Defendant will keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home address in
writing within 10 days of any change;

(c)	

Defendant will respond to all comnllmications from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in the communication;

(d)	

Defendant will pay all Membership dues, fees and costs, as well as
Client Security Fund assessments and comply with all Continuing
Legal Education (CLE) requirements on a timely basis during the
stay of the suspension; and

(e)	

Defendant will pay the costs oftlus proceeding, including the costs
of Plaintiffs depositions, witl1in thirty (30) days of service upon
him of the statement of costs from the Office of Secretary.

(f)	

Within 90 days after service of this order, Defendant shall obtain
an evaluation by his psychiatrist, psychologist, or therapist,
approved by the Office of Counsel, for the purpose of detennining
his current mental and psychological state as well as the state of his
alcohol addiction. Defendant will follow any prescribed treatment
detem1ined to be necessary by his mental health professionaL
With respect to his treating counselor, psychologist, psychiatrist, or
therapist, Defendant, at his expense, will direct his mental health
professional to directly provide quarterly written reports to the
Office of Counsel describing his cunent treatment regimen,
compliance, and prognosis or treatment plan for the next qurn.1er

-6­

within 15 days of the end of each calendar quarter (i.e. by January
15, April 15, July 15, and October 15). Defendant will execute
written waivers and releases as necessary, authorizing the Office of
Counsel to confer with necessary persons for the purpose of
determining if Defendant has cooperated and complied with any
requirements of the treatment program. Defendant will continue
the treatment program during his period of suspension. As part of
the treatment Defendant is required to continue his voluntary
active participation in Alcoholics Anonymous as he has vollmtarily
chosen to do for a number of years. Defendant is required to retain
or obtain a mentor in the program who shall provide quarterly
reports to thc Office of Counsel on the same schedule as the mental
health professional's scheduled reports. These reports shall
address Defendant's participation and attendance.
(g)	

If Defendant resumes the private practice of law, he shall pennit
the State Bar to conduct random audits of all accolmts over which
he has signatory authority and into which client or fiduciary funds
have been deposited. Defendant shall provide the State Bar with
all documents requested by the Bar within five business days and
shall be solely responsible for the expense of complying with the
random audit request, which will not be conducted more tIlilll one
time in any 12 month period.

(h)	

If Defendant resumes the private practice of law within the two
year stay period, he shall retain, at his sole expense, a certified
public accOlmtant who shall provide semiannual written reports to
tile State Bar confimling that Defendant's trust accounts comply
with all the applicable provisions of the Revised Rilles of
Professional Conduct. The repOlts shall be received in the Office
of Counsel each July 1 and January 1 throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

2.
If the Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more ofthe conditions
referenced in Paragraph 1 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may
be revoked as provided in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1, Subchapter B, § .Ol14(x) ofthe North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
If the stay of the suspension is revoked, Defendant must comply with all
of the conditions set out in paragraph 1 above before seeking reinstatement of his license
to practice law.
4.
The Disciplinary Hearing COlmnission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .Ol14(x) of the
NOlih Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

-7­

Si~ed

this the

by the Ch~ wit1Ul~e cOj1sent of the other hearing committee members,
I (P day of
.p (J {t?1I1 ~V ,2008.

-8­

