(Pto55
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
9627AGR007

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

CURTIS O. HARRIS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRI~
..~.

On October 23, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Mr. J.E.S.
....~

..

Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ot~he North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After consi(f~ring th~ information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Cortunittee found probable
cause. Probable callcse is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee lllay deterinine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating fl:ictors. The
Gri~vance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. A~ chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this r~primand and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in'
which this duty is performed.
In February 1994, you undertook to draft. and record two or more deeds for Mr. J.E.S.
When you did not perform the services for which you had been retained, Mr. J.E.S. filed a
grievance against you with the 27A Judicial District Grievance Committee in August 1996.
Although you were cOlitacted by the local grievance committee and requested to respond to Mr.
J.E.S.' grievance, you failed to do so. Moreover, you did not respond to a letter of notice sent to
you by the N.C. State Bar on Aug. 1, 1997, reques;ting a response to the grievance. Your failure
to respond to the local committee and to the N.C. State Bar respecting Mr. J.E.S.' grievance
constituted a violation of Rule 1.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
miscpnduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it Will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depait from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State, Bar regarding the taxing of the adtninistrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ()fthis action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
~~

, Do"e and oroered, this

.

yJ.

day of

~997.

tL~

I

Ann Reed
.
~
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

