NORTH CAROLINA
ANSON COUNTY

: ':'\

r'·';"",

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
98 SP 23

:;: \ I
I

•

".,'.:

e,l :... ,....::

t

~

J '.

•

•

, \r'.."' •.•...
C ("
\ ...

I ..

1.

~

G(. . _. . . . -.. .~ -- .-,," ,., "'-" -,~,- . -.. -

I

IN RE MATTER OF DISCIPLINE
OF F. O'NEILl.. JONES

)
)
)
)
)

ATTORNEY AT LAW
Respondent

ORDER OF SUSPENSION

)
)

THIS CAUSE, coming on to be heard and being heard before the
undersigned Superior Court Judge presiding at the March 30, 1998 session of
Anson County Superior Court upon written notice and the Respondent, F. O'Neill
Jones, being present and represented by Kelly G. Williams, and the North
Carolina State Bar being repre$ented by Root Edmisten, Richard Feericf<
appearing for the North Carolina PALS program and as and agent with the North
Carolina State Bar, the Court finds the· following facts by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence:

I

1. The Respondent F. O'Neill Jones, is an attorney licensed to practice law .
in the State of North CarQlina.
2. That the Respc,mdent, F. O'Neill Jones appeared before the undersigned
for the trial of a case at the September 8, 1997 Criminal Session of Anson County
Superior Court while legally intoxicated resulting in the mistrial of that case.
3. That, following an in camera proceeding, a Consent Order in Camera
was entered by the undersigned, with the consent of the Respondent, 'out of
county, out of session and in chambers on October 31, 1997. A copy of this order
is attached hereto, and is incorporated herein by reference. This order provided
that consideratiQn of the suspension of the law license of F. O'Neill Jones was
stayed under the cQnditions specified therein which were consented to by the
Respondent.

1

.,..,.f.

,

\

r,",. . .

~;~,'

'

4. That the Respondent stipulates that, on 01: about March 11, 1998, the
Respondent admitted to the Honorable Ronald W. Burris that he had been
drinldng again but denied that he was impaired.

5. That; the Respondent stipulates thut, 011 or about March 11, 1998, the
Respondent refused to submit to an intoxilyzer test when requested to do so by
the Honorable Ronald W. Burris.

I

6. The Respondent's conduct is stich ~s to demean and bring into
disrepute and disgrace the practice and proression of attorney and to bring into
con,empt the adminsictration of justice.
I

I

: BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF FACT, the Court
CONCLUDES AS A MATTER OF LAW:
, 1. The Respondent has violated the conditions of the consent order
entered on October 31, 1997 in that the Respondent has:
a. stipulated and admitted that he had consumed alcohol on or
about March 11, 1998.
b. stipulated and admiUed that he failed to submit to an intoxilyzer
test on or about March 11, 1998 after being requested to do so by the Honorable
Ron~ld W. Burris.
2. The Respofldent has engaged in conduct which is prejudicial to the
administration of justice.
3. The Respondent's conduct is such as to warrant suspension of his law
license
. I by this Court.

.

I

NOW THEREFORE IT IS ORDERED:
1. F. O'NEILL JONES is hereby sllspended from the practice of law and
profession as an attorney in the State of North Carolina for a periord -of three (3)
year~ under the following conditions, effective April 2, 1998.
a. the respondent may apply to the court for a stay of up to two
years and six months of this suspension upon successfully
demonstrating the following:
(1) that he has successfully compJeted a twenty-eight day
inpatient treatment plOytalll at Samaritan Colony in
Ellerbe, N.C.

2

I

(2) that he has not consumed any alcohol for at least six
months prior to his r~ql!e~t for a stay as evidenced by
successful compliaJlce wilh the monitoring requirements
of National Confederation of Professional Services or
other like service approved by the North Carolin~ State
Bar. Any failure of the Respondent to take a test or any
positive tes't must irl1merHt1t.ely be reported to the .North
Carolina State Bar by the 1II0ilitoring service.

I

(3) Any stay entered by the G'ourt Will be conditioned upon the
Respondent's continued abstinence from the use of
alcohol as evidenced by Repondent'scontinued .
complicmce listed itt pal ayl aph (2) above. Failure to
comply with the mortitoring agreement requirements, a
copy of which is to hf:\ ~t~~~hetJ to this order within fortyfive days of lhe dale of tllis oreler and is incorporated by
referenc~ herein, or a positive test result shall cause any
stay of suspension to he immp.diately dissolved.
(4) If no stay of the suspension ordered herein is entered,or
if a stay is entered ~nd ~Hhs9qtlently dissolved, th~n
Respondent must dcmlolH.;liale lhat he has complied with
the monitoring agreement requirements and abstained
from any alcohol Use or consumption for a periord of at
least six months as a cOlluilion of reinstatement as an
Attorney with the North Carolina State Bar~

1

2. Respondent shall transmit his license certificate and membership card
to the North Carolina State Bar, P.O. Box 25908, Raleigh, N.C. 27611 within fortyfive days of,the date of this order.
3. The Respondent shall not practice law in North Carolina unless and,
until his license is restored by the North Carolina State Bar.
4. The Court retains jurisdiction over' this matter.
5. The Clerk of Superior CQurt of Anson County shall forthwith certify a
copy of this Order·to the North Carolina StCli~ Bal'.
6. That portion of the prior order of the ~Ol-'rt sealing file number 97 SPC
53 is re$cinded and will be reuenom:naled az 07 sr 63, and the entire contents
are public record.

, :,
I
,

'

3

.------~---":'!",.~--...--.....---------------------.-.--~----.----

This the 2nd day of April, '199B.

I

I

I
flC)3·\i
<0
\lJi.lty., -A"O

1" • "

I

~.

~.

•1

STATE OF NORTH CAROLI1'.l4~ ,.' (' ';IN tilE 9gNE.RAL COURT OF JUSTICE
COUNTY OF ANSON
..... SUl'ERlUR COURT DIVISION
.'
97 SPC 5"6
;'.:- IN THE MATTER OIl':
F. O'Neil Jones

I

I

ATTORNEY ATLA"'.

r !

CONSENT ORDER
IN CAMERA.
.r~1.'"
..

,....

.

~/~/Itt INJrL.

The above captioned lawyer F. O~Neil.Tone!; (hereirl'after "Jones")being before··die
Court for the trial ofa case at the September 8th, 1997 C(-dl Session of Anson County
Superior Court and it appearing to the Court" lhat R(;;spolitle~ll Jones was legally ),Jnder the
influence of alcohol white appearing in Court for the purpose of representing a client in the
trial of a case and it fut'th~r appf."f>rillg to .tho Cow·t th!1t justice and f~mess required the
mistrial of that case because of Jones' condition; ami it further appearing to the Court
upon the representation of Jones that he admits to suffering from the .condition of
alcoholism, that he had consumed alcohol shortly bCfrJIC appearing in Court and that he
was legally under the influence of alcohoi wllile ill Court; and that further that he is
presently seeking to work with the North Carolina. State Bar's Positive Action for Lawyers
Committee (hereinafter lipALS") in regnrd to dealing 'with this chronic condition in ;;t way
th;;tt will not affect his ability to practice law, and Jones agrees that in order to do this a
period of trea.tment is necessary; and further the Court having called PALS into this matter
and PALS requesting to the Court that this m~tter he c0tlsidered Hot only on the basis of
the Court's inherent authority to 9iscipline lawyers appeal iug before it but also pursuant to
North Carolina General Statutes Sections 84-21 and 84-18 and 27 North Carolina Admin.
Code 1(0), Section .0600 upon the r~qtlest ofth~ PALS Cornmittee onile North Carolina
State Bar, and Jones consenting Lo the COUll to Lhe cllli) oflhisOrder out of session and
out of county and th~ Respondent aJId PALS vresenliug to the Court the following:
1. That the Respondent Jones is an attorney licensed to practice law in North
Carolina aJid is a resident of A1150n COt lIlly, N ()l t 11 r:. :.wliuG <LillI is subject to the inherent
dis«jp!bary authority of the Court a1ll1thc rules a~lJ Icgulatiolls of the North Carolina
State Bar.
.
2. Over the past several years Respondent has been the subject of efforts by the
PALS COlIuuittee to assist him in obtllh~;n.G trentm~llf n)r amI ruresting his active chemical
addiction to alcohol; .and that as a part of these eHurts Respondent previously attended
Amethyst for inpa,ti'en.t treatment for alcoholism and entered into a rehabilitation con~act
with PALS which provides among other things he wi!! totally refrain from the use of all
miIld altering substances including aleohoi except and unless prescribed by a physician
with knowledge of hi~ addkti.\T~ dispns~, f.!l~t he '""iJI flt.ten~ ~.certnin number of AA
meetings each week, that !le will sub1llilto a,llll PdY fur 1ClUOU11l urine screens and/or
breathalyzers at the direction of bjs monitor. Respondent has in fact failed to comply with
the terms of this agreeJl'cllt in ~'~~1I'fP(,~r.:; ~)th~r thi!1g~ ;nd most significantly be has failed
to refrain from the use of alcohol.

.

'.

3. This order is entered in lieu of other more direct discipline in order to provide a
means for Respondent's recovery program from active addiction to be monitored and for
other appropriate relief under N. C. Admin. Code 1 (D), Sectiull .0600 and to give the
Respondent further opportunity to arrest his active chemical addiction by complying with
a needed program of treatment for his disease; now therefore,
· IT IS HEREBY, ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED, that
con~ideration of suspension of Respondent's license to practice In w in the State of North
Carblina is' hereby stayed under the fol~owing condiLiulls:
1. For a period of two years fi'om tlllS date as a c(,~l'.Htion of the staying of this action the
Respondent shall maintain the tollowing prog!altl of leCOVf;::JY:

I

A. \Vithin five days of tile entry ofthh; order oi)iHin tuJjllission to ali alcoholism
inpatient treatment center and complele. thefe a program of li calment fot alcoholism
lastmg at least 28 consecutive days.

B. Totally refram from the use of all mind altering substances including
prespription medications and alcohol except as spcdlkully 111cscribed or approved by
Respondent Jones's physician. Prior to the use of allY prescribed drugs, not prescribed by
his physician, Respondent will inform the physician of hi~ participation in PALS,
communicate the identity of his physician to PALS and have his physician consult with
PALS before any such prescription medications are ust;d
Respondent.

uy

C. Following inpatient treatment the ResI'nndpnt will meet with Tammy Bell, a
relapse prevention specialist located in Charioue 1'UI all evaluation of what additional
treatment needs he may need and her recommendations for treatment and relapse
prevention shall be sent by letter to PALS and shall become a part of his required
treatment program as required by this Order. Unless Ms. Bell recommends otherwise
ther~after Respondent will meet with a certified sl!b;'ln!lc~ nbur.e counselor approved by
p AL~, at least once each week for addiclion's couilsdillg. The Ilespolldent will provide
records of his attendance at such counseling sessillHs sigu(;u by his counselor to his PALS
monitors. This counseling may be discontinued upon the agreement of the counselor and
PALS that such counseling is no longer needed by respondent. This counseling may be
modified in whole or in part on whatever basis is necessary to be congruent with the
recommendations of118. Bell.

I

D. The Respondent shall attend AA/NA meetings at least five times a week.
Records of hislher attendance shall be submitted on the first of P,Bch month to his PALS
monitors. Respondent agrees to join a home group flrld hrr.-e and maintain a sponsor and
an active relation with hls sponsor at all times. ReSiJullJ~l.il agrees to actively work the
twelv;e steps ofAlcohqlics Anonymous. ] he identity oi his spOdsor shall be
comn;lUnicated to PALS and Respondent authorizes .PALS to communicate with his

I

sponsor regarding the status of his recovery. Richard Feerick and Bill Capel shall serve as
Respondent's PALS monitors. Respondent shall upon completing inpatient treatment
communicate in phone or in person with his monitors weekly until and unless his monitors
agree 011 a different schedule. ,

I

I

E. Submit to and pay for random urine andlor hlood screens andlor breathalyzers andlor
saliva tests at the direction of the monitofs. Respondent shall be responsible for seeing that
such screening/tests occur. Respondent shall notifY the screening agency or person taking
the sample prior to the tllking of blood ::Ind/or ur;n~ m; to any medical prescriptions or any
other medication currently being used by him. Respondent shall provide his monitors with
a telephone number where a me~sage can be left requesting that Respondent report for a
screening/test. Failure of Respondenl' to r~port for ~ ~wr~~('ning/test within eight hours ofa
request shall be deemed a positi ve lcstl e~;ults. Similali y a refusal by Respondent to take
such a screenltest shall for purposes of this Order be deemed a positive test results.
Respondent may use the random testing. provided as a part of his probation as a way to
partially comply with this provision, but the obligation remains on Respondent to see that
such random tests are done at least monthly and thAt the r~flults of such testing are timely
submitted to PALS. The lucalion at which the giving of urine samples shall occur will be
detennined by Bill Capel or such other monitor as may be designated by·P ALS. Upon
receipt by PALS of a positive akohnl ~nct/or (lI1Jg tp~t r~p(lrt, Respondent agrees that .this
Order may be amended to include auditional provisions considered by PALS in the best
interest of the lawyer and the public and Respondent hereby consents to same. Respondent
stipulates that the results of ally alcohol and/or urug lcsl1llay be admitted into evidence as
reported without the necessity of fhrther authentication in any proceeding authorized by
the PALS rules andlor brought as a part of tltis action.
2. The stay provided by this Order may be terminated so that consideration ofthe
suspension of Respondellt's license to practice Illf!~' rH"r:ecd al'any time by a showing
before the undersigned Judge or any Resident SupeJior Cuurt Judge of the 20th Judicial
District that the Responclent has failed to follow the terms of his recovery program as set
out in this Order andlor failed to comply with,the terms' of monitoring by PALS pursuant
to this Order, andlor tested positive for alcohol andior any other mood altering drug
(except such drugs as might be prescribed by a physician who has consulted with PALS
and is aware of the Respondent's addictive status).
3. The Court's jurisdiction in this matter will be continued. The Respondent shall report
back to the Court 011 the first and second alUtiversuries of the date of tltis Order as to
his/her compliance with this order and progress in recovery.
This Order shall be med under seal. A copy of this Order shall be s~rved upon
Respondent and upon the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.

TZ ~ (J fMl1J
.JJ'':"l;~~~a ~ f)1A'ih
We

") I

-.J

day of~---, 1997.

Superior ctiJ.~rt Judge Presiding

\

.

.

"

I

J:hulYJ
,;' Ji '",
--.u:::- ~.
J

Positive Action for Lawyers Committee
oft~e North Car tina S~te Bar.....
By .'

~

.

i'

!

'

/

/ ,-/-. /
/

.,'

- .. '

_.:;j

_-4
. ....'

t/

/"

/.

.;

I

I

