[28'/5
WAKE COUNTY
OF THE

. NORTH CAROLINA

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97 DHC6

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
vs.

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF
LAW AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

BARBARA MORENO, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was calendared for trial and heard on the 26th day of September, 1997 before
a duly appointed committee Qfthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission consisting of Jo~eph G.
Madrey, Chair, Vernon A. Russell, and B. Stephen Huntley. The Plaintiff was represented by
Clayton W. Davidson III, Deputy Counsel. The Defendant was represented by James B.
Maxwell.
, BASED on the evidence presented at the trial of this ml;ltter, and the pleadings and pretrial stipUlations of record, the committee makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

All parties are properly before the H~aring Committee and the Hearing Committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant and the subj~ct matter.

2.

The Plaintiff, the North Carolina..State Bar (the "State Bar") is.a body duly organized
under the laws of the State of North Carolina and is the proper body to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted to it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of
North Carolina and the rules and regulations of the State Bar promulgated pursuant
thereto (th~ "State Bar Rules .and Regulations").

3.

Barbara Moreno was admitted to practice law in the state of North Carolina in 1985 and
was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina,·subject to the State Bar Rules and Regulations and the Rules ofProfessionaJ
CC,mduct of North Carolina.

4.

For more than two years and through approximately December 1988, Barbara Moreno
practiced law in High Point, North Carolina, with the law finn of Hayworth, Riggs, Kuhn
& I:Iayworth.

I

I,
00323

,

.

In J~uary 1989, Barbara Moreno opened an office for the practice oflaw under the style
of The Legal Alternative, but did not begin an active practice tintil August 1989.

5.

6.

A trust account was opened on behalf of The Legal Alternative at First Citizens Bank on
August 14, 1989, and was designated as Account #4012299835 .

I

.7.

On October 20, 1993, all banking operations of The Legal Alternative were transferred to
Branch Banking & Trust Company in High Point, North Carolina, with the following
accounts:

8.

9.

10.

A.

The Legal Alternative Operating Account (the "Operating Account")
Acct. #5113164494

B.

The Legal Alternative Trust Account (the "Trust Account")
Acct. #5113164486

C.

The Legal Alternative business regular savings account
AcCt. #5412170727

I

Shortly after Barbara Moreno began practicing law under the name and style. of The
Leg~ Alternative, The Legal Alternative began direct mail advertising and solicitations
f()r individuals who were charged with traffic offenses or infractions in the various
counties ,in which The Legal Alternative was practicing.
!

From the period beginning 1989 up to and through 1995, The Legal Alternative's
attorney staff grew to as many as nine attorneys and The Legal Alternative was
representing citizens in the District Courts in more than 35 counties for traffic offenses
and infractions.
Initially (1989 and for several years subsequent thereto) The Legal Alternative and its
attorneys were practicing in counties wherein the' practice Was to allow a plea to be
entered and then a period of time, up to 30 days, in which the defendant could pay any
fine or cost imposed as a result ofa traffic citation or infraction. In those circumstances
:md during that period of time, when a pr:>sp~ctive client wo~ld contact The Legal
Alternative pursuant to one of its letter solicitations, a fee (generally $150) would be
quoted and upon'receipt of that fee, The Legal Alternative would make an appearance on
behalf of the client, ultimately negotiate or enter a plea to dispose of the case, and .the
client would then be notified that the case had been closed and that he/she had until a date
certain to pay the respective Clerk of the Superior Court any cost and fine that might be
imposed.

I

11. . As The Legal Alternative's service area expanded and certainly by 1994, many of the
I
counties in which it waS representing clients had a different practice in place and required
that any fine or court cost be paid at the time the case was disposed of, or within a
relatively short period of time thereafter (normally, less than one week). Alamance

I

County, North Carolina was one of those counties requiring payment of the fine and cost
to be made contemporaneously with the date· of disposition or shortly .thereafter~
. 12.

I

13.

In those circumstance$ in which a prospective client would cOlltact the office of The
Legal Alternative for representation in a traffic matter in a coooty in which the cOst and
fine were required to be paid contemporaneously with the disposition of the case or
shortly thereafter, the client would be quoted a "flat fee" which would include the $150
fee to The Legal Alternative, the $60 of anticipated cost, and any fin~ that might be
anticipated. ' '.
When the prospective client retained The Legal Alternative to represent hitn/her by
sending in hislher check for that full amount, that check Was then deposited into The
Legal Alternative's Operating Account (BB&T Acct. #5113164494), rather than the Trust
Account.
A.

The Operating Account contained earned fees a,rtd other funds of the Defendant or
The Legal Alternative, and was not designated as an accolint which held funds in
a fiduciary capacity.

B.

In the period between at least 1993 - 1995, the funds of more than 3,000 clients,
which included fines and court costs to be paid on behalf of the clients in addition
to fees to The Legal Alternative, were deposited into the Operating Account and
were not deposited into the Trust Account. Exhibit 11 is a list produced by the
Defendant of all clients of The Legal Alternative who had traffic matters in the
time frame referred to herein. The highlighted names are those of clients who
paid anticipated fines and court costs to The Legal Alternative at the same time
they paid their fee, but prior to the time that the ampunts were due to any Clerk of
Superior Court. These funds were deposited into the Operating Account.

14.

In March 1994, Bruno DeMolli of the North Carolina State Bar conducted a, random audit
of Defendant's trust account practices. The audit revealed that Defendant received funds
with a mix of trust and non-trust funds which were not.always deposited into the trust
account of the Defendant. The report further indicated that the respondent did not always
indicate the client balance. On March 22, 1994, Defendant wrote a letter to Mr. DeMolli
which stated that they had implemented procedures to alleviate the defici~ncies alleged.
Included in that letter is a statement that Defendant wanted to make sUre that a,ll funds
which needed to be deposited into the trust account were so deposited. She also indicated
an intention to have current client ledger cards.

15.

On June 18, 1994, Dr. Amin N. Bascharon, of West Chicago, Illinois, received a citation
in Alamance County, North Carolina, for speeding 70 mph in a 55 mph zone. He Was
ordered to appear in Alamance County District Court on July 18, 1994. Thereafter, Dr.
Bascharon received an advertisement for legal services from The Legal Alternative.

I

16.

Dr. Bascharon contacted the offices of The Legal Alternative prior to July 18, 1994, to
request that the office represent him in connection with his traffic matter pending in
Alamance County District Court. He was told that a flat fee of $210 would be required
(which sum included an attorney's fee of$150 and the anticipated court cost of$60). Dr.
Bascharon indicated that he would retain The Legal Alternative to represent him, and on
June 24, 1994, he faxed a copy of his citation to the office of The Legal Alternative and
on that date a file was opened in his name. No check accompanied that fax.

I

was

17.

No payment
received from Dr. Bascharon by The Legal Alternative prior to July 18,
1994, and the matter was continued by one of the attorneys from that office in Alamance
District Court on that date until August 25, 1994. When no payment had been received
by that date, one of the attorneys from The Legal Alternative again appeared on Dr.
Bascharon's behalf and continued the matter until September 8, 1994.

I

18.

When no funds had been received on behalf of Dr. Bascharon by September 8, 1994, or
deposited into the operating account of The Legal Alternative, no one appeared on his
behalf and he was "called and failed" in the District Court of Alamance County on
September 8, 1994.

19.

Thereafter, and on either September 12 or 13, 1994, The Legal Alternative did receive a
check from Dr. Bascharon which was dated August 26, 1994, in the amount of $2 1O.
That check Was deposited into the Operating Account of The Legal Alternative, as was its
practice at that time.

i

; A.

B.

20.

I

The Bascharon funds were client funds received by the Defendant in a fiduciary
capacity.
In September 1994, the Defendant did not maintain a separate Trust Account
ledger card for the Bascharon funds. A ledger card was maintained which showed
the date ofpayment(s) made, but this was not a trust account ledger card and there
was no card which reflected any amount held in trust on beh~lf of Dr. Bascharon.
The re.cords maintained by the Defendant to identify the Bascharon funds were:
the ledger card, a deposit ticket, an adding machine tape and a receipt book.

I

i On October 19, 1994, Karen Fisher, then an attorney with The Legal Alternative,

appeared in Alamance County District Court, petitioned the court to reopen Dr.
, Bascharon's matter, was allowed to do so, and at'that time was allowed to enter a
negotiated plea of speeding 64/55 mph. Dr. BaScharon was ordered to pay the court cost
. of$60.

i

I

I

I

21.

, At that time, The Legal Alternative had enough cases in Alamance County that the office
practice was to issue one check for a series of cases, with the amount to be filled in by the
attorney appearing that day, or to issue several checks on one day, made payable to the
i Clerk of Superior Court, on behalf of a number of individual cliehts.

I

22.

On October 25, 1994, the records of The Legal Alternative (its operating account at
BB&T) reflect that seven checks, Nos. 3144 through 3150, were made payable in various
amounts to the Clerk of Superior Court of Alamance County.

23.

Check #3150 is designated in the check registry of The Legal Alternative as being in the
amount of $60 for the court case of Dr. Bascharon.

24.

Kare~ Fisher (or one of the other attorneys from The Legal Alternative) went to
Alamance County on October 25, 1994, and thereafter a notation was written on the file
of Dr. Baschardn indicating: "Pd 10/25 #3150". This notation indicated that oh October
25, 1994, the court cost in the amount of$60 had been paid to the Clerk of the Superior
Court of Alamance County with The Legal Alternative's operating accpunt check #3150,.,

25.

On that date, or shortly thereafter, Dr. Bascharon was potified by The Legal Alternative
that his case had been disposed of and that the court cost had been paid.

26.

Check #31 SO has never cleared the BB8?T operating account of The Legal Alternative.

27.

The Legal Alternative subsequently altered its practices and ceased depositing court costs
and fines paid to the Legal Alterna,tive into its 1:ru$t account.
'

28.

On or about May 16, 1995, the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles notified
Dr. Bascharon that his driving privileges in North CaroUna would be suspended
indefinitely, effective July 15, 1995, for his failure to have paid court costs which had
been ordered to be paid on October 19, 1994.

29:

Dr. Bascharon thereafter contacted the office of the Clerk of Superior Court in Alamance
County in order to determine the cauSe for this notification and to further determine what
steps he needed to take to correct the situation. Ultimately, Dr. Bascharon paid a total of
$160 in addition to what he had paid The Legal Alternative in September 1994 in order to
have the matter closed in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Alamance County
and the appropriate cost, restoration fees and other charges paid.

30.

On June 22, 1995, Louise 'Wilson, Clerk of Superior Court of Alamance County, notified
the North Carolina State B~ of this situation by letter, with a copy of that letter to The
Legal Alternative.

31.

On Ju,ne 27, 1995, Barbara Moreno contacted Dr. Bascharon by phone~ discussed-with
him the circumstances that had occurred in this partic1l1ar situation, and ultimately issued
to him a check fro~ The Legal Alternative to Dr. Bascharon in the amount of$380. This
check included the full $210 Dr. Bascharon had sent to The Legal Alternative by his
check dated August 26, 1994; the $160 that he had been required to pay to the Alamance
County Clerk of Superior Court andlor the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles
to clear his record; and an additional $10 to cover the cost of any long distance calls made
by Dr. Bascharon as result of this situation.

I

I

I

32.

At the present time, The Legal Alternative has two attorneys: Barbara Moreno, whose
practice is limited to Guilford County (the High Point and Greensboro divisions),
Davidson County, and R~dolph County, and Elizabeth Krabil, who joined the office
Monday, September 22, 1997.

33.

The Defendant was reprimanded by a Hearing Committee of the DHC on March 3, 1995,
in 95 DHC 4.

34.

The Defendant was censured by the DHC on July 9, 1996, in 95 DHC 14.

35.

the Defendant was issued' a Letter of Warning within three years itnmediately preceding
the filing of the Complaint in this matter, having received a Letter of Warning from the
Grievance Committee dated January 12, 1995 in 94G0471(1II)R.

36.

The Defendant was issued a Letter of Warning within three years im1nediately preceding
the filing of the Cotnplaint in this matter, having received a Letter ofWatning from the
Grievance Committee on January 11, 1996, in 94G0400(III)R.

37.

The following aggravating factors exist:
A.
Prior disciplinary offenses;
B.
MUltiple offenses;
C.
Substantiai experience in the practice of law;
D.
Issuance of a letter of warning to the defendant within the three years immediately
preceding the filing of the complaint.

38.

The following mitigating factors exist:
A.
Timely good faith efforts to rectify consequences of misconduct;
B.
Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;
C.
Delay in disciplinary proceedings through no fault of the defendant attorney.

3.9.
i

I

I

The Plailitiff has abandoned the claims in the Complaint for violations of Rules 6 and 7.1
of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based on the foregoing fin.dings of fact, the C()mmittee makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.

The parties have stipulated and the Committee finds that the forgoing actions constitute
grounds for discipline pursuant to NC GEN STAT § 84-2~(b)(2) in that the Defendant
violated Rule 10.1 and Rule 10.2 of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
I

I

2.

The panel finds that the mitigating factors do not outweigh the aggravating factors.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.

That the Defendant is suspended from the practice of law for six months, which
suspension shall be stayed for eighteen months on the following conditions:

A.

The Defendant, at Defendant's expense have a licensed North Carolina Certified
Public Accountant approved by the Office of Counsel of the NoJih Carolina State
Bar certify that her current practices for handling cliertt trust funds, including but
not limited to funds received for anticipated fines and court costs for handling
traffic matters, complies with Rules 1.15-1 to 1.15.. 3 of the North Carolina
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Such certificat,on shall be provided to
the North Carolina State Bar within ninety days of the entry of the court's order in
this matter, provided that the Office of Counsel shall have the authority to grant
reasonable extensions of this time period.

B.

During the period of the suspension, the Defendant shall submit to the North
Carolina State Bar copies of her monthly trust account bank statements within
fifteen days from the time that she receives such statements.

C.

The Defendant shall submit to random audits by the North Carolina State 8ar of .
any trust account that she maintains as part of her practice, and any operating
account that she maintains in connection with her practice oflaw in North
Carolina, if the North Carolina State Bar deems it.necessary to conduct such an·
audit.

D.

The Defendant not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct after the date of the
entry of the order in this matter. Any violation of the Rwes shall be grounds to.
activate the stay.

E.

The Defendant not violate the laws of the State of North Carolina or ofthe United
f:tates.

I

I

2.TJie Defendant is taxed with the costs of this matter as assessed by the Secretary.
Si!i?l by
day of

~hair wiJ!Yh~ cons~nt of the other hearing committee members thi~h

M(ZtI.t1J6., 1 9 9 < f .

.

I
···.OQ·3Z9

