\I0L11
WAKECOUNTY

-ISOPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
ORTH CAROliNA STATE BAR
97 DHC 31

'rL..l'<:'"",-

NORtHCAROU

)
THE NORm CAROUNA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
)
)
ALEXIS C. PEARCE, JR.
)
)
ATIORNEY
Defendant' )

FINDINGS OF FACT
AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISOPUNE

I This matter was heard on the 6th day of March, 1998, before a hearing committee
of the :Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of James R. Fox, Chair; Fred H.
Moody, Jr. and Anthony E. Foriest. The defendant, Alexis C. Pearce, Jr. failed to appear.
,The Pl~tiff was represented by Gayton W. Davidson, III. Prior to the hearing in this
matter, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Entry of Order of Discipline Following Default. The
Hearing Committee elected to reserve ruling ,ort this motion and to hear evidence
presented by the Plaintiff in support of the allegations in the Complaint without regard
to Defendant's default. Based solely upon the pleadings and ,the evidence introduced at
the he~g, without regard to the default, the hearing committee hereby enters the
following:

FINDINGS OF FACT

I

I

1.
All parties have been duly served, noticed for this hearing, and all parties
are properly before this court.
2.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (the "State Bar") is a body duly
organized urtder the laws of the State of North Catolina and is the' proper boc;ly to bring
this proceeding under the authority granted to it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes
of North Carolina and the rules and regulations of the State Bat promulgated pursuant
thereto (the "State Bat Rules and Regulations").
3.

The Defendant, Alexis C. Pearce Jr., (the "Defendant") was admitted to the
State Bar in or about 1985 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at

1

I
00342

law licensed to practice in North Carolma subject to the State Bar Rules and Regulations
and the Rules of Professional Conduct of North Carolina.
4.
During all or a part of th~ relevant periods ref~rred to herein, the
Defendant was engaging in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and
maintained a law office in ~aleigh, North Carolina.

I

5.
On or abe.ut November 29, 1994, Emma L. Robinson ("Robinson") was
injured in an automobile accident. Robinson retained the Defendant to handle the
matter.
6.
Subsequently, in mid-1995, the Defendant began failing to return
telephone calls and failing to keep Robinson apprised of the status of her matter.
7.
On.or about January 1996, Defendant received on behalf of Robinson ~
check fu. the amount of $2,500.00 (the "PIP Check") which was a "PIP" payment and
was intended to cover the medical payments portion of Robinson's policy.
8.

The PIP Check was made payable to Emma Robinson.

9.
At the time that he received the PIP Check, the Defendant instructed his
then secretary, Emma Brown ("Brown") to place the PIP Check in the file. He did not
instruct his secretary or anyone else to deposit the check in his trust account, to notify
Robinson of the receipt of the check, or to forward the check to Robinson, and the
Defendant did not personally take any of these actions.

I

10.
In November 1996, the Defendant was informeq. of the grievance brought
a,gainst him by Robinson. At that time, the Defendant believed that the PIP Check was
still in his file and had not been deposited into the trust account.
11.
There is no evidence indicating that from January 1996 when the
Defendant received the $2,500 check until the present, the Defend~t has taken any
further action to negotiate or settle Robinson's claim.
12.
Defendant maintained a trust account at First Union Bank, account .
number 28886 (the "Trust Account"). Defendant was the only person with signatory
authority over the Trust Account.
.
On or about February 26, 1996, Brown who was then a nortlawyer
13.
employed, retained by, or associated with Defendant deposited the PIP Check into the
trust account.

2

I
00343

: 14.
Beginning in September 1995 through August 1996, Brown wrote
approximately 45 checks (the "Brown Checks") totaling approximately $4,530 from the
Trust Account either to herself or to Oefendant.
,15.
Neither Defendant nor Brown had sufficient funds to which they were
entitled in the Trust Account to cover the Brown Checks.
16.
Funds 'of other clients, including but not limited to the funds of Robinson
were contained in the Trust Account, and were used to cover the Brown Checks.
17. . Defe~dant did not authorize Brown to write the Brown Checks, and
Oef~ndant did.not benefit from the Brown Checks.

I

18.
Defendant failed to exercise sufficient supervision of Brown.' S handling of
the Trust Account to ensure compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
19.
Defendant failed to reconcile or review the reconciliation of the Trust
Account at least quarterly, which would have revealed the defalcations by Brown.
20.
Defendant did not maintain sufficient records to meet the requirements of
Rule 10.2 of the Rules of Professional Conduct, including but not limited to a journal of
receipts, a journal of disbursements, and a file or ledger card on each client who had
funds
in the trust account.
,
; 21.
BroWn.

Defendant has not made restitution for the amounts wrongfully taken by

: Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
foHowing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the Defendant and the subject matter.
2. The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b) in that the Def~ndant
viola,ted the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)
In violation of Rules 10.1(c), 10.2(a), and 10.2(e), the Defendant failed to
deposit the client funds in his trust account, failed to notify Robinson of the receipt of
the check, and failed to deliver the funds to Robinson or other persons on Robinson's
behalf.

3

I
00344

(b)
In violatjon of Rule 6(b)(1), the Defendant failed to return telephone calls
or keep Robinson apprised of the status of the matter.
(c)
In violation of Rule 6(b)(3), the Defendant failed to act reasonably
diligently and promptly in ~dling the matter.
.

I

In violation of Rules 3.3(a) and 3.3(b), the Defend~t failed to undertake
(d)
reasonable efforts to ensure that Brown's conduct was compatible with Defendant's
professional obligations.

(e)
In violation of Rule 10.2(d), the Defendant failed to reconcile the trust
account balances of all clients at least quarterly.

(f)
In violation of Rule lO.2(c), the Defendant failed to maintain the minimum
records of funds receiveq and di$bursed from the Trust Account.
3.
The Plaintiff failed to p~ove by clear cogent and convincing evidence that
the Defendant had violated Rules 6(b)(2), 7.1 (a) (1), and 7.2(a)(2) of the North Carolina
Rul~s of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
~vidence and arguments at trial concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
.
committee hereby makes the additional: .
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPUNE
1. The Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

I

a.

b.

The Defendant engaged in multiple violations of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
.
The Defendant had substantial experience in the practice of law.

2. The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

The Defendant has no prior disciplinary record.

3. The aggravating facto~s outweigh the mitigating factors.
In addition to the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
of Fact Regarding Diacipline, all of which were based solely on the pleadings and .
evidence presented at trial without regard to the· Entry of Default, the He~g
Committee. rules as follows:

4

00345

PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR ENTRY OF ORDER OF DISCIPliNE FOLLOWING
DEFAULT
'In considering Plaintiff's Motion for Entry of Order of Discipline Following
Default, the Committee considered the 'pleadings, arguments and the affidavits filed by
the Plcpntif~ and makes the following additional findings:
1.
Default was entered by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar following
servic¢ by p:ublication on January 22, 1998.
.

,

2
:The Defendant was notified in a telephone conversation on January 30, 1998 by
Oaytqn W. Davidson III, that a complaint had been filed againstI:Um, that he had been
served by publication, no answer had been received, that a default had been entered,
and that a motion for the entry of an order following the default had been filed.

I

3.
The Defendant was served by certified mail for which Defendant personally
signed: on February 2, 1998 with copies of a SUIIUIionS, Complaint, Motion for Entry of
Default, Entry of Default, Motion for Entry of Order of Discipline Following Default,
and AfPdavit Supporting Service of Process by Publication.
4.
The Oefendant failed to file answer or other responsive pleading and failed to
file any motion to set aside the entry of default after receiving actual notice that default
had been entered.
I

5.
Default was entered a second time following service of process by certified mail
on Mru.:ch 2,1998.
6.

By virtue of the Entry of Default, all allegations of the complaint are deemed

admitt~d.

7.
Defendant was provided notice of the hearing on March 6, 1998, by U.S. Mail by
the Oerk of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission; and failed to appear at the hearing.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact Regarding Plaintiff's Motion for Entry of Order
of Discipline Following Default, the Plaintiff's Motion for Entry of Order of Discipline
Following Oefault is hereby GRANTED.
The following Order of Discipline is entered based the Findings of Fact,
Conc1u$ions of Law and Findings of Fact Regarding DiScipline which were based on the
pleadings, evidence, and arguments presented at the hearing on this matter without
regard ~o the Entry of Default. As an alternative basis, the committee finds that the
following Order of Discipline is appropriate based on the Plaintiff's Motion for Entry of

5

I

Order of Discipline Following Default. Each of the foregoing b~es for the entry of the
Order of Discipline standing alone would support the Order of Discipline without
regard to the other. On these two independent bases the committee makes the
following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, Alexis C. Pearce, Jr., is hereby suspended'fromthe practice of
law for a period of three years. The suspension shall become effective thirty (30) days
after the date of the service of this order upon the Defendant.
.
2. After six (6) Illonths following the date the suspensjon takes effect, the
Defendant may make application to a d11ly appointed conunittee of the DIsciplinary
Hearing Commission to stay the reInainder of the suspension. The application shall
include a written explanation as to the reasons that the Defendant failed to appear and
defend this· action. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission, in its discretion, may stay
the suspension for the balance of the term of the suspension if the following conditions
and any other conditions deemed appropriate by such duly appointed committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission have been met:

a.
The Defendant has made restitution for all amounts wrongfully taken
from his trust account, and has presented evidence to the Office of Counsel of the North
, Carolina State Bar that all clients have received all funds or had funds p~d on their .
behalf that were retained or required to be retained by Defendant in a fiduciary capacity
as of the date of this order.

I

b.
The Defendant has satisfied all Continuing Leg~ Education requirements
contained In the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, and has paid all
.
amounts due and owing to the Board of Continuing Legal Education.
c.
The Defendant has paid any and all costs assessed against the Defendant
in this matter.
d.
The Defendant has paid any membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments due and owing to the North Carolina State Bar.
e.
The Defendcmt has demonstrated by clear, cogent and convinc~g
evidence that he is competent and capable of practicing law and that there is not a .
substantial risk that he will neglect client matters in the future in the manner that he has
neglected this disciplinary proceeding.
3.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission shall retain jurisdietion to impose
additional conditions during the period of the stay. The Discip~inary Hearing

6

I

Commission shall retain jurisdiction to require the Defendant to submit to any
psychic~.tric or other evaluations as may be reasonably necessary to insure that there is
no riskto the public in.granting the stay.
During the period of any stay of the suspension, as continuing conditions
4.
of the s,tay of the suspension, the Defendant shall comply with the following conditions
in addition to any other conditions imposed pursuant to paragrap~ 3 above:
j

,',

I,

a.
.The Defendant, at the expense of the Defendant, shall have any trust
account maintained by Defendant audited by a Certified Public Accountant approved
by the pffice of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar at least quartedy during the
first year of suspension, and once a year after that. A report of the audit shall be
receivep by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar on or before the last day of
March,. June, Septem.ber, and December of the first year that the stay remains in effect,
and byithe first day of October of each additional year that the stay remains in effect. In
addition to the foregoing, the Defendant shall submit to random audits of his trust
account by the North Carolina State Bar as may be deemed necessary by the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar.

..

The Defendant shall comply with the Revised Rules of Professional
Condu~t, and all provisions of the Rules and Regulations of The North Carolina State
Bar, inCluding but not limited to the provisions of 27 Admin. Code Chapter 1
Subchapter B § .0124. Any violation of the Rules following the date of this order shall
be grotptds for denial of or Ufting of the stay.
".

c;:.

The Defendant shall not violate the laws of the United States, or the any
State of the United States.
5.
If the Defendant fails to petition for or meet the requirements for any stay
of the s,uspension, or in the event that any stay of the suspension is lifted, and the
st1spe~ion is re-activated, as a condition of reinstatement, the Defendant must meet the
requirePlents of subparagraphs a, b, c, d and e of paragraph 2 above, and any other
conditions deemed appropriate by a duly appointed committee"of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission before seeking reinstatement. This requirement is in addition to,
and shan not be deemed to limit the provisions of 27 N.e. Admin. Code Chapter 1
Subchapter B § .0125.
Q.
The Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding within thirty days of
serviee of notice of the amount of costs as assessed by the Secretary.

7

OO~48

.

I
.. ,_.

'

Signed by the chair with the cpnsent of the other hearing committe~ members,
this the~3.J... day of ~.R. 1998.

e R. Fox
~Q,I.«.L.> g Committee Chair;

I

"

:

"I-

8

:"'::1['
, ,

00349

