--~--------------------------------------~~--~--~--~~~----~--.---------------

395Z
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97G0206(II)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THEiMATTER OF
CABEL~

J. REGAN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

.)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

,'
I

-

.

On January 15,1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
met and ,considered the grievance filed against you by Ms. Paula R. Bass.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina! State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Mter
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the rules! as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
T~e

rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievanc~
Committee may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may
issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or
potentialinjury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance
Committee may issue an Admonition, a Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent
attorney.

I'

.

A ~eprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition
issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules
of Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administr;ation of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does not require a Censure.
.
Th~ Gr~evance ~ommit~ee was of the opinion. that a Censure. is not require~ in ~
thIS case I:;lnd Issues thIS ReprImand to you. As chaIrman of the GrIevance ComiIlltteei!
of the Nor.th Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am
certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In 1995, you agreed to represent Paula R. Bass on a federal employment
discrimimition claim against her former employer, Core Industries, Inc. By your own
admissioni you did not practice often in federal court. Nonetheless, you filed sujt On

I
,

.
i

,-

/-

i

i

behalf of Ms. Bass in federal court and intended to become familiar enough with
federal rules and procedure to properly prosecute Ms. Bass' claim.
During the course of the suit, you were served with di~covery by counsel for
Core Industries. You failed to respond to that discovery a:p.d the opposing attorney
filed a motion for sanctjons. You stated that the reason you did not respond was that
you were pre-occupied with other matters, including the defense of 5 first degree
murder cases,
. .

Contemporaneous with that motion, the opposing party made an offer of
judgment on September 3, 1996. There was a hearing on the motion for sanctions on
. September 9, 1996. Ms. Bass accompanied you to that hearing. The Committee found
. that you did not communicate the settlement offer to Ms. Bass befQre, dudng, or after
the hearing.
.

1

At the hearing, the federal judge sanctioned you for failing to answer discQvery.
The court also gave you, an opportunity to withdraw from or continue representation of
Ms. Bass within a week of the hearing. -Despite the heavy competing caseload you
claimed as the reason for your failure to respond, you confirmed your representation of
Ms. Bass on September 16, 1996.
. .
After representing to the federal court that you would continuE;! to represent Ms.
Bass, the opposing attorney again contacted you about a possible-settlement of the
case on October 16, 1996. You did not respond to the opposing attorney's request for
settlement discussions. Rather, without consulting with your c~ient, you dismissed
her federal suit on or about October 28, i996. Ip. the letter you sent Ms. Bass dated
October 30, 1995 informing her that you had dismissed her case, you stated that she
had twelve months to re-file the lawsuit. At'that time, you also withdrew from
representing her - approximately 45 days after representing to the fedel;'al.court that
you could continue to represent Ms. Bass.

-I . .

Although North Car~lina Rules of Civ!l P~'ocedure allow a suit to be ~e~fil~d
WIthIn twelve months of filing a voluntary dIsmIssal, the Federal Rule of CIvIl
Procedure 41 does not contain such a tolling provision. The Committee conclu,ded
th~t, contrary to your representations to Ms. Bass, you did not adequately familial;'ize
yourself with the law necessary to properly prosecute her claim. As a result, the
statute of limitations appears to have run on Ms. Bass' claim, shortly after you·
dismissed her suit.

.
Your a~ove-mentionE;!d ?onduct violated several Rules ofProfessiomu Con~uct. ~_
FIrst, your failure to communIcate the settlement offer to Ms. Bass, and your failure td)
discuss the dismissal of the suit prior to taking such action violated Rule 6(b)(1) and rl
(2). Second, your failure to respond to discovery, resulting in sanctions, violated Rule
6(b)(3). Third, your dism:i,ss~l of the suit without doing adequate preparation to
determine the applicable rules governing her federal suit violated Rule 6(a). Finally,
your withdrawal from representing Ms. Bass shortly before the statute of limitations
~pparently ran on her claim violated Rule 2.8(a)(2).

I

i
,,

,

/'
/

00363

In deciding to issue the Reprimand, the Committee considered several
mitigating and aggravating factors. In mitigation, the Committee considered the fact
that your had already been sanctioned by the court for failing to respond to discovery
and that you Were defending several first degree murder cases at the relevant time. In
l;iggravation, the Oommittee considered the, fact that you committed multiple rule
violation~, that you had prior discipline and that your above-mentioned conduct
caused ptejudice to your client.
I

Yop. are hereby Reprimanded by, the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional ~isconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
Reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.

I
-

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the
Nm,'th Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative
~()(;!t~ to artY fltt(lrney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of
this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Do:p.e and ordered, this--rt!lda.Y of

1t:pe..~\.(

,1998.

T. Paul Messick Jr.
Chairman, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
!

,
I

i

I

00364

I

