-(j) 5ZZ
WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98 DHC 2

)
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
)
Plaintiff
)
)

v.

FINDINGS OF FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)

DAVID H. BOWDEN, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)

This matter was heard on the 3rd day of April, 1998, before a hearing committee
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Richard T. Gammon, Chair;
Miohaell. t;3onfoey and A. James Early, m. The defendant, David H. Bowden, was
represented by James B. Maxwell. The plaintiff was represented by Douglas J. Brocker
and Larissa J. Erkman. Based upon'the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the
hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
,

1. Trne Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Catolina and the
Rules & Regulations qf the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
,

, 2. D~fendantj David H. BOWden (hereinafter "Bowden"), was admitted to the
North Carolit;la State Bar on August,24, 1975, and is, and was at all times referred to ')
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, ,.
regulations, ~nd Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
of North Carolina.
laws of the State
,

1

I

,,

I

i"

---"--_._--

-.--.----~--

3. During all of the periods referred to herein, Bowden was actively engaged hi
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the City
of Winston, Salem, Forsyth County, North Carolina.
4. The defendant was properly served with process and the hearing was held
with due notice to all parties.
5. In 1'988; Bo~den formed a partnership with his wife, Teresa Bowden, and S.
Mark Rabil (hereinafter "Rabil").

I

6. The BoWdens and Rabil initially operated under the partnership name,
"Sowden and Rabil." Later, they changed the partnership to a professional association,
"Bowden and Raoil, P.A." (hereinafter lithe firm")
7. From the inception of the firm in 1988 through April 1996, Bowden was the
managing partner of the firm and had primary responsibility for all financial operations of
the firm, including ensui-ing that all bills were sent to clients, all accounts were properly
paid by the finn and all income was properly distributed.
8. From tne inception of the firm in 1988' through April 1996, Rabil trusted his
partner, Bowden, to handle the financial operations the firm.
9. Rabil did not regularly review the books and records of the firm.

lO. In March 1996, Rabil noticed numerous items that caused him to review the
firm's general account ledgers, bank statements, and canceled checks. In reviewing
these and other firm documents and financial records, Rabil eventl,Jally discovered that
Bowden had appropriated sub$tantial sums of money from the firm for his own personal
use and enjoyment, without the knowledge and consent of Rabil.

I

11. Bowden nad an American Express card under the firm's corporate account
number (hereinafter "firm American Express card").
12. The ,firm American Express card was to be used for the firm's business
purposes, and Bowden and Rabil never agreed that it could be used for anything other
than business expenses.

13. During the years the firm existed Bowden charged to the firm Americ!3n
Express card numerous personal expenses, which he did not reimburse.
14. These personal charges included expenses for:
(a) a trip to Disney World on March 4 - 14, 1994, for Bowden's family;

2

I··.
,/
I

,f
::-

/~.
/

00363

(b) a trip to Pawley's Island, South Carolina in June 1994, fot
Bowden's family;
(c) a trip to Kiawah Island, South Carolina in August 1994, for
Bowden's family;
(d) a trip to Kiawah Island, South Carolina in October 1994, for
Bowden's family;
(e) a trip to Asheville, North Carolina in November 1994, for Bowden's
familY;
(f) a trip to Richmond and Williamsburg, Virginia in December 1994,
for Bowden's family;
.
(g) a trip to Kiawah Island, South Carolina in April 1995, for"Bowden's.
family;
(h) a trip to Mexico on June 12-23, 1995, for Bowden's family;
" (i) a trip to KiE;lwah Island, South Carolina in October 1995, for
Bowden's family;
G) a trip to Richmond and Williamsburg, Virginia in December 1995 for
Bowden's family; "
" (k) a trip to Greensboro, North Carolina in February 1996, for
Bowden's family;
(1) charges to retailers, such as J.C. Penny, Toys-R-Us, and the
Nature Company; and
(m) numerous personal meals.

I"

:I5. Bowden made these personal charges to the firm American Express card up
through March 1996, when Rabil discovered Bowden's personal charges.
!16. To pay for his personal charges on the firm American Express card, Bowden
signed·. and issueq checks out of the firm's general operating account (hereinafter
lioperating account"). The funds in the operating account belonged to the firm.
17. Bowden appropriated at least $20,000 of funds from the firm's operating
account to pay his personal expenses on the firm American r=xpress card.

I

18. Bowden took these firm funds to pay his personal expenses on the firm_
American Express card without Rabil's knowledge and consent and without permission
or auth9rization to use firm funds for his personal expenses.

19.

Bowden also had an American Express card for his personal use
(hereinafter "personal American Express card"), which card was unrelated to his firm ~
Americ~h Express card. Bowden signed and issued checks for at least $10,000 from fi
the firm operating account to make payments on his personal American Express card.
The ch~rges on Bowdenis personal American Express card, for which Bowden made
payments out of the firm's operating account, were his personal expenses. Bowden
took funds from the firm's operating account to pay his personal expenses on his

3

I
,
I

..r

"

(.,.

/

,J

003'(10

personal American Express card without the knowledge and consent of Mark Rabil and
, without permission or authorization to use firm funds for his person~1 expenses.
20. Bowden also had a Master Card for his personal uset Bowden signed and
i§isued ~ check from the firm operating account for $2,000 on March 13, 1996 to make a
payment On his personal Master Card. The charges on Bowden's Master Card, for
Which BoWden made the $2,000 payment, were his personal expenses. Bowden took
funds from tha firm's operating account to pay his personal expenses on the Master
Card without the knowledge and consent of Mark RabiJ and without permission or
authorization to use firm funds. for his personal expenses.

I

21. Between January 1989 ail~ March 1996, Bowden signed and issued checks
from the firm's operating account to pay other third parties for' other personal expenses.
Bowden took funds from the firm's operating account to pay these other personal
expenses'. These personal expenses included:
, (a) charges for meals at the Piedmont Club;
(b) charges for gasoline used for personal trips not related to firm business; and
(c) charges on a phone line provided by Alltel at Bowden's home residence.
22, A§i managing partner, Bowden was responsible for transmitting the firm's
financial information to and receiving financial information from the firm's certified public
accountants, Gray Callison & Co., P.A. (hereafter "the firm's accountants"), including all
necessary information for preparation of the firm's tax returns.
23. Bowden engaged Gray, Callison & Co., P.A. to prepare the firm's tax
returns for the period 1991 .. 1995.
24. The engagement letters between the law firm and its accountants for the
tax years 1991-1995 expressly state that the firm's accountants were not responsible
for auditing the accuracy of the books, records and other financial information provided
to them by Bowden. Rather, the firm's accountants relied upon the ~ccuracy of the
information provided'to them by Bowden to prepare the firm's tax returns.

I

25. F()rtax years 1991-95, Bowden provided the firm's accountants with the
books and records of the firm for each of those years.
I"
26. Included hi the firm's books and records were check register entries
representing checks issued by Bowden from the firm's general operating account in It·
v!
payment of Bowden's personal expenses, set forth in paragraphs 12-20 ~bove.

27. Bowden represented, either implicitly or explicitly, to the firm's accountants
that his personal expenses, set forth in paragraphs 12-20 ~bovel Were legitimate,
business-related expenses of the firm.

4

..
..

...

/-"
/

",'

.

.'

:28. The firm's accountants prepared tax returns in 1991-95 that claimed
Bowden's personal charges as business expense deductions for the firm, based on the
financial records Bowden prepared and provided to the firm's accountants.
29. Bowden's representations caused the firm to improperly claim his personal
expenses as legitimate business deductions on the firm's tax returns for 1991-95, in
violation of 26 C.F.R..§ 274(a)(1)(A) ..
30. During each year from 1991-95, the firm's accountants asked Bo,wden
about travel ahd entertainment expenses Bowden paid to American Express from the
firm's general operating account. Bowden falsely represented to the firm's accountants
that all. such expenses were charged to and reimbursed by the firm's clients. The travel
and entertainment expenses wer~ not billed to or reimbursed by clients.

I·. ·

31. The firm's accountants specifically asked Bowden about reimbursement of
these ~xpenses on the from American express account because the expenses would
be tre~ted differently under the federal tax code depending on whether or not the firm
receiv~d reimbursement for the expenses.
32. 'Specifically, if the entertainment expenses were business-related and were
reimbu'rsed by ciients, the entire amount of the entertainment expenses could be
properly included as business expense deductions. If the firm was not reimbursed for
the expenses, only a portion of the expenses could be properly included as business
expense deductions.
33. Based on Bowden's misrepresentations that the firm was reimbursed for
these ~xpenses, the firm's accountants improperly claimed the entire amount, not just a
portion, of these entertainment expenses on the firm's 1991-95 tax returns as business
expense deductions, in violation of 26 C.F.R. § 274(n).

34.

Bowden signed, under penalties of perjury, the firm's tax returns for 199195 containing these improperly claimed business deductions.

I

35. Bowden knew when he signed the firm's tax returns that they were hot true
and correct as to every material matter, in that the returns improperly claimed his
personal charges as business related expense deductions for the firm and improperly
claimed the entire amount of travel and entertainment expenses on the American
Express account as business related expense deductions for the firm.
~6.

Bowden did not direct the firm's accountants to treat his personal expenses
paid out of the firm's operating account, set forth in paragraphs 12-20 above, as a loan
to BowQen by the firm or to otherwise show the expense amounts as an account
receivaple of the firm.
t

5

1
/

,

!
,,

"

t

j-."
/

37. Bowden did not direct the firm's accountants to make any accounting
adjustment for his personal expenses paid out of the firm's operatililg account, set forth
in paragraphs 12-20 above, to report these payments to Bowden as miscellaneous
income or to otherwise adjust his salary to reflect the amounts paid to Bowden·for
personal expenses, except for his personal usage of a vehicle paid for by the firm.

38;' In April of 1996, Rabildiscovered that Bowden had paid for his personal
expenses by issuing checks from the firm's general operating account.

I

39. As a result, the firm's 1995 tax returns were amended to r~ducethe firm's
business expense deductions and, consequently, the firm's income increased by

$22,899.

.

40~

Bowden did not retain Gray, Callison & Co., P.A. to reconcile the law firm's
trust account on a quarterly basis between June f990 and April 1996 .
. 41. Bowden represented to several cli~nts, including Albert Burgess, that
would prepare their tax returns.

he

42. In 1994 Bowden received $2,500 from Burgess. This $2,500 included both
money entrusted to Bowden for tile payment of tax liabilities and money representing
Bowden's fees for preparing Burgess' tax returns.
43. On May 11, 1994, Bowden deposited the entire $2,500 amount from
Burgess, including the money Burgess entrl,lsted to Bowd~n for the payment of tax
liabilities, into the firm's operating account.
44. Bowden then signed and issued checks out of the firm's operating account
to the Internal Revenue Service, the North Carolina Department of Revenue, and
Burgess. Bowden retained the remainder in the firm's operating account for hiS fee.

I

45. In 1995, Bowden received $2,000 from Burgess. This $2,000 included .both
money entrusted to Bowden for the payment of tax liabilities and money representing
Bowdenis fees for preparing Burgess' tax returns.
46. On April 11, 1995, Bowden deposited the entire $2,000 amount from
Burgess, including the money Burgess entrusted to Bowden for the payment of tax
liabilities, into the firm's operating account.

!

<::')

f;

47. Bowden then signed and issued checks out of the firm's operating account
to the Internal Revenue Service, the North Carolina Department of Revenue, and
Burgess. Bowden retained the remainder in the operating account for his fee.

6

I··
I

.
.!:.; .
J
/
I

,.,

no
"....

.-~ 1-·)' ' )

u,fu

.

-----------~--~--------~-~--:------~~-~----

----~-

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisd,iction over David H. Bowden and the subject matter.
; 2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

I--

a. Bowden committed criminal acts reflecting adversely on his fitness to
, practice law and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit and
, misrepresentations in violation of Rule 1.2(b) & (c), by misappropriating law firm
: funds to pay for his personal e>.<penses.
b. Bowden committed criminal acts reflecting adversely on his fitness to
.practice law and engaged in conduct invOlving dishonesty, fraud, deceit and
. misrepresentations in viQlation of Rule 1.2(b) & (c) of the North Carolina Rules of
: Professional Conduct, by signing and submitting the firm's tax returns to the
, Internal Revenue Service knowing that the returns were not true and correct as
to every material matter.
c. Bowden failed to hold and maintain funds received in a fiduciary
capacity in a trust account separate from his or his law firm's funds in violation of
:Rules of Professional Conduct 10.1(a) & (c), by depositing, in the firm's operating
.account, funds Bowden received from his client Burgess, which funds consisted
lof money belonging to Burgess and money BOWden \Nas supposed to pay to
:third parties on Burge~s' behalf.

!

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon
the evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the
hearing committee hereby makes the additional

I

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. dishonesty or selfish motive;
b. a pattern of misconduct;
c. multiple offenses;

7

I
I

.
i

l

o.

003'74

d. substantial experience in the practice of law;
e. abuse of a position Of trust.
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. abser:'lce of a prior disciplinary record;

I

b. timely, good-faith efforts to make restitution or rectify consequences of
misconduct;
.
c. full and free disclosure to the Hearing Committee or cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
d. good character and g~od reputation;
e. delay in disciplinary proceedings through no fault of the Defendant's
..
attorney;
f. interim rehabilitation, in that the Defendant has continued to practice
law for approximately 23 months, the time betweenwheh the grievance in this
case was filed and the hearing of this matter, and has had check-writing authority
on both general office and trust accounts, and there has been no allegation or
evidence presented that he has violated any of the Rules of Professional
Conduct or the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct during that period of time;
g. remorse.

I

3. The panel finds that the aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
\

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments
of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following

8

i

;

,
I

i

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
i 1. The defendant is hereby disoarred from the practice of law beginning 30 days

from service of this order upon the defendant.
2. The defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the: North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order
upon the defendant. "
: 3. The defendant shall pay the reasonable costs of this proceeding as assessed
by th~ Secretary within 90 days within ,service of this order upon the defendant.

I

,4. The defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

I

Signed l?y the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,

this

the~Of ~.

1998.

~r.~

Richaf'i.Gammcm

Hearing Committee Chair

I

9

I
/
I

i

00376

