IlZl1
WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CARO~INA

'",
I

IN RE: RElNSTATEMEl'!f PETITION OF

ORDER OF REINSTATEMENT

. N. JEROME WILLINGHAM, Attorney,

THIS MATTER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to a petition for
reinstatement filed by N. Jerome Willingham on April 9, 1998.
Based on a review of the records of the North Carolina State BIU', the Secretary makes the
following;
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. N. Jerome Willingham (hereafter "Willingham") was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar on March 23, 1990.
2. On July 27, 1994, a disciplinary complaint was filed against Willingh~ by the North
Carolina State Bar, alleging multiple violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct, 94

DHC 12.
3. An order of discipline was entered by the chair of the hearing committee on March 16, 1995.
The order was served on Willingham on April 6, 1995. Pursuant to the order of discipline,
Willingham was suspended from the practice of law for three years.
4. On September 4, 1996, Willingham filed a petition requesting reinstatement alleging that he
had complied with certain conditions pursuant to which the order of discipline could be
stayed, file number 96 BSR 2.

Page 1

I

,.

5. On September 27th , 1996, the North Carolina State Bar filed a response objecting to the stay.
6. On December 2, 1996, a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered

aD. order which found that Willingham had failed to comply with the conditions set forth in
Rule .0125(b)(3) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina State Bar, and
theref<.?re denied the stay.
7. On April 9, 1998, Willingham filed a petition for reinstatement in this matter in Which he
verified:
a. Petitioner has complied with all applicable rules and regulations of the North Carolina
State aat;
b. Petitioner has complied with all applicable orders of the commission and the council;
c. Petjtioner has abstained from the unauthorized practice of law during the period of
suspension; and
d. Pe~itioner has abstained from conduct during the period of suspension constituting
grounds for discipline under O.S. 84-28(b).
8. After conducting necessary investigation regarding petitioner's compliance with the

requir~fi1ents set out in 27 NC ADMIN CODE CHAPTER 1 SUBCHAPTER B ยง .0125, the North
Carolina State Bar filed a response and objection to Willingham's petition for reinstatement
in this.rtlatter on May 8, 1998 alleging that Willingham had not paid all dues owing to the
North ,Carolina State Bar.
9. On May 12, 1998, the North Carolina State Bar withdrew its response and objection to the
petition of reinstatement of Willingham upon discovering that Willingham had in fact paid all
dues owing to the North Carolina State Bar and that the dues had not been credited to
Willingham's account due to an error.
Page 2

,'.

BASED on the foregoing FINDIN;GS OF FACT, the Secretary makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. T~J.e petitioner N. Jerome Willingham has satisfied the requirements set out in 27 NC ADMIN

I

CODE CHAPTER 1 SUBCHAPTER B ยง .0125, had complied with the conditions of the Discipline
and Disability Rqles of the North Carolina State Bar since the time of !he Disciplinary .
Hearing Commission's order of December 2, 1996 in 96 BSR 2, and is therefore entitled to
'rein~tatement of his license to practice law in this jurisdiction.

Based on the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLU.SIONS OF LAW, the Secretary
enters the following:
ORDER OF REINSTATEMENT
1. N. Jerome Willingham is hereby reinstated to the active practice oflaw in North Car()linaas

of the date of this order.
This 1.3~day of

~

, 1998.

I

~-------.,-~+---.
'
L. Thomas Lunsford n(Secretary
The North Carolina State Bar

'f

Page 3

I

