\ ~32-·
NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.
JOHN E. HALL, Attorney
Defendant

)
)
)
) FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS
)
OF LAW, AND ORDER OF
)
DISCIPLINE
)
)
)

I

This. matter was heard on May 8, 1998, before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of James R Fox, Chair; Richard. T.
Gainmon, and Anthony E. Foriest. The North Carolina State Bar waS represented by
Ferri. Gunn Simeon. The defendant, John E. Hall, was represented by J. Gary Vannoy and
Join) G. Vannoy. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing,
the 1,1earing COn1ll1ittee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of North
Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar.
2. The defendant, John E. Hall, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
1955 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct
of the North Catolina State Bar and the laws of the Btate of North Carolina.

I

3. During most of the periods referred·to herein, defendant was engaged in the
practice of law in North Carolina and maintained a law office in Wilkesboro, North
Car6lina.
4. The defendant was properly served with process and the hearing waS held with
due Q.otice to all parties.
. 5. On May 16, 1988, defendant filed a lawsuit on behalf of the Churches against
Utica Radiator Corporation (Utica) in Alleghany County, file number 88 CVS 54. Utica
manUfactured the boiler which malfunctioned in the Churches' home.

1

I

-I ..••.

.
~

\

6. On May 12, 1990, defendant was served with request for admissions,
int~rrogatories, and request for production of documents by the opposing parties in the
Utica case. The responses to the request for admissions, interrogatories and request for
production of documents were due on or about June 15, 1990.
7. Defendant did not respond in a timely fashion to the request for admission,
interrogatories and request for production of documents.

I

8. Blevins Workshop Inc. (Blevins) was a third-party defendant in the lawsuit the
Churches filed against Utica. Blevins filed a motion for summary judgment as to its
third-party claim against the Churches.
9. On Apri121, 1989, Blevins' motion for summary judgment was granted.
10. On April 25, 1989, defendant gave notice of appeal of the court's order of
Apri121, 1989.
11. Defendant was given 90 days within which to serve a record on appeal.
Defendant did not file or serve a record on appeal and the Churches' case was dismissed
on January 8, 1990. .
12. On May 7, 1990, defendant filed a notice of voluntary dismissal without
prejudice in the Churches' lawsuit against Utica.
13. On December 21, 1990, defendant filed another lawsuit against Utica on the
Churches' behalf.·
14. The North Carolina State Bar's First and Second Claims fo:r Relief are barred
by Rule .0III(e) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules and dismissed.

I

15. The North Carolin~ State Bar did not prove f~cts by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence to support the violation alleged in its Fourth Claim for Relief in its
Amended Complaint.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter.
2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitl,ltes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows!

2

.

~

..

·~

.

a.

By not responding to the discovery requests in the Churches' case, defendant
neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 6(b)(3).

h.

By not perfecting the appeal of the order granting Blevins' motion for summary
judgment, defendant neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 6(b)(3).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties. concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes the additional

1

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPUNE

1.

The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

f.

a.

a letter of warning issued by the Grievance Committee in 1995; and

b.

substantial

experien~e

in the practice of law.

The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

3.

a.

absence of a prior disciplinary record;

b.

good character or reputation; and

c.

physical disability during the time of the events in this matter.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of the
parties, 'the hearing committee hereby enters the following

1-

,ORDER OF DISCIPUNE
The defendant is hereby admonished.

1.

4.

.

'

The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
within 30 days of this order of discipline being served upon him.
OJ,. Signed by the chair with the consent of the other heating committee members, this the
~~a~ of May, 1998.

3

1

,

-

.-"

