BEFORE THE
PLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98 DHC 11

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROL

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF

v.
LANNY LEE HIDAY, ATTORNEY
DEFENDANT

)
)
)
) FINDINGS OF FACT AND
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
)
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)

This matter was heard on the 21 51 day of May, 1998 before a hearing committee of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Henry C. Babb, Jr., Chair; Michael L.
Bomoey and A. James Early III. The Defendant, Lanny L. Hiday, did not appear nor
was he represented by counsel. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at
the pearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is Ii body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promu~gated thereunder.

2. The Deitmdant, Lanny Lee Hiday (hereafter, Hiday), was admitted to the North
Carplina State Bar in 1975 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Car<;>lina.

I

3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Hiday was engaged in the
practice of law in Orange County, N.C.
4. Hiday w8:s personally served with the State Bar's summons and complaint
herein by the Orange County Sheriffs Department on March 2, 1998.
5. Hiday did not file an answer or other responsive pleading.

I

6. On March 25, 1998, the Secretary of the N.C. State B~ entered Hiday'~
default.
7. A hearing was scheduled for May 29, 1998 for the purpose of detennining the
appropriate discipline to be imposed based upon the violations of the Rules of
Profe~sionalConduct set out in the State Bar's complaint, all of which were deemed
admitted by virtue of Hiday's default

I

8. On May 4, 1998, the hearing on the issue of discipline was rescheduled for
May 21, 1998 . Notice of the new hearing date and location were mailed by the Clerk of
the DHC and by counsel of the State Bar to Hiday's home address, where he had
previously been served in person with the State Bar's complaint.
9. By order dated May 5, 1998, the location ofthe hearing was changed to the
Raleigh PI~a Hotel. A copy of this order was served upon Hiday in person by the
Orange County Sheriff on May 14, 1998.
10. Prior to January 1997, Hiday represented a number of individuals and
corporate entities respecting their legal matters. As Hiday concluded the legal matters
for these clients, the clients' files were closed and stored.
11. The closed client files which ~iday placed in storage contained cOIJ.fidences
and secrets of his clients.
12. Hiday failed to pay the rent due on the facility where the closed client files
were stored and in late 1996, a number of the closed client files were seized by Hiday's
landlord and were sold at auction.

I

13. The clients files were ultimately turned over to the N.C. State Bar~ which
incurred some costs in contacting Hiday's clients and requesting them to pick up the files.
14. Hiday failed to take adequate steps io proteci the confidences of his clients
by allowing closed client files to be seized when Hiday failed to pay his office rent in a
timely fashion.
15. On June 18, 1997, the Chair of the Grievance Committee ofthe N.C. State
Bar issued a Letter of Notice and Substance of Grievance to Hiday in State Bar Grievance
File No. 970 '00064. The Substance of Grievance alleged that Hiday had ceased
practicing law, was abusing alcohol and had failed to PaY the rent on the office where
Hiday's closed client files were kept, with the result that the files were seized by Hiday's
landlord, compromising the confidentiality of the client confidences contained in the
files.

2

I
QOr~{Q:::l
~
'-'"V:M...,.JI

..

16. Hiday was served with the Letter of Notice ai1d Substance of Grievance in
File No. 97G 0064 by the Orange County Sheriffs Dept. on June 18, 1997. ,
17. On July 25, 1997, Counsel for the State Bar wrote a follow up letter to Hiday,
reminding him that he had not responded to the previous Letter of Notice and Substance
of Grievance.
18. Hiday did not respond to the original Letter of Notice and Substance of
Gdevance in File No. 97G 0064 or to Counsel's follow up letter of July 25, 1997.
19. Hiday failed to respond to the State Bar's discovery requests in this matter,
although ordered to do so by no later than May 1, 1998.

I

20. Throughout the period from 1970 through 1996, Hiday has been observed to
cotJ.sume large amounts of alcohol. In the late 1980s, Hiday began to exhibit some
personality changes, experienced serious marital difficulties which ultimately led to a
di~orce from his wife and had a heart attack. For at least a part of 1989, Hiday received
psychiatric treatment for depression.
21. As of the date of this hearing, Hiday is not actively engaged in the practice of
law and does not maintain a law office.
i

22. Hiday has failed to comply with the mandatory continuing legal education
requirements of the North Carolina State Bar. As of April 18,1996, Hiday had a deficit
of 25 hours of mandatory CLE. Hiday only completed 6 hours of mandatory CLE in
1997 and therefore had an additional deficit of 6 hours of CLE for that year.
23. The State Bar Continuing Legal Education Department has commenced
show cause proceedings against Hiday but, to date, has been unable to locate him to serve
him with the show cause notice.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing cOnimittee makes the
following:

I·

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By failing to pay his storage facility rent on time and allowing files which
contained client confidences and secrets to be seized by his landlord without the
knowledge and consent of his clients, Hiday violated Rule 4 of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of
Rule 1.2(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. By failing to respond to the State Bar's Letter of Notice and Substance of
Gri~vance in File No. 97G 0064, Hiday failed to respond to a formal inquiry of a
disciplinary authority in'violation of Rule 1.1 of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3

I
•

-.

,"

,

I

3. Although the disciplinary offenses which Hiday has committed are relatively
minor, the evidence in this case indicates that Hiday has abused alcohol in the past and
may suffer from some other disability. Consequently, protection Qfthe public requires
that the Committee enter an order which provides for a long period of suspension of
license, which may be stayed if Hiday demonstrates that he is able to practice law
.competently and IS no longer suffering from any disability.
Ba$edupon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and argument of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes the following additional
fINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a) Substantial experience in the practi~e of law.
b) Multiple violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive.
b) Absence of prior discipline.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of
counsel for the Plaintiff, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

1. The Defendant, Lanny L. Hiday, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for a period of five years, beginning 30 days from service of this order upon the
Defendant.
2. At any time after the effective date of this order, the Defendant may applyfot
an order staying the remainder of the five year suspension of license provided that, prior
to seeking a stay, the Defendant demonstrates by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
that the Defendant:
a) is not suffering from any mental or physical condition or
addiction which impairs his professional judgment or ability
to engage in the practice of law in a competent manner.
b) has complied with all orders of the Continuing Legal
Education Depru1;ment of the N.C. State Bar.

4

.1

.....

c) has paid the costs of this proceeding.
d) has provided complete responses to the N.C. State Bar's
discovery requests filed herein.
e) has reimbursed the North Carolina State Bar for the costs
it incurred in returning closed files to Hiday's former clients,
in an amount assessed by the Secretary of the N. C. State
Bar.
3. Any stay of the five-year active suspension of the Defendant's license"to
practice law 'Will be conditioned upon the following terms:

I

a) that the Defendant not violate any laws ofthe State of
North Carolina, or any other state or ofthe United States.
b) that the Defendant comply with all orders and
requirements of the CLE Department of the N.C. State Bar
in a timely fashion.
c) that the Defendant payhis mandatory N.C. State Bar
dues in a timely fashion.
d) that the"Defendant not violate any provisions of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
e) that the Defendant respond to any letters of notice or
other inqtiiries of the North Carolina State Bar in a timely
fashion.
4. If the Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of his law license, or if
the Defendant seeks such a stay and the stay is thereafter lifted for arty reason, as a
condition to reinstatement of his license to practice law in this state, the Defendant must
demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that the Defendant:
a) is not suffering from any mental or physical condition or
addiction which impairs his professional judgment or
ability to engage in the practice of law in a competent
manner.
b) has complied with all orders of the Continuing Legal
Education Department ofthe N.C. State Bar.
c) has paid the costs of this proceeding.

s"

.,~

.,

I

d) has provided ~omplete responses to the N.C. State Bat's
discovery requests filed herein.
e) has complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .QI2S(b).

f) has reimbursed the North Carolina State Bat for the costs

it incurred iJl returning closed files to Hiday's forrher clients;
in an. atllount assessed by the Secretary of the N. C .. State

I

Bar
this the

L day~~199ft
t.-

I

6

I
.:

.... "

'!!', "'"::, ,...'

