ItoZLfl
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OFTHE'
.NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97G0540(III)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

NATHANAEL PENDLEY,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 16, 1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against yo~.'py the State Bar. .
Pursuant to section .0113(8.) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Aft;er considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievapc~ COflll11.itt~e found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may deteqnine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the ·Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factor~. The
Grievance COIl1l1J.ittee may issue an admonition~ a reprimand, or' a censure to the resp()ndent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney ha.s violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a mem.ber of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a cepsure is not required in this case and .
issues this reprimand to you, As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolin!! State Bar~
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
Prior to June 1995, you undertook to represent Prudence Rochelle and a number of other
individuals respecting their civil claims against the Durham Public Schools Board of Education,
following the merger ofthe Durham county and· city school systems. You filed a complaint in the U.S.
District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina on behalt of your clients in June 1995.
Thereafter, the defendant Sch901 Board served you with discovery requests.

I

/'

, You did not file timely responses to the School Board'~ discovery requests and, on Nov. 22,
1996~ Hon. Russell Eliason granted the School Board's motion for an order compelling responses.
Your: clients were given 20 days in which to comply with the discovery order. Despite the entry of this
order, you failed to respond to the School Board's discovery. Thereafter, the School Board filed a
second motion to compel, to which you also filed no response. On Feb. 10, 1997, Judge Eliason entered
a second order compelling discovery responses to be filed by Feb. 20, 1997. Judge Eliason also ordered
your plients to pay $100 to the School Board in attorneys fees and ordered you to show cause why you
should not be removed as counsel for the plaintiffs.
Just before the deadline imposed by Judge Eliason's second order, you did file responses to the
School Board's discovery requests. These responses, however, were not complete. Although you have
indicated that one or more of your clients' were uncooperative, it appears that the delay in responding to
discovery was in fact the result of your own neglect and that you failed to tell your clients about the
discovery deadline until the last minute.

I

By failing to file timely}'esponses to discovery questions and by failing to comply with Judge
Eliason's Nov. 22, 1996 discoVery order, you neglected a legal matter in violation of Rule 6(b)(3) of the
Rulesl of Professional Conduct and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violatjon of Rule 1.2(d).
I

The hearing on the court's order to show caus~ was set for March 20, 1997. Although the clerk's
office provided you with proper notice of this hearing, neither you nor your clients appeared at this
proce~ding. As a result, Judge Eliason entered an order removing you as counsel for the plaintiffs and
reco$ertding that the plaintiffs' lawsuit be dismissed. Your conduct in failing to attend the show
cause hearing left the court in the awkward position of having to determine whether your clients were
aware:ofthe procedural posture of the case and delayed an appropriate resolution ofthe matter.
Consequently, the Grievance Committee found that your conduct in this regard was prejudicial to the
adminjstration of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(d).
.

I

, The Committee further concluded that your misconduct was aggravated by the fact that you have
been previously disciplined by the State Bar. The Committee wishes to caution you that any further
violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct on your part could well result in more substantial
discipline against you.

I

: You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misco~duct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
:In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State ~ar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a

.,.
"

I
,

"

reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

Z

~ day of hh+i

, 1998.

I

I

./'

00409.

