15505
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G 1388(II)R

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE:, MATTER
OF
.
MICHAEL E. SMITH,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

.)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)
)

1

On July 17th, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met
and cO:tl~idered the grievance filed against you by Mr. Terry Shuford.
Pursuant to section .0113(a10fthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, th~ Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is gqilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The niles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee
may detJrmine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing !Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an Admonition, a Reprimand, or a Censure to the respondent attorney.
A ReplHmand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued
in cases ip. which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
miscondtict does not require a Censure.

-I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this
case and issues this Reprimand to you. As Chair of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain
that you
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.

fill

You were retained by your client to file a lien against real property to secure money
owed. While you did file the lien, you took no further steps to perfect the lien, which
resulted i:p. a loss of the benefit of the lien to the client. You also failed to file an
answer in. a lawsuit which had been filed against your client, and which you were
retained to file. In response to repeated questions from your client you told the client

I
.

~."

I

that the answer had ·been filed when in fact no answer had been filed. In addition~ you
charged clients for the preparation of "notice of contracts," which you never filed.
When the client complained and demanded a refund of legal fees, you attempt~d to
obtain from the client a release and waiver which would have dischat"ged you from
liability for apy and all claims arising from legal work performed or requested to be
performed, By failing to perfect the lien, failing to file an answ~:r, and failing to file
notice of contracts, you failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing your client in violation of Rule 6(b)(3) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct. By attempting to obtain a release of liability for claims arising out of legal
work performed, you violated your obligations under Rule 5.8 of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
You are hereby Reprimanded by. the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this'
Reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be benefichtl to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs
to any attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby xed to you.
Done and ordered, this

a f 'fAday of

Ann Reed
Chairman, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

, 1997.

.~.I'

'• • • J,.,

