Co 82l
BEFORE THE
ISClPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
:;;j:
OF THE
~ ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98DHC6

WAKE COUNTY

NORTH CAROLIN ." "

..

ilf)

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLA.INTIFF

v.
RODNEY w. ROBINSON, ATTORNEY
DEFENDANT

)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER

)
)

This matter came on to be heard before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Joseph G. Maddrey, Chair; Vernon Russell and A. James
Early III. The defendant, Rodney W. Robinson, was represented by AlanM.. Selmeidcr.
Carolin Bakewell representecl the State Bar. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings
of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the order entered herein.
The defend~nt waives his right to a formal hearing and agrees to the entry of this order by
consent. Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the
following:

I

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff; the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the l~ws
of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority.granted
it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
.
2. The Defendant, Rodney W. Robinson (hereafter, Robinson), was aqrnitted· to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1975 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. During all of th~ relevant periods referred to herein, Robinson was engaged in the
practice oflaw in Pinehurst, N.C.

I
00421

4. Robinson has knowingly and voluntarily waived his right to a formal hearing
herein,
5. Robinson was properly served with process and is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
I

6. In 1988 Robinson was convicted of driving while impaired and underwent
treatnient for alcohol dependency in Pinehurst, N.C. Prior to 1988 he was convicted of
driving while impaired on two other occasions.
I

; 7. Medical records relative to Robinson's 1988 treatment reflect that that he was
diagnqsed with liver disease consistent with alcoholism and that he admitted to using 8 oz of
alcohQI daily prior to his admission. The medical records also reflect that Robinson admitted
that he had experienced blackouts and tremors as a result of alcohol use.

I

I

I

. 8. Robinson has been admitted to psychiatric hospitals in 1969, 1985 and 1988 and
has been diagnosed as having schizophrenia.
. 9. Robinson appeared in Moore County DiStrict Court on March 17, 1997 while
under the influence of alcohol and prescription medication. Consequently, on March 17,
1997, :Robinson had _a physical condition which substantially impaired his judgment,
perfortitance or competence as an attorney.
;10. In April 1998, Robinson was evaluated by Dr. Philip Hillsman, a psychiatrist
licensed to practice medicine in the State of North Carolina who maintains an office in
Ralei~ N.C.
'11. Dr. Hillsman, if called as a witness in this matter, would testifY that Robinson. is an
alcoholic and that he has a paranoid personality disorder.
12. Robinson's condition, if untreated, will worsen over time and will impair his
professional judgment, performance and competence as an attorney.

I

I

1j. Robinson has agreed to consult the Sandhills Mental Health Center or a physician
selected'by Robinson and approved by the North Carolina State Bar concerning his
alcoholism and mental condition and to follow the recommendations suggested.
,

r4. As long as Robinson abstains from the use of alcohol and all drugs other than
those prescribed by a treating physician who is aware of Robinson's medical -history and
condition and so long as Robinson follows the recommendations of the Sandhills Mental
.Health Center or a physician selected by Robinsonfnd approved by the North Carolina State
Bar, Ro~inson may engage in the practice of la~. ~_

2

I

Based upon the foregomg FINDINGS OF FACT, the Hearing Committee makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Rodney W. Robinson is an alcoholic and was disabled within the meaning of 27
N.C. Admin. Code § .0103[18] on March 17, 1997.

I

2. So long as Robinson abstains from the use of alcohol and other mind-altering
substances other than those prescribed by his physiciap who is familiar with Robinson's
alcohoUsm and medical condition and so long as Robinson follows the recommendations of
the Sandhills Mental Health Center or a physiCian" selected by Robinson and approved by tne
North Caroliria State Bar, Robinson is not disabled within the meaning of § .0103118] of thc
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
Based upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLUSIQNS OF LAW,
and based upon the parties' consent hereto, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
ORDER

i. Rodney W. Robinson is hereby transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to §
.0118 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
2. The order transferring Robinson to disability inactive status is stayed for a period
of five years from the effective date of this order, upon the following conditions:

I

a. Robinson snall consult with ~ physician at the Sandhills Mental Health Center or a
physician selected by Robinson and approved by the North Carolina State Bar, within 30 days
of the effective date of this order, respecting his alcoholism and mental health problems.
Robinson shall follow the recommendations of the Sandhills Mental Health Center or a
physician selected by Robinson and approved by the North Carolina State Bar.
b. Robinson will provide written reports to the State Bar and the Executive Director
of PALS confirming that he is complying with the treatment plan recommended by the
Sandhills Mental Health Center or a successor physician once each quarter throughout the
five-year stay period. The, first such written report shall be due in the Office of Counsel no
later than September 1, 1998, the second such report shall be due no later than December 1,
1998, the third report shall be due no later thanFebruary 1, 1999 and the fourth report sh~l
be due no later than Aprill, 1999. Thereafter, the written reports shall be due on July 1, Oct.
1, Jan. 1 and April 1 of each year during the stay period. The reports shall describe the course
of treatment being followed by Robinson and ship be signed by Robinson's treating therapist
or physichm. It shall be Robinson's responsibi1jtY~to ensure that the reports are submitted to
the State Bar and the Executive Director on time.

3

I·.··
.,

-

0.0423"

c. Robinson hereby agrees to waive any patient-physician privilege as to the Sandhills
Ment3.J. Health Center and any successor physician. Within 30 days of the effective date of
this ~rder, Robinson shall deliver a signed release to permit the N.C. State Bar to obtain
records from and consult with Robinson's physician respecting his treatment, medical
condition and compliance With the treatment program. Robinson will cooperate with all
effort~ of the N.C. State Bar to contact and obtain information from the Sandhills Mental
Healt~ Ce~ter or successor physician regarding Robinsonis treatment and condition.
I

. d. Robinson will abstain from the use of alcohol and mind-altering substances
throu~hout the five year stay period, except that Robinson may use prescription medications
in ~ounts and varieties as prescribed by a treating physician, who has been informed of
Robirison's alcoholism and the contents of this order. Robinson shall provide written notice to
the Executive Director of PALS within 36 hours of starting any regimen of prescribed
medic.ation. The notice shall include the name of such medication, dosage and frequency and
time period over which medication is to be taken.

I

e. Robinson will submit to random testing throughout the five-year stay period for the
of checking his blood, urine and liver for the presence of alcohol and/or other mind
altering substances, Such testing will be completed at Robinson's expense within four hours
of a receipt' of a request from the N.C. State Bar. Failure to comply with a request for a
random test or a positive test for alcohol or any mind-altering substance shall cause the stay
of suspension to be ittupediately dissolved. Robinson shall keep the State Bar advised at all
times pf a telephone number at which he can be reached and/or at which a message may be
left for him during normal business hours. The four-hour deadline for obtaining a screen shall
comm~nce to run from thc time a request is made or a message is left at the telephone
number provided to the State Bar by Robinson.
purpo~e

• f. Robinson will attend at 'least 90 meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) during
the fir~t 90 days after the effective date of this order and shall continue to attend at least 5
AA m~etings each week during the entire five-year stay period. Robinson shall join a home
group and shall obtain a sponsor. Robinson shall maintain an active relationship with his
Sponsor at all times during thc five year stay period and shall actively work the 12 steps of
AA. Robinson shall keep written records of his AA meeting attendance and shall provide
copies :of all such records to the Executive Director of PALS on a monthly basis throughout
the five year stay period.

1

g. The identity of Robinson's AA sponsor will be' cOnUnunicated to the Executive
Director of PALS within 30 days of the date of this order. Robinson shall permit a
representative of PALS to communicate with his sponsor at any time during the five year stay
to monitor the status of his recovery and to ensure that he is complying with the terms of this
order. The PALS representative shall not reque"onfidences shared with Robinson's sponsor
or infopnation except that which relates to Robinson's attendance at AA meetings and the
progress of his recovery efforts. Failure by Robinson to comply with the conditions set out in
paragraph (f) shall cause the stay of suspension to be immediately dissolved and shall

4

-I

authorize the Executive Director of PALS to report such failure to the Office of Counsel of
the N.C. State Bar.

1

h. Robinson shall participate in the PALS program throughout the five-year stay
period and shall cooperate with the PALS Executive Director and the PALS Committee.
Failure by Robinson to cooperate with thc PALS Committee or its Director, volunteers or
employees shall cause the stay of suspension to be immediately dissolved and shall authorize
the Executive Director of PALS to report such failure to the Office of Counsel of the N.C.
State Bar. Such non-cooperation shall also constitute a waiver of any right of confidentiality
that might otherwise exist between Robinson and the P AI,S Committee.
3. Robinson shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 5 y~s of the date of this
order.
Sign~d by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the consent of the other hearing
committee members.

This the

Ii-

day of July, 1998.

Seen and consented to:

1

~U/,~

R~solY"'

...

Defendant

fa-~ck-

Alan M. SChrleider
Defendant's Attorney

.

Carolin Bakewell
Phiintiff's Attorney

5

100425

