( O~
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97G1047(1I1)

WAKE COUNTY

INRE::

LEE D. ANDREWS
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

CENSURE

I

On April 16, 1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Ms. Emmaline Wilson.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe:that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
discipliilary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determip.e that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Comrtli~sion are not warranted and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
disciplirte depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.

An censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one Or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has 9aused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney's license.

I

The Grievance Colrtmittee was of the opinion that a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission is not requited in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of
the Griev:ance Committee of the North Carolina State bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
l am. cert~n that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
~
The complainant, Emmaline Wilson, file$i &,grievance against you. Ms. Wilson's
daughter, ShaShaUlia Wilson, was injured in a car accident in August 1995. You agreed to
handle ShaShauna Wilson's personal injury action.
:

I

ShaShauna Wilson was killed in a car accident on April 13, 1996. You settled
ShaShauna Wilson's case for $9,500.00 on JtJD.e 14, 1996. You did not tell the insurance
adjuster that ShaShauna Wilson was dead at the time you settled her claim.
According to Ms. Emmaline Wilson, you told her to sign Sh~Shauna Wilson's name to
the release. You also had Ms. Emmaline Wilson endorse the settlement check in her deceased
daughter's name. You were required to disclose to the insurance carrier that your client,
ShaShaup.a Wilson, had died. Your failure to make this disclosure violated Rules 1.2(c) and (d)
and 7.2(a)(4) of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct. See RPC 182.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State BlU' for your violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that YOll will ~ever again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to
the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys lUld the courts, to the end that you demean yourself
as a respected member of the leg&! profession whose conduct may be relied upon without
question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative afld investigative costs to any
attorney issued a cen.sure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this actio]1 in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

Z ~d~y Of _ _\\L:..-'\b(:I!.--=l-----..,.~_:, 1.998.

T. Palll Messick Jr, Chair
Grievance Committee

I
TPMlkmc

I

