--~-------~ ---~------~

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97G0723 (III)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
JAMES R. HUNDLEY, JR.,
ATTbRNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On April 16, 1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed again~t you by the North Carolina State Bar.
!

Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a prelbninary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Caroiina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of prob~ble cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee niay issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a cen~ure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public~ but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is npw my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
In September 1995, your law firm, Wyatt, Early, Harris & Wheeler (WEHW) undertook
to reptesent Textile Ind~stries Inc., (Te~til~) r~~pecting Textile's Chapter 11 ~ankruptcy petition.
That ~ame month, TextIle filed an applIcatIOn for employment of counsel, whIch was
accompanied by an affidavit of disinterestedness which you signed. The affidavit stated that
neither you nor any other member ofWEHW had any connection with Textile, its creditors or
any other party in interest in the bankruptcy proceeding and that no member of WEHW
repre~ented any interest adverse to that of Textile. In fact, some of the attorneys at WEHW did
have relationships with Textile, its creditors and parties in interest in the bankruptcy proceeding.

I

!

,,
,"

/

/

.00465

I
~

Moreover, WEHW attorneys engaged in conflicts of interest by representing interests adverse to,
those of Textile.
Ultimately, an investigation was conducted into various bankruptcy filings which had
been made by Textile, the statements in the affidavit of disinterestedness, and the conduct of
WEHW's attorneys. In May 1997, Hon. William Stocks entered an order which found ,that
WEHW had failed to' comply with the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code which require a broad
disclosure of an attorney's connections and relationships with a debtor, the debtor's creditors and
parties in interest in bankruptcy proceedings. Judge Stocks also found that WEHW had engaged
in conflicts of interest by representing various entities whose interests were adverse to those of
Textile. Judge Stocks ordered WEHW to disgorge more than $112,000 in fees and sanctioils and
disqualified the firni from further representation of Textile. The qrder has been widely
publicized in the local media and in Lawyers Weekly.

I

The Grievance Connnittee was greatly disturbed by the conduct ofWEHW's attorneys in
the Textile case, including your participation in.the preparation and filing of the affidavit of
disinterestedness with the bankruptcy court. That being said, the Committee found that your
misconduct was mitigated by the fact that the affidavit was prepared hurriedly and that you were
inexperienced in bankruptcy matters at the time, which contributed to your failure to recognize
the significance of the relationships among and between Textile, its individual shareholders,
other insiders and affiliates and WEHW. The Committee also recognized that your
involvement in the case was limited to the early stages of the proceeding. Finally, your
misconduct was mitigated by the fact that you have no prior discipline, you accepted
responsibility in your response to the Grievance Committee and the fact that Judge Stocks' order
imposed significant sanctions. Had these mitigating factors no! been present, the Committee
would doubtless have voted to impose more substantial discipline against you.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina Stllte Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the anlount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.

I

he\ of sJlJ
\ L"
Done and ordered, this Z.Z.~day

, 1998.

----

T. Paul M~sick, Jr.
Chair, Grievance Co

I,.
I

..
"

)"
00465

