IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUpeRI~OUl9' DIVISION

:STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

t-ILF;: . eV's.5-VO

FORSYTH COUNTY

)
)
)
)

IN RE: RONALD B. BLACK,
ATTORNEY AT LAW·

•.•'., u
r-·,.-.. . . . . ·1 i \'
: 1-1"I C· •S•r"v•
Fv'ci.) r<:ONSENT ORDER

[$'{ .......~.• ---.--~~.-

.
THIS CAUSE coming on to be heard on September 10,1998 upon The North Carolina
State Bar's petition and a proposed Consent Order to transfer Respondent Ronald B. Black to
disability inactive status, and pursuant to the Court's inherent authority over attorneys as officers
of the Court. Having revjewed the petition and such evidence as this Court deems necessary to
support this Consent Order, the Court finds as follows:

I

FINDINGS OF FACT
I

1. Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
the State of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and RegUlations of the North Catolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Respondent, Ronald B. Black was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1984
and is and was at all times referred to herein; an attorney at law licensed to practice in
North Carolina subject to the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State. Bar,
Rules of Professional Conduct and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
I

3~ During all times referred to herein, Respondent was actively engaged in the practice
I

4i

of the law in the State' of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Winston-.
Salem, Forsyth County, North Carolina.
Respondent is unable and has failed to perform his professional duties to clients in
that

I

(a) Respondent has difficulty completing legal matters entrusted to him by
clients, such as failing to complete service of civil summons and complaint in
an uncontested divorce proceeding entitled Wheeler v. Wheeler, 98 CvD 6325,
Forsyth County, and failing to follow through in obtaining the uncontested
judgment of absolute divorce in the same case.

(b) Respondent has closed his practice oflaw, formerly located at 3504 Vest Mill
Road, Suite 29, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27103, becaUSe of health and

I
I

004.81

I

stress-related reasons. He'has moved his practice of law to his home located
at 731 Hertford Road, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27104.
(c) The telephone at Respondent's former law office was disconnected without a
forwarding.telephone number. Respondent failed·t~ advise his clients that he
was closing his office and where he can be reached concerning legal matters.
(d) Respondent is involved in proceedings'to dissolve his own marriage.
(e) On August 31, 199a, Len Bogaty, and investigator for the Petitioner, and the
undersigned Deputy Counsel visited Responde~t at his residence in WinstonSalem.. Respondent indicated that he has been in treatment for depres$ionby
Dr. Claudia Sheppard, a psychiatrist, for approximately three years. He \
further stated that he is suffering from stress related to the dissolution of his
marriage.

I

(f) Respondent has no intention to continue practicing law. He acknowledges his
inability to perform tasks on behalf of his clients and specifically that he failed
to carry out the representation of Mr. Wheeler as set out in paragraph (a)
above.

. S.

Respondent has been afforded an opportunity to consult with counsel of his
choosing. and has elected not to do so.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Co~ concludes as follows:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. This Court has jurisdiction to he~ this matter pursuant to its inherent authority over
attorneys as omcers of the Court.
2. Respondent has the legal capacity to consent to this Order. Respondent is over
eighteen years of age and is not incompetent within the meaning ofChapter 122C of
the North Carolina General Statutes or similar laws of any jurisdiction.
3. Respondent is disabled within the meaning of N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Rules &
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, Subchapter B, Discipline (t Disability
Rules, Sections .0103(18), in that Black suffers from a mental or physical condition
that impairs his professional judgment, performance or competence.
IT IS TlIEREFORE, ORDERED ADJUDGED AND DECREED that R~spondent Ronald B.
Slack be and her~by is transferred to inactive status as a member of the North Carolina Bar, and
that this transfer is effective immediately. Upon entry of this Ordel' the Court acknowledges that
Resppndent has surrendered to the Court his license to practice law. Upon overcoming his
. disability and regaining capacity to engage in the practice of law, Respondent may petition the
2

..

,
.

"

,

.'

""

·
"

,

.
North Carolina State Bar for transfer to active status in accordance with N.C. Admin. Code,
Rules & Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, Subchapter B; Discipline & Disability
RuJes, Section .012S(c).
A copy of this Order shall be served upon Respondent and upon the Secretary of The
North Carolina State Bar.
This the

jO---rt.. day of September, i998.

I
::2'

CONSENTED TO AND AGREED, this the

day of September, 1998:

I

3

,
,

I.

,

004:83

,

'.

I

,I"

