51o~
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96 BSR4
)

IN RE REINSTATEMENT PETITION
OF THOMAS L. KUMMER,.ATTORNEY

)
)
)

THIS MATIER came on to be heard aud was heard by a hearing conmrlttee of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission cOIl)posed of Franklin E. Martin, Chair; Kenneth
M. Smjth,~d Aitthony foriest respecting the Petition of Thomas L. Kummer for
reinstatement of his law license. B~ed 1lpon the pleadings and other submissions of the
parties hereto, the hearing committee hereby enters the following~
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The law license of the petitioner, Thomas L. Kummer, was suspended for a

period of three years pursuant to an order of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the
N.C. State B~ dated Aug. 14, 1993.
2. Oil Nov. 27, 1996, Kummer filed a petition with the Secretary of the N.C~
State Bar, :requesting an order reinstating his lice~e to practice law in the State of North
Carolil1a.
3. On Dec. 3, 1996,. Counsel of the N.C. State Bar filed a response to K1lIIlmer's
petition, opposing reinstatement upon three grounds.
4. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125(b)(7), the
Secretary of the N.C. State Bar referred Kummer's petition and the Counsel's response
thereto tp the Disciplinary Hearing Commission for hearing.
5. On AUg. 5, 1997, pursuant to the consent of all parties hereto, a hearing was
held respecting Kummer's petition by telephone conference call.
6. On Aug. 14, 1997, the hearing committee assigned to this matter elltered an
order deferring a fmal order respecting Kummer's reinstatement petition 1,Ultil:
a) Ktunmer's check for $2,582.64 in payment of his back dues and costs cleared
and was credited to the N.C. State Bar's account.

' .. , ,I

·

,',

"

".

,I

b) the Council of the N.C. State Bar entered an order reinstating Kummer to the
practice oflaw, based upon a finding that K1;UllIller had satisfied the State Bar's rules
regarding reinstatement of lawyers suspended for nonpayment of dues.
c) The N.C. State Bar Membership & Fees Committee has been notified
concerning criminal charges. which were then pending against Kummer in federal court in
Georgia.
.
7. The conditions set out in this Committee 7 s Aug. 14, 1997 order have been
sa~isfied and the criminal charges against Kummer have been dismissed with prejudice.
8. Kummer has not yet paid his 1998 N.C. State Bar mandatory dues.
BASED UPON the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT the hearing conunittee
hereby makes the f911owirtg:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Kummer has satisfied the conditions set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter
1, Subchapter B, § .0125 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
2. Kummer is entitled to resume the practice of law in this state, 'upon payment
of ,his 1998 N.C. State Bar dues, in the amount of$175.
THEREFORE, pursuant to § .0125 of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the
N.C. State Bar, it is hereby orf;iered:
I

1. Thomas L. Kummer is hereby reinstated to the active practice of law iIi North
Carolina, as of the date upon which his 1998 membership dues in the amount of$175 are
received by the N.C. State Bar.
'2. Thomas L. Kummer shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of
rec,eipt of the notice of the costs from the Secretary of the N.C. State Bar.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of all committee members.

This the 31 day of_-===--.....-==..t....:

",
,

"

'I

,I

