IO~31
UEFORETHE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97G0875(II)R

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
MARC SOKOL,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 16, 1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by a Complainant herein referred to as "Ms. T".'
Pursuaht to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State .Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, inclQding your response to the letter of notice and your subsequent
letter dated May 4, 1998, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cauSe is
defined in the Rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North CaroUna State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The Rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Conurtittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the I)isciplinary Hearing
Commission are 'not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
dlscifHne depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
agg;:avef~~ng m' mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimau"'I" or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one ot more provisions of the Rules ofPrc;>fessional
Conduct and has caused hlU1l1 or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct do~s not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On May 29, 1997, you participated with a client in a luncheon meeting that was staged
for purposes of interrogating Ms. T about allegations of adultery pertaining to your client's ongoing domestic lawsuit. The meeting was arranged so that it would appear coincidental in order
to surprise Ms. T with questions of a personal nature. The objective of this meeting was to

I

obtain admissions from Ms. T that she had illicit meetings with your client's husband in
Califqrnia, thereby potentially saving your client costs associated with presenting' a private
investigator's testimony concerning these allegations. Your failure to be forthright in disclosing
that the purpose of the lunch meeting was to interrogate Ms. T about her alleged conduct Was at a
miniD1um deceitful. By arranging and taking part in this meeting, you engaged 'in dishonest
conduct and misled Ms. T into believing that you were acting in a disinter~sted role. Your
conduct caused harm to the profession, the administration of justice, and a member of the public.
Based on the foregoing, the Committee determined that your conduct constituted a
violation of Rules 1.2(c) and 7.4(3) of the superseded (1985) Rules of Professional Conduct. In
issuing this reprimand, the Grievance Committee considered the following mitigating factors:
the ab~ence of a prior disciplinary record; your full and free disclosure of information to the local
grievance committee, the State Bar counsel, and the Grievance Committee; and your remorse as
stated in your letter dated May 4, 1998.

.

I~

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remen)bered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
.
. In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50~OO are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

s"

Zl-

~
d~y of __-Au6~~\J.uS"'--.L.I_ _.-....:., 1998.

......

I

I
00487

