-

-------.-~---

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
)
Plaintiff,
)
)
vs.
)
)
G. PHILLIP DAVID, ATTORNEY
)
)
Defendant.
)

I

this matter was heard before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commi~sion composed of Henry C. Babb Jr., Chair, Michael L Bonfoey and B. Stephen Huntley,
pursuan~ to Section .Ol14(h) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar. The Plaintiff Was represented by Fern Gunn Simeon. The Defendant Was represented by
Joseph B. Cheshire V. and Alan M. Schneider. Both parties have agreed to waIve a formal
hearing jn this matter and both parties stipulate and agree to the fonowing findings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to. the discipline imposed. Based upon tht'
consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1; The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
of North: Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it
in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
North C&rolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2., The Defendant, G. Phillip David waS admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1988,
and is, and Was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, .subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar.

3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, defendant was actively engaged
in the pra,ctice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of
Wilmington, North Carolina.

I
\

00489

.....

4. In late 1994 or early 1995, the defendant agreed to represent Nellie Ballard (hereafter
Ballard) in a wrongful death action concerning the death of Ballard's nephew, Jessie Junior
Darden (hereafter Darden) arising from an automobile accident which occurred on July 26, 1994
in Brunswick County.
5. Although Darden had resided with Ballard and had been raised by her since infancy,
the defendant was aware that Darden's natural mother was alive and that aallard, although
Darden's aunt, was not his natural mother.
6.~ Also, there was a minor child who survived Darden but defendant was unaware of the
child's existence and did not take the necessary steps to determine the
, child's existence.

7. The defendant pursued a wrongful death claim against Ballard's uninsured motorist
carrier, Seibels Bruce.
8. On February 1, 1995, a check in the amount of $1,000.00 was issued from Seibels
Bmce to Ballard, as the executrix of the estate of Darden, and to the Defendant.. This check
represented payment of a medical payment claim in the Darden wrongful death action.
9. At the time the $1 ;000.00 medical l'ayment claims check was issued to Ballard, she
was not the executrix of Darden's. estate.
10. On Febru~ 20, 1995, defendant sent the $1,000.00 medical payments claim to
Ballard.
11. The defendant did not give the $1,000.00 medical payment to Darden's lawful heir.
12. In April 1995, the defendant settled the wrongful death claim for $25,00Q.00.
13. On April 6, 1995, a check in the amount of $25,000.00 from Seibels Bruce was
issued to Ballard, as the executrix of the estate of Darden, and to the defendant.

1

14. At the time the $25,000 check was issued to Ballard, she was not the executrix of
Darden's estate.
15. Some time after receiVing the $25,000.00 check from Seibels aruce, the defendant
deposited the check in his trust account.
16. The defendant issued two checks to Ballard from the $25,000.00 proceeds of the
wrongful death claim. On April 20, 1995, the defendant issued check number 1246 in the
amount of $11,316.58 "f:) Nellie Ballard. The defendant also issued check number 1255 to
Atlantic Health Clinic or Nellie Ballard in the amount of $2,868 which was payment of a
personal o~ligation of Ballard.
.
.

.

2

:1-,

.
.

.

00490

17. The defendant did not pay the wrongful death proceeds to Darden's lawful heir
pursuimt to N.C.G.S. Section 28A-18-2.
18. The defendant did not haVe the clerk of superior court approve the disbursements
made from the wrongful death claim as required by N.C.G.S. Section 28A-18-2.
19. Although the Defendant mistakenly believed that Ballard had been appointed as the
personal representative of Darden's estate', through adequate preparation and investigation, the
'defendant should have known that Ballard had not been appointed as personal representative of
Darde,n's estate at the time the two checks from Seibels Bruce were issued to Ballard.

I"

, 20. The conduct In question did not involve any intentional wrongdoing or any fraudulent
conduct on the part of the defendant, but waS the result of the defendant's lack of familiarity and
knowledge regarding the proper procedures involved in handling a wrongful death case.
. 21. Since the filing of the grievance with the North Carolina State Bar, a compromise
setiletb.ent of all claims arising out of the defendant's erroneous distribution of proceeds (received
pursu~t to a wrongful death claim) has been negotiated. As a result, the parties have reached
a mut\lally satisfactory resolution of the underlying civil claim whereby the defendant has paid
the sum of $22,517.08 in satisfaction. This settlement amount represents $25,000 received from
the uninsured motorist provIsions of Ballard's personal automobile policy plus $1,000 med pay,
less the cost of a funeral ($3,482.92). Additionally, the defendant as part of the negotiated
settlement, paid the sum of $7,505.69 to defray the minor's attorney's fees and costs incurred in
pursuipg and obtaining a compromise settlement of the malpractice action.
: 22. The Petition For Appointment of Guardian Ad Litem, the Order appointing Guardian
Ad Litem, the Judgment and Release, the Petition For Court Approval, and the Court Order
approv.ing Judgment found that the minor child had a claim for relief against the defendant G.
Phillip: David and David & Associates, P.L.L.C. for negligent disbursement of funds received
pursuaht to a wrongful death claim which arose from the death of said minor child's father, Jessie
Junior :Darden, in an autcmobile accident which occurred on July 26, 1994 in Brunswick County.
23. On December 19, 1995, the defendant agreed to represent Lula Wright (hereafter
Wright) in a personal injury case. Wright and the defendant entered into a contract for legal
service's on December 1995.
24'. Paragraph 6 of the contract for legal services signed by Wright and the defendant
provided that if Wright "discontinue[d] her cause andlor dismisse[d]" the defendant after an offer
of settlement was made, Wright must pay the defendant the "contracted percentage amount of the
most recent offer of settlement... "
25. The defendant adopted this clause approximately 9 years ago from another localla\\
firm's fee Agreement. Although the defendant has had occasions over the years where he was
discharged' by the client, he has never pursued any compensation whatsoever from a client upon
3

I

!

discharge. In addition, in'unediately upon learning that the language in the fee agreement was
problematic, he revised his fee agreements to eliminate the provision in question.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing
committee enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter of tIlls proceeding.
2. The Defend~t' s conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C.O.S. Sec, 84-28(b) as follows:

a. By failing to determine the existence of Darden's lawful heirs and by disbursing the
wrongful death claim proceeds and medical payment check to Nellie Ballard and not to Darden's
lawful heir, the defendant handled. a legal matter without adequate preparation 1.lnder the
circumstances in violation of Rule 6(a)(2); handled a legal matter which defendant knew or
should have known he was not competent to handle without associating a lawyer who was
competent to handle a wrongful death case in violation of Rule 6(a)(I); and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the achninistration of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(d).
b. By requiring in his December 19, 1995 contract for legal services that his client pay
the contractual contingent fee instead of a quantum meruit amount if his client discharged him
before there was a final settlement in the case, the defendant entered into a fee agreement in
violation of Rule 2.6.

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The Defendant's conduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

Full and free disclosure to the Committee and cooperative attitude toward the
pmceedings;

h.

absence of dishonesty;

c.

good character and reputation;.
4

I

d.

The De!endant has been subjected to a civil malpractice claim
regarding this matter which proceeding has been resolved to the
satisfaction of all parties, with full restitution being made; and

e.

The Defendant has exhibited sincere remorse regarding his mishandling of this
matter.

I

, 2. The Defendant's conduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a.

Prior discipline involving advertising.

. 3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings
regardjng discipline and based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee enters th~
following:
I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

The defendant is hereby suspended from the practice of law for six months.
suspen'sion shall be stayed for one year based on the following conditions:

This

(a) Defendant shall successfully complete an extra 12 hours of CLE prior to the
end of the stay;
(b) Defendant shall violate no provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
during 'the one year stay period;

I

.
(c) Defendant shall violate no laws of the state of North Carolina during the one
year st~y period;
(d) Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as determined by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.

5

I
00493

Signed by the hearing committee chair with the consent of the other members of the
hearing committee.

This the ). ~ day

YM
or.WtJ
~gu~t, 1998.

,; '. Babb, Jr., Chair
,~lplinary Hearing Committee

consented to:

~
G. Phillip David, Defendant

Cheshire V.

D~~
~~~------------

. Attorney for Plajntiff

6

,

00494

,

