[9 S (00
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98G0703(IV) and
98G0788(IV)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAJ(E COUNTY

IN THE MATIER OF
I

•

R. Kelly Calloway Jr.
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On October 15, 1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by State Bar and Jesse R. Delozier.
Pursuant to Section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After consi4ering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
dete~ine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of .
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprHnand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

. A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professiqnal
Conduct and has caused hami or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profe~sion, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
The North Carolina State Bar and Jesse R. Delozier filed grievances against you. You
were served with letters of notice in both grievance files, but you failed to respond to these
grievances within 15 days of receiving them.

I
". f

The State Bar Office of Counsel subpoenaed you to its office so that you could respond to
the grievances. You finally responded to these grievances in September of 1998.
Your failure to respond promptly to these grievances violated Rule 8.1(b) and Rul~ 8.4(d)
of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. It is important for lawyers to cooperate with
North Carolina State Bar in the State Bar's efforts to police its members.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina St~te Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

2-

day of.

~

K.· Dorsett, III, Chair
Grievance Committee

I

JK.P:rs

, 1998.

I

I

I

I

