13EFORETHE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
9710GR033

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
EDGAR H. BRIDGER,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 15, 1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by a Complainant, hereafter referred to as "Mr. J".
Pursuant to Section .Ol13(a) of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the Nerth Carolina
State .:8ar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including the grievance, your response to the letter of notice, and the
local grievance committee's report, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable
cause is defined in the Rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a membe.r of the North Carolina
St~te Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The Rules provide that, after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential hann to a client, the I:l.dministration of jqstice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As Chairman of the Grievance Committee of the Nort~
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
Complainant, Mr. J, was asked by a cash legatee of the estate of yoUr long-time friend,
Mr. Y, to advise her concerning the computation of her share of Mr. V's estate as provided in
Mr. V's iast will and testament. You drafted Mr. V's last will and testament. You and your
wife are also beneficiaries of a substantial gift under the provisions of Mr. Y's last will and
testament. The Grievance Committee determined that you violated Rule 5.5 of the superseded

"

,;~~..-,'

'

,..U,I/._,1;;;::,,16
~':;;r,-

.~

(1985) Rules of Professional Conduce by preparing an instrument for Mr. Y giving you and your
wife ~ substantial gift, when neither you nor your wife were related to Mr. Y.
.
The circumstances show that you had known and represented Mr. Y for about 35 years,
having performed ~ccounting and income tax planning services for Mr. Y. For about the last 17
yearsofMt. V's life, you were also close social friends. Mr. Y became bedridden in August,
1992 'and died in November, 1995" As Mr. Y's health deteriorated, your role as his advisor was
expartded to include managing much ofl\1r. Y's affairs, both personal and business.
In 1991, before Mr. Y's health deteriorated, Complainant, Mr. J, drafted Mr. Y's last will
and testament. Under Mr. Y's original will, you were to receive a cash bequest and would share
in the' residuary estate in proportion to the ratio of Mr. Y's cash bequest to the total individual
cash bequests. In 1993, Mi'. J drafted a codicil to Mr. Y's last will and testament. Among other
things, the codIcil increased your cash bequest. In June 1993, Mr. J drafted a second codicil to
Mr. y;s will, which (among other things) again increased your cash bequest.

I

I.

, In October or November 1993, Mr. Y told you that he wanted to remove the bank named
as executor of his will and make you and his nephew co-executors. He also told you that Mr. J
advised against removing the bank as executor. You suggested that Mr. Y retain another
attorney to make changes in Mr. Y's will if Mr. J was reluctant to do so. However, Mr. Y did not
want to deal with an attorney that he did not know. In early 1994, .Mr. Y asked you to draft a
third codicil to his will to delete some beneficiaries and add others. You insisted that Mr. Y
retain IMr. J to make those changes, stating that you could not draft a codicil that made reductions
in bequests because that would in effect increase your bequest in Mr. Y's residuary estate. Mr. Y
nevertheless convinced you to make the changes on the basis that the changes he intended would
not change your percentage ofthe residuary estate. You drafted a third codicil for Mr. Y, which
he signed on March 4, 1994.
On at least two or three· occasions in the latter part of 1994, Mr. Y again asked you to change his
will to, make you and Mr. Y's nephew co-executors. In each instance, you urged Mr. Y to .
consult with Mr. J. In early 1995, Mr. Y insisted that you draft a fourth codicil to change the
executprs. Mr. Y indicated that Mr. J was still reluctant to do so. You agreed to assist Mr. Y in
drafting a fourth codicil, reflecting Mr. V's desire to change executors. While you were
preparing the fourth codicil, Mr. Y asked you to make changes in the beneficiaries which would
have resulted in the net reduction of specific bequests. You declined Mr. Y's request on the
basis that it would have increased your residuary bequest. Mr. Y suggested that he reduce your
specific bequest to offset the increase in your share of the residuary estate. You agreed based on
your kiIowledge that Mr. Y believed he could not get help from Mr. J and further based on Mr.
Y's determination not to seek advice of another attorney.
Rather than prepare a fourth codicil to the will initially prepared by Mr. J, you
incorporated all of Mr. Y's desired changes into a new will at Mr. Y's request. Except for
change~ in the cash bequests and a substantially revised article appointing executors, the new

Rule 5.5 ofthe superseded (1985) Rules of Professional Conduct was adopted verbatim and renumbered as Rule
1.8(c) of,the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

00547

I'

will was substantially the same as the will ~d codicils drafted by Mr. J. By accepting Mr. Y's
offer to lower your bequest, you believed that you had avoided any additional benefit over the
bequests provided for by Mr. Y in the prior versions of his will drafted by Mr. J. How~ver, the
facts show that the third codicil and the last will and testament that you prepared for Mr. Y made
additional bequests to your wife, and in effect (even if not intended), fuade additional bequests to
you.

I

The local grievance committee was convinced that you were truthful about efforts to get
Mr. Y to seek other legal counsel and that you resorted to drafting the instrument only when you
discerned that your long-time friend's wishes would not be accomplished unless you prepared
the instruments. The local grievance committee likewise had no doubt that you merely followed
Mr. Y's wishes and did not exercise any influence over him as to those instructions. the local
committee also believed that your violation of Rule 5'.5 of the Rules of Professional Conduct was
unintentional and occurred in a situation in which you honestly believed that you had taken steps
to ensure compljance with your ethical obligations by accepting Mr. Y's offer to lower your
bequest. The fact remains, however, that you did draft the instruments giving you and your wife
substantial gifts upon Mr. Y's death in violation of the Rule 5.S ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct. Rule 5.5 contains a bright-line prohibition against doing so.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State ,Bar for your professiona,l
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, tha,t it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

I

Done and ordered, this. the

:z...

day of

A6t/~

K. Dorsett, III, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

, 1998.

