----- - ----_._---BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98G0853(IV)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
CURTIS O. HARRIS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On October 15,.1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina St~te Bar met and
considered the grievance flIed against you by Melvin Armstrong.
Pursuant to section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Ru1es of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, inclqding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. tProbable ca~se is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
;The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the, filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission ate not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand,. ~r a censure to the .respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professiorial Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession, or a member of
the pubUc, but the misconduct does not reqUire a censure.
The Grievance Committee waS of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar;
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which.this duty is performed.
In November 1997, you undertook to represent Melvin Armstrong respecting a child support and
custody 'matter in which he waS involved. The matter was heard in April 1998. Although Armstrong
attempted to communicate with you on a number of oc.casions, you did not respond to his inquiries.
Moreover, when the State Bar served you with a letter of notice concerning the grievance which
Armstrong filed against you, you failed to respond to the State Bar as well.

00549

I

Your failure to communicate with your client constituted a violation of Rule 1.4 of the Revised
. Rules of Professional Conduct. Your failure to respond to the State Bar constituted a violation of Rule
8.1(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed thi~ . reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

;2..

day of A6~

~SK:Dorsett, III

,1998.

.
Chair, Grievance Committee

......

/II

