II \laL{
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98G0262(IV)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
JAMESiJ. EXUM,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On October 15, 1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
met and considered the grievance filed against you by Dora E. DuBose.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolin~ State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After

conside#ng the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the rules as "reasonable caUse to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance
Committee may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission are, not required, and the Grievance Committee may
issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or
potential injury ,caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance
Committee may issue an Admonition, a Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent
attorney.'

I'"
.

A Reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition
issued iIi cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules
of Profes$ional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administ,ration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does not require a Censure.
I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in
this c~se :and issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee
of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am
certain th.at you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is :performed.
You represented Dora E. DuBose in a personal injury lawsuit against Howard
McAllister. In connection with that representation, you received two separate
settlements. First, yon received a settlement check for $25,000 from McAlister's
insurer on December 29, 1993. Mter making disbursements to your firm and Ms.

I
00557

DuBose, you retained $10,000 for the payment of her medic~l providers, pursuant to
her instructions. Second, on April 11, 1994, you received another settlement check for
Ms. DuBose from her qnder-insured motori$t carrier. Of that second amount, you
retained $1,403 for the payment of her medical providers, pursuant to her
instructions,

I

After receiving the second settlement check, you'delegated the responsibility to
disburse the remaining settleIl),ent proceeds to non-lawyer assistants in your office. '
Ms. DuBose's roe was closed and no checks were disbursed through August 1995.
_Around that time, Ms. DuBose contacted you because she had received l~tters of past
due amounts froin her medical providers. You claimed that this was the first time you
were aware that Ms. DuBose's checks had not been disbursed. ,
'
In, February 1996, MS.,DuBose again contacted you because several of her
medical providers continued to send her letters for delinquent bills. Several additional
checks were written to five of Ms. DuBose's medical providers. Ultimately, you did not
cOlnplete disbursement of proceeds of Ms. DuBose's settlement for 22 months after
receiving the la,st settlement check. As a result of this delay in YOl,lr disbursement of
the settlement proceeds, at least eight of Ms. DuBose's medical providers reported her
delinquent bills to her credit agency, which delinquencies appeared on her con$umer
credit report.

The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several E,ules
of Professional Conduct. First, your f~ilure to disburse the settlement proceeds to all
of Ms. Dubose's medical providers promptly violated Rule 10.2(e). Second, the fact
that you only became aware that the proceeds had not been fully disbursed more than
16 months after receiving such funds demonstrates that you w~re not performing or
adequately supervising quarterly reconciliations of your trust account. The,
Committee found'that your conduct violated Rule 10.2(d). Third, you delegated the
task of disbursing the settlement proceeds and apparently performing quarterly
.reconciliations to non-lawyers in your office. The Committee found that you had not
made reasonable efforts to enslire that your firm had in effect measures giving
.l'easonable assurance that your non-lawyers' conduct, in performing these tasks for
. you, would be compatible with your professional obligations. The Committee found
that your conduct violated Rule 3.3(a) & (b).

I

In deciding to issue a reprimand, the Committee considered the following
aggravating and mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered the
fact that your failure to pay Ms. DuBose's medical providers prQIIlptly negatively
impacted her credit and tha,t the delay extended almost two years. in mitigation, the
Committee considered the fact that you made efforts to disburse the money after it
was called to your attention and that you subsequently made efforts to assist Ms.'
DuBose in clearing up her credit problems.
You are hereby Repr:imanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
Reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and

that yo-a will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative
costs to 'any attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of .
this action in the amount' of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

/6 day of

A@~..

,1998.

~rD~
.
s K. Dorsett, III

I

Chair, Grievance Committee

I

I

