6(051
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98G0343(11I)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

J. BROOKS REITZEL,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October l5, 1998, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
. considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. .
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State.
Bar, the Grievance Committee condu<;ted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a heating before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating f!ictors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case ~d
issues this reprimanrl; to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State BI;l1',
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
In early March 1998, you sent out one or more letters to other attorneys in Guilford County
announcing that you had left your former firm and opened your own law office on Jan. 1, 1'998. The
letter invited other attorneys to refer bankruptcy work to you. As patt of your solicitation for these
referrals, you stated that" ... I have served and continue to serve on the Chapter 7 Panel of Bankruptcy
Trustees for the Middle District of North Carolina."

I

This statement was misleading; as you were aware prior to March 1998 that you had not been
reappointed to the bankruptcy panel. While you still were serving as a trustee respecting a number of
bankruptcy cases, this is not the same as serving as a member of the panel. Your conduct in this matter
violated Rule 7.1(a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct, which forbids attorneys from making
a false or misleading statement about themselves or their services.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bat due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
teprin:mnd by the Grievance COllUllittee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
.
I

Done and ordered, this

2-. day of ~

I~ ~

,1998.

~I{~.
e K. Dorsett, III
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

I

~.

..

