1'8'9'101//.A

~~ D ~
(
cv· . Fe 19

c~.

-rr

9 <3 I Z ..

J:'II... J:..,:8 cr~
BEFORE THE
-\~. DIt" 0 DI(~~IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
C ~~r
OF THE
NORTH CAROL~~
WAKE COUNTY;;

~.i..?;z;-.,....

''\1:i~ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

":-':'~~2'tt;.1J '/1'''

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF

v.
WILLIAM GERALD, ATTORNEY
DEFENDANT

98 DHC 19

)
)
) FINDINGS OF FACT AND
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)
)

THIS MATTE~ came on to be heard and was heard by a hearing committee of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the N.C. State Bar compo~ed of Henry C! Babb,
Jr., Chair; Michael L. :Bonfo~y and Catharine Sefcik. Carolin Bakewell appeared for the
Plaintiff. The Defendant, William Gerald, was not present nor was he represented by
counsel. Based upon the pleadings filed herein and the evidence presented by the State
Bar, the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North CaroI,ina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North C~olina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant, William Gerald (hereafter, Gerald), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1981 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Gerald was engaged in the
practice oflaw in Wake County, N.C.
4. The State Bar's complaint was filed on June 12, 1998. Various unsuccessful
attempts were made to serve Gerald at his last known address. Thereafter, the State Bar
served Gerald with notice of the summons and complaint by publication in the News &
Observer Newspaper as provided for in N.C. Civ. Pro. Rule 40).

00-580

5. Gerald's answer to the State Bar's complaint was due no later than Nov. 14,
1998.
6. When Gerald failed to file a timely answer or other responsive pleading, the
Secretary of the N.C. State Bar entered Gerald'~ default on Nov. 17; 1998.
I

7. Gerald was given proper notice of the entry of default and of this hearing.

~d

8. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Gerald's person
over the subject matter ofthis proceeding.

9. In February 1995, Matthew Brogdon, a minor (hereafter, Brogdon), was
injured While at a McDonald's Restaurant.

1G. Shortly thereafter, Gerald undertook to

I

as~ist

Brogdon's mother, Leslie P.
Smoot (hereafter, Smoot), in obtaining compensation for Brogdon's injuries.
I

11. In the late spring or early summer of 1995, Gerald assured Smoot that he Was
working on Brogdon; sease.
12. In approximately November 1995, Gerald told Smoot that Brogdon's case
","ould probably be settled around Christmas of 1995.
I

13. In January 1996, after having heard nothing from Gerald, Smoot contacted
Gerald. During this conversation, Gerald admitted that he had mislaid information which
Smoot had previously given him about the case.
.
14. On a nUlllber of occasion~ between January and October 1996, Smoot tried
unsuccessfully to contact Gerald to discuss the status of Brogdon's case.
15. In October 1996, Smoot finally reached Gerald, who had changed his
telephone number without advising Smoot. During this conversation, Gerald told Smoot
that he had not contacted her about the case because he had been ill and had had personal
pr1oblems.
16. Also during the October 1996 conversation, Gerald told Smoot that he Was
going to refer her to another attorney. Despite this assurance, however, Smoot heard
nothing from Gerald or any other attorney about her case after the October 1996
copversation with Gerald.
17. Gerald failed to withdraw properly as Brogdon's attorney and failed to take
steps to prevent prejudice. to his claim.

2

OOS~81

/"

./

I

18. Gerald failed to take adequate steps to pursue Brogdon's claim for dam~ges
and failed to communicate adequately with Smoot concerning h~r son' Sease.
19. In June 1997, Gerald was suspended from the practice of law. Gerald did not
return Brogdon's file to Smoot, nor did he inform Smoot that he'\Vas no longer able to
engage in the practice of law.
20.· Gerald undertook to represent Lester Cross, Jr. (hereafter, Cross), respecting
two traffic charges then pending against Cross.

I

21. Gerald failed to appear in court on Cross' behalf respecting the traffic
matters and failed to take other effective measures to resolve the charges against Cross.
22. As a result of Gerald's failure to resolve the traffic charges, Cross' driver's
license was suspended by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
23. Gerald failed to communicate with Cross about his traffic cases.
24. In the fall of 1996, Gerald undertook to represent Patrick Arrington
(hereafter, Arrington) respecting criminal charges then pending against Arrington.
25. In October and November 1996, Arrington's mother, Janice Arrington
(hereafter, Ms. Arrington), paid Gerald a total of $4,000 i~ attorney's fees to represent
Arrington.
26. Gerald failed to take adequate steps to handle Arrington's criminal case and
failed to communicate adequately with either Arrington or Ms. Arrington about the case.

I

27. Gerald failed to return any portion of the fee which he was paid by Ms.
Arrington on her son's behalf, despite the fact that Gerald did not eam all of the fee
which he received from Ms. Arrington.
.
28. On or about April 8, 1997, Smoot filed a grievance against Gerald with the
N.C. State Bar.
29. On or about October 7, 1997, Cross filed a grievance against Gerald with the
N.C. State Bar.
30. On or about Sept. 25, 1997, the N.C. State Bar issued a letter of notice to
Gerald, directing him to respond to Smoot's grievance. The State Bar also issued a
substance of grievance, which summarized Smoot's grievance.
31. On or about Oct. 7, 1997, the N.C. State Bar iss\led a letter of notice to
Gerald, directing him. to respond to Cross' grievance. The State Bar also issued a
substance of grievance which summarized Cross' grievance.
3

,

'

- .-

32. On Dec. 10, 1997, an employee of First National Legal Support Services
personally served Gerald with the letter of notice and substance of grievance in Smoot's
case, which had been assigned State Bar File No. 97G 537 (II) and with the letter of
notice and sUbstance of grievance in Cross' case, which had been assigned State Bar File
No. 97G 1362.
33. Pursuant to the State Bar's Discipline & Disbannent Rules, Gerald's
response to the grievances filed by Smoot and Cross were due no later than Dec. 29,
1997.
34. Gerald did fiot respond to the State Bar's letters of notice respecting the
· grievances filed by Smoot and Cross.

I

35. On or about April 21, 1997, Ms. Arrington filed a grievance with the N.C.
· State Bar against Gerald.
36. On May 6, 1997, the N;C. State Bar issued a letter of notice to Gerald
· respecting Ms. Arrington's complaint. The State Bar also issued a substance of
grievance which summarized Ms. Arrington's complaint.
37. The State Bar's letter of notice and substance of grievance in Ms. Arrington's
grievance, which Were assigned fil~ no. 97G 480, were personally served upon Gerald by
the Wake County Sheriffs Department on June 10, 1997.
38. Pursuant to the N.C. State Bar's Discipline & Disbannent Rules, Gerald's
response to the letter of notice in Ms. Arrington's grievance was due no later than June
25, 1997.
39. Gerald did not file any response to the letter of notice in Ms. Arrington's
case.
:,
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee hereby enters
the following:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By failing to take adequate steps to pursue Brogdon's claim for compensation
for personal injuries, by failing to represent Arrington in his criminal case and by failing
to take adequate steps to resolve Cross' traffic charges, Gerald neglected his clients' legal
matters in violation of former Rule 6(b)(3) and prejudiced a client in violation offormet
Rule 7. 1(a)(3) ) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. By failing to communicate adequately with Arrington or Ms. Arrington, Cross
and Smoot about their legal matters and by failing to tell Smoot that he had been
4

I
" 00583

suspended from the practice oflaw in June 1997, Gerald failed to 90mmunicate with
clients in violation of former Rule 6(b)(1) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3. By failing to notify Smoot that he had been suspended from the practice oflaw
in June 1997, Gerald failed to comply with the terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 and is therefore in violation of the order of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission entered in the case of N.C. State Bar v. Gerald, 97 DHC 15, which
conduct amounts to contempt of the Commission in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. 8428(b)(3).

I

4. By failing to retmn Brogdon's file to Smoot and otherwise failing to withdraw
properly and by failing to take steps to avoid prejudicing Brogdon once he decided to
withdraw as Brogdon's attorney, Gerald violated former Rule 2.8 of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
5. By failing to respond to the letters ofnotice issued to Gerald by the N.C. State
Bar respecting grievances filed by Smoot, Cross and Ms. Arrington, Gerald failed to
respond to lawful dem~ds for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of
Rule 8.1(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
6. By retaining the entire $4,000 fee which he had been paid by Ms. Arrington
respecting Arrington's case at a time when he had not earned the entire fee, Gerald
retained an excessive fee in violation of former Rule 2.6 of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
Based upon the evidence introduced in the disciplinary phase of this c~se, the
hearing committee hereby enters ~e following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT CONCERNING DISCIPLINE

I

1. Gerald received two censures from the N.C. State Bar Grievance Committee in
1996.
2. In July 1997, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered a consent order of
discipline whereby Gerald was suspended from the practice of law for three years. The
1997 order requires Gerald to comply with a number of conditions priQr to seeking
reinstatement of his license to practice law.
3. Gerald has failed to pay his 1996 and 1997 mandatory N.C. State Bar dues ..
4. Gerald has a deficit of21.75 hours of mandatory continuing legal ecluc~tion
and owes the Continuing Legal Education Board a late compliance penalty of $125.
5. Two of Gerald's former clients, Peter Traylor and Jacqueline HQlloman, filed
claims with the Client Security Fund of the N.C .. State Bar, requesting reimbursement of
5

I
.~

00,584

. sums which they represented that had been lost as a result of Gerald's misconduct.
Traylor indicated that Gerald neglected his criminal case in late 1996 by failing to appear
in court or communicate with him about his case. Holloman stated that Gerald had
, withheld $1,100 from the settlement of her personal injury claim to pay her medical care
'providers. Gerald failed to pay the medical care providers and failed to hold Holloman's
, funds in trust.
6.. Gerald's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)

Prior discipline
Failure to make restitution
Pattern of misconduct
Multiple violations
Substantial experience in the practice of law.

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Findings
Respecting Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant, William Ger~ld, is hereby disbarred from the practice of law.
2. Gerald shall surrender his license and membership card within 30 days of
service. of this order upon him.
3. Gerald shall pay the costs of this proceeding.
4. Prior to seeking reinstatement, Gerald shall:
~)

!;omply with the conditions required of all disbarred attorneys set out in 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rilles.

I

b) shall comply with all the conditions set out in the consent order of discipline in
State Bar v. Gerald, 97 DHC 15.
c) present evidence that he has made restitution to the Client Security Fund of the
N.C. State Bar for all sums paid by the Client Security Fund to former clients of
Gerald's.
d) make restitution to Peter Traylor in the amount of $500.
5. Pay all outstanding mandatory dues owed to the N.C. State Bar and the 10th
JlJdicial District Bar.

6

I
.. 00585
/

6. Comply with all orders and requirements of the Board of Continuing Legal
Education of the N.C, State Bar.

Signed by the hearing committee chair with the permissipn of the other committee
members ..

I

.-t/1

This the

0-day of December, 1998.

1

7

I.

/'

.~

