WAKECOUN

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

)
)
)

) CONSENT ORDER
) OF DISCIPLINE

v.

)
)
)

WALTER E. RICKS, ATTORNEY,
Defendant

This matter coming before the undersigned Hearing Com;mittee of the
DisCiplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred H. Moody, Jr.Chair;
Franklin E. M<artin and Catherine Sefcik, pursuant to Section .0114 of the
Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafteJ."
"Bar Rules"). The plaintiff was represented by Douglas J. Brocker.
Defendant Walter E. Ricks represented himself.
Both parties have agreed to waive a formal hearing in this matter and
stipulate and agree to the following findings of fact and conclusions of law
and to the discipline impo~ed. The Hearing Committee enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "Plaintiff'), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring
this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Walter E. Ricks, (hereafter "Ricks"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 14, 1970 and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina,
su.bject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the
North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

1

I

3. During all of the periods referred to herein, Ricks was actively
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained
a l~w office in the City of Durham, Durham County, North Carolina.
4. Ricks waived his right to a formal hearing.
5. Aaron S. Pretty, Jr. (hereinafter "Pretty") was indicted in Durham
County in January 1991 on one count of Incest and two counts of First
Degree Statutory Sexual Offense and Taking Indecent Liberties with a minor
chUd. The victim of these charges was Pretty's daughter, who was 13 years
bId at the time of alleged offenses.
6.
pe~ding

I

Pretty retained Ricks to represent him by May 1991 on these
criminal charges.

7. A' Superior Court jury convicted Pretty on September 28, 1993 for
InGest, First Degree Sexual Offense, and Taking Indecent Liberties with a
minor child (hereafter "convictions").
8. The Honor:;tble J.B. Alien, Jr. entered a judgnient and commitment
order against Pretty on September 29, 1993 sentencing him to natural life
for' First Degree Sexual Offense, 15 years imprisonment for Incest and 10
yetlrs imprisonment for Taking Indecent Liberties with a minor child.
Pretty's sentences were tp run concurrently.
[ 9. Ricks filed a Notice of Appeal of Pretty's convictions on October 8,
1993. Ricks was appointed appellate counsel for Pretty on approximately
October 11, 1993.
10. Ricks filed a motion for an extension of time to serve the proposed
record on appeal with the Durham County Superior Court on February 23,
1994. The Court granted Ricks' motion and the time to serve the proposed
record on appeal was extended until March 26, 1994.

I

11. Ricks filed a second motion for an extension of time to serve the
proposed record on appeal with the North Carolina Court of Appeals on
March 28, 1994. The Court of Appeals granted Ricks' second motion and the
time; to serve the proposed record on appeal was extended until April 18,
1994.
12. Ricks thereafter failed to file any aqditiop.al motions for further
extensions, and failed to otherwise perfect Pretty's appeal of his convictions.
13. As a result of Ricks' failure to perfect Pretty's appeal, Pretty has
lost his right to appeal his convictions as of right.
,

2

I
00629

14. After Ricks was appointed appellate counsel for Pretty, he also
failed to keep Pretty reasonably informed about the status of theappeaJ.
Specifically, Ricks did not notify Pretty that he failed to perfect Pretty's
appeal.
.
.
15. The Durham County Superior Court appointed new appellate
counsel on July 1, 1998 for the purpose of perfecting Pretty's appeal of his
convictions.

I

On April 22, 1997, the State Bar's 14th District Grievance
16.
Committee served Ricks with a copy of the grievance tiled by Pretty and
instructed him to respond within 15 days ofr~ceipt of the letter ..
17.. Ricks failed to respond to this request within fifteen days of its
receipt.
.
18. The local investigating attorney for the State Bar's 14th District
Grievance Committee, Sherrod Banks, sent Ricks an additional request for a
response in May 1997. }ticks failed to respond to this second request.
19. :Ricks met in person with Banks in June 1997 about Pretty's
grievance. At the meeting, Ricks tendered a tentative written, response.
Ricks had not finalized his plans regarding correcting the appeal. After that
meeting, Ricks failed to file ~ final written response to Pretty's grievan<;:e.
Ricks, however, did subsequently meet with Pretty and offer to ~ssist his new
appellate counsel.
20. Ricks failed to file a final written response to Pretty's grievance
before the matter was considered by the Grievance Committee of the State
Bar.

I

21. Denise V. Gaddy retained Ricks in, 1997 to represent her 01l. a
speeding charge pending in Durham County.
22. Ms. Gaddy paid Ricks a $150 fee
the pending speeding charge.

fo~

his representation of her on

23. Ricks also had Ms. Gaddy sign a waiver of appearance form so
that he could appear on her behalf.
24. Ricks continued Ms. Gaddy's case on a number of occasions until
approximately July 22, 1997.

- 3

I
~~.",.

'

//

.."

......
'.

.

~.

00630
... ........... ..
~

25. Ricks failed to appear for Ms. Gaddy at her court hearing in
Jj}urham County on approximately JUly 22, 1997.
26. As a result of Ricks' failure to appear, the North Carolina
Department of Motor Vehicles (hereafter "DMV") suspended Ms. Gaddy~s
driving license.
27. Ms. Gaddy received notification of DMV's suspenSlOn of her
license in approximately October 1997.
28. After receiving the DMV's notice of suspension, Ms. Gaddy tried
upsuccessfully on many occasions to contact Ricks, beginning in October
1997.
Ricks failed to return most or all of Ms. Gaddy's telephone calls.
I

I

29. , Ms. Gaddy's traffic matter eventually was re-scheduled in
Durham County District Court for February 9, 1998. Ricks appeared and
was able to get Ms. Gaddy's DMV suspension lifted.
30. As a result of Ricks' failure to appear at the July 22, 1997
hearing, Ms. Gaddy had to pay an additional $75 fee to get her license
restored by DMV.
31. Despite Ms. Gaddy's request, Ricks failed to reimburse her for the
$75 restoration fee resulting form his failure to appear. Ricks currently is in
the process of returning the restoration fee to Ms. Gaddy,
32. Ricks failed to respond to numeroUs telephone calls from Ms.
Gaddy attempting to get Ricks to pay the restoration fee.
33. Ricks received a letter of notice from the Grievance Committee on
June 12, 1998. The letter of notice requested that he respond to the
grievance Ms. Gaddy filed against him within 15 days of receipt of the letter.

I

34. Ricks failed to respond to this letter of notice within fifteen days
of fts receipt.
.,
35. Plaintiff sent Ricks a second request for a response on July 17,
1998, which asked him to respond no later than July 27,1998. Ri.cks failed to
respond to this second request.
36. Plaintiff sent Ricks an additional request for a response on
August 5, 1998, which asked him no respond no later than August 15, 1998.
Ricks failed to respond to this third request.

4,

I

37. In response to a subpoena, Ricks appeared at the State Bar on
October 6, 1998 and filed a written response to Ms. Gaddy's grievance on that
day.
. .

f

38. Erma L. Reid retained Rick~ in approximately April 1994
to represent her on a potential medical malpractice claim against
Duke University Medial Center (hereafter "Duke") and others.

I

39. Ms. Reid's potential suit arose out of a hand operation
performed on her at Duke on approximately May 31,1993.
40. Ricks, on behalf of Ms. Reid, filed a suit in Durham County
Superior Court on August 29, 1996 against Duke, among others.'
41. After filing t~e suit in August 1996, Ricks repeatedly
failed to respond to numerous telephone calls from Ms. Reid regarding
the status other case.
42. The court entered a Consent Order of Discovery on July
15, 1997. The Consent Order required Ms. Reid, through Ricks, to
identify expert witnesses by September 15, 1997.
43. Ricks failed to identify to the defendants any expert
witnesses by September 15, 1997. Ricks had identified an expert but
Was unable to list him in part because Ms. Reid did not have the
financial resources to retain the expert by the deadline set forth in the'
court order.
44. Duke and the other defendants thereafter filed a motion
for summary judgment based on Ricks' failure to identify any expert
witnesses.
45.
The defendants' motion for summary judgm,ent was
scheduled for a hearing befOl:e the Superior Court on approximately,
January 15, 1998.
46. Ricks filed a notice of voluntary dismissal on January 15,
1998 before the scheduied hearing.
47.
Ricks did not discuss the notice of voluntary dismissal
with Ms. Reid before filing it.

,S

< '

00632

48. Ms. Reid learned for the first time in March 27, 1998 that
,her suit had been dismissed only after she went to the clerk's office to
get copies of documents in her file.
49. Prior to Ms. Reid's discovery on March 27, 1998, Ricks had
not informed her that he had dismissed her suit against Duke, in the
dver two months since he had dismissed it.
50. After Ms. Reid discovered that Ricks had dismissed her
suit, Ms. Reid's daughter, Veronica Smith, wrote to Ricks on behalf of
4er mother on March 27, 1998 and requested that Ricks inform them
whether the suit was dismissed with or without prejudice. Ms. Smith
also requested that Rick$ return Ms. Reid's file to her.
51. As of July 1998, Ricks had failed to respond to Ms. Smith's
March 27, 1998 letter or return her file.
52. Ricks received a letter of notice from the Grievance Committee on
September 30, 1998 regarding his representation of Ms. Reid. The letter of
nptice requested that he respond to this grievance within 15 days of receipt of
the letter.
53. 'Ricks failed to respond to this letter of notice within fifteen days
of its receipt.
54. Plaintiff sent Ricks an additional request for a response, which
asked him to respond no later than November 9, 1998. Ricks failed to
respond to this second request by November 9, 1998.
I

55. Ricks filed a written response to the grievance regarding
his representation of Ms. Reid on November 25, 1998.

I

56. Ricks conduct and failure to act set forth in paragraphs 5-56
above were caused at least in part by his alcohol dependency.
57. Ricks represents that he has abstained from alcohol for
approximately six months prior to the submission of this consent order.
58. Ricks is participating in the PALS program, is receiving treatment
at an outpatient treatment program, and is attending at least four alcoholics
anonymous meetings per week, for his alcohol dependency.
I

;

()

I
·.OD633

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee
makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
comJ,nittee has jurisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. Ricks' conduct as set out in Findings of Fact 5·20 above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to North Carolina General Statute Section
84·28(b)(2) & (3) and the Rl,lles of Professional Conduct ("Rules"), in that
~icks:

(a) failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness
in representing Pretty, in violation of Rule 6(b)(3), by
failing to perfect Pretty's appeal;
(b) failed to keep his client Pretty reasonably informed
about the status of the appeal, in violation of Rule 6(b)(1);
and
(c) knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for
information from a disciplinary authority, in violation of
Rule 1.1(b).
3. Ricks' conduct as set forth in Findings of Fact 21·39 constitute
grounds for discipline pursuant to North Carolina General Statute section
84·28(b)(2) & (3) and the Rules and Revised Rules of 'Professional Conduct
(hereafter "Revised Rules") in that Ricks:
(a) failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness

in representing Ms. Gaddy, in violation of Rule 6(b)(3) a,nd
Revised Rule 1.3;
(b)failed to respond to reasonable requests for information
from his client, Ms. Gaddy, and failed to keep her
reasonably informed about the status of her case, in
violation of Rule 6(b)(1) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and Rule 1.4(a) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct; and

-7

I
00634

------"'!'----------~"....-----------------------------

-

(c) knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for
information from State Bar, in violation of Revised Rule
8.1(b).
4. Ricks' conduct as set forth in Findings of Fact 40-57 constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to North Carolina General Statute section
84-28(b)(2) -& (3) and the Rules and Revised Rules in that Ricks:(a) failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing Ms. Reid in violation of Revised Rule 1.3;

I

(b) failed to respond to reasonable requests for information
from his client, Ms. Reid, and failed to keep her reasonably
informed about the status of her case, in violation of Rule
6(b)(1) and Revised Rule 1.4(a);
(c). dismissed Ms. Reid's lawsuit without discussing the
dismis.sal with her, getting her approval to file the
dismissal, explaining the matter to her to the extent
necessary for her to make an informed decision about the
dismissal, iIi violation of Revised Rules 1.2 and l.4(a) & (b);
(d) failed to return the contents of Ms. Reid's file after her
written request, in violation of Revised Rule 1.16(d); and
(e) knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for
information from. State Bar, in violation of Revised Rule
8.1(b).

I

_-8

I
'.

00635

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also
enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. issuance of a letter of warning to Rjcks for failure to act
with reasonable diligence and prompt:p.ess .in rep:resenting
a client within the three years preceding the filing of the
complaint;
h. mUltiple offenses; and
c. substantial experience in the practice of law.
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. personal 01' emotional problems, including alcohol
addiction;
b. character and reputation;
c. remorse and cooperation with client's new appellate
counsel; and
d. attempts at interim rehabilitation.

I

I
·00·636

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, conclusions of law, findings
of fact regarding discipline, the consent of the parties, the hearing committee
enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
LDefendant, Walter E. Ricks, is hereby suspended from the practice
of law in the State of North Carolina for a period of six months from the date.
this Consent Order of Discipline is filed. The period of suspension is stayed
f<;>r two yeats upon the following conditions:

I

A) Ricks shall follow a program of rehabilitation for alcohol
dependency, to be monitored by PALS, in which Ricks shall:
1. Totally refrain from the use of alcohol and all mind
altering substances except as may be specifically
prescribed and approved by Ricks' personal physician.
Prior to the use of any such prescribed drugs Ricks will
inform his physician of his participation in PALS,
communicate the identity of his physician to PALS and
have his physician consult with PALS. Prior to the use of
prescription medications, Ricks shall provide PALS with
adequate documentation from the prescribing physician
indicating that the prescribing physician knows of Ricks'
dependence and has concluded that the use of such drug
or drugs is nevertheless required.
2. Accept such person 01' persons as may be designated
by the PALS Committee as monitor(s) of his performance
under this Order and shall make at least one personal
contact per week with said monitor or more frequently as
p~escribed by the monitor.

I

3. Provide the monitor with whatever substantiating
documentation that monitor may require to assure
compliance with this order.
4. Ensure that monthly monitor reports are submitted to
PALS no later than the 15th day of the next month
following each preceding month throughout the entire
two-year stay.

I
"'"

00637

I,

5. Co~plete a program of outpatient treatment for
alcoholism conducted by Debra Giles, or such other
outpatient program as may be apprQved by PALS, for
whatever period of ti~e the treat$entprog:ram might
recommend as being in Ricks' best interest to maximize
the opportunity for his long term recovery. Upon
completion of this outpatient treatment program, Ricks
shall continue to see an addictions therapist every other
week for the next six months or until the clinician and
PALS determines that such weekly sessions are no longer
necessary, whichever is shorter. Ricks shall ensure that
his addiction counselor forwards to PALS and to the
State Bar a quarterly report certifying that Ricks is in
compliance with his outpatient treatment program or
addictions counseling. These reports shall be due no later
than January 1, April 1, July l,and October 1 for each
year of the stayed suspension while Ricks is being
treated.

I

6. Actively participate in a 12-step Program as follows:
(a) Attend at least four AAJ NA,meetings each
week. Ricks will keep a sign-up sheet signed by the
leader of each meeting he attends to verify his
attendance and provide this sheet to his monitor on
a monthly basis. The number of meetings to be
attended will be reviewed at the conclusion of the
lBO-day period following entry of this Order and
may be decreased, maintained or increased at the
sole discretion of PALS, but shall in no event be
less than three meetings per week.

I

(b) Join a home group and attend its meetings

every week. Ricks will maintain a sponsor and an
active relation with his sponsor at all tiIn~s. The
identity ofhi$ sponsor shall be communicated to
PALS and Ricks will authorize PALS to
communicate with his sponsor regarding the status
of his recovery. No confidential information shared
with the sponsor shall be sought by PALS except
information as to status of recovery.
7. Arrange for and submit to random urine drug screens.
A drug scree~g service shall be employed by Ricks
which provides a toll free number for Ricks to call ea~h
,

11

I
//
..-......

r""'''''~'''

-',

! '

day to determine if he is to be screened that day. The
failure to call each day or the failure to report promptly
for a scre~n shall be deemed a positive test result. The
results of the drug screening or the failure to call or to
report promptly for a screen shall be reported directly to
PALS and the State Bar by the screening agency and
Ricks shall be responsible for seeing that this is done.
Ricks may use any testing service such as the National
Confederation of Professional Services ("NCPS")
(telephone 1-800-948-8589) or another similar service
approved by PALS.

I

8. Ensure that monthly reports are made to .his PALS
monitor and that PALS makes quarterly reports to the
State Bar certifying that Ricks is in compliance with each
aspect of his rehabilitation program set forth above. The
quarterly reports regarding PALS compliance must be
sent to the State Bar fio later than January 1, April 1,
July 1, and October 1, for each year of the stayed
suspension.
The failure of Ricks to comply with any of the foregoing aspects
of the program of rehabilitation set forth in Section I(A)
subsections 1-8 shall constitute a violation of the conditions of
the stay and warrant activation of the suspension of Ricks'
license.
B) Ricks shall submit to an examination by Phillip Hillsman, or
another psychiatrist approved by the State Bar, within three
months of the entry of this Order. Defendant shall comply with
all the psychiatrist's recommendations for treatment and
counseling, if any, throughout the course of the stayed
suspension. If treatment or counseling is required, Ricks shall
ensure that his psychiatrist forwards quarterly progress reports
to PALS and to the State Bar throughout the course of the
treatment during the stayed suspension. The psychiatrist's
quarterly reports must be received by the State·Bar no later
than January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1, for each year of
the stayed suspension, after the examination is completed.

I

C) Ricks shall not violate any provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct at any time during the two-year
suspension.

- 12

I
......

00639
.

;

",~-,---~--,---­
~--

D) Ricks shall not violate any state or federal criminal laws at
any time during the three year suspension.
E) Ricks shall pay the costs of this proceedIng, as assessed by
the Secretary, within 60 days of entry of this order.

1

F) Compliance with all the conditions of the this order shall by
at Ricks; own eXpense. Under no circumstances shall the State
Bar be responsible for payments or bills associatf,!d with Ricks'
compliance with this Order.
II. If, upon a motion by the State Bar, a He8;:ring Committee of the
DHC finds that Ricks has violated any of the conditions in Section
l(A)-(E) of this Order, the suspension or Ricks' license shall be
activated. If the suspension is activated, , prior to seeking
reinstatement of his license, Ricks must:
A..Comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter
1, Subchapter B;§ .0125(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules; and
B. Demonstrate that he has totally refrained from the use of
alcohol and all mind altering substances except as may be
specifically prescribed and approved by Ricks' personal
physician. Ricks must meet this requirement by s'\lccessful
participation with the drug screening procedure and program
outlined in I.A)7 above.

I

Signed by the u,ndersigned hearing committee chair with tbe
consent of the other hearing committee members.
This the

~:tJ! day of ~ • 1991.

Chair, Hearing Committee

.13

I··
/,,,""
r""''''~'~
" ..,

..•

......

.We Consent:

..
~~~
Douglas J. ~ker

-~

~

Counsel for Plaintiff

~£.e..k~

Walter E. Ricks
pefendant

I

I

,

I
ODti41

