\.

\~(.~'2.\22cJ;~~"
~
G'~"

~

~"'-11/

/(

NORTH CAROLIN
WAKE COUNTY

()~ .. "

~

</'~

102/2

1C' <6'~.

~~

;2

.

~1

"'TO<..J

,S/

OF THE
NORTH CAROHNA STATE BAR
98 DHC 25

c"G~

6 8 L 9S~ "
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, Plaintiff

I

BEFORE THE

~ ~~;DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSiON

)
)
)

v.

)

JOHN T. ORCUTT, Defendant

)
)

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

This matter came before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Joseph G. Maddrey,. Esq., Chair; Vernon Russ.ell, Esq.; and Mr. B. Stephen Huntley,
pursuant to Section .0114 of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State B~r
(hereinafter "Bar Rules). The defendant, John T. Orcutt, was represented by Alan M. Schneider
and Hugh Stevens. The plaintiff was represented by Douglas J. Brocker. Both parties stipulate and
agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the
discipline .imposed. Based upon the consent of the parties the hearing committee hereby enters
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, John T. Orcutt, ("Defendant"), was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar on April 22, 1982 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of ProfessiQnal Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.

During the times relevant to this complaint, Defendant actively engaged in the

pr~ctice of law in the State ot-North Carolina and maintained a law office in the cities of Raleigh,

Durham, and Fayetteville and the Counties of Wake, Durham, and Cumberland in North Carolina.

4.
Defendant was properly served with process and defendant waived his right to a
formal. hearing.
5.
In 1996, Karen and Abbas Arash Semnani were having difficulty meeting their
financial obligations. In response to one Of Defendant's advertisements, the Semnanis called and
scheduled an initial appointment and consultation with Defendant's office for approximately
September 17, 1996.

1
;

I

OQlS4Z: .

6.
At this initial conference,. the Semnanis filled out some documentation, which
primarily concerned their financial situation.
17.
Thereafter, the Semnanis inet with AI Orcutt, Defendant's brother and an employee
in Defendant's office. AI Orcutt is not an attorney.
,8.
At this initial meeting, AI Orcutt reviewed the financial information the Semnanis
provided on a "client questionnaire, ,i and obtained additional information about their specific
financial situation.
I

9.
After reviewing the Semnanis' financial information, AI Orcutt advised them of ttieir
potential options under the bankrlJptcy laws.
'
'10.
petition.

I

AI Orcutt then advised the Semnanis that they should file a chapter 7 bankruptcy

,11.
AI Orcutt told the Semnanis that Defendant's office would charge a·fee of $800, plus
a $175:filing fee, to represent them in a chapter 7 bankruptcy proceeding.
'12.
The Semnanis subsequently made another appointment with Defendant's office for
approximately Novemb~r 12, 1996.
13.

At the subsequent appointment, the Semnanis again met with AI Orcutt.

~4.
The Semnanis tOld AI Orcutt that they could not afford the fee he quoted them for
filing a chapter 7 bankruptcy petition.

AI Orcutt 'advised the Semnanis to file a chapter 13 bankruptcy petition and then
15.
convert: the petition to a chapter 7 proceeding once they had paid Defendant's· attorney's fees
pursual1t to their chapter 13 payment plan.
16.
Defendant's office filed the Semnanis' chapter 13 bankruptcy petition on November
15, 1996 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of North Carolina.
17.
The Semnanis never met with or spoke to Defendant or any other attorney in
Defendant's office before Defendant's office filed their chapter 13 bankruptcy petition.
1.8.
AI Orcutt did not consult with Defendant or any other attorney in Defendant's office
about the Semnanis' particular situation before: (a) initially advising them to file a chapter 7
bankruptcy petition, or (b) subsequently advising them to file a chapter 13 bankruptcy petition and
convert the petition to a chapter 7 proceeding once they had paid the attorney's fees pursuant to
their chapter 13 payment plan.
1,9.
Approximately one year later, in November 1997, the Semnanis had paid most or
all of the: attorney's fees to Defendant's office under their chapter 13 payment plan.

20. Based on the advice given to them by AI Orcutt previously, the Semnanis contacted
Defendant's office about converting their chapter 13 bankruptcy petition to a chapter 7 proceeding.
2

I

21.
Defendant's office filed a motion to convert their chapter 13 bankn,lptcy petitipn to
a chapter 7 proceeding on approximately November 11, 1997. Prior to the filing of the conversion
motion, Defendant personally conferred with the Semnanis, advised them to convert their case
from a chapter 13,proceeding to a chapter 7 proceeding, and prepared the conversion documents.
It was Defendant's regular practice in 1996 and 1997 to allow AI QrcL!tt and other
22.
non-lawyers in his office to obtain' financial and other information from clients and advise clients
about whether to file for bankruptcy or under which bankruptcy chapter to file. Although Defendant
contends that no case is actually filed with the bankruptcy court until it has been thoroughly
reviewed and approved by a licensed attorney, such "after the fact" review is insufficient to absolve
the Defendant of his responsibility for the paralegal's having previously providedJegal advice about
.
'whether to file bankruptcy or under which bankruptcy chapter to file.
23.
Defendant is sole owner of the law offices of john T. Orcutt. Defendant has direct'
supervisory authority over AI Orcutt and the other non-lawyers in his office.
24.
The Grievance Committee ofthe State Bar reprimanded Defendant twice previously
in May 1995 for allowing AI Orcutt to meet witfl clients, review their financial information and advise
his clients that they should file chapter 7 bankruptcy, in violation of Rules 3.1 (a) am;1 3.3{a).
Thereafter Defendant put into place some remedial measures arid safeguards, including but not
limited to attending seminars .concerning the proper supervision of paralegals and providing clients
with a document explaining the paralegal's role. These remedial measures, however, were
insufficient to ensure compliance with the rules.
On April 15, 1994, the Council oUhe State Bar adopted RPC 161. This opinion of
25.
the Ethics Committee of the State Bar interpreted Rules of Professional Conduct 2.1, 2.2 and 2.4
in the context of a specific television advertisement placed by the Defendant.
26.
Although Defendant's television advertisement at issue in RPC 161 advertised'his
legal services in chapter 7 and chapter 13 bankruptcy matters by inviting viewers to listen to a
recorded telephone message, the television advertisement did not include the word "bankruptcy."

I

In RPC 161, the Ethics Committee stated that Defendant's failure to use the word
27.
"bankruptcy" as the form of relief being described was an omission that made defendant~s
advertisement materially misleading.
28.
Defendant was given notice as early as June 1993 of the Ethics Committee's
consideration of his advertisement in RPC 161.
Defendant and his attorneys submitted materials to the Ethics Committee at its
29.
meeting concerning the adoption of RPC 161.
30.
Defendant had notice of the State Bar Council'$ adoption of the Ethics Committee's
opinion RPC 161.
31.
After receiving notice of the State Bar Council's adoption of RPC 161, Defendant
discontinued use of the specific advertisement addressed by RPC 161 and replaced it with a similar
advertisement from which Defendant eliminated specific langl,lage held to be objectionable in RPC
161. Defendant also revised the recorded telephone message that viewers of the telf1)vision

,

"'~"

3

advertisement Were invited to hear. Defendant continued to place advertisements in various
mediums offering his services to potential debtors in bankruptcy.
32.
The revised television advertisement, and some of the advertisements in other
mediums placed by Defendant subsequent to RPC 161, did not include the word "bankruptcy" to
refer to the form of legal relief described.
I

33.
For example, Defendant placed an advertisement in the Attorneys section of the
December 1996 edition of the GTE yellow pages telephone directory in Durham, North Carolina
that I included the statements, "Consolidate Bills!" "Under Federal Law!" The statements
"Consolidate Bills!l' "Under Federal Law!" referred to filing a chapter 13 bankruptcy petition.

I

34.
Defendant intentionally did not include the term "bankruptcy" in the 1996 Durham
GTE ad because he believed that the use of that term might prevent, inhibit or dissuade debtors
and 'potential clients from accessing his recorded message and ultimately from contacting
Defendant's office.
35.
Defendant also placed an advertisement in the Attorneys section of the March 1997
edition of the Sprint yellow pages telephone directory in Henderson, North Carolina that included
a statement, "DEBt PROBLEMS?" Under this "DEBT PROBLEMS?" statement, Defendant
included two separate sets of descriptive statements. The first set of descriptive statements under
the ",DEBT PROBLEMS?" statement was entitled "BANKRUPTCY" (hereafter "BANKRUPTCY
sectkm"). The second set Of descriptive statements under the "DEBT PROBLEMS?" statement
was I9ntitled "BILL CONSOLIDATIONS" (hereafter "BILL CONSOLIDATIONS section"}.The BILL
CONSOLIDATIONS section referred to filing a chapter 13 bankruptcy petition.
36.
Defendant intentionally did not include the term "bankruptcy" in the BILL
CONSOLIDATIONS section of the 1997 Henderson Sprint ad because he believed that the use of
that term might prevent, inhibit' or dissuade debtors and potential clients from accessing his
recorded message and ultimately from contacting Defendant's office.
37.
Defendant intentionally did not include the term "bankruptcy" in the television ad that
he revised in response to RPC 161 because he believed that the use of that term might prevent,
inhibit or dissuade debtors and potential clients from accessing his recorded message or otherwise
respdnding to the advertisement, and because he believed that the other modifications that he had
made to the advertisement rendered it not misleading.

I

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing
committee enters the following:
I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
i 2.
Giving a client or prospective client opinion or advice about whether or not to file a
bankroptcy petition or under what chapter to file, given their particular circumstances, constitutes
the giying of advice about the legal rights of that person (hereafter "Iegal advice").

4

I

.

3.

Giving legal advice cpnstitutes practicing law pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-2.1..

4.
It is unlawful for any person, except active members of the North Carolina State Bar,
to practice law, including giving legal advice, pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-4.
5.
Def~ndant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discip!jnepursuant to NC. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) and the Rules of Professional Conduct as
follows:
'

a.

I

b.

By permitting non-lawyers in his office to give his clients legal advice,
Defendant:
(I)

aided persons not licensed to practice law in North Carolina in the
unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 3.1 (a); and

(ii)

failed to supervise the non-lawyers in his office adequately or have
in effect measures giving reasonable assurance that the conduct of
the non-lawyers in his office was compatible with his professional
obligations kl violation of Rule 3.3(a) and· (b).

By omitting the term "bankruptcy" in the advertisements described in
paragraphs 34 through 38 of the Findings of Fact, which term was
necessary to make those advertisements not materially misleading when
considered as a whole, Defendant made misleading communications about
his services in violation of Rule 2.1 (a).

Based upon the consent of the parties,the hearing committee also enters 'the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

I
2.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

prior disciplinary offenses;

(b)

a pattern of misconduct;

(c)

multiple offenses; and

(d)

substantial experience in the practice of law

Defendant's misconguct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

absence of dishonest motive;

(b)

full and free disclosure tO,the hearing committee and a cooperative attitude
.
toward the proceedings;

(c)

timely efforts to rectify the consequences of the cpnduct in question;

5

(d)

good character and reputation.

. Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, conclusions of law and the findings regarding
discipline and based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant, John T. Orcutt, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for one
year, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant. The suspension is STAYED for
a period of three years, upon compliance with the following terms and conditions during all three
years of the stayed suspension:
.
(a)

Defendant shall not violate any Revised Rule of Professional Conduct;

(b)

Defendant shall not violate any state or federal criminal.laws;

(c)

Defendant shall not permit the non-lawyers employed by or in .his office to
provide clients with an opinion or advice about whether to file a bankruptcy
petition or under what chapter to file given the clients' particular
circumstances. To ensUre compliance with this provision, Defendant shall
have every client for whom he files bankruptcy sign a notarized client
certification. The client must sign the client certification prior to the
bankruptcy petition being filed. Defendant, or another attorney in his office
also shall sign the attorney certification for each client. The form to be used
for the client and attorney certification is. attached as exhibit A to this
consent order.
Defendant shall keep, on an on-going basis throughout the period of the
stayed suspension, all such certifications along with a corresponding list of
clients for whom his office has filed bankruptcy. The State Bar may request
these documents from Defendant at any time throughout the stayed
suspension. Defendant must provide the State Barwith his list of clients and
the corresponding certification documents within 15 days of all such State
Bar requests.

(d)

Defendant shall not prospectively place any advertisement or make any
communic~tions about his services in representing clients under any chapter
of the bankruptcy laws without specifying in the advertisement or
communication itself that the form of relief described is bankruptcy.

(e)

During the period of Stayed suspension Defendant shall provide any
proposed advertisement or communication for legal services (hereafter
"communication") to the North Carolina State Bar for review. Defendant
shall not use any communication unless approved by the State Bar prior to
its use.
Defendant also shall keep a copy or recording of any
communication submitted to the State Bar for review, along with any a
written record of the State Bar's response for each communication
submitted and provide these records to the State Bar upon request.

I

•

I

6

I

.

The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within 30 days of service of this ord~r on him.

(f)

2. If, upon motion by the State Bar, the Committee .finds that the Defendant has
violated any ofthe·conditions in paragraph I(a)-(e) ofthis Order, the suspension shelll be activated.
If Defendant's suspension is activated, the defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter 8, § .0125(b) of the N.C. State Bar Oiscipline & Disability
Rules, prior to seeKing reinstatement of his license.

I

Signed by the undersigned hearing committee chair with the consent of the other hearing
committee members.

~

This the

!1

day"e.~~~~I-_

We Consent:

"

rcutt

~

--=~
.

Douglas J... ocker .
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

Alan M. Schneider
Cheshire, Parker, Schneider, Wells & Bryan
Attorney for Defendant
133 Fayetteville Street Mall
Post office Box 1029
Raleigh,North Carolin 7602
(919) 833 3114
/
(919) 32 39
c
ile)

I

ugh St en
Everett,
skins, Hancock & ·Stevens, L.L.P.
Attorneys for Df;!fendant
127 West Hargett Street, Suite 600
Post Office Box 911
Raleigh, North Carolina 27602
(919) 755 0025
(919) 755 0009 (facsimile)
7

I
//"
r'·"...·· ..

.......

/')),. . . . ~·w'" 8

;n,~ (011--,
. J l...

·V;a:·.

"'".~~

................. :-. ...

"

"

"

CLIENT CERTIFICATION
I, --'_ _ _ _ _~_ _~_ _ _ _ _ _ , have consulted with the Law Offices of John
T. Orcutt, P.C.
I personally met with, spoke to, or received written communication directly from
_....,...,..._~~_-=--__~__-,--_ (John T. Orcutt or another attorney in his office), who
advl~ed me: (1) Whether or not it is in my best interest to file bankruptcy (or if married, whether
or not it is in the best interest of my spouse and/or I to file bankruptcy) and (2) If advisable to
file, tinder which Chapter of the Federal Bankruptcy Code to file.
This .advice was received from the above-mentioned attorney prior to the filing of my (our)
bankruptcy case.

I

'~

Client (Who received the advice)

Spouse (If also present for the advice)

Sworp. and subscribed before
me this
day of~~_ _ _ _--,-.,, 19_ _,

Notary Public
My commission expires: _ _ _ _ _ _ __

ATTORNEY CERTIFICATION

I

I,
(John T. Orcutt or another attorney in his office), affirmatively
state that I have reviewed all necessary financial and other information provided by t4e above
client(s) and have personally met with, spoken to or written to _ _ _ _ _....,.-~~_ __
(Name(s) of client(s) given advice) prior to filing the client(s)' petition for bankruptcy, and
advised said client(s): (1) Whether or not it is in the best interest 'of the client(s) to file
bankruptcy, and (2) If advisable, under which Chapter to file.
i

Dated:

~----------~-

Signature of Attorney
:\wpwln\admin\attycert.frm (rev. 1115/99)

I

