41::)10
BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98DHC 24

WAKE COUNTY

)

THE NORTH CAROL~A STATE BAR,

I

)
)

Plaintiff,

)

l

FINDINGS OF ,FACT AND
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW ANI)
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)

)

~

)

JOHN C. WAINIO, Attorney,

)
)

Defendant.

,

)
)

This matter came on for hearing pursuant to the summary judgment motion filed by the
Defendant in this matter before a duly appointed committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission con~isting of James R., Fox, Chair; Kenneth M. Smith, and Jean G. Hauser. The
Plaintiff was represented by C1~lYton W. Davidson, III, Deputy Coun_sel. The Defendant was
represellted by Richard N. Watson.
Based on the pleadings, stipulations and affidavits submitted in this matter, the committee
makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (the "State Bar") is a body duly
organized under the laws of the State of North Carolina and is the, proper body to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted to it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North,
Carolina and the rules and regulations of the State Bar promulgated pursuant thereto (the "State
Bar Rules and Regulations").
2.
The Defendant, John C. Wainio, (the "Defendant") was admitted to the State Bar
in or about 1972 ~d is, and was ,at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina subject to the State Bar Rules and Regulations and the Rules of
Professiollal Conduct of North Carolina.
3.
During all or a part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Durham, North Carolina.
4.
The Defendant is a partner in the finn of Spears, Barnes', Baker, Wainio &
Whaley, L.L.P. (the "Limited Liability Partnership") and has, been since 1983.

I
;.

.

"

------"!---~---------::-------~------------------

--

5.
In or about 1996, the Defendant received checks from three clients, Carolyn C.
Myers, Teresa Newman and Mark Craven which Were intended as fees for legal services (the
"Client Checks").
6.
The Client Checks were paid to and were the property ofthe Limited Liability
Partnership.
J

7.
own benefit.
I

The Defendant Was not entitled to retain the Client Checks or use them for his

I

8.
The Defendatlt retained the client checks, which totaled approximately $1,450.00
and appropriated them to his own use by endorsing the~ and cashing them without giving the
Limited Liability Partnership, or the members thereof any notice or benefit of the funds
received.

9.
Robert O. Baker ("Baker"), a, partner in the Limited Liability Partnership, learned
that fees had been diverted in the Myers matter in March, 1997 when Myers called questioning
the status of her bill, and Baker attempted to locate a ledger card, but was unsuccessful in doing
so.
10.
Baker approached the Defendant about the fact that no ledger card existed, and
the Defendant readily admitted that he had deposited Of cashed the check from Myers.
11.
Baker later learned that the fees of another client, Newsome, had been diverted
and approached the Defendant about that matter. At that time, the Defendant admitted to Baker
the three occasions on which he had diverted fees.
I

12.

The Defendant reported his actions to the North Carolina State Bar on October 3,

1997.
l3.
In 1996, prior to the diversion of fees being discovered, the Defendant had
.approached two m~mbers of the Limited Liability Partnership about his depression and the fact
th~t he was undergoing severe financial problems because of a large tax liability to the Internal
Revenue Service that resulted from his inability to pay income taxes for certain years.

I

14.
The Defendant has paid back all amounts appropriated to his own use. At least
on~ of the fee checks was paid back prior to the time that the members of the Limited Liability
Partnership discovered the misappropriation.
Based on the foregoing findings of fact, the committee makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
The Defendant admitted in his answer, and the committee finds that there is no
gerluine issue of material fact as to the violations in this matter, and that the foregoing actions

2

I
--

constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that the Defendant
violated Rule 1.2(c) ofthe North Carolina Rules of Professional Conductl.
THE PARTIES have stipulated that the hearing committee may consider the discipline to
be imposed based on the record before the committee in this summary judgment proceeding.
Based on the pleadings, stipulations, and affidavits, the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS
OF FACT
CONCERNING DISCIPLINE
!
-- -

I

1.

2.

I

The Defendant's conduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

A selfish motive.

(b)

ISsuance of a letter of warning within the three years iminediately
preceding the filing of the complaint.

The Defendant's conduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

Absence of a prior disciplinary 'record.

(b)

Personal or emotional problems.

(c)

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify the
consequences of the Defendant's conduct.

(d)

Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings.

(e)

Good character and reputation.

(f)

Mental impainnent in that at the time of these instances, the Defendant has
been diagnosed as suffering from major depression - severe and anxiety
which impaired the judgment of the Defendant and contributed to the
misconduct to the point that the Defendant's treating psychotherapist.
provided an affidavit stating that if the condition was treated she "feel[s]
certain that [the Defendant] will never make such a mistake again."

(g)

Substantial interim efforts at rehabilitation by the Defendant, in part
through the efforts -of the members of the Limited Liability Partnership.
The members of the Limited Liability Partnership have filed affidavits in
support of the Defendant indicating their belief that this conduct was an

The conduct in this matter occurred prior to July 24, 1997, the effective dat~ of the North Carolina Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct, and this order is therefore based on, the superseded North C!lrolin~ Rules -of
Professional Conduct and the comments and authorities under the superseded Rules. The cortunittee makes ~o
determination as to what the result in this matter would have been under the North Carolina Reyised Rules of
Professi9nal Con,duct.

,3

I
00654'

aberration and will not be repeated, have asked the Defendant to remain in
with them, have undertaken to assist the Defendant .in obtaining
psychiatric counseling, and prior to the entry of this order h~ve taken
appropriate actiqns to oversee the handling of Defendant's cases during the
period when he is obtaining the counseling and assistance to ensure that
the p\lblic is protected.
pr~ctice

(h)

~emorse.

3. :
The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors in this case in such a way as to
make this case distinguishable from the long line of caseS that have held that misappropriation of
funds presumptively subjects the Defendant to disbarment, the most seVere level of discipline
imposed by the Bar. This committee in this case is in full agreement with that line of cases and it
is only in rare instances that this presumption can be overcome. This is such a rare case because
of the Defendant's forthrightness in reporting himself, the evidence of severe major depression
whjch impaired the Defendant's judgment and contributed to the misconduct, the isolated number
of ;instances of misappropriation of law firm funds, the excellent reputation enjoyed by the
Defendant prior to this incident, and because of the level of support shown for this Defendant by
the members of his firm. The members of the Defendant's firm, have actively aided the
Defendant in getting the psychiatric help that they believe that he needs, and have also
undertaken to impose measures designed to protect the public while he is getting that help. The
Defendant has been cooperative with all of those efforts. It is the combination of all factors in
this case that the committee has determined to be sufficient to overcome the presumption of
dis~arment, and not anyone factor alone. The committee expressly finds that the safeguards
incorporated into the terms of this order are sufficient to protect the public, a necessary condition
to overcoming the presumption of disbarment.

I

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Concerning Discipline, the hearing
committee makes the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The Defendant is suspended from the practice of law for three years which
suspension shall be stayed for three years on the following conditions:
(a)

Except as otherwise provided, the Defendant shall remain in practice with
the law firm of Spears, Barnes, Baker, Wainio and Whaley (the "law
firm") during the period of the stay, that another attorney in the law firm
be assigned as an assisting attorney for each and every client matter that
the Defendant undertakes, and that the assisting attorney shall:
(i)

review and organize the files assigned;

(ii)

meet with the Defendant and the paralegal for the Defendant at
least once eVery thirty days;

,

.

,,'

"

...

"

.

4

'

:.'

I

(iii)

determine what has been done, what needs to be dOile;

(iv)

enter the matter into the tickler system, including promised dates
for any actions and providing that notice shall be giv~n to the
Defendant, the assisting attorney,
the paralegal of any action
that needs to be taken;

and

I

(v~

enter the dates for any action provided in subparagraph I.a.iv
above into the computer calendar for the Defendatlt, the paralegal,
and the assisting attorney;

(vi)

assign to the paralegal the aspects of the· work that can be
performed by the paralegal;

(vii)

review all actions that have been taken to ens~r~ that the client
matter is being handled in an appropriate and timely manner, and
to report any failure in that regard to the partners in the firm·;

(viii)

be available to take client phone calls or other calls relating to the
matter in the event that the Defendant is not av~ilable to do so and
the matter needs attention;

(ix)

oversee the payment of fees and the handling of client funds in
connection with the matter, and to report to the partners of the finn
any action or failure which constitutes a violation of the North
Carolina Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; and

(x)

certify to the North Catolina State Bar biannually during the period
of suspension that the Defendant is complying with the temis of
this paragraph, and to further notify the North Carolina State Bar
of any violations of the terms of this order or the North Carolina
. Revised Rules of Professional Conduct by the Defendant of which
the assisting attorney is aw!U'e. The biannual certification shall he
du<:: at the times provided in subparagraph I.e below.

I
(b)

The Defendant shall cooperate with the assisting attorney assigned
pursuant to subparagraph l.a and shall not undertake to handle any client
matter without baving an assisting attorney assigned. The Defendant shall
submit to the North Carolina State Bar within thirty days of this order a
statement signed by all attorneys who wiI1 be assisting attorneys in
Defendant's cases, stating that they have read this order and agree to Serve
C}.S an assisting attorney pursuant to this order. No person shall be assigned
as an assisting attorney until and unless he or she has signed such a
statement and it has been $ubmitted to the Bar.

, 5

i'
l'

..

1'"".,,-:--..

/'

/

(c)

If the Defendant decides to leave the Limited Liability Partnership, th~
Defendant shall designate another attorney or group of attorneys to act as
assisting attorneys and perform the functions listed in paragraph 1, which
attorneys shall be approved by the Office of Counsel of the North Catolina
State Bar and shall be subject to the requirements of subparagraph l.b
above.

(d)

The Defendant, at Defendant's expense, shall become a patient of a
psychiatrist approved by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State
Bar (the "Doctor"), shall remain a patient during the period of the
suspension except as otherwise provided in subparagraph I.e below, and
shall comply with the course of treatment prescribed.

(e)

At any point during the period of suspension; the Defendant shall
immediately inform the North Carolina State Bar in writing if he ever
ceases to be a patient, or otherwise fails to comply with the course of
treatment prescribed by the Doctor. The Defendant shall further instruct
his Doctor to immediately inform the North Carolina State Bar if he ever
ceases to be a patient, or otherwise fails to comply with course of
treatment prescribed, shall authorize the Doctor to release to the North
Carolina State Bar information about his status as a patient upon the
request of the North Carolina State Bar, and shall further authorize the
Doctor to release to the North Carolina State Bar any and all medical
records, inclUding but not limited to records detailing the course of
treatment, any diagnOSis, and the Defendant's prognosis. The Defendant
shall submit written reports signed by his Doctor providing full details
about his course of treatment, diagnosis and prognosis, and certifying that
he remains a patient and is complying with the Doctor's prescribed
treatment plan. The reports shall be filed at the same time that
Defendant's biannual certifications are due under subparagraph l.i below.
If Defendant is discharged by the Doctor prior to the end of the suspension
period, then the Defendant shall file a report signed by the Doctor
indicating that no further treatment is required, and that in the opinion of
the Doctor that the Defendant should be allowed to continue in the
practice of law.

(f)

The Defendant shall violate no provisions of the Rules of Professional
CondUct.

(g)

The Defendant shall violate no federal or state laws.

(h)

The Defendant shall pay all costs of this action within sixty (60) days from
the date of this order.

(i)

The Defendant shall forward to the North Carolina State Bar biannual
certifications on the Second day of July, 1999 and January, 2000, and the

I

I

, 6

I
.....,.

. .:.
'

second day of July and January of each year thereafter. The certifications
shall certify that he is currently in compliance with all of' the tennsand
conditions of this order, and shall detail any instance of non.,.compliance
that occurred after the date of this order, and that was not disclosed to the
North Carolina State Bar by the Defendant in a previous biannual
certifi.cation.

I

2.
The Defep.dant has an interest in keeping confidential those records that are
subject to physician-patient privilege, which interest overrides any interest of the public in
obtaining disclosure of those records. That overriding interest cannot be protected by any
measure short of sealing the records so produced. The North Carolina State Bar shall keep
confidential all Doctor's reports, or other medical records obtained by the Bar pursuant to
subparagraph I.e above, and shall not disclose those records to any person other than employees
of the North Carolina State Bar, except pursuant to an order of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission, or other court of competent jurisdiction.
3.
Any violation of the conditions of this order shall be grounds for lifting the stay and
activating the suspension as provided in this order. If, during the period of thisstay~ the North
Carolina State Bar becomes aware of evidence that the Defendant has misappropri~ted the funds
of any person, whether a client or otherwise, the North Carolina State Bar may apply to the
Superior Court of Wake County for a Temporary Restraining Order and Preliminary Injunction
pursuant to Rule 65 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure ·restraining or enjoining the
Defendant from practic~ng law in North Carolina until such time as a proceeding to lift the stay,
or any other disciplinary proceeding in which the misappropriation of funds is at issue can be
heard by the Disciplinary Hearing Committee.
Signed by the undersigned chair with the full knowledge and consent of all other
members of the hearing committee.

I

This the~q~day of January, 1999.

, 7

I
00658

