'--

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE
,

-----------~~-

----.--~-~

-~--~--

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94G0321(I)R

i

IN THE MATTER OF
I

BILLY MASON,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

I

CENSURE

On October 19, 1995, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met and considered the grievance filed against
you by'Susan Wheeler.
I

Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Rule .6113(a) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary
hearing. After considering the information available to it,
including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Commit:t;.ee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the
rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolirla State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
discip~inary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable caUse,
the Gr~evance Committee may determine that the filing of a
,complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
variouS: levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual ,or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mit:l.gat'ing factors.
The Grievance Committee may issue an
admonit'ion, reprimand, or a censure.

,I

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than
a reprimand, issued i~ cases in which an attorney has violated
one or ~ore provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a
client" the administration of justice, the profession or a member
of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of
the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission is not required in this case and
issues ehis censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance
Committ~e of the North Carolina StaEe Bar, it is now my duty to
issue this censure.
I am certain that you will understand fully
the spirit in which this duty is performed.

I
00659

You represented Susan Wheeler in obtaining art absolute
divorGe and in $eeking equitable distribution. An equitab~e
distribution hearipg was conducted on September ;1.6, 1991 befo~e
District Court Judge Charle~ E. Rice, III. You failed to prepare
a judgment and present it to Judge Rice as you had the
responsibility for doing after the equitable distribution
hearing. Ms. Wheeler remarried and moved out of North Carolina
in 1992. In Decembef 19'93, complainant wanted to force her
ex-husband to list the beach home for sale as Judge Rice's oral
judgment had ordered.
She discovered that you had never filed a
judgment in the case. Since Judge Rice was no longer o~ the
bench, the matt'erwill probably have to be ret;ried before Ms.
Wheeler can get a judgment entered that she can enforce.

I

Your failure to take prompt action to get a judgment entered
in this matter violat'ed Rule 6 (b) (3) and 7.1 (a). . Since a
proposed judgment can no longer be presented for Judge Rice's
signature, Ms. Wheeler has been prejudiced Or damaged by your
failure to prepare the judgment in violation of Rule 7.1(a) (3).
Although your neglect in this matter would normally not rise
to the level ot a censure, the committee notes that you have
twice been reprimanded for neglect within the last year. 1\:s a
result, the committee feels that a censure is ~arranted in this
case.
You are hereby censureQ. by the North Carolina.State Bar for
your violation of the Ruies of Professional Conduct. The
Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never
again ?lllow yourself to depart from adherence to the high e,thical
standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a -strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in
the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean
yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose
conduct may be relied upon without question.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the administrative and investigative co~ts to any attorney
issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

~day

of

&~

" 1995.

k/{J~

Ann Reed, Chai;r
=
The Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar

,

"

;-

,"'

"

