~ JbO
~----

WA~ECOUNTY

i

CONRAD A. AIRALL,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

".--------

~---

----.

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
. 97G 1709(II)R

NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE MATTER OF

~---~----

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On October 15, 1998, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
consiAered the grievance filed against you by Helen McIntyre.

I

: Pursuant to section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
inforn1ation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Cornniittee found probable cause.
. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to b~lieve that a member of the
North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action. II
Th~ rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, th~ Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
ComrrHssion are not required, arid the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discip~ine depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggra'fating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure.
I

; A Censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in cases
in whiph an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and ha~ caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of
justice~ the profeSSion or a member of the public, but the misconduct dqes not reqUire suspension
of the ~ttorney's license.

I

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
CommIssion is not required in this case and issues this Censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Censure. I
am certain that you will tmd~rstand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
,Helen McIntyre retained you in December 1996 to represent her on an employment
discrimination claim. Ms. McIntyre filed a grievance against you in December 1997 for your
represelltation of her on that claim. On approximately February 24, 1998, you were provided a
copy orMs. McIntyre's grievance by the loth District Grievance Committee and requested to
respond to within 15 days. On March 19, 1998, you requested an extension of time to respond
until April 8, 1998, which 'Yas granted. Thereafter, you failed to respond until June 9, 1998,

I

after the lOth district Grievance. Committee recommended a finding of probable cause for your
failure to respond. The Grievance Committee found that your above-mentioned actions violated
Revised Rule of Professional Conduct 1.1(b). However, the Committee found that, based on
the information available to it, there was not probable cause to believe that you violated any
Rules of Professional Conduct in representing Ms. McIntyre.
In deciding to issue a censure, the Committee considered the following aggravating and
mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee noted that you had been wa.rn.ed twice in the
last year-- once in November 1997 and again in February 1998 -- for your failure to respond to
the Grievance Committee on' other grievances and that your failure to respond, if repeated, would
subject you to discipline. You received both warnings for failure to respond before failing to
respond again in the above-mentioned matter. The Committee also considered that you were
Reprimanded in 1995 and 1996 for other violations of the Rules. In mitigation, the Committee
considered the fact that you were experiencing personal and family health problems during a
portion of the time you failed to respond in this matter.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this Censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart .
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This Censure should serve
as a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility
to the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean
yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon
without question.
In !:iccordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regl;ll'ding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs .of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

I.

Done and ordered, this

(p

daYOf~, 19'}K

~!{fr~~·
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

