BEFORE THE

WAKE COUNT

)

I'

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF

v.

),
)
)
CONSENT ORDER
) TRANSFERRING DEFENDANT
) TO DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

'WILLIAM M. SHEFFIELD, ATTORNEY )
)
DEFENDANT
THIS MATTER came before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Con;unission on April 2, 1999 pursuant to the motion of the Defendant, William M..
Sheffield, for an order transferring the Defendant to disability inactive status. The
hearing committee was composed of Richard T. Gammon, Chair; Franklin E. Martin ·and
Anthony E. Foriest. The Defendant was represented by Donna Ambler Davis and
Carotin Bakewell represented the N.C. State Bar.
Based upon the pleadings filed herein, the argument of counsel and the consent of
the parties, the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Defendant, William M. Sheffield (hereafter, Sheffield), was licensed to
practice law in North Carolina in 1972.

'I

2. On or about May 26, 1998, the N.C. State Bar filed a formal complaint,
alleging that Sheffield had violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in various fespects.
3. Sheffield was personally served with the State Bar's summons and complaint
on June 15, 1998 by the Orange County Sheriff's Dept.
.
4. Pursuant to Sheffield's motion, Sheffield w~ allowed until and through Aug.
6, 1998 in which to file an answer or other responsive pleading.
5. Sheffield failed to file an answer or other responsive pleading with the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission on or before Aug. 6, 1998.

",

-

6. On or about Aug. 7, 1998, the Secretary of the N.C. State Bar entered the
default of the Oefendant.
7. On or about Sept. 4, 1998, Sheffield, through counsel, filed a motion to set
aside the default.
8. On Oct. 26, 1998, the Chair of the Hearing Committee granted Sheffield's
motion to set aside the default and granted the State Bar's motion to file an amended
co~plaint.

9. On Oct. 27, 1998, Sheffield filed a timely answer to the amended complaint.

I

~

10. On Nov. 18, 1998, Sheffield, through counsel, filed a motion to be transferred
to disability inactive status and to stay resolution of the pending disciplinary matter until
the:conclusion of the disability proceeding.
11.Following the filing of Sheffield's motion for transfer to disability "inactive
status, the parties have engaged in discovery concerning Sheffield's mental and physi~al
condition.
12. Dr. Bruce Hughes, MD, if called, would testify, in pertinent part, as follows:
a) He is a psychiatrist licensed by the State of North Carolina; who practices in
Chapel Hill, N.C.
b) He first saw Sheffield as a patient on June 13, 1997 and has seen him on eight
occasions since then. There have been several periods in which Sheffield has
not returned for regular treatment or appointments with Dr. Hughes.
c) In Dr. Hughes' opinion, Sheffield is suffering from a major depressive
disorder, which is probably of a long-standing nature.
d) Dr. Hughes has treated Sheffield for depression by several prescription
medications, in~luding Zoloft initially and, more recently, with an antidepressant called Wellbutrin.

I

e) Sheffield's ability to engage in the practice oflaw is impaired by his
depression.
. f) Prior to resuming the practice of law, Sheffield should engage in
" psychotherapy on a weekly basis or at such other intervals recommended by his
therapist and should continue to see a psychiatrist at least monthly or at such
other intervals recommended by the psychiatrist.

I
.'

...

g) Dr. Hughes would recollllI1,end that Sheffield not engage in the practice of law
for a. period of six months to a year, prior to seeking transfer to active status
with the State Bar.
13. Dr. Nicholas E. Stratas, MD, if called, would testify, in pertinent part, as
follows:
a) He is a psychiatrist licensed by the State of North Carolina, who pr~ctices in
Raleigh, N.C.. '

I

b) He saw Sheffield as a patient on May 21, 1997 at the request of the N.C. State
Bar pursuant to a consent order of'discipline previously entered by the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
c) Although Dr. Stratas did perform some tests, he was not able to complete his
evaluation as Sheffield did not return to Dr. Stratas for a second visit.
d) Dr. Stratas' preliminary diagnosis, however, is that, as of May 1997, Sheffield'
had a dysthymic disorder.
e) As of May 1997, Sheffield also displayed several personality configurations,
including self-defeating, borderline and depressive personality traits. these
may be the results of personality disorders or may be the result of depression.
t) As ofMay 1997, Sheffield's ability to engage in the practice oflaw was

significantly impaired by his condition, in his opinion.
g) Prior to resuming the active practice of law, Sheffield should continue to see a
psychiatrist and engage in psychotherapy.

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee hereby enters
the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. The parties consent to the entry of this order and the conditions of
reinstatement set out below.
3. The defendant, William M. Sheffield, is disabled within the meaning of 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0103(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline
& Disability Rules and is not competent to practice law in North Carolina.

I:
"

"

'
"

'.

"

..

0067~

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hea,ring
committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER TRANSFERRING ATTORNEY TO DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS
. 1. The Defendaht, William M. Sheffield, is hereby transferred to disability
ina.ctive status for five years. The Defendant may seek an order transferring him to
act~ive status pursuant to §..OI25(c) of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules at any
tinie after one year, upon demonstrating, by clear, cogent ~d convincing evidence that:
a) he has participated in psychotherapy with a therapist approved by the N.C.
State Bar at least once a week (or at such other intervals recommended by the
therapist) for a period of not less than one year next preceding the petition for
transfer to active status;
b) he has received treatment from a psychiatrist approved by the N. C. State Bar at
ieast once a month (or at such other intervals as recommended by the psychiatrist)
for a period of not less than one year next preceding the petition for transfer to
active status;
c) he has, within 15 days of the motion for reinstatement, provided the N.C. State
Bar with a signed, written release pennitting the State Bar's counsel to obtain
copies of Defendant's medical records from all physicians, psychiatrists and
therapists from whom Defendant has received counseling or treatment since the
date of this order and to contact such physicians and _counselors to inquire
respecting Sheffield's compliance 'Yith the tenns of this order. Defendant shall
not revoke such release without consent of the State Bar.
d) he has complied with all treatment plans, directions and recoIlllIlendations of
his psychiatrist and psychotherapist, has responded promptly and candidly with
requests for infonnation from his therapist and physician and has appeared for all
scheduled appointments.

I

(e) he has paid the costs of this disability proceeding.

(f) he has complied with all provisions of § .OI25(c) of the Discipline & .
Disability Rules.
'.
•2.. If any portion of the five-year period is stayed, the stay of the remaining
period o{the five years shall be conditioned upon Defendant's compliance with all
provisions of1{1 (d) and (e).

I
.
. -,
...; ..

':."

3. If Defendant does not seek a stay of any portion of the five ye~s or, ifhe
seeks a stay which is later lifted for any reason, Defendant shall not be re-transferred to
active status until he presents clear, cogeJlt and convincing evidence that he is no longer
disabled within the meaning of27 N.C. Admiri. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §
.OI03(b) Qfthe N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
4. All disciplinary matters pending against the Defendant before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission are hereby ABATED until such time, if ever, that Defendant is
transferred to active status.
I

This the£t, of April, 1999.

,'
Signed by the hearing committee chair with the consent of all committee
members.

Doa Ambler Davis
Defendant's Attorney

•. 1
Carolin Bakewell
Plaintiff's Attorney

,I

