BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97G 1604(1V), 98G0430(IV), 98G0478(IV),.
98G0569(IV) & 98GI345(IV)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

. ROGER W. RIZK,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On Jamlary 13, 1999, the Grievance Commlttee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met ~d
considered the grievances filed against you by several clients.
Pursuant to section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolin;:t.
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your responses to the letters of notice, the Grievance
Committee foUnd probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the
North Carolina State Bar is guilty of mIsconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cau~e, the Grievance COl11111itt~e may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels or
discipline depending upon the misconduct~ the actual or pot~ntial injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure.

I

A Censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in cases
in which ~ attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this Censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Censure. I
am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
File Number 97G1604(1V)
In approximately F~bruary 1997, your client, VLL, retained you to represent him to
pursue a potential claim under the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA") against his former
employer, the North Carolipa State Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources.

nr'9S'
O
'. ~}'V

--------------------------------------------

- -

You flIed a complaint on behalf of VLL in the United States District Court for the Western
District of North Carolina on May 30, 1997. the Committee found that prior to filing the
complaint for VLL, you failed to take the following action. First, you failed to advise VLL that
he w~s required to pursue state administrative procedures and remedies prior to filing the suit in
federal court. Second, you failed to do sufficient investigation and research on VLL' s claim to
determine whether or not he had causes of action against his employer. On motion by the
defendants in that action, VLL' s claims Were dismissed because he failed to exhaust his state
administrative remedies before filing suit.
; The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules of
Professional Conduct. First, the Committee found that you violated Rule 6(a)(2) by handling
VLL '!s suit without preparation adequate under 'the circumstances. Second, the Committee fotnid
that you violated Rule 7.2(a)(1) by filing a frivolous suit on behalf ofVLL.

1

File Number 98G0430(IV)
In approximately June of 1996, your client, SM, retained you to represent her in a
potential employment discrimination claim against her former employers, Smith Turf &
Irrigation Co. You subsequently filed a suit in the District Court of the United States for the
Western District of North Carolina on October 11, 1996. The Committee found that prior to
filing this suit, you failed to infonil SM that she was required to file a charge with the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission ("EEOC") and obtain a right to sue letter before filing
suit. You also failed to do sufficient investigation and research to ensure that SM had obtained
such ~ tight to sue letter. Furthermore, the Committee found that at the time that you filed the
suit in: Federal Court, the 180 deadline for filing an EEOC charge had not expired. As a result of
your conduct, the United States Djstrict Court dismissed SM's suit in an order dated September
19, 1997, because she had not filed an EEOC charge and obtained a right to sue letter prior to
filing her complaint.
, The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules of
Professional Conduct. First, by failing to investigate and ensure that SM had filed a charge of
discrimination with the EEOC and obtained a right to sue letter, you handled SM's claim without
preparation adequate under the circumstances in violation of Rule 6(a)(2). Second, you filed a
frivolous lawsuit in violation of Rule 7.2(a)(I).

I-

File Nuttlber 98G0478(IV)
: On approximately February 13, 1997, your client, CSH, retained you to represent him on
a potential ADA and unfair labor practice claims against his employer, US Airways, and his
union, ithe International Aircraft Mechanics ("lAM"). You subsequently filed a complaint in
North Carolina State Court on July 11, 1997 asserting claims for intentional infliction of
emotional distress against US Airways and lAM. The defendants SUbsequently moved the case
to Federal Court and asserted the following defenses to the action. "Expiration of the statute of
limitations, CSH's exclusive forum for resolving disputes was under an arbitration clause of their
collective bargaining agreement which he had failed to exhaust, and failure to exhaust his
administrative remedies under the ADA. " You subsequently moved and were allowed to
withdraw from representation ofCSH on February 23, 1998. Ultimately, CSH was forced to file
I

/

/

i

....... _.;,., . . . . r_~....-·~

1

a stipulation .of dismissal on April 15, 1998 to avoid sanctions being imposed ag~inst him for
filing this suit.
The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules of
Professional Conduct. By filing the suit for CSH without ensuring th~t he had exhausted his
administrative remedies, ensuring that the statute of limitations had ri5t expired, and determining
that his claims were governed by the arbitration clause of a collective bargaining agreement, you
filed the suit without preparation adequate under the circumstances in violation of Rule 6(a)(2)
and filed a frivolous lawsuit in violation of Rule 7.2(a)(l).

I

File Number 98G0478(1V)
In approximately April 1997, your client, AK, retained you to represent him in a
previously filed ADA claim against Roadway Express and Teamsters Union, his employer and
union, respectively. Ultimately, AK was forced to dismiss this suit, which was filed by another
attorney, because the summons was not timely served on the defendants.
You subsequently filed. a second suit on behalf of AK 011 February 3, 1998 in the United
States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina against the same defend;mts.
This suit was for breach of contract of a collective bargaining agreement. The c()llective
bargaining agreement contained a mandatory arbitration clause. Also, the breach of contract
Claim was subject to a six-months limitation period which the Committee found ha4 run
significantly before February 3, 1998.
The Committee found that you failed t() do sufficient investigation and research to
determine whether or not AK had a viable claim for breach of contract before filing the second
suit. The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Committee foun~ that by filing AK's second suit and doing little, if
any, background investigation or basic researc;h on his claim, you violated Rules 6(a)(2) and
7.2(a)(l).

I

In deciding to issue you a censure for the above-mentioned misconduct, the Committee
considered the following aggravating and mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee
considered the following factors:
(a) You were previously reprimanded by this committee in November of 1997 for
. filing a frivolous employment discrimination claim;
(b) You were sanctioned on five occasions between January 1997 .and March
1998 for filing frivolous employment discrimination lawsuits;
(c) You had previously been warned by the Grievance Committee in connection
with y()ur representation of another client in an employment discrimination
suit;
(d) You engaged in pattern of similar misconduct d~monstrated in this Censure,
your prior Reprimand, your prior sanctions, and the Letter of Warning;

I'
/

I

/

...... _ .....v .. r -..

.-!'~~..'-

--------------------------..,..--------------

----- - - -

-

(e) You had committed multiple violations of the Rules; and

(1:) You have substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
lIn mitigation, the Committee considered heavily the fact that you are already under a
four-year stayed suspension and one of the conditions of the stay is that you commit no future
violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct. the Committee noted that all of the allegations
set forth above in the Censure occurred before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission ("DHC")
trial, which resulted in YOl.ir four-year stayed suspension. In other words, it appeared that you
had undergone some interim rehabilitation between the times of the actions set forth in the
Censure and the time of the quarterly Grievance Committee meeting. The Committee also noted
that the: DHC panel that imposed a stayed suspension was aWare of your pattern of misconduct
set forth in this Censure.
I

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this Censure,
recogni~e the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This Censure should serve
as a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility
to the phbiic, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean
yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon
without :qqestion.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolin~ State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 $'e hereby taxed to you.
I?one and ordered, this :2,2..

day of

~
£~, 1999.

~K~
me
K.DOrsett:m
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

j
/

. . .-. . .

I

~~_&

.

