...J

BEFORE THE
. CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99 DHC 3

ex> .

WAKE COUNTY

TIm NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

I

Plaintiff,

v.
E. CLARKE DUMMIT; Attorney,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

This matter was heard on before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing·
Commi!;sion composed of Fred H. Moody, Jr., Chair; Rob~rt B~ Smith, and Jean G.
Hauser. The Plaintiff was represented by Larissa J. Erkman. The Defendant, E. Clarke
Dunimit, was represented by Urs R. Gsteiger. 80th parties stipulate and agree to the
fmdings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline
imposed. Based on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1.
The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organi~d under the laws of
Nprth Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and
Regulations oftlte North Carolina State. Bar.
2.
The Defendant, E. Clarke Dummit (hereafter, "Defendant"), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar in 1986 and was at all times relevant hereto licensed to
practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During all times relevant hereto, Defendant was actively engaged in the
practice of law in Winston-Salem, Forsyth County, North Carolina andtnaintained a law
office there.
4.
Defendant waives his right to a formal hearing. Defendant Waives his
right to·seek assignment of a newly conStituted Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary"
Hearing Commission in the event that this Hearing Committee declines to approve "thi~
consent order.

.. -=-._."" .., ........r~~ •••

-------------,---------....,.--------------------

----

-

-

5.
Defendant was properly served with process and the hearing was held with
dtte notice to all parties.
6.
Defendant is a 50% owner of a company called Professional Legal Press,
Ltd. ("PLP"). Defendant participated in the construction and operation ofan internet web
site sponsored by PLP and located at ..http://www.nclawyer.com.. (hereafter, the "PLP
W~b Site").
7.
The PLP Web Site was, in part, designed to assist the public in finding an
a~orney to h~dle drivin.g while impaired eDWI") cases.
I

8".. In or around October 1997, the PLP Web Site contained multiple web
pages. One PLP web page located at ..http://www.nclawyer.comlmap.htm.. contained a
m~p of North Carolina (hereafter, the "PLP Map Page"). The map displayed the
approximate geographic boundaries and names of all 100 counties in North Carolina.
E$ibit A, attacthed hereto, is a true and accUrate depiction of the Map Page as it
.
appeared oli or around October 2, 1997.

I

9.
The PLP Map Page contained a heading at the top of the page: "Find a
Lawyer in Your Area." The ptp Map Page instructed visitors to "Click on the name of
th" county that charged you to get to the DWI specialist home page for that area."
The same bold emphasis on these words appeared in the text of the PLP Map Page.
I

10.
In this manner, the PLP Web Site purported to contain interactive links to
"th~ DWI specialist hOllle page" for the 100 counties of North Carolina. A visitor to the
PLP Map Page Who "clicked" on the "Forsyth" county name would be automatically
linked to a PLP Web Page purporting to be the "DWI specialist home page" for Forsyth
County.
11.
The PLP Web Site page linked to "Forsyth" county was located at
..http://www.nclawyer.comlforsyth.htm.. (hereafter, the "Forsyth Page"). Exhibit B,
attached hereto, is a true and accurate depiction of the Forsyth Page as it appeared on or
around October 2, 1997.

I

12.
The Forsyth Page contained the heading "Forsyth County: Clarke
Duriunit, Dummit and Associates." It also included a picture ofDefendant, and a
description of Defendant's law practice. The Forsyth Page listed Defendant's telephone
number as "(910)-777-8081" and included a link to his e-mail address at
"DuInmit@bellsouth.net."
13.
The Forsyth Page did not refer or otherwise link the public and potential
clients to any lawyer other than Defendant.
I

2

,
'-

/

...... _.~ . . _r_. ---------&~~

I

In or around October 1997, th~ other 99 North Carolina counties depicted
on the MapPag~ were linked to web pages located at other internet addresses. Most of
the North Carolina counties were linked to a: web page lpcated at
..http://www.nclawyer.comltryagain.htm.. (hereafter, the "Try Again Page"). Exhibit C,
attached hereto, is a true and accurate depiction of the Try Again as it appeared on or
around October 2, 1997.
14.

15.
The Try Again Page contained the heading "Professional Legal Pre$s" and
the foHowing message: "You have selected a county that is not yet supported by
NClawyer.com. Please call (910)-777-8081 for a personal referral." .

I

16.
At that tillle, the telephone number "(910)-777-8081" was assi~ed to
Defendant or his law practice, Dummit and Associates.
17.
The remaining North Carolina counties shown on the Map Page were
linked to web pages located at other internet addresses. For instance, "Guilford" county
was linked to a web page located at ..http://www.nclawyer.comlguilford.htm... As shown
in Exhibit D, attached h~reto, this web page stated that it was "Reserved for future use. "
18.
A separate link entitled "About the Book" took PLP Web Site visitors to
another web page. The About the Book link contained information about a bOok
authored by Defendant, ~ntitied Friends Don't Let Friends Plead Guilty. The About the
Book link described Defendant's book, stating that the book iDstructed the public on "the
danger oflettingjust any lawyer handle your DWI case." The same bold emphasis
appears in the t~xt of the linked web page.
19.
In constructing and' operating the PLP Web Site, Defendant's intention and
plan was to create a series of affiliations or relationships with attorney~ in other North
Carolina counties and to create an Internet~based referral service in accordance with the
North Carolina Rules of Professional Responsibility.

I

20.
In or around October 1997, the overall impression given to the public and
potential clients was that the PLP Web Site could be used by web site visitors as an
objective and reIiabl~ so~ce not only to locate attorneys throughout the state of North
Carolina to handle DWI cases, but also to identify attorneys who were qualified and
experienced in litigating OWl cases.
21.

The overall impression of the PLP Web Site was false or misleading in

that:
(a) Defendant was the only attorney linked to or listed in the PLP Web
Site, and Defendant was the only lawyer participating in the PLP Web
Site;

3

·I~·
,

/
!
/

,

(b) the PLP Web Site purported to link web site visitors to "the DWI
specialist home page" for a particular area. The words "DWI
specialist" connote to the public a particular expertise recognized by a
certifying organization, such as the North Carolina State Bar. As of
October 1997, neither the North Carolina State Bar, nor any
organization approved or endorsed by the North Carolina State Bar,
granted certification for a "DWI specialist."
(c) a web site visitor who "clicked" on the "Forsyth" coUnty name "to get
to the DWI specialist home page for that area" would be automatically
linked to the Forsyth Page containing the heading "Forsyth County:
Clarke Dummit, Dummit and Associates." As of October 1997,
Defendant was not, and never had been, certified by the North
Carolina State Bar, or any organization approved by the North
Carolina State Bar, as a "DWI specialist."

I

(d) the Try Again Page automatically linked to most of the North Carolina
counties directed web site visitors to call Defendant's telephone
number, without reference to Defendant's name or his law fmn, "for a.
personal referral."
25.
Web Site.

Defendant was responsible for the construction and operation of the PLP .

Upon receiving notice from the North Carolina State Bat of alleged
26.
vioiations of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct related to the PLP Web Site,
Defendant has changed the PLP website to remove all references to "DWI specialist".
Any revisions made by Defendant to the content of the PLP Web Page since October
1997 are not the subject of review by this panel, except to the extent noted in this
paragraph.
27.
There is no evidence of any harm to the public resulting from Defendant's
ope~ation and construction of the PLP Web Page as it appeared in October 1997.

I

28.
In or around April 1996, Jeffrey D. Lumpkin (hereafter, "Lumpkin") and
Jaril¢S E. Wroten (hereafter, "Wroten") approached Defendant in his law office to assist
them in incorporating Net Unlimited as a sub-chapter S corporation. Lumpkin and
Wroten told Defendant that they had counsel in Louisiana who might be reviewing
docUments and contracts for them.
. 29. . During this meeting, the parties discussed the availability of office space

in Defendant's law office building. Defendant indicated that his company Rational
Developments, Inc. (hereafter "RDI") had space available to lease. RDI is a company
owned by Defendant and his wife.
I

4

,

.

"

..... _

~

..... ..... w# .. . . - . ' - -.... . - -•••

I

30.
Lumpkin and .Wroten subsequently returned to Defendant's office and
negotiated lease t~rms. A lease was Ultimately agreed to by the parties and signed on or
about April 23, 1996.
.
31.
In April 1996, Defendant prepared articles of incorporation for Net
Unlimited, Inc~ on· behalf of its shareholders' and principals, Lumpkin· and Wroten.
Defendant also prepared a draft shareholders agreement for LUinpkin and Wroten prior to
preparing the articles of incorporation.
32.
On April'll, 1996, the organizational meeting of the board of directors of
Net Unlimited, Inc. was held at Defendant's office. The minutes refle~t that, as of April
11, 1996, Defendant was acting as attorney for Net Unl4nited, Inc. The minutes further
reflect that Defendant was present at the corporation's organizational meeting.

I

Net Unliniited, Inc.' s articles of incorporation were' filed with the North
33.
Carolina Secretary ofState on or about April 15, 1996. The articles of incorpOration list
Defendant as incorporator of Net Unlimited, Inc.
34.
Thereafter, on April 23, 1996, Defendant drafted a lease agreement
between Net Unlimited, Inc. and RDI. The lease agreement provided that Net Unlimited
Inc. would .rent from ROI office space in a building owned by RDI. The space subject to
the lease was in the same building as and adjacent to Defendant's law offices.
35.
Defendant signed the lease agreement on April 23, 1996 as Se~tetary of
the lessor corporation, RDI.
36.
transaction.

Defendant and Net Unlimited, Inc. had differing interests in the le~e

37.
Net Unlimited, Inc. and its principals sued Defepdant and his wife in
Forsyth County Superior Court, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and other torts arising
out of the facts stated above. At the conclusion of the plaintiffs' evidence, Superior Court
Judge ThOI11as Ross dismissed the case and entered judgmept 4t favor of Defendant and
his Wife, fmding that while a fiduciary relationship existed between Defendant, Net
Unlimited, Inc. and its principals, as a matter of law Defendant did not breach that
fiduciary relationship and did not engag~d in constructive fraud.

I

BASED UPON the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties .are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee
has jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constit1.Jtes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(a) and (b)(2) as follows:

5

Ii
,/

/
. . . . . _.I"o!....

r..u .. ~~ ....-

a) Defendant communicated false and misleading statements or
information about his services in violation of the. Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct, Rule 7.l(a), as m()re fully described in Findings of Fact
~~ 20 and 21 (a) -(d);
b) Defendant impermissibly communicated that he is a specialist in a
field ofpractice not recognized by any certifying organization in violation of
the Revised Rules. of Professional Conduct, Rule 7 A(b), as more fully
described in Findings of Fact ~~ 21 (b) and (c);
c) by entering into a business transaction with Net Unlimited, Inc. and its
principals after commencement of Defendant's representation of Net
Unlimited, Inc. and by failing to obtain the consent of Net Unlimited and its
principals, after full disclosure, ofDefendant;s inherently conflicting roles in
relation to the lease transaction, Defendant unintentionally or technically
violated Rule 5A(a) of the superseded (1985) Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

BASED UPON the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee also
e~ters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a) Prior disciplinary offense. In October 1994, the Grievance Committee
issued a reprimand, fmding that Defendant had violated Rule 2.1 (b) of the
superseded (1985) Rules of Professional Conduct by stating in letters to potential
clients charged with speeding in Forsyth County that "[a] plea bargain can save
you thousands of dollars in insurance premiums over the next three years .... ,"
Which likely created an unjustified expectation about the results Defendant could
achieve.
b) Multiple offenses, and
c) Substantial experience in the Pnlctice of law.
2.

Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

I

a) Timely good faith efforts to rectify consequences of misconduct, and
b) Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Committee and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings.
3.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law
and the Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and based upon the consent of the parties,
the! Hearing Committee enters the following:

6

I

,

,'-

i

./

"

00707

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant is hereby censured for his misconduct related to the PLP W~b

Site.
2.
Defendant is hereby issued a Letter of Warning for his misconduct related
to Net Unlimited, Inc. Def~ndant's conduct constituted an unintentional, minor, or
technical violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct which may be the basis of
discipliile if continued or repeated.

I

3. Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
of the North Carolina State aar within 30 days from service on Defendant ofa.statement
of costs.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Committee Chair With consent of the other
hearing committee members.
This the ~q day of~~~_ _-" 1999.

Fred H.Moody, Jr., C
Hearing Committee
CONSENTED AND AGREED TO, This. the

I

.1!:L day of&-: I

, 1999.

arlssa-J. Er
The North
olina State Bar
Post Office Box 25908
Raleigh, North Carolina 27611
(919) 828-4620
ATTORNEY FOR PLAINTIFF

Urs Gsteiger
Wilson & Iseman, LLP
380 Knollwood Street, Suite 530
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27103

Defendant

ATTORNEY FQR DEFENDANT
7

.I:
0,

1

//

"

, .

"

.:,

PROFESSIONAL

'"

III

I

LEGAL
PRESS

EXHIBIT

IJ

Find a Lawyer in Your Area
= .. ,

T

•

CUbk on the name of the county that charged you to get to the
DWI specialist's home page for that area.

--

..

-,--

-

- -.. -.' .--_ ... -

..- -..

--_. '--'--'

I

._... -_ ...

North Carolina Statistics I North Carolina DWI Laws
Top Ten Defenses /8 Surefire Ways I M.A.D.D.
, Alcoholics Anonymous I Do You Drink Too Much?
Take Our Quiz I About the Book I E-Mail Us I Home Page,
Tbis site desi~ned and maintained by Cerino Solutions. No graphics may be copied without written permission.

ofl

10/02197 16:57:46

I

,
"

"

on709

..

.,

Forsyth County:
Clarke Dummit,

II

EXHIBIT

. ____
6

DUffitnit and Associates

'

Clarke Dummit is a founding partner in .!lumntit &
Associates, a law firm· in Winston-Salem', N.C., that
concentrates its practi~e on DWI law. In the 'nlQstread' bool",
"Friends Don't Let .Friends Plead Guilty" written just for
North Carolina readerS, Dummit shares tbe insights that he
has gained from thousantfs of hours of courtroom experience
in defending D\VI cases. Dummit was raised in Sal;lfQrd, N.e,
and studied pJJilosopby and business administration at
Vanderbilt University. H.e graduated from the Wake Forest
University School of Law and is licensed to practice in North
Carolina. Georgia, U.S. District Court, U.S. Bankruptcy Court and the U.S. Court
of Appeals•

I

.Prior to 1\'lr•. Dummit graduating from Law School, he cle.·ked witb the United
States attornev's
office in the Middle District- of California.
He was the tirst law
.
cieri" not yet being an attorney.. to be allowed to handle three Federal jury f)·ials on
DWls. At that point)n his life, Mr. Dummit quickly became a recognized leader in
Drh:ing \Vbile Impaired cases. 'Under the Federal Incorporation Statutes, he was
able to conl'iet a person with driving while impnircd and ha\~e him sentenced to the
JD3l:imum sentence allowable under California Law (U.S. v. Henderson Fed 2nd).
Mr. Dummft has a tradition of being a vigilant DWI attorney and one of the most
aggl'cssi\'t~ prosecutors around in the 1980's.
.
-

~

I

is using his vigilullce, experience, and expertise to defend tiwsc ;lCCUS{'t.i
,\ Hh Df'unk Driving ill North Ctlro)jna.
rO(hl Y he.'

-. ==-_.
You cun contact CJa.·ke at (910)-777-8081.or send hiiit e-mail to:
Dummit@bellsouth.net

_===: ==.:::;s

==

Go Back To Map.
4=;e=_

• __ • e:s::: .=

~===_

.

coita

:===

North Carolina Statistics I North Carolina DWI Laws
.. Top Ten Defenses i 8 Surefire Ways: M.A:D.D.
10/02197 16:54:30

2

Ii.
/

/
...... _.,...~'!'r...,..

---_.'
.

'.

.

007'10

-I

'

III

=

:wa:u=_

wee:useu;

!

_

===-=== ::x-"

au t

....

=====4'J.

Go Back To Map

I

I

\

1

10/02197 16:58:29
,
"

/

/'

I

PROFESSIONAL

LEGAL

DRESS
Reserve3 fo~ ftiture use.
s .. -.e

. . ',"

: .. as

=

__ e,

ii

a

~.

•

=.._

a,
III

I

EXHIBIt

D

E• •

a.

North Carolina Statistics I North Carolina DWI Laws·
Top Ten Defenses I 8 Surefire Ways I M.A.D.D.
AlcoholicsAnonymous I Do You Drink Too Much?
. About the Book I E-Mail Us I Hoine Page
.
Take Our Quiz
..

I

f1

10102197 16:58:03

. _. . . . r_.
_.~

~.,~A~.

-------------~-------------------------

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99DHC3

i

IN THE MATTER OF
.El 'CLARKE DUMMIT,
AttORNEY A'tLAW'

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

I

This matter came on for consideration of a Consent Order of Discipline before 'a
hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred Moody,
Chair, RB. Smith and Jean Hauser. The Plaintiff Was represented by Larissa J. Erman.
The Defendant, E. Clarke Dummit, was represented by Urs Gsteiger. Both parties
stipulate and agree to the fmdings of fact and conclusions of law recited in the Consent
Order and to the discipline imposed. The Hearing Committee approves entry of said
Cqnsent Order of Discipline and, based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Cqmmittee hereby issues the following Censure to the defendant, E. Clarke Dummit:
You are a 50% owner of Professional Legal Press, Ltd. ("PLP',). In 1997, you
participated in an internet web site sponsored by PLP ("PLP web Site"). The ptp web
site, by your own admission, was designed. to assist the public in finding an attorney to
handle driving while impaired ("DWI") cases.
As of October 1997, the PLP web site contained the following information: First,
an instruction at the top of the home page stated, "Find The Best OWl Lawyer Near
You."
I

_

Second, on the home page under the web site logo was a map of North Carolina
with all 100 counties hamed and depicted. Just above this map was the statement, "Click
on tPe name of the county that charged you to get to the OWl specialist home page for
thati'area."

I

The home page included links to each of the 100 counties. Consequently, a
pers,on accessing the home page could "click" on any county displayed on the map artd
purPortedly be linked to a separate page listing attorneys in that county that coulcl handle
owl cases. For Forsyth CoUnty, the only link was to your home page -- a page
describing you and your law firm. For numerous other counties, there was a link to a
pag~ listing your phone number, but not your name, for a referral. Significantly, there
were no links in the PLP web site to any lawyers, other than you.
Third, a separateliIik from the home page was to another site containing
infOrniation about a book you authored, entitled "Friends Don't Let Friends Plead
Guilty." The linked page describing your book contained a statement that in your book

/
/

~..... _.", ..... r_"~~~·-

I

the public would learn, "the danger of letting just any lawyer handle your DWI case."
(emphasis in original)

I

Your participation in the PLP web site violated several provisions of the R~vi.sed
Rules of Professional Conduct. First, the PLP web site contains misleading statements ot
information, in violation of Revised Rule 7.1(a). Specifically, the overall impression
given from the PLP web site is that it is an objective vehicle that can be used to locate
attorneys throughout the state to handle DWI cases. You,. however, were the only
attorney listed in or lipked to the PLP web sit~. Moreover, the links to numerous counties
listed only your phone number without any reference to the fact that it was your number.
The Committee found that the PLP web site as a whole gave the public and potential
clients the misleading impression that it was an. objective way of finding attorneys
througho\lt ~orth Car(}lina, but in fact, it was an advertisement for only you and your law
firm's services.
Second, th~ statement in the home page that directed potential clients to click for
the "DWI specialist'~ home page" and then dir~cted them to your home page in Forsyth
County violated Revise Rule 7.4(b). You are prohibited by Revised Rule 7.4(b) from
communicating that you are a specialist in a field of practice unless you have been
certified as a speciali~t by the North Carolina State Bar or an organization approved or
endorsed by the State Bar. There is no certification for a "DWI specialist."
In deciding to issue a censure, the Hearing Committee considered the following
aggravating and mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Hearing Committee considered
your ·prior discipline for a violation of the Rules governing attorney advertising, the
multiple violations you comniitted in connection with .the PLP web site, and your
substantial experience in the practice ofl~w. In mitigation, the Hearing Committee
considered your efforts to have the web site changed after being notified of the violations
and your cooperation in these proceedings.

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar Disciplinary Hearing
Commission for your violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct. The Commission
trusts that you will ponder this Censure, recognize the error that you have made, and that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards
of the legal profession. This Censure should serve as a strong reminder and inducement
for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients,
your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected
member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
Done and ordered, this

~q day of

A ~:c\ \

, 1999.

Fred Moody, Jr.
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Commission

2

,,

.....-............~.. ~~~..

The North Carolina State Bar
Fred Moody, ,Jr.
Chair

DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMIS$ION

Mr. E. Clarke Dumtnit
Attorney a,t Law
213 West 6th Street
Winston-Salem, NC 27101

LETTER OFWARNING

I

Re: State Bar v. E. Clarke Dummit, 99 DHC 3
Dear Mr. Dummit:
A hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred
MoOdy, Chair; R.B. Smith and Jean Hauser considered and approved the Consent Order
subinitted by the parties in the above-referenced matter. Based upon said Consent Order of
Discipline, the Hearing Committee determined that your conduct constituted an unintentional,
min~r, or technical violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct which may be the basis of
disCipline if continued or repeated. The Hearing Committee hereby issues this Letter of
Warning to you.
In or around April 1996, Jeffrey D. Lumpkin (hereafter, "Lumpkin") and James E.
Wroten (hereafter, "Wroten") approached you in your law office to assist them in incorporating
Net Unlimited as a sub-chapter S corporation. Lumpkin and Wroten told you that they had
couIJSel in Louisiana who might be reviewing documents and contracts for them. During this
,meeting, the you discussed with Lumpkin and Wroten the availability of office space in your
law office building. You in~licated that your company, Rational Developments, Inc. (hereafter
"WI") had space available to lease. RDI is a company owned by you and your wife.

I

Lumpkin and Wroten subsequently returned to yout office and negotiated lease terms. In
ApriJ 1996, you prepared articles of incorporation for Net Unlimited, Inc. anq prepared a draft
shareholders agreement for Lumpkin and Wroten. On April 11, 1996, the organizational
meeting of the board of directors of Net Unlimited, Inc. Was held at your office. You were
present at the corporation's organizational me~ting and acted as attorney for Net Unlimited, Inc.
Net Unlimited, litc. 's articles of incorporation were filed with the North Carolina Secretary of
State: on or about April 15, 1996. The articles of incorporation list you as incorporator of Net
Unlimited, Inc.
Thereafter, on April 23, 1996, you drafted a lease agreement between Net Unlimited,
Inc. and RDI. The lease agreement provided that Net Unlimited Inc. would rent from RDI

208 Fayetteville Street MalVPost Office Box 25908/Raleigh, NC 27611/(919) 828-4620/Fax (919) 821-9168

.

"

•

• ...... _ .....v .... o#..

~------···

I

Page 2

Mr. E. Clarke Dummit
Letter of Warning

office space in a building owned by RDI. You signed the lease agr~ement on April 23, 1996 as
Secretary of the lessor corporation, RDI. You and Net Unlimited, Inc. had differing interests in
the lease transaction.
Your conduct in this matter violates Rule 5.4(a) of the North Carolina Rules of
Professional Conduct. This rule states, in part, tltat an attorney shall not enter intQ a business
transaction with a client if the interests of the client and attorney ate different and. the client
expects tile attorney to exercise his professional judgment therein for the protection of the client,
unless the client has consented after full disclosure.

I

As a mitigating factor, the Hearing Comniittee considered that the following facts:
Net Unlimited, Inc. and its principals sued you and your wife in Forsyth County
Superior Court, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and other torts arisiItg out of the facts stated
above. At the conclusion of the plaintiffs' evidence, Superior Court Judge Thomas Ross
dismissed the case and entered judgment in your favor, fmding that while a fiduciary
relationship e~isted between you, Net Unlimited; Inc. and its principals, as a matter of law you
did not breach that fiduciary relationship and did not engaged in constructive fraud.
A copy of this Letter of Warning will be maintained in the'public records of the. N.C.
State Bar and shall be treated as a public decision by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission for
all purposes.
This the

I

~~

day

of~A~f>;.....;.-<...;..". .:, \_ _ _ ,1999.

Fred Moody, Jr.
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Co
The North Carolina State Bar

.ssion

Ii

I .'

f

I

/

-... -.""........~..~~...

-

/

