...-------------------------------------------------------------------

---

l;S,C)
BEFORE T-HE

NORTH CAROLINA

----~

--- --.- ---- ----- ----- -----

DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12
8

WAKE COUNTY

,~~)l\

~

THE ,NORTH CAROLINA STAtE BAR,
Responde!lt,

,

~

MAY1~9g

~

He

:~ FOILcD

v.
STE~HAN

FOSTER LAPPINQ, Attorney

I

Petitioner.

This matter was considered on the 5th day of May, 1999, by a hearing committee
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Henry C. Babb, Jr., Chair; Michael
L. Bonfoey; and Robert Franz, upon the Motion for Stay of Order of Suspension filed by ,
Stepnart Foster Lapping (hereafter, the Petitioner) on March 26, 1999 and the Response
filed by the N.C. State Bar on April 20, 1999. Based on the Petitioner's motion and the
N.C. ~tate Bar's response and with'the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee
hereb! enters the following:
I

_

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

By Order of Discipline entered on July 17, 1998, the Disciplinary Hearing
suspended the Petitioner from the practice oflaw for a period of three (3)
years: Six (6) months of the suspension is active. The remaining period of the threeyear suspension is subject to being stayed upon a showing by the Petitioner that he has
comp~ied with the conditions set out in Paragraph 2 of the Order of Discipline. A copy
ofth~ Order ofOiscipline (without exhibits) is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Co~ission

2. The three-year suspension became effective on September 11, 1998. The
Petitioner has been actively suspeJlded from the practice of law for a period in excess of
six (6) months.
At all times during the active suspension, the Petitioner has refrained from
: 3.
engaging in the practice of law.
I

•4.
On March 26, 1999, the Petitioner filed a motion with the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission seeking a stay of the remaining period of the suspension.

. .: .

I

.

..
5.
The Petitioner has enrolleq and is participating in a program oflaw office
management training under the auspices of Nancy Byerly Jones & Associates, a law
office management program approved by the North Carolina State Bar.
6.
The Petitioner was evaluated by Theodore Clark, M.D., a board-certified
psychiatrist approvedhy Counsel for the N.C. State Bar. Dr. Clark provided a written
evaluation ofthePetitioner. Dr. Clark concluded that the Petitioner is not disabled within
the meaning 9f27 NC. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §.0103(19), and that the
Petitioner should be allowed to return to work.
7.
Dr. Clark did not prescribe any continuing course of treatment for the
Petitioner. He did, however, recommend that the Petition~r undergo a psychiatric
reassessment at the end of one (1) year to review how the Petitioner is adjusting to
resumption of his law practice.

I

8.
During the period of his suspension, the Petitioner has not violated any law
of the State of North Carolina, or any other state or of the United States.
9.
During the period of his suspension, the Petitioner has complied with all
orders and requirements of the CLE Department of the North Carolina State Bar in a
timely fashion.
10. The Petitioner has paid his mandatory North Carolina State Bar dues in a
timely fashion. There have been no demands for reimbursement from the Petitioner's
clients submitted to the Client Security Fund.
11. During the period of his suspension, the Petitioner has not violated any
provisions of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
12. During the period of his active suspension, the Petitioner has responded in a
timely fashion, as required by Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28, et seq., to all inquiries, subpoenas, discovery requests;
orders and other matters requiring a response issued to the Petitioner by the State Bar
Office of Counsel, the Grievance Committee, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, and
any other committee or agency of the North Carolina State Bar.
13. During the period of his active suspension, there have been no matters
before the State Bar's Fee Arbitration Committee requiring the Petitioner's response.
14. The Petitioner has paid the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar and has paid the .out-of-pocket expenses in the
amount of $31.96 incurred by the witness Ms. McNeill in connection with her appearance
at the hearing of this matter.
15. The Petitioner has complied with all provisions of 27 NCo Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .Ot24 of the North Carolina State Bar DisCipline & Disability
Rules pertaining to the obligations of an attorney who has been suspended from the
practice of law.

2

....,

, '

13ASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I

1.
The Petitioner has demonstrated by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
that he has complied with the conditions set out in Paragraph 2 (a) ~ en) of the Order of
Discipline.

2.

Pursuant to Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Order of Discipline, the Petitioner is
entitled'to a stay of the remaining three-year suspension.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
hearing :committee enters the following:
ORDER STAYING SUSPENSION

1.
The remaining period ofthe three-year suspension of the Petitioner's license
to practice law is stayed so long as he meets the following conditions:
a)
the Petitioner must comply with the conditions stated in Paragraphs 4 - 6
9f the Order of Discipline;
b)
in accordance with Paragraph 6(b) of the Order of Discipline, the
:petitioner must obtain a revaluation by Dr. Clark, or another board-certified
psychiatrist approved by Counsel for the N.C. State Bar, on or before April 30,
2000, and must comply with any continuing treatment program prescribed or
teconimendation(s) made by the evaluating psychiatrist based on the
l;lforementioned annual reassessment or any evaluation or assessment conducted
thereafter during any period of the stay;
e)
as required by Paragraph 6(c) of the Order of Discipline, the Petitioner
must submit to Counsel for the State Bar no later than May 15, 2000 a written
report prepared by the psychiatrist performing the annual reassessment and must
otherwise comply with the conditions of 6(c) by submitting written reports of his
evaluation and treatment to the State Bar when applicable. All such written
reports must address the status of the Petitioner's condition and the treatm~nt
plan or recommendations made by the psychiatrist.

d)
the Petitioner must also execute a medical release and authorization, in the
. form of Exhibit B hereto, permitting the North Carolina State Bar to speak with
any evaluating or treating psychiatrist, psychologist or physici~ consulted by the
Petitioner during any period in which the three-year suspension is held in
~beyance and to obtain his medical records.

2. If during any period in which the three.,year suspension is held in abeyance the
Petition¢r fails to comply with anyone or more conditions stated above or any condition
3

,

"

0071B

I

in the Order of Discipline but not specifically enumerated herein, then the stay ofthe
suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in §.OI14(x) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline &, Disability Rules or in the Order of Discipline.
3. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, §.0l14(x) of the North
.
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
.Signed by the undersigned Hearing Committee chair with the consent ,of the
other hearing committee. members.
.

I

This the

S1ay of

~

,1999.

I

4

...

,i'

.-'.:' :

'

..
~.

,.;;"

.

...

---...,...----------:-~---------------------~--

---

-.- - .. -

BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROL

PLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98DHC 12
~

i

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff

)
)
)

v.

)

PLAINTIFF'S
EXHIBIT

tJ

I

FINDINGS OF FAcr,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)
STEPHAN FOSTER LAPPING, Attorney )
)
Defendant
)

I

This matter was heard on the 2P* day of May, 1998, before a hearing committ~
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Hemy C. Babb, Jr., Chair; Michael
L. E$onfoey; and A. James Early,
The Plaintiff was represented by Larissa J. Erlamin.
The: defendant, Stephan Foster Lapping, appeared but was not represented bycolinSel.
Based on the pleadings and the arguments of counsel at the hearing, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following:

m.

FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of
Noqh Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chaptet 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and
RegUlations of the North Carolina State Bar.
2.
The defendant, Stephan Foster Lapping (hereafter "Lapping''), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1986 and was at all times relevant hereto
licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the law of the State of North
Cardlina.
3.

During all times relevant hereto Lapping was actively engaged in the

practic~ of law in Carthage, Moore County, North Carolina and maintaiiled a law office
there..

~

.

.,

"','"

':

.

I

.

"
.~

4.
The parties presented a Consent Order of Discipline to the hearing
committee. By agreement with plaintiff's counsel prior to the hearing and upon the
Chair's inquiry on the record at the bearing, Lapping waived his right to seek assignment
of a newly constituted bearing cQnUnittee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission in the
event that the hearing committee declined to approve the consent order. After
consideration of the parties' respective recitation of the facts, We bearing committee
rejected the Consent Order of Discipline.

1

S.
The complaint in thi$ action was filed on March 9, 1998. Lapping was
personally served with the summons and complaint on March 16,.1998 by an officer of
the Moore County Sheriff's Department. Pursuant to N.C. Rules Civ. P., Rule .12 and the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules § .0114(e), Lapping's answer
was due to be filed no later than April IS, 1998. Lapping did not file an answer or any
other responsive pleading herem..
6.

Default was entered against Lapping on May 5, 1998.

7.
Plaintiff filed and duly served on Lapping a motion for 4efault order
imposing discipline.
8. Lapping filed and served a motion to set aside the default. J\fter hearing
argument by Lapping, the hearing committee denied Lapping's motion to set aside the
default.
9.
Lorie McNeill ("Ms. McNeill'') filed a grievance with the North Carolina
State Bar on October 17, 1996, alleging that, in 'approxiJpately J\1ly, 1995, she' retained
Lapping to represent her in a domestic matter involving issues of divorce, child custody,
child support, equitable distribution, and other property matters.
10.

Ms. McNeill paid Lapping a total retainer of $230.QO with the
unders~ding that he would ptomptly handle these matters and woultl adequately
communicate with her about her case.
'

1

11.
When she retained Lapping in Jwy 1995, Ms. McNeill provided to
Lapping an itemized list of the marital assets and debts, including a 1989 Ford Mustang
and a 1988 manufactured home ("the marital residence") containing personal property
(such as furnishings) that Ms. McNeill had paid for during her marriage.
12.
On or aroun4.July 21,1995, Lapping filed, on behalf of Ms. McNeill, a
motion in the cause, seeking an order granting her custody of her two children; child
support; divorce from bed and board; award of alimony pendente lite and pennanent
alimony. The motion further sought transfer of possession of certainautom()biles as
between the parties with each party asstuning any loan amount outstanding on the
respective cars. Ms. McNeill sought possession of the couple's Ford Ranger, which had
an outstanding loan balance of approximately $7,887.00, and sought to transfer
possession of her Ford Mustang, which had an. outstanding loan balance of approximately
$1,000, to her husband.
.
.

an

2

1-

.
'

~

'

.

• ,0.

, .'

..."

~

~ • .l

•

_,

<I

'~l,
t~

R)
.':wI-

13.
As of October 1995, when Lapping had not taken any further action in her
case, Ms. McNeill consulted the Moore County Child Support Enforcement Ageqcy (the
"Agency"). As a result of action taken by the Agency, Ms. McN~ill's husband agreed to
pay $63.00 pet month in child support beginning
January 1, 1996.
,

,

14.
At the time, Lapping was not aware that Ms. McNeill had consulted the
A;gency for assistance in obtaining child support.
15.
On November 2Th, 1995, Lapping filed a calendar notice for hearjng of the
~otions for temporary'custody, alimony and child support during the December 18, 1995
te,nn. The motions were actually called for hearing during the January 2; 1996 district
court session. Prior to appearing in court on the Diotions, Lapping consulted Ms.
McNeill. She told him that her husband had signed a Voluntary Support Agreement
through the Agency.

I

16.
On January 2, 1996, Ms. McNeill's husbantJ appeared at the calendar call
alid stipulated to Ms. McNeill's temporary custody of their two children.. Lapping ,did not
pQi'sue the issue of alimony because the facts demonstrated that Ms. McNeill was actually
the supporting spouse. Lapping did not pursue child support because a Voluntary
S~pport A~ement had already been entered.
17.

Lapping did advise Ms. McNeill that her husband stipulated to het
te~porary custody of the children. However, Lapping failed to adequately discuss with
Ms. McNeill the meaning ofmcD stipulation and the effect of the Voluntary Support
Agreement on her motion for child support in the pending civil domestic matter.
Lapping did not prepare and file a consent order on temporary custody, relying instead on
th~ courtroom clerk's ~utes to document the stipulation on ,temporary custody ..
18.
From the time of the hearing on January 2,1996, to January 23, 1997,
Lapping attempted to calendar for hearing the motion for permanent custody; hoWever,
he :took no action on Ms. McNeill's pending motion in the C8\JSe for transfer of the family
automobiles and respective loan payments or obligations coincident with ownership of
thdse automobiles.

I

19.
The motion for pennanent custody was finally called for trial on
November 3, 1997. The clerk of court recorded that "Plaintiff [Ms. McNeill] was not
present but was represented by counsel; the defendant was present. The defendant
stipulated to signing over custody of children to the plaintiffand be (sic] subject to
standard visitation. Stephan Lapping is to draw the consent order."
: . 20.
Lapping drafted an order granting custody of the two children to Ms.
McNeill. The consent order on pennanent custody and visitation was not entered until
May 15, 1998. There has never been a ruling on Ms. McNeill's request for distribution of
the family automobiles.
21.
Additionally; Lapping delayed in seeking ajudgment for absolute divorce
on qehalf of Ms. McNeill. The statutorily mandated marital separation period of one year
expired in July 1996. Lapping did not file a complaint for divorce and did not seek
3

I
00723

.i'"

'.

equitable distribution of the lIlarital property (other than the automobiles) until February
6, 1997. Ms. McNeill's divorce judgment was entered on June 23, 1997.
22.
From Ja,n~ 2, 1.996 to the l?~esent, ~apping has failed to keep Ms.
McNeill adequately informed. about the 8.tatils of her 'case, and Lapping bas also failed.tQ
take adequate steps to obtain the relief sought by Ms. McNeill By failing to obtain
transfer of the family automobiles, by failing to resolve Ms. McNeill's child permanent
custody and. divorce claims promptly, and.by failing to take any action on Ms. McNeill's
equita1?le distribution claim, which is still pending. Lapping thereby prejudiced or
damaged Ms. McNeill during the course of the professional relationship.
23.
By October 11, 1996 when. Lapping had failed to take any action on her
case since January i996, Ms. M.cNeill filed a petition with the State Barforfee
arbitration. On October 14, 1996, the State Bar sent Notification. of Mandatory Fee
Arbitration to Lapping requesting a response within 15 days of his receipt of the letter.
Lapping received this letter but did not respond.
.
r

"'If .. "

,t"

24.
OnNovember 19, 1996, the State Bar sent Lapping ~ letter notifying him
that no response had been received, and that Rule 2.6(e) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct required him to participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee arbitratioIJ
program.
25.
On December 31, 1996, Lapping sent a letter to the State.Bar adVising that
he had returned the' Sum of$230.00 to Ms..~~Neill. \The fee arbitration ~atter has
therefore been satisfactorilY resolved, a1thoV~ Lapp~g initially failed to respon~ to the
.State' Bar~ s fee arbitration program.

r

26.
On October 17, 1996, Ms. McNeill filed her grievance underlying this
disciplinary action.
27.
On November 29,1996, Lapping was served with a Letter of Notice from
the North Carolina State Bar by certified mail, return receipt requested, which notified
him that a grievance had been filed by Ms. McNeill and requested his response within 15
days of serVice.

1

28.
ofsel'vice.

Lapping did not respond to the Letter of Notice within 15 days of the date

29.
On January 14, 1997, cOUll$el for the Plaintiff sent a letter by United States
mail and addressed 10 Lapping, informing him that the State Bar's records indicated that
he had not responded to the grievance filed against him by Ms. McNeill. This letter
granted Lapping until January 28, 1997 to respond to the grievance.. Lapping received the
letter.
30.
28, 1997.

Lapping did not respond to Ms. McNeill's grievance on or before January

4

I :'· ,

..
.

','

.

•

.:
...

I'

.... .

"

..
.

.

.'

: .....

."::'

31.
On February 3, 1997, Lapping was personally served by the Moore
County Sheriff's Department with a subpoena commanding him to appear before Deputy
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar on February 21, 1997 to testify and to produce at
the North Carolina State Bar office all records, papers and documents pertaining to Ms.
McNeill's grievance.
32.
Lappmg did not appear before Deputy Counsel at the North Carolina State
aar office on February 21, 1997.
33.

Lapping did not produce at the North Carolina State Bar office on
1997 those documents and objects that Lapping was commanded to produce
pursuant to the subpoena.
~ebruary 21,

I~
~,

On February 21, 1997, Lapping contacted Deputy Counsel Fern Gunn
~itneon via telephone to inform her that he had not responded to tvIs. M~Neil1's grievance
because the Letter of Notice and other correspondence from the North Carolina State Bar
had .1;Jeen addressed to "Steve F. Lapping" and Lapping' s correct leg&! name. is ~~St~phan .......
Foster Lapping".. Lapping callecl Deputy Counsel Simeon prior to the time he was,
scheduled t6 appear pursuant to the subpoena.
34.

35.
Lapping was served by certified mail, return receipt requested, with a
~etter of Notice dated February 21, 1997 and addressed to "Stephan Foster Lapping"
from the North Carolina State Bar.
,
36.
The Letter of Notice dated February 21, 1997 notified Lapping that a
grievance had been filed against him by Ms. McNeill and directed him to respond within
15 days.
37.
Lapping received the Letter of Noticed dated February 21, 1997 before
February 21, 1997, but did not respond.
On March 19, 1997, Lapping was personally served by the Moore County
Sheriff's Department with a subpoena commanding Lapping to 'appear before the North
Carolina State Bar Gtievance Committee on April 13, 1997 and to produce at the North
Carolina State Bar office on April 3, 1997, all records, papers and documents pertaining
to Ms. McNeill's grievance.
38.

I

39.
Lapping did not appeat before the North Carolina State Bar Grievance
Committee on April 3, 1997.
~O.
Lapping did not produce at the North Carolina State Bar office on April 3,
1991 those docwnents and objects that him was commanded to produce pursuant to the
sqbpoena.
I

•

41.
By letter dated May 29, 1997, and addressed to "Stephan Foster Lapping",
Deputy Counsel Douglas J. Brocker notified Lapping that he would recommend to the
N~rth Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee th,at the grievance filed against Lapping
be referred to the North Carolina State Bar Disciplinary Hearing Commission ifLappihg
5

,

I

'",'

..... -

.~

..

did not respond to the underlying allegations of Ms. McNeill's grievance on or before
June 4, 1997.
42.

Lapping receiv~d .the l¢tter from Mr. Brocker on May 31, 1997.

43.

Lapping did not respond to Ms. McNeill's grievance on or before June 4,

1997.
44.
Lapping sent a lett~r dated June 3, 1997 tQ Mr. Broclcer oftbe North
Carolina State Bar, enclosing a copy of Lapping's response to the Underlying allegations
of Ms. McNeill's grievance. The response is dated February 21, 1997.

I

" 45.
Lapping did not deposit the letter and response referred to in Paragraph45
above in the United States mail until Jun~ 14, 1997.
46.
On March 22, 1994, Lapping was served" with a Stat~ment of Costs in the
amount of $115.73 assessed against Lapping by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission in
connection with a prior disciplinary action entitled The North Carolina State Bar v.
Stephan F. Lapping, 93 DHC 6.
47.
As of September 4, 1997, Lapping had not paid the costs taxed against f:Um
in 93 DHC6.
48.
On September 4, 1997, Counsel for the plaintiff wrote to. ~apping
requesting tltat he immediately remit payment of the costs taxed against him in 93 DHC
6.

"

49.
Lapping received a copy of the September 4, 1997 letter. Lapping did not
pay to the North Carolina State Bar the costs taxed against him in 93 DHC 6 until May
19, 1998, although at all relevant timc;s, Lapping had the ability· and financial resources to
comply with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission's order-taxing ~osts against him.

I

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the hearing ~ommittee 8I.ld the committee
has jurisdiction over Lapping and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
tapping's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N!C. Oen. Stat. §§ 84-28(a), (b)(2) and (b)(3) as
follows:
(a) by failing to take adequate steps to handle Ms. McNeill's case, Lapping
neglected a legal matter entrusted to him in violation of Rule 6(b)(3) of the Rules
of Professional Conduct;
r'

6

I·
."

,

,

'.

'.:.: .

00726

(b) by failing to communicate adequately with Ms. McNeill about her case,
. Lapping violated Rule 6(b)(1) of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
(c) by failing to resp~>nd to the North Carolina State Bat regarding the
grievance filed by Ms. McNeill and by failing to comply with subpoenas
commanding hUn to appear and produce documents, Lapping has knowingly,
willfully and consistendy failed to respond to lawful demands for information
from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 1.1 (b) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has engaged in a pattern ·of conduct amoUnting to
contempt of the Grievance Committee in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat Sec. 8428(b)(3);
(d) by knowingly and willfully failing to pay the costs taxed against him in
cormection with the prior disciplilUJl'Y proceeding, 93 DHC 6, Lapping bas
engaged in conduct amounting to contempt of an order of the D.sciplinary
Hearing Commission of the North Carolina State Bar in violation of N.C. Gen.
Stat. Sec. 84-28(b)(3).

I

BASED UPON the consent of the parties, the hearing committee ~so entered the
f911owing:
J

FINDINGS OFFACr REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Lapping's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

(a) prior disciplinary offense involving, inter alia, the same allegations of
failure to respond;
(b) a pattern of misconduct;
(c) multiple offenses;
(d) bad faith obstruction oithe disciplinary proceedings by intentionally
failing to comply with rules or orders of the disciplinary agency; and

I

(e) substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
2.

Lapping's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a) absence of dishonest or selfish illotive; and
(b) remorse.

3.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings. of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee enters the following:
7

I
00727
... ,

,~~

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Lapping is hereby suspended from the practice of law for a period of three
(3) years, effective 30 days from the service of this Order upon L~pping. The suspension
shall bl: activ~ for a period of not less than six (6) months from ili~ effective dat~ oftbis
Order.
2.
At any time after the six-month active suspension period has elapsed,
Lapping may seeka stay (lfthe remaining suspension period; however, before a stay may
be grantec4 Lapping must demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he
has complied with the following conditions:

I
.

(a) E~ollment and participation, at his expense, in a program of law
office management training approved by the State Bar. Should such training
program 'last up through and beyond the date, if ever, Lapping seeks a stay of his
suspension, then Lapping need only demonstrate that he has satisfactprily
completed the training up through and including the date ofhis application fQr a
.
stay of the suspension.

I

.(b) Submission to counsel for the State Bar of a written evaluation by a

board certified psychiatrist approved by counsel for the plaintiff. This evaluation
must address whether Lapping is suffering from any mental or physical) condition
or addiction which impairs his professional judgment or his ability to engage in
the practice oflaw in a competent manner. This ~valuation also must fully assess
Lapping's repeated failures to respond to lawful inquiries of the North Carolina
State Bar as outlined above and in the prior disciplinary order entered in 93 DHC
6 (a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A), and whether such misconduct
is attributable to any mental or physical condition or addiction. Lapping is
responsible for all costs associated with this evaluation..

I

(c) If the evaluating psychiatrist recolIlJDends that Lapping undergo
continuing treatment for any mental or physical condition or addiction,
c;:ompliance with the prescribed treatment, at Lapping's expense, throughout the
active suspension period or, if the prescribed treatment period is less than, the
active suspension period, until released by the treating physici(lll or psychiatrist.
Lapping shall also submit to counsel for the State Bar an executed medical
release, in the form of Exhibit B hereto, along with the names.and addresses of
any psychiatrist, psychologist, physician or other health care provider who has
treated him during the active suspe~ion period.
(dl if the evaluating psychiatrist recommends that Lapping undergo
continuing treatment for any mental or physical condition or addiction,
submission to counse~ for the State Bar at quarterly intervals of a written report
prepared by the treating psychiatrist, psychologist Qr physician, certifying
Lapping's compliance with the prescribed treatment and addressing the current
status of his condition. The fust treatment report shall be due within 90 days of
Lapping's initial consultation With the evaluating psychiatrist, and each
8

,,-

00728
..

,.'!.

...

----------------------~:-:----~------------, -----

subsequent report shall be due within 4S days of the prior report until released by
the treating physician or psychiatrist. When released from treatment, Lapping
shall p:r;ovide to colinsel for the State Bar notification of his release from treatment
and a final written repol't1discharge summary ofthe treating physician or
psychiatrist.

.

(e) Should any prescribed treatment last up ,through and beyond the date,
if ever, Lapping seeks a stay of his suspension, then Lapping need only
demonstrate that, in the opiDion of the evaluating psychiatrist and any treating
psychiatrist, psychologist or physician, the condition for which he is being treated
. Jo lJ '1fd'pair his professional judgment or ability to engage in the practice oflaw in a
" competent manner and he has complied with the treatment and all reporting
requirements up ~ugh and including the date ofhis application for a stay of the
suspension.

,

I

(f) Lapping shall not violate any law ofthi: State of North Carolina, or
any other state or of the United States.

(g) Lapping shall comply with all orders and requirements of the CLE

Department of the North Carolina State Bar in a timely fashion.
(h) Lapping shall pay his mandatory North Carolina State bat dues in a
timely fashion and all requirements or demands for reimbursement of the Client

Security Fund.
(i) Lapping shall not violate any provisionS of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct
(j) Lapping shall respond in a timely fashion, as required by Discipline &
Disability Rules of the North Catalina State Bar and N.C. Oen. Stat § 84-28, et
seq., to all inquiries, subpoenas, discovery requests, orders and other matters
reqliiring a response issued to Lapping by the State Bar Office: of Counsel, the
Grievance Committee, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, and any other
committee or agency of the North Carolina State Bar (such as the: newly-formed
Consumer Assistmice Program). This condition applies to any inquiries and
matters that may be pending at the time this Order is entered, as well as any
subsequent inquiries and matters.

I

(k) Lapping shall respond in a timely fashion to all matters, proceedings,
and inquiries of the State Bar's Fee Arbitration Committee.

(1) Lapping shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 30 days after his receipt of a
Statement of Costs issued by the Secretary to Lapping.

(m) Lapping shall pay out-of-pocket expe~es in the amount of $31.96
incurred by Ms. McNeill in connection with her appearance at the hearing of this
matter within 30 days after service of this Order.
9

I
.

,

OD729
..

'

-:--

.

I

(n) Lapping shall comply with all provisions of 27 NC. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State BOf Discipline; &
Disability Rules pertaining to the obligations pf an attorney who has been
suspended from the practice law. As required by § .0124(a), Lapping shall
promptly notify each of his clients of his suspension ana His inability to act as an
attorney after the eifectiveciate of suspension. In addition, Lapping ~1 provide
to counsel for the State Bar a list of all his clients and all pending administnltive
or litigation matters in which he has entered an appearance as attomey of record
and a copy of all certified letters sent to each client. Lapping sba1l also provide to
counsel for the State Bar documentation and written certification showiDg that he
has complied with the remaining provisions of § .0124 within the tbne periods
stated therein.
3. If Lapping demonstrates that he has complied with the abov~ conditions and is
entitled to a stay of the remaining period of the three~year suspension, then the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofUlls ma.tter pursuant to 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules.
4. Throughout any period in whh:h the three-year suspellSion is held in abeyance,
Lapping must continue to ~omply with the conditions stated· in paragraphs 2(f)-(k) above.

S. If during any period in which the three-year suspenSion is held in abeyance
Lapping fails to comply with anyone or more conditions stated in paragraphs 2(f)-(k),
then.the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in§.0114(,,)
of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

I

6. In addition, the stay of the sUspension of Lapping's law license may be lifted
as provided in §.0114(x) of the North C~1ina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules
for any of the folloWing reasons:
(a) FailUre to satisfactorily complete a program oflaw office management
training approved by the State Bar. Lapping must provide to counsel for the State
Bar a written statement from the program coordinator, certifying that he has
satisfactorily completed such training program.
(b) With respect to any prescribed medical treatment,.as referred to in
paragraphs 2(b) - (e) above which continues beyond the period of active
suspension, failure to comply with any continuing treatment program prescribed
by the evaluating psychiatrist or ~y psychiatrist, psychologist, physician or
health care provider rendering treatment to Lapping as prescribed by the
evaluating psychiatrist..

(c) With respect to any prescribed medical trea1lJ1ent, as referred to in
'paragraphs 2(b) - (e) above which continues beyond the period of active
suspension, failure to comply with the reporting requirements of paragraph 2(d)
10

00730

(d) Receipt by the State Bar of any medical report pursuant to the
reporting requirements of paragraph 2(d) above or otherwise, indicating that
Lapping is suffering from any mental or physical conditjon or addiction which
impairs his professional j~dgment or ability to engage in the practice oflaw in a
competent manner.
7. Ifany stay oftbe suspension of Lapping's law Ii~ense is lifted, as provided in
the foregoing paragraphs, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter.an order
providing for such conditions as it deems necessary for obtaining a stay of the remaining
suspension period or for reinstatement of Lapping's license at the end of the three-year
.~uspension period.
8. In any event, to obtain reinstatement of his license at the end of the three-year
SUspension period if no ~y is sought or if a stay has been lifted, Lapping ~ust
demonstrate that he has fully complied with all provisions of 27 NC. A~ Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the North Carolimi State Bar DiScipline &
Pis ability Rules. Lapping must also demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence that he is not suffering from any mental or physical condition or addiCtion
which impairs his professional judgment or ability to engage in the practice of law in a
competent manner.

I

Signed by the undersigned hearing committee chair with the consent of the other
hearing committee members.
I ' ..1_.
f
0
This th·e--fI!.WJ.Y

.

1-

v'·

1998.

;... .

He~,·CoDlIIl1ttee

I

11

I
-

,

'-.:- :

t

00731

EXHIBIT B
to Order Staying Suspension
98 DHC 12

AUTHORIZATION TO RELEASE MEDICAL INFO&MATION
TO:
Stephan F. Lapping's treating physicians, psychologists, counselors and other health care
professionals

I

YOU ARE HEREBY AUTHORIZED to furnish to:
The Office of Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

'f

P.O. Box 25908,
Raleigh, NC 27611
,[mailing address]

208 Fayetteville Street Mall,
Raleigh, NC 27601
[street address]

all information and records (including, but not limited to, test results, written evaluation,
examination notes, nurses notes and all other memoranda or documentation of treatment of any
kind) that are in your possession regarding the evaluation, examination, testing, counseling
and/or medical treatment of STEPHAN FOSTER LAPPING, DOB: 817/56.
This medical release also authorizes you to speak with the staff of the North Carolina State Bar
concerning your evaluation and/or treatment of Mr. Lappin,g.
This medical release and authorization is deemed effective and continuing throughout the period
of Mr. Lapping's three-ye~ suspension from the practice oflaw in accordance with the Order of
Discipline, effective September 11, 1998.

I

THIS IS THE _ _ _ _ _.....-"DAY OF_--.,..-_______ 1999.

Stephan Foster Lapping

Sworn and ascribed to before me,
this _ _ day of
,19_..

Notary Public

My Commission Expi!es: _ _ _ __

'.
~

'

,',

00732

...

-------------:----------~-------------

---

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

The undersigned hereby certifies that the foregc;>ing PROPOSED ORDER
STAYING SUSPENSION was served upon the Petitioner by depositing a true copy of
the same in the United States first-class mail; postage prepaid, addressed to the Petitioner
a$ follows:
Mr. Stephan F. Lapping
105 Barrett Street
Carthage, NC 2~327

I

and
Mr. Stephan F. Lapping
120 Oak Hills Road
Pinehurst, NC 28374

This the

2f2 day of April, 1999.

.....

arissa J. Er an
Plaintiff's ttomey
North Carolina State Bar
Post Office Box 25908
Raleigh, North Carolina 27611

I

.

,

-

~

,,

.

.
."

".!.,

:'

