BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0860217

NORTH CAROLINA
WAICE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Kathryn M. Kelling,
Attorney At Law

1
1
1
1
1

REPRIMAND

On January 22,2009 the Grievance Committee orthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by D. H.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifyrng
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an anornev has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
The complainant, D. H., and his former fiance, A. T., entered into an agreement whereby
a home owned jointly by the parties would be conveyed solely to A. T. and D. H. would sign a
The agreement furtl~er
quitclaim deed conveying his interest in the property solely to A. T.
provided that once D. H. had signed the deed, you would hold the deed in escrow and not record
it until A. T. had either refinanced or sold the property.

D. I-I. executed the deed and it was delivered to you. However, you recorded the deed
before A. T. refinanced the property. You stated that you thought that A. T. was required to
show that she was the sole owner of the property and that part of the refinancing process required
A. T. to present to the mortgage company a copy of the recorded quitclaim deed.
As of the date that D.M. filed this grievance, A. T. has neither refinanced nor sold the
property. D. H. has suffered some harm because A. T. was supposed to execute a promissory
note and deed of trust to D. H. for $10,000.00, but this never happened. Therefore, when the
house sells, D. 14. will be out of $10,000.00 as well.

The Grievance Committee found that your failure to hold the deed in trust violated your
duties as an escrow agent or a fiduciary. As a fiduciary, you had an obligation to not only A. T.
but D. H. Your failure to comply with your fiduciary duties violated Rule 1.I 5-2(d) and Rule
8.4(d).

In addition, the Grievance Committee was concerned about your statement to another
attorney, K. S., that you did not remember very much about the deed in question and that you did
not remember who recorded the deed. You advised the Grievance Committee that you did not
intend to be dishonest in your representation and that you should have reviewed the file prior to
communicating with the attorney. The Grievance Committee urges you to carefully review a file
before speaking with opposing counsel.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.

