I
~~\'l..\:i14151SI?/.Q
~~
WAKE COUNTY

t-

~

Lj

L/ 10

~J-."
'§~
BEFORE THE
()~~~()DIS~rLINARY HEARING COMMiSSION

NORTH CAROLIN

.

(

' " v/.
A 4f",f'
" //
J9.9,9
r

PC>1.

7 ()

OF THE

!t4:

~~~RTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
'!rOr.62~~ ~\>:i'>
98 BCR 2
.

IN RE REINSTATEMENT PETITION
OF CALVIN BANKS FINGER

)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND RECOMMENDATION
TO COUNCIL

TIlls matter came on to be heard and was heard on Friday, Feb. 12, 1999 on the
Petitioner's motion for reinstatement of his law license, before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred H. Moody, Jr., Chair~ Vel110n
Russell and Catharine Sefcik. The Petitioner, C. Banks Finger, was represented by
James Maxwell. Carolin Bakewell represented the N.C. State Bar.

:a.

Based upon the pleadings filed herein, the pretrial stipulations and the evidence
produced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters th~ following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Petitioner, C. Banks Finger (hereafter, Finger), was li~ensed to practice
law in North Carolina in 1950.
2. Between 1950 and his disbarment in 1992, Finger spent much of his
professional career working within and for the insurance indu~try. For a substantiai
period of time between 1950 and 1971, he lived out ofthe State of North Carolina.
3. Between 1971 and 1983, Finger engaged in the practice oflaw in Boone,
North Carolina and was a founder in law ftnn then·known as Finger, Watson, DeSanti
and McGee. Because of his ties to the insurance industry, a substantial portion of his
initial practice was in representation of insurance companies andlor their insured. Over
the years, his practice evolved into one in which a substantial portion was in the area of
real estate matters,
.

a

I

4. In 1983, Finger left the full-time practice oflaw and moved to Winston-Salem
to work for American Institute of Management Services, Inc. (hereafter, AIMS).
5. In 1984, Finger purchased AIMS and operated the company until it ceased
.operation in November 1989. At all times between 1984 and October 1992, Finger
owned at least 90% of the stock of AIMS.

00734
•

i -

,.

: :~'2~:-:
, . " \ ••

~~-. ~*~ ~ .~

~-

.¥'

,

I
6. After AIMS ceased operation in November 1989, up through October 1992,
Finger again engaged in the private practice of law in Boone.
7. AIMS was a third party administrator. As a third party administrator, AIMS
administered insurance policies on behalf of several insurance companies, including
Continental American Insurance Company (hereafter, Continental), which became one of
: ~MS' largest clients.
8. Asa third party administrator, AIMS received premiums paid by
· policyholders on behalf of AIMS' insurance-company clients. Pursuant to AIMS'
contract with the insurance companies, the premiums were to be held in trust and then
I
remitted to the insurance companies once each month. The premium payments which
· AlMS collected were placed in acCounts at Triad Bank which Were referred to ,as the
premium accounts.
c

9. The insurance premiums which AIMS received were fiduciary funds and
could not be used, even temporarily, for the benefit of persons or entities other than the
· insurance companies themselves.
10. Pursuant to its contract with Continental and the other insurance companies,
AIMS was entitled to deduct a portion of the premiums which it collected as an
· administrative fee. In the case of Continental, AIMS waS entitled to retain
· approximately 23% ofthe premiums which it collected from Continental's policy holders
as a fee.
11. While he was a majority shareholder of AIMS, Finger was also involv:ed in
·I another company called Specialty Retail Concepts, Inc., (hereafter, Specialty Retail),
·which operated stores in a number of shopping malls across the country.
12. AIMS and Specialty Retail both began to experience serious financial
'difficulties by 1987.
13. Finger liquidated most of his substantial personal holdings and borrowed
money from relatives and other sources to attempt to shore up AIMS and his other
business ventures.
14. By 1987, Finger had also begun to misappropriate funds which should have
been held in trust for AIMS' insurance company clients. The misappropriations
icontinued through November 1989.
15. The funds taken from the premium accounts were used to pay for the ongoing expenses and operations of AIMS, its staff and employees, and for the personal
obligations of Finger.

00735

I

I
16. The misappropriation ofinsurance premiUrhs was accomplished under the
direction and responsibility ofFihger, who directed and allowed his staff to withdraw
amounts from the premium accounts, despite the fact that he knew the funds were the
property of the insurance comp~y and even on occasion when his staff objected to the
use of the funds in this manner.
17. Finger directed his staff to file false reports with Contin~ntal to conceal his
Wron~doing.

18. AIMS ceased operations in November 1989 when it w~ unable to make the
November 1989 payment to Continental. AIMS was unable to make the November 1989
payment to Continental because more than $837,000 was missing from the premium
accounts which should have been held on Continental ~s behalf.

I

19; The collapse of AIMS and the shortfall in the premium accoUnts led to
criminal investigations by various state and federal insurance and banking agen.~ies.
20. Following the collapse of AIMS, Finger and his wife filed for bankruptcy
and sought to discharge more than $6 million in obligations, in.cluding a claim filed by
Continental.
21. Continental obj~cted to the dischargeability of its claims against Finger and
an adversarial.proceeding was held in bankruptcy court in November 1992. At the
conclusion of those proceedjngs, the bankruptcy court found that Finger's debt to
Continental was nondjschargeable and entered judgment against Finger in favor of
Continental in the amount of $886,068.70, plus interest.
22.. In July 1992, Finger was charged in the U.S. District Court for the Middle
of~orth Carolina with making a false bank loan applicatiQn in violation of 18
District
.
'
_.
':
U.S.C. § 1014. .... .
~

I

~

23. The federal charge arose out of a transaction on Nov. 4, 1987. On that date,
Finger applieq for a $220,000 bank loan with Triad Bank. Finger needed the loan
because there were insufficient funds on.hand in the premium accounts to make the
November 1987 payment to AIMS' insurance company clients.
24. The loan application documents listed as collat~ral fQr the loan "all ...
insurance premiums payable" to AIMS. The loan application documents did not reveal
that approximately 76% of the premiums payable to AIMS were the property of AIMS~
insurance company clients. This document was prepared by agents of the bank, but
signed by Banks Finger.
25. On July 21, 1992, finger signed a plea agreement in. the federal case
acknowledging that he was. guilty of filing a false bank loan application in violation of 18
U.S.C. § 1014:

1-

,~

....

"

I
26. Following a sentencing hearing in federal court, Finger was placed on
probation for three years and ordered to perfonn 250 hours of community service during
, each year of probation.
27. On Oct 20, 1992, Finger was charged in'Forsyth County Superior Court
with embezzling $600,000 in insurance premiums. Later that same month, Finger
entered an Alford plea to the state embezzlement charge. The state charge arose out of
, Finger's misuse of premiums which AIMS had received and should have held in trust for
Continental and other insurance company clients of AIMS.
28. Following a heating in state court, Finger was sentenced to three years in
prison, which tenn was suspended for five years. Finger was also ordered to perronn
I 100 hours of community service.

1

I

29. In October 1992, Finger surrendered his law license to the Council of the
N.C. State Bar and was disbarred.

30. On April 28, 1998, Finger filed a petition for reinstatement of his license to
'practice law in North Carolina.

I

31. Finger filed a timely and proper Notice of Intent to Seek Reinstatement in the
State Bar Journal.

32. Finger did not file the affidavit required by 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
'Subchapter B, § .0124 of the Discipline & Disbarment Rules of the N.C. State Bar at the
time of disbarment. Finger did file the affidavit prior to filing his reinstatement petiti()n.
The Hearing Committee does not fmd that Finger's failure to file a timely affidavit is a
:sufficient basis, in this case, to recommend denial of Finger's reinstatement petition.
33. Finger has complied with all ()rders of the state and federal courts relating to
his criminal convictions and disbarment.
34. Finger's citizenship has been restored.

I

35. Finger presented the following evidence respecting his competence and
:understanding of the law and the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct:
1

•

a) Since his disbarment, Finger has completed 64 hours of continuing
legal education, including two three-hour courses on ethics.
b) Since his disbarment, Finger has read and reviewed advance sheets of
the North Carolina appellate courts.

"-'-.

;;-.

c) Since his disbarment, Finger has read North Carolina Lawyers Weekly
....
.
..
Newspaper.
d) Several witnesses testified, either in person or by letter, that Finger was
a well-respected, competent lawyer prior to his disbarment.
36. Finger presented the following evidence regarding his present good moral
character:
a) A number of witnesses testified, in person and by letter, that Finger
was of good moral character, that he had expressed remorse for his
wrongqoing and that he had accepted full responsibility for his criminal
acts;

I

b) Several witnesses also testified that Finger's religioll had become of
increasing importance to him since his disbarment, that he attended church
regularly and that he had participated actively in his church, especially his
Sunday School class.
c) Several witnesses testified that Finger had been involved in the
Watauga Hunger Coalition since his disbarment. Finger has recently been
elected Pre!;;ident of the Hunger Coalition and has assisted the Coalition's
efforts to establish a mobile pharmacy service in the Watauga County ar~a.
d) Finger has been employed in several capacities since his disbarment,
including working for Ken Wilcox and members of his family. Finger
handled the company checkbook for a period of time and was also
entrusted with collecting sums owed to the company. Wilcox testified
that he had never experienced any problems with Finger's handling of
these fun4s. Carroll Garland also testified that Finger worked for him,
haq handled relatively large sums of money for him and hi!;; family, and
had kept his checkbook from time to time.

I

37. Finger presented the following evidence respecting whether reinstatement
would be detrimental to the integrity and standing of the bar, administration of justice or
the public interest:
a) Several witnesses testified in person or by letter, that they believed the
people in Finger's community would welcome him back a$ an attorney if
he were reinstated;
b) Several witnesses also testified that they would not think less of the
legal profession if Finger were reinstated as an attorney;

..... >. ':~ :' .~. :.
,

~.

"

"

,

C1'

I
c) One article has appeared in a J,1ewspaper in Watauga County regarding
Finger's service with the Hunger Coalition;
d) A number of attorneys and public officials testified in person or by
letter in support of Finger's reinstatement petition.
38. Finger failed to present any evidence of steps that he has taken to
demonstrate reformation in the Winston-Salem area, where his criminal offenses took
place.
39. Finger admitted that he had made no efforts to make restitution to the victims
, of his misconduct and presented no evidence that he had notified Continental of his
•petition for reinstatement.
40. Finger and his wife still live in the house in Boone which they owned prior
: to Finger's disbarment. The house has a su1;>stantial amount of equity bl.!-ilt up. After his
disbarment, Finger transferred his interest in the house to his wife.

I

41. Finger has been gainfully employed since his disbarment and had the ability
,to pay at least some amount to the victims of his misconduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee hereby enters
the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
•
1. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over the subject of this
proceeding and over the person of the Petitioner, C. Banks Finger.
,
2. Finger has demonstrated by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has
'reformed and that he possesses the moral qualifications required for admission to practice
ilaw in North Carolina, taking into account the gravity of the misconduct which led to the
prder of disbarment.
3. Finger has failed to demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that
he understands the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and that he has the
competency and learning in the law required to practice law in North Carolina.
4. Finger has failed to demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that
reinstatement of his license to practice law would not be detrimental to the integrity and
standing of the bar, to the administration of justice, or to the public interest, taking into
~ccount the gravity of the misconduct which led to the order of disbatment.

I

I.

I

RECOMMENDATION TO tifE COUNCJL
1. The Hearing Committee hereby un~mously r~commends that the 'Council of
the N:C. State Bar deny the petition ofC. Banks Finger Jt. for-reinstatement of his law
license.
2. Finger shall pay the costs of this praceeding, inCluding deposition costs
incurred by the N.C. State Bar.
Signed ,by the Chair with consent of all Committee members.

this the

J..1 day of ::h1~ _., 1999.

. . 6"···r /

'

'2S~

Fred H. Moody, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Co

