J
-

8/.-23

------------------

F'/LED
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN TilE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
COUNTY OF STANLY 99 ~f~Y r8 I\M ffDJ$I'RICT COURT DIVISION
~1'
~ ;\NL Y COUNTY t

BY ____
INRE:

c: S C

99-CVD-441

_ •••

)1---)

)

ORDER OF SUSPENSION

)

CATRINA MERCER

)
)
)

I

This matter coming before the Honorable Ronald W. Burris, Chief District Court
Judge, on the 18th day of May 1999 on the Court's own Motion and Order to Appear and
_Show Cause :filed on May 6, 1999. Clayton W. Davidson, III appeared to prosecute this
matter pursuant the Court's previous order. CatrinaMercet consented to the entry of this
order. Based on the pleadings filed in this matter and the evidence presented at the hearing,
the Gourt makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

Scott Wayne Dabbs ("Dabbs") was charged in Stanly County with Assault on a
Female, to wit: Melanie Efird, aka Meldody Efird, :file number 99-CR-1934.

2.

After being found hot indigent on April 17, 1999, Dabbs was granted a continuance to
obtain counsel until May 5; 1999.

3.

On May 5, 1999, Catrina Mercer called Carolyn Parker, District Courtroom Criminal
Clerk of Stanly County, and stated that she represented Dabbs. Ms. Mercer stated
that she was going to be late for court and requested that the case be held open until
she arrived.

4.

The Respondent and prosecuting witnesses, plus additional witnesses, appeared at
calendar call on May 5, 1999.

5.

Ms. Mercer never appeared in Stanly County District Court on May 5, 1999.

6.

7.

I

The Respondent, Scott Wayne Dabbs, announced in open court that Catrina Mercer
, was his attorney, that he had met with her on the previous Friday, and that she had
, stated to him that she would appear in court on May 5, 1999.
The Court directed Carolyn Parker to attempt to contact MS. Mercer.

I

I

8.

Ms. Parker attempted to contact Ms. Mercer numerous times at her office telephone,
but no one answered the ,phone, and Ms. Parker was unable to leav~ a message
because the answering machine indicated that the machine was full and Was unable to
accept additional messages.

9.

The criminal matter was.held open until the end of the session. Both the Respondent
aild the prosecuting witness protested continuing the matter and having to miss
another day of work; however, the Court continued the matter until May 26, 1999,
due solely to the absence of Catrina Mercer because all other parties were present.

10.

On prior occasions, Catrina Mercer has failed to appear in Court on behalf of her ,
clients when matters were scheduled for hearing, 'and has failed to keep the Court
informed of her whereabouts after having been directed to do so by the Court, which
actions have resulted in interference with the business ofthe Court.

11.

Mercer has engaged in a pattern a,Q.d practice of refusing to respond to clients'
telephone calls, has failed to keep appointments with clients, and has otherwise
engaged in a pattern and practice of failing to maintain communications with clients
concerning the client matters.

12.

Mercer's right to practice bef(>re the Bankruptcy Court of the Western District of
North Carolina has been revoked by order dated April 15, 1999.

13.

An order suspending Mercer's right to practice is ne~essary to protect the clients of
Mercer from further neglect.

14.

On prior occasions the Judges of the District Court of the Twentieth Judicial District
have counseled wjth and admonished the Respondent regarding her chronic deficiency
in maintaining communications with the Court and her clients regarding her
appearance and representatiollS of said clients in Court and a pattern of disregarding
her obligations therein to the Court and clients; and that such chronic conduct directly
impairs the respect and authority of the Court, xesultsJn .substantial interference with
the business of the Court and is prejudicial to ·the administration ofjustice.

I

Now, therefore, based on the foregoiI!g findings offact, the courtmakes thefollowing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.

,,-t'

The Respondent's conduct as stated above directly impairs the respect and authority of
this Court andJs.prejudicialto theJldministrationofjllStice~ violation ofRule 8.4(d)
and constitQtes failure to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in violation of
Rule 1.3.

2.

This Court has the authority to issue orders discipUning or disbarring attorneys
pursuant to its inherent authority to regulate the conduct of attorneys.

3.

A temporary interim suspension ofCatrina Mercer's lice~e to practice law in the
State of North Carolina is necessary to protect the public from the risk ofharm
inherent in Ms. Mercer's inability to perform her functions as an attorney..

Wu:EREBY iT IS HEREBY ORDERED AS FOLLOWS:
1. Catrina Mercer's right to practice in the District Courts of the Twentieth Judicial District
Is hereby suspended until further orders of this Court.

I

2. Catrina Mercer's license to practice law' in the state of North Carolina is hereby
temporarily suspended until such time as a hearing ~fore the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ofthe North Carolina State Bar can be held on the matters complaitied ofin
~his order, and any othel: matters which.ate appropriate for hearing. The North Carolina
State Bar is hereby directed to file a complaint with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
wjthin thirty days ofthe date of this order as to the matters at issue in this proceeding, and
shall report back to this Court as to the status of any such action within ninety (90) days
qfthe date of this ord~.and upmu;uch oiher occasions.as the Comtmay direct ne
dourt retains jutisdiction and may on its own motion enter an order modifying this interim
$uspension as the interests ofjustice may require.

this is an interim suspension pending a determination of the appropriate discipline by the

3.

:£?isciplinary Hearing Commission. NothingJn this oIder shall act as r.esjudicala,
collateral estoppel, or otherwise prohibit the Disciplinary Hearing Commission from
entering further discipline based on the conduct at issue in these proceedings.
4. No service of this order on the Respondent shall be required, and the suspension will
become effective thjrty day.s after the filing of.this order, The.Respondent.shall comply
with the Obligations of Pisbarred or Suspended Attorneys as provided in the Discipline
atld Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar, 27 NC Admin. Code Chapter 1
Subchapter B § .0124; pro.v.i4ed hQwever, that the Office of Counsel may grant the
Respondent an extension of~ to ninety days to complete.any ~Jnatter which the
client has asked the Respondent to oomplete, and which is likely to .be concluded within
the additional ninety day period without detriment to the client.
This

I

Igday ofMay 1999.
Ronald w.. Burris
Chief District Court Judge
20th JudiciallJistFiet

I

CONSENTED TO:

. ,.

I

I
.-"

.-,'

00758'

