BEFORE THE

NORTij CAROLINA

ORIEVANCE COMMITIEE

OF THE

WAKE COUNTY

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
9801229(11)

IN THE:MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

STANLEY M. TODD,
A'ITORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

I

On January 13, 1999, the Grievanl;e Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
conside~d the

grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.

P\Jrsuant to section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe tliat a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
~e rules provide that

after a rmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
""determine ~t ,fu~ [;~g of a complaint and a h~g before the Disciplinary Hearing
"Conmnssjoll artS mot required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
disc:ipline;depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused; and any
aggtavatitlg or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A ~epiimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated forte or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct ~d has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, ora member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
I

"

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not requited in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand. fully the spirit in which this duty is perfonned.

Sometime before the trial of Ms. Patty Faye Hunt, you and one of the other Assistant
District Attorneys were sitting in your office trying to understand parts of a conversation
conMined op a tape between tlt~ defendant and the SBI agent. A reporter came into your office.
This was Du"£ " ~'~mmed interview, but the reporter Was present dUring the playing of the tape, or
part~ of the ',tape. You told the reporter that the case involved the defendant wanting'to have
anotber indIvidual kined, and that the tape would be played dUring the trial. You told the
reporter portions of the testimony of the SBI agent that you expected to ,elicit. A reasonable

I
,./

.i

person would expect that the information that you communicated to a reporter would be
of a public communication. Your discussion of the identity of a witness,
the expected testimony of a witness, and the expected eyidence to be introduced, and the playing
of atape that would be introd1,lced for the reporter were reasonably likely to materially prejudice, '
an adjudicative proceeding and therefore violated Rule 3.6 and Rule 3.8(g) of the North Carolina
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct In deciding to issue this Reprin:tand, and not to iss~e
more serious discipline, the GrievQllce Committee took into account your iack of a previous·
disciplinary record.
di~seminated by means

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will ~e beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by,the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

31

day of ~

" 1999.

I

I

,
./
/'
f

./
i'

,./

,i

