--

.

.--------

IO(/~ __
IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
97 CRS 2064

NORTH CAROLINA
CABARRUSCOUNTY

FILED IN COURTROOi\~

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

v.

CABARRUS COUNTY
ORDE%ate

MICHAEL DEJEAN GARSKA,
Defendant

'5:).1 't~

8.Y._ _--..:L-~r_ _ ._~-_ _

Ass't.lDep~tY Clerk

I

This cause, coming on to be heatd, and being heard before the undersigned judge
presiding at the May 24, 1999, criminal session ofthe Superior Court for Cabarrus
County, North Catolina, upon motion by the defendarit, through his attorney of record,
William W. White, Jr., of Greensboro, North Carolina, to dismiss this case and to strike
all orders heretofore entered herein on the grounds that this court lacks both personal and
. subject matter jurisdiction;
AND THE COURT, after reviewing the record, c9nsidering the evidence
presented ap.d the arguments of cousel, makes. the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. On January 31, 1997, the defendant Was issued a North Carolina Uniform
Citation by Trooper K.D. Kubas ofthe North Carolina State Highway Patrol
wherein the defendant was charged with operating a motor vehicle, in
violation of G.S. 20-28, on North Carolina Highway No. 24 in Cabarrus
County while his drivers license was revoked. In addition, the defendant was
charged with operating a motor vehicle on said highway without having
registered the vehicle with the Division of Motor Vehicles, such vehicle being
one required to be registered, provided in G.S. 20-111(1).

I

2. Ort May 6, 1997; the defendant waS found by the District Court of this county
to be guilty of both charges. The defendant appealed to this court, and was
tried on his plea of not guilty on January 16, 1998. His Honor Thomas W.
Ross dismissed the charge of operating a motor vehicle on a public highway
without having it registered with the Division of Motor Vehicles. The jury
found the defendant guilty of driving while his drivers license was revoked.
Judge Ross sentenced the defendant to a term of imprisonrtlent for 45 days
and suspended the sentence. The defendant was placed on unsupervised
probation for 12 months on the conditions that he pay a fine of $500, and pay
the costs of court. The court allowed the defendant 10 days from January 16,
1998, to comply with the monetary portion of the judgment.

A TRUE COP'Y

CLERK OF SUPERIOR COURT
CABARRUS COUNTY

I
00769

3. On January 16, 1998, the defendant gave notice of appeal to the'North
Carolina Court of Appeals "from the judgment entered by Judge Ross.

I

4. The defendant did nothing to perfect the appeal to the North Carolina Court of
Appeals. On May 6, 1999, the defendant, through his attorney ofrecord,
appeared in this court before the undersigned and, in open cou;t, withdrew
defendant's appeal to the North Carolina Court of Appeals. An Order was
entered on May 6, 1999, allowing t\1e defendant until May 24, 1999, to
comply with the judgment entered by Judge Ross on January 16, 1998,
wherein the defendant is required to,pay the fine and costs of this action.
5. On May 24, 1999, the defendant filed his motion to dismiss alleging the lack
of personal and subject matter jurisdiction of this court. The defendant has
willfully failed and refused to pay either the fine or the costs.

I

6. In his motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction the defendant alleges that the
District Court judge or judges who heard his case in District Court
"purported" to be judges, and "apparently" presided over the District Court,
but due to the fact that the United States flag displayed in the "Tri~l Court"
had a "yellow fringe'" on all sides, the flag was not the official flag of the
United States. The defendant contends that such a flag is, therefore, a "foreign
flag", and that and 'judge!' sitting under a "foreign flag" has no jurisdiction
over him. The defendant contends. that the United States flag adorned with
yellow fringe around it is not the official flag of this country, that such a flag
would be "in fact the flag ... of some other, and obviously foreign,
jurisdiction." Finally, the defendant alleges that "whoever WaS the so called'
')udge" sitting in the above case was sitting without any jurisdiction,
whatever, and only has the power to dismiss this said action and to strike all
orders entered herein."
7. If the District Court lacked personal or subject matter jurisdiction in this
matter, then the Superior Court would not have juris<,iiction either, because the
flag of the United States on display from the bench in this cOilrt also has
yellow fringe around it, as do all such flags in each courtroom in the Cabarrus
County Courthouse.
8. The sole purpose of defendant's motion to dismiss is to delay and obstruct the
administration of justice and to avoid payment of the fine and costs assessed
in this matter 16 months ago.
9. The purpose and intent of counsel for the defendant in filing said motion is
entirely vex;atious 'and willful. Counsel for the defendant filed the motion to
dismiss on absurd and ludicrous grounds, totally lacking in good faith, with
the intent to hold this court up to riducule and to. obfuscate the simple. issue in
this matter, i.e., that the defendant contends he cannot be required hfRtJ

ECO PY

A

CLERK OF SlIPERIOR COURT
CABARRUS COUNTY
BY_~~«~~~z__~

I

A~nt, Deputy. Clark Sllpertor ~ou:rt

,

',..

•

. 41;'"
I

007'70

drivers licens'e in order to drive legally upon the public streets and highways
of this State.
.r

10. The motion filed by counsel for the defendant violates Rule 12 of the General
Rules of Practice in the Superior and District Courts, which provides, in
pertinent part, as follows: "Counsel are to conduct themselves
with ... propriety .... The conduct of the laWyers before the court and with other
laWyers should be characterized by candor and fairness. Counsel shall not
knowingly misinterpret the contents of ... the language of a decision or other
authority. "

I

11. Counsel for the defendant should be disciplined by this court for filing the
said "Motion to Dismiss for Lack of Jurisdiction", and the defendant should
be required to comply with the Judgment entered in this matter on January 16,
1998, without further delay.
12. Counsel for the defendant has willfully violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct of The North Carolina State Bar in that he has engaged in conduct
that is prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4 (d);
in that he has knowingly, willfully and with vexatious purpose made a false
statement of law to this tribunal, totally disregarding his duty to act with
candor toward the court, in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(2); in that he has failed to
make reasonable efforts to expedite this litigation, but instead has willfully
and with vexatious purpose delayed the conclusion of this case, in violation of
Rule 3.2; and he has violated the admonition ofthe Bat that a lawyer should
use the law's procedures only for legitimate purposes and not to harass others,
but on the contrary, he has instead used the law's procedures, in filing said
motion, for the sole purpose or delaying, obstructing, and harassing the court
in the proper discharge of its duties, in violation of the Preamble of the Rules
of Professional Conduct, paragraph (4).

I

Based :on the foregoing findings of fact the court makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

. 1. William W. Wnite, Jr., counsel for the defendant, should be disciplined by this
court for his willful violation of Rule 12 of the General Rules of Practice in
the Superior and District Courts by filing the motion described in the Findings
of Fact.
'2. This court has concurrent jurisdiction, together with The North Carolina State
Bar, to discipline an at~orney such as co~nsel for t~e defendant for viQt~~ C· "It,:!
of the Rules of ProfessIonal Conduct WhICh occUr III the presencektqett{~t,
J ~
Counsel for the defendant has violated the Rules ofProfession\1l<E.mP1([}lt WPERIOR COURT

lJ

CMl.~RiWS

COUNTY

I
......

nOr:J
".
'-:"jl
{'J
Ii ."
",Ii

'1---

<

I

that he has engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule' 8.4 (d); in that he has knowi!lgly, willfully and
with vexatious purpose made a false statement of law tothis tribunal, totally'
disregarding his duty to act with candor toward the court, in violation ofRule
3.3(a)(2); in that he has failed to make reasonable efforts to expedite this'
litigation, but instead has willfully and with vexatious purpose delayed the
conclusion of this case, in violation of Rule 3.2; and he has violated the
admonition of the Bar that a lawyer should use the law's procedures only for
legitimate purposes and not to harass others, but on the contrary, he has
instead used the law's procedures, in filing said motion, for the sole purpose
or delaying, obstructing, and harassing the court in the proper discharge of its
duties, in violation of the Preamble of the Rules of Professional Conduct,
paragraph (4).

3. The defendant, Michael D. Garska, has willfully failed and refused to pay the
fine and costs required by the judgment entered in this matter on January 16,
1998.
IT IS, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1. The defendant shall be taken into custody forthwith to serve the sentence of
forty-five(45) days imprisonment imposed by judgment in this matter on
January 16, 1998.

I

2. William W. White, Jr. of Greensboro, North Carolina, counsel for the
defendant shall pay a fine in the sum of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) for
his willful violations ofthe Rules of Practice in the Superior?l1d District
Courts and the Rules ofProfe'ssional Conduct. the said William W. White Jr.,
shall pay said sum into the Office ofthe Clerk ofthe Superior Court for
Cabarrus County by certified. or cashiers check or in United States Currency
by 5 o'clock P.M. on Monday, June 7, 1999. Ifthe said William W. White, Jr.
fails to comply with this order then he shall be ~ubject to the contempt powers
cl~oo~
.
This order is entered in open court in the presence of the defendant and his attorney, the
said William W. White, Jr., on this theMday of May, 1999.

Judge Presiding

I

