( 530

'NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.
REGINALD L. FRAZIER
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

JUDGMENT OF CONTEMPT

I

THIS MATIER came on to be heard and was heard before a duly appointed
hewing committee of the North Carolina State Bar Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Henry C. Babb, Jr., Chair; Richard T. Gammon and Catharine Sefcik on
Thursday, April 29, 1999. The Defendant, Reginald L. Frazier; was not present, but was
repr~sented throughout the proceeping by his appointed attorney, Eric Michaux of the 14th
Judicial District Bar. The North Carolina State Bar was represented by Carolin Bakewell
and A. Root Edmonson. Based upon the pleadings herein and the evidence produced at
the hearing, the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. On Nov. 6, 1989, the Defendant, Reginald L. Frazier; was disbarred from the
prac~ice of law in North Carolina by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the North

Carolina State Bar in case number 89 DHC 15.

.

I

2. The Findings of Fact & Conclusions of Law and Order of Discipline disbarring
Frazier in 89 DHC 15 were served upon Frazier by certified mail, return receipt
requested, on,Nov. 28, 1989.
3. Frazier gave notice of appeal from the Order of Discipline but failed to perfect
the appeal. On June 21, 1990, Frazier's appeal was dismissed. Frazier was served with
the order dismissing his appeal shortly .after the order was entered.
, 4. Pursuant to 21 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules, the Order of Disc.ipline in 89 DHC 15
became effective on Dec. 28, 1995.

I

5. Frazier 'has not been reinstated to the practice oflaw in the State of North
Carolina.
6. On Dec. 4, 1998, the North Carolina State Bar filed a motion for order to show
Cause, requesting the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing to issue an order commanding
Frazier to appear and show cause why he should not be held in criminal contempt of the
Commission for continuing to practice law in violation of the Commission's order of
Nov. 6, 1989 disbarring Frazier.

I

7. On Dec. 30, 1998, the Chair oftbe Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the
North Carolina State Bar issued an order commanding Frazier to appear and show cause
why he should not be held in criminal contempt for continuing to engage in the practice
oflaw in violation of the Commissiqp's order of Nov. 6, 1989 disbaIrlng Frazier as
alleged in the Dec. 4, 1998 Motion for Order to Show Cause.
8. On Jan. 9, 1999, Frazier was served with the Motion for Order to Show Cause
and the Dec. 30, 1998 Order to Show Cause by personal service by the Craven County
Sheriff s Department.
9. On Jan. 13, 1999, the North Carolina State Bar filed an additional Motion fQr
Order to Show Cause, requesting the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission to
issue a second order commanding Frazier to appear and show cause why he should not be
held in contempt of the Commission for continuing to practice law in violation of the
Commission's order of Nov. 6, 1989 disbarring Frazier.
10. On Jan. 19, 1999, the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commis&iort issued
an order commanding Frazier to appear and show cause respecting the matters set out in
the Jan. 13, 1999 Motion for Order to Show Cause.

I

11. On Jan. 19, 1999, Frazier filed a motion in the cause, which requested, -inter
alia, that an attorney be appointed to represet:lt him respecting the contempt charges.
,

12. On Jan.- 20, 1999 Eric Michaux of the 14th Judicial District Bar was appointed
to represent Frazier.
13. On Jan. 21, 1999, Frazier was served with the Jan. 13, 1999 Motion for Order
to Show Cause and Jan. 19, 1999 Order to Show Cause by service of the motion and
order upon Frazier's attorney of record.
14. On Feb. 15, 1999, pursuant to a motion filed by Michaux, the show cause
hearing was. continued, to permit Michaux time to prepare.
15. On March 1, 1999, the hearing regarding the Order to Show Cause was
'
scheduled for April 29 - 30, 1999.
2

I

\

16. The March 1, 1999 order rescheduling the hearing also directed Frazier to
appear at the April 29 - 30, 1999 hearing and advised him that if he failed to appear, the
Cbmmission would proceed to hear the matter in his absence.
17. The March 1, 1999 order was served upon Frazier by mailing a copy of the
order to Michaux, who was then Frazier's attorney of record.
18. On Jan. 19, 1999, Frazier filed a petition with the U.S. District Co1.1I1: for the
Eastern District of North Carolina, attempting to remove the State Bar contempt
proceeding to federal court.

I

19. On Wednesday, April 28, 1999, Hon. Terrence Boyle entered an order
remanding the State Bar contempt proceeding to the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
20. On Tuesday, April 27, 1999, Hon. Abraham Penn Jones entered an ex parte
or4er, temporarily restraining the State Bar from proceeding with the show cause hearing.
21. On Wednesday, April 28, 1999, the N.C. Court of Appeals entered an order
staying Jl.ldge Jones' injunction.
.
22. On April 29, 1999, the N.C. Supreme Court denied Frazier's request for an
order reversing the N.C. Court of Appeals order of April 28, 1999.
I

~

23. The hearing of this matter was convened as scheduled at 10 a.m. on
Thursday, April 29, 1999. Frazier refused to appear but was represented by his
appointed counsel, Eric Michaux.
24. At the hearing Michaux indicated that FraZier was aware of the hearing, but
had directed Michaux to limit his participation in the proceeding to tendering argument in
support of FraZier's motion to dismiss the proceeding on the basis of lack of subject
m~tter jurisdiction.

I

25. Following argument from counsel for both parties regarding the motion to
dismiss, the hearing committee unanimously denied the motion and directed both parties
to: proceed with the hearing. Michaux then requested that the hearing be continued, on
the grounds that he was not prepared to proceed' and on the grounds that his client had
limited the scop~ of his representation.
26. The hearing committee advised Michaux that he h~d been appointed to
represent Frazier respecting all aspects of the contempt proceeding and that no order had
been entered permitting him to withdraw or limit his appearance as Frazier's attorney.
The hearing committee further advised Michaux that Frazier's challenge to the
COinmission's subject matter jurisdiction could not be waived or prejudiced by

3

I

\

\.

;PO,"?Q5
,'1;j _, li ,0

I

Michaux's participation in the trial and that Michaux's failure to participate in the hearing
might waive other significant rights of his client.
27. Despite being tlfforded every opportunity to participate in the hearing,

Michau~ refused to cross examine any of the State Bar's witnes§es, make objections to

the State Bar's evidence or tender evide~ce or argument on behalf of his client.

I

28. At the time that Michaux moved to continue the hearing, a number of
witnesses were under subpoena and present in the hearing chambers. These witnesses
included two Assistant District Attorneys from the 3B Judicial District and several
members of the public from New Bern and Wilson.
29. The Disciplinary Hearing Commjssion does not convene at r~gulat intervals
to hear cases and continuing the hearing would likely have resulted in a substantial delay
in the resolution of the contempt charges, as well as inconvenience to the witnesses,
attorneys for the parties and Hearing Committee members. Such a delay would also have
been detrimental to the interest of the public.
30. In October 1998, Frazier approached Gwen Wright at the Craven County
Sheriff s Department where she had gone shortly after the arrest of her son, Saleen
Gaynor Wright on charg~s of damage to public property.
31. Frazier falsely told Ms. Wright that he had his law license and that he could
represent Saleen Wright respecting the charges against him. He agreed to handle Saleen
Wright's case for a total fee of$750.
32. Thereafter, Ms. Wright paid Frazier $200 of the fee which he had demanded
for his legal services.

I

33. On Nov. 3, 1998, Frazier appeared with Ms. Wright and Saleen Wright in
Craven County District Court.
34. Frazier told Ms. Wright and Saleen Wright that they could go home and they
left the courtroom.
35. While in Craven County District Court on Nov. 3, 1998, Frazier filled out and
'
signed a Motion to Continue form for Saleen Wright.
36. Frazier signed the Motion to Continue and indicated on the form that he was
the attorney for Saleen Wright and that he was requesting the continuance because
"counsel has not had time to prepare."
~7.

After filling out the form, Frazier asked Joy Strickland, ~ Assist~t Distri¢t
Attorney, to sign the Motion to Continue form.·
,

4

I .\

,

.

38. When he ml:lde this request, Frazier was standing in an area ofthe courtroom
r¢served for practicing lawyers. Frazier indicated to Strickland that he waS acting on
Wright's behalf. frazier did not reveal that he was disbarred and was not pertnitted to
ptactice law in North Carolina.
39. At the same time that he asked Strickland to agree to continue Saleen
Wright's case, FraZier also asked Strickland to continue a criminal case against Lonice R.
G:ardner, whose case was also on the Graven County District Court docket for Nov. 3,
1998.
40. Frazier filled out a Motion to Continue form for Gardner, in which he
indicated that he represented Gardner and that a continuance was needed because
"counsel has not had time to prepare."
,

.

I

41. Strickland ~greed to the continuances, initialed the forms for Wright and
G?rdner and gave them to' Hunt Johnson, the other Assistant District Attorney on duty in
Craven County District court that day for processing.
42. Frazier never told Strickland or Johnson that he was a disbarred attorney and
at all times on Nov. 3, 1998 held himself out as licensed to practice law. Neither
Strickland nor Johnson would have agreed to continue the cases of Saleen Wright and
Lonice Gardner if they had known that Frazier was disbarred.
43. Frazier ha,s never refunded any portion of the $200 fee which he received
from Ms. Gwen Wright, despite her requests for a return of these funds.
44. In the summer of 1998, Frazier contacted Shirley C. Bames, who is a distant
rel~tive of Frazier's, concerning the estate of her father, Willie Bames, and concerning
ch~ges then pending against Ms. Bames' son, Dominique Bames.
45. Frazier falsely represented to Ms. Bames that he was licensed to practice law
and that he could assist her with the estate matter and her son's criminal case. As to
Dominique Bames' case, Frazier indicated that he would file Some motions to "get things
moving."
46. On or before Sept. 11, 1998, Frazier prepared a petition for writ of habeas
corpus on behalf of Dominique Bames, which Frazier caused to be filed in Wilson
Coimty Superior Court on Sept. 11, 1998. Frazier signed Ms. Bames' name to the
petition without her knowledge and consent.
47. Thereafter, Frazier prepared a motion to quash, motion to suppress and
second motion for discov~ry on Dominique Bames' behalf and caused all three
docUments to be filed in Bames' case. Frazier signed the motion to quash, motion to
suppress and discovery motion as Dominique Bames' attorney and thereby held himself
out as a licensed attorney.
5

I

48. On or prior to Nov. 3, 1998, Frazier drafted a complaint on Ms. Barnes;
behalf, which alleged various wrongdoing by First Union National Bank and other named
defendants in connection with the handling of the estate of Willie Barnes.
49. On Nov. 3, 1998, Fr~ier filed the c9mplaint which he had drafted on Ms.
Barnes' behalf in Craven County Superior Court, which was assigned file number 98
CVS 1695.
50. In the complaint which he filed on Ms. Barnes' behalf in Barnes v. First
Union National Bank et aI., 98 CVS 1695 Frazier held himself out as an attorney entitled
to practice law in North Carolina.
51. On or about Nov. 3, 1998, Frazier filled out and filed or caused to be filed
two SU11llllonses and a civil action cover sheet in the matter of Barnes v. First Union
National Bank et ai. Frazier held himself out to be an attorney on the summonses aIid
civil action sheet.
52. In January or February 1999, Frazier dismissed the complaint which he had
filed in Barnes v. First Union National Bank et al. without Ms. Bames' knowledge and
consent.
53. On or about Nov. 18, 1998, Frazier drafted and caused to be filed in Craven
County Superior Court a motion it) the case,ofState v. JamaraWashingtoIl.
54. In the motion which he filed in the Washington ca~e, Frazier indicated that he
was entering an appearance as attorney of record in the case and signed the motion as "R.
L. Frazier Esq.," thereby holding himself out as an attorney at law.

I

55. In the motion which he filed in the Washington case, Fraz;ier asked the ~ourt
to continue further proceedings in the matter.
56. In February 1991, the North Carolina State Bar initiated a contempt
proceeding in Craven County Superior Court to hold Frazier in criminal contempt of the
N.C. State Barbycontipuing to practice law in violation of the Nov. 6, 1989 order
disbarring Frazier.
57. Following a nine-day hearing in April 1991, Hon. Edward Washington found
Frazier guilty of indirect criminal contempt by continuing to practice' law in violation of
the Nov. 6, 1989 disbarment order. The 1991 contempt order was based upon Frazier's
activities regarding clients named William Barnhill, Maude Bamer and Mr. & Mrs.
George Francis, none of which w~re involved in the cont~mpt proceeding herein. J\ldge
Washington sentenced Frazier to 30 days injail, which sentence Frazier served in the
summer of 1991. Frazier never perfected an appeal from his 1991 contempt conviction.

6

\

"

58. On Dec. 19 - 20, 1994, a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Coqunission found Frazier guilty of 16 counts of criminal contempt by continuing to
practice law in violation of the 1989 disbarment order.
59. On Aug. 8, 1996, following a hearing before Hon. Russell Duke in Pitt
CO\.~nty Superior Court, Frazier was found guilty of criminal contempt by continuing to

engiige in the practice oflaw in violation of the Nov. 6, 1989 disbarment order.
60. Frazier Was present at the contempt hearing in Pitt County Superior Court in
August 1996. He failed to perfect an appeal from the judgment of contempt entered in
that case.

I

61. On numerous occasions since 1989, Frazier has filed motions and pleadings
before the Disciplinary Hearing Commissipn, the state trial and appellate courts and the
federal courts, attacking or seeking to overturn the 1989 disbarment order. None of these
motions and proceedings have been successful and Frazier has never been reinstated to
the practice of law in North Carolina. Frazier was served with the orders denying his
motions and requests for relief at the time the orders were entered.
62. As recently as Oct. 28, 1998 Frazier acknowledged that he was aware that the
1989 disbarment order was valid and binding upon him, by filing a civil action in federal
court, seeking a stay of the disbarment order in the matter of Frazier v. Law Firm of
Stevens et aI, file number 4:98CVI56-HC. The federal court dismissed Frazier's
complaint in that case and refused to grant him. any of the relief requested.
63. Frazier had no good faith belief that he could legitimately practice law during
the t'ime he engaged in the acts alleged in the Motion for Order to Show Cause in that:

a.

Frazier filed numeroUs pleadings and petitions challenging
the order of disbarment, none of which was ever granted or upheld
by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission or any court.

b.

In the complaint which Frazier drafted for Shirley Barnes, he
recited that he was appearing and signing her name pursuant
to a power of attorney. This statement would not been necessary
if he legitimately believed that he could engage in the practice
of law.

c.

A number of pleadings filed by Frazier, including the
complaint in the case styled Frazier v. Law Firm of Stevens
et ai, referred to in paragraph 35 above, show that Frazier
acknowledged the validity of the 1989·disbarment order.

I

64. Frazier is harming the public by leading prospective clients to believe that he
could represent him, by preventing or delaying those clients in seeking other, licensed
7

,

\

I

,

counsel to protect their rights and by taking fees from those clients for his
"representation."
65. Frazier has demonstrated a persistent, willful intent to continue practicing law
in violation ofth~ Nov. 6, 1989 disbarment order.
Basec;l upon the foregoing Findings ofFa~t, the hearing committee hereby enters
the following:

1

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the North Carolina St~te Bar .has
jurisdiction over the person ofth~ Defendant, Reginald L. Frazier, and over the subject
matter of this proceeding.
2. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has authority to hold persons, firms and
corporations in contempt as provided in Chapter 5A ofthe North Carolina General
Statutes, pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28.1(bl). The Commission's authority to hold
persons in contempris not limjted to licensed attorneys.
3. Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28."I(bl), the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission has autJ;iority to hold Frazier in indirect criminal contempt for continuing to
.
practice law in violation of the Nov. 6, 1989 disbarment order. .
4. The Nov. 6, 1989 order disbarred Frazier from the practice oflaw in North
Carolina.
5. Frazier has never been reinstated to the practice oflaw in North Carolina.

1

6. Frazier had pioper and adequate notice of the hearing ~n this matter and was
notified that the trial would proceed ifhe elected not to appear.
7. Frazier knowingly and voluntarily refused to appear at the hearing herein on
April 29, 1999 and knowingly and voluntarily waived his right to be present at and
participate in the criminal contempt hearing.
8. Frazier voluntarily refused to appear at the hearing herein in an attempt to
delay and or thwart the hearing process.
.
9. The intere,st ofthe public and the interest of justice required that the Hearing
Committee deny FraZier's request to continue the show cause hearing and to proceed with
the hearing in his absence.

to.

The public interest is threatened and damaged by Frazier's persistent conduct
in practicing law in violation of the Nov. 6, 1989 disbarment order.
8

I:

,

\

0079Q

11. Frazier did not have a good faith belief and there was no reasonable basis for
a good faith belief that he could engage in the practice of law at the time of the ,acts which .
the State Bar alleged constituted criminal contempt of this Commission and of which this
Commission has found him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
12. The right to practice law cannot be conferred upon a disbarred attorney by a
power of attorney.
.

13. The North Carolina State Bar has proven beyond a reasonable doubt that
F~azier willfully engaged in the unauthorized practice of law regarding Saleen Gaynor
Wright, as alleged in the First Count of the State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated Dec.
4, 1998.

I

14. The North Carolina State Bar has proven beyond a reasonable doubt that
Fr,azier willfully 'engaged in the unauthorized practice oflaw regarding Lonice Gardner ~s
alleged in the Second Count of the State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated Dec. 4, 1998.
I

15. The North Carolina State Bar has proven beyond a reasonable doubt that

Fr~er willfulIy engaged in the unauthorized practice of law regarding Shirley Barnes, as

alleged in the Third Count of the State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated Dec. 4, 1998.
16. The North Carolina State Bar has proVen beyo,nd a reasonable doubt that
Frazier willfully engaged in the unauthorized practice of law regarding Dominique
B~es as alleged in the Fourth CoUllt of the State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated
Dec. 4, 1998.
17. The North Carolina State Bar has proven beypnd a reasonable doubt that
Frazier has willfully engaged in the unauthorized practice of law regarding Jamara
Washington as alleged in the ,State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated Jan. 13, 1999.
18. Each of Frazier's acts of continuing to practice law in violation of the Nov. 6,
1989 disbarment order constitute willful indirect criminal contempt of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat § SA-I 1(3).
19. Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 5A-12 and 84-28.1(bl), Frazier is subject to
imprisonment for up to 30 days and is subject to a fine of $500 for each count of indirect
criminal contempt of which he has been found guilty.
20. Eric Michaux, Esq. should be released from any further respqnsibility for
representing Frazier regarding this matter.
'
Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission enters the following:

9

I
0079:1

ORDER

1. As to Count One of the State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated Dec. 4, 1998,
Frazier shall be and hereby is sentenced to 30 consecutive days injail.
2. As to Count Two of the State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated Dec. 4, 1998,
Frazier shall be and hereby is sentenced to 30 consecutive days injail, to begin at the
expiration of the 30 day jail sentence referred to in paragraph 1 above.

I

3. As to Count Three ,of the State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated Dec. 4,
1998, Frazier shall be and hereby is sentenced to 30 consecutive days in jail, to begin at
the conclusion of the 30 day jail sentence referred to in paragraph 2 above.
4. As to Count Four of the State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated Dec. 4, 1998,
Frazier shall be and hereby is sentenced to 30 consecutive days in jail, to begin at the
conclusion of the 30 day jail sentence referred to in paragraph 3 above.
S. As to the State Bar's Motion to Show Cause dated Jan. 13, 1998, Frazier shall
be and hereby is sentenced to 30 consecutive dates in jail, to begin at the conclusion of
the ~O day jail sentence referred to in paragraph 4 above.
6. The jail sentences for each of the five counts of criminal contempts of which
the Commission finds Frazier guilty shall be served consecutively and not concqrrently
and shall be served day for day.
7. Frazier shall be and hereby is fined $SOO for each of the five colints of indirect
criminal contempt of which he has been found guilty for a total fine of $2,SQO, to be paid
by Jan. 1,2000.

I

8. Eric Michaux is hereby released from ;;my further responsibility regarding
Frazier in this matter as of the date of this order.
The State Bar or~lly notified Michaux at the conclusion of the hearing on April
29; 1999 that Frazier has the right to seek a de novo hearing in Wake County Superior
Court.

10

\

Michaux gave oral notice of appeal at the conclusion of the hearing on behalf of
his client. The Hearing Committee advised Michaux that written notice of appeal
should be filed within the time allowed by law following entry of the written judgment of
contempt.

This the

2- day of June, 1999.

I

I

11

I

