_ - - - - - - - - ii
I

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLIN

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STAT~ BAR
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
)
)

)

J. ,MICHAEL EDNEY, ATTORNEY
Defendan~

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)
)
)
)

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on Friday, June U, 1999
before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofR. B.
Smith, Chair; Fred H. Moody Jr., and Robert Frantz. Carolin Bakewell represented the
N.C. State aar. The Defendant, J. Michael Edney, was not present and was not
represented by counsel. Based upon the evidence presented by the plaintiff and the
pleadings filed herein, the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Garolina, ~d the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant, J. Michael Edney, (hereafter, Edney), w~s admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1985, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, ail
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
R\lles of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofth~ State
of North Carolina.
3. During all oft4e relevant periods referred to herein, Edney was actively
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in the City of Hendersonville, Henderson County, North Carolina.

I

,I

I
,

-

4. In 1994, Edney undertook to file an appeal for Michael A. Parker (hereafter,
Parker), respecting Parker's conviction of criminal offenses.
5. Edney failed to perfect an appeal on Parker's behalf and Parker ultimately filed
a grievance against Edney with the N.C. State Bar.
6. 1n April 1997, the Grievance Committee of the N.C. State Bar reprimanded
E9ney for failing to perfect the appeal on Parker's behalf and for failing to respond
promptly to the N.C. State Bar's inquiries about the matter.
'7. Thereafter, Parker again contacted the N.C. State Bar, complaining that Edney
would not turn over Parker's file to him.

I

8. Qn Feb. 16, 1998, counsel for the State Bar wrote to Edney and asked him to
respond to Parker.
9. Edney did not respond to counsel's letter of Feb. 16, 1998, nor did he turn over
the file or respond to Parker.
10. Thereafter, the N.C. State Bar established a grievance file 'against Edney,
b~sed upon his failure to respond to the Bar and Parker. The grievance was assigned file
n~mber 980 372 (hereafter, Parker's second grievance).
11. On April 6, 1998, Edney was served with a letter of notice from the State Bar
re~pecting Parker's second grievance.
12. Edney did not respond to the letter of notice respecting Parker's ~econd
grievance.
13. On April 28, 1998, the State Bar sent Edney a follow up letter, reminding
him that he had not responded to Parker's second grievance.
14. Edney did not respond to the April 28" 1998 follow up letter.

I

15. On May 19, 1998, Edney was served with a subpoena commanding him to
appear in Raleigh and respond to Parker's second grievance.
16. On June 25, 1998, shortly before Edney was required to appear in Raleigh
pursuant to the subpoena, he responded to Parker's second grievance. Owing to the
inc'omplete nature of this response, however, an additional exchange ofletters was
re~uired before Edney provided a full account of his conduct.
17. Prior to March 26, 1997, the N.C. State Bar received a communication from
C. f. Wrenn (hereafter, Wrenn), requesting arbitration ofa fee dispute which had arisen
between Wrenn and Edney.

./

I
00803

I

18. On March 26, 1997, the N.C. State Bar notified Edney of Wrenn's request
and directed him to respond within 15 days of receipt of the notice.
19. The notice of mandatory fee arbitration was served upon Edney by certified
mail on March 31, 1997.
20. On Apri128, 1997, the N.C. State Bar Fee Arbitration Committee wrote to
Edney, reminding him that he had not responded to the notice ofptandatory fee
arbitration. The April 28, 1997 follow up letter was served upon Edney by certified
mail on May 7, 1997.
21. On May 30, 1997, Edney responded to the notice of mandatory fee
arbitration. In his response, Edney indicated that he was willing to refund the $1,044.58
fee .paid by Wrenn.
22. Despite the assurances set out in his May 30, 1997 letter, Edney did not
refund the fee nor did he communicate further with the N.C. State Bar respecting the
matter.
23. On Aug. 4, Aug. 21, Sept. 10, and Oct. 20, 1997, the State Bar sent
additional communications to Edney, requesting information and/or inquiring about the
status of the Wrenn arbitration matter.
24. Edney did not reply to the follow up letters of Aug. 4, Aug. 21, Sept. 10 or
Oct. 20, 1997.
.
25. Edney did not participate in good faith in mediation or mandatory fee
arbitration respecting Wrenn's case.

I

26. Prior to March 23, 1998, the N.C. State Bar established a grievance file
concerning Edney's failure ~o participate in good faith in mandatory fee arbitration
respecting Wrenn's case (hereafter, the Wrenn grievance) ..
27. On March 23, 1998, the N.C. State Bar issued a letter of notice and substance
of grievance to Edney concerning the Wrenn grievance and directed hjm to respond to the
letter of notice within 15 days.
28. Edney was served with the Wrenn letter of notice on March 25, 1998.
29. Edney did not respond to the Wrenn letter of notice and substance of
grievance.

I

.I

I

30. On April 28, 1998, the N.C. State Bar issued a follow up letter to Edney,
reminding him that he had failed to respond to the Wrenn letter of notice and substance of
grievance.
31. Edney did not respond to the April 28, 1998 follow up letter.
I
32. On May 18, 1998, the N.C. State Bar issued a subpoena to Edney,
, commanding him to appear before the Grievance Committee of the N.C. State Bar on
July 15, 1998 to respond to the Wrenn letter of notice and-substance of grievance.

33. The subpoena waS served upon Edney in person by the Henderson County
Sheriff s Office.
..'

I

34. On June 25, 1998, Edney responded to the Wrehrt letter of notice and
s~bstance of grievance.
35. Edney's response was incomplete.
36. On July 2, 1998, deputy counsel wrote to Edney and indicated that he would
npt be released from the subpoe:na until he filed a substantive response to the matters set
otIt in the letter of notice and substance of grievance.
38. OnJuly 10, 1998, Edney responded more fully to the letter of notice and
substance of grievance. The State Bar thereafter released him from appearing in person
i11 response to the subpoena.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee hereby makes
the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By failing to respond in a timely fashion to the N.C. State Bar's letter of
nqtice and follow up letter concerning Parker's second grievance, Edney failed to respond
to an inquiry of a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

I

2. By failing to participate in good faith in mandatory fee arbitration respecting
the fee arbitration request filed by C. F. Wrenn, and by failing to respond to the State
B~'s communications and requests for information in the Wrenn fee arbitration case,
Edney violated Rule 2.6(e) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and/or Rule 1.5(f) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3. By failing to respond iIi a timely fashion to the State Bar's Letter of Notice and
Substance of Grievance respecting the Wrenn grievance and the State Bar's follow up
t

/

I
00805

I

letter of April 28, 1998, Edney failed to respond to an inquiry of a disciplinary authority
in violation of Rule 8.1 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conc1us;ons qflaw and UPOIl the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate'discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes the additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a)
b)
c)
d)

Prior discipline
Substantial experience in the practice of law
Multiple offenses
Pattern of misconduct

2. There are no mitigating factors.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of
counsel for the plaintiff, the hearing committee hereby enters t~e following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

1. The defendant, J. Michael Edney, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for two years, begipning 30 days from the service ofthis order upon him. The
suspension will continue for a period of not less than six consecutive months.
Thereafter, the defendant may seek reinstatement of his license to practice law upon filing
a written petition and demonstrating compliance with the following ~onditions:
a) The eJefendant shall cure all deficits in his mandatory continuing legal
education requirements prior to seeking reinstatement of his license
and shall comply with all mandatory continuing legal education
requirements throughout the term of the stayed suspension.
b) The defendant shall pay all mandatory State Bar dues, district bar dues
and Client Security Fund assessments on a timely basis throughout the
term of the stayed suspension.
c) The defendant shall respond in a timely fashion to all letters of notice,
notices of mandatory fee arbitration and inquiries ofthe.Office of
Counsel throughout the term of the stayed suspension.

I

/

I

d) Prior to seeking reinstatement of his license, the defendant shall
'submit himself for examination by a physician approved
by the N.C. State Bar. The physician shall examine the
defendant to detefmine ifhe suffers from any addiction or melJ.tal or
physical condition or impairment which requires treatment. The
defendant shall provide the N.C. State Bar with a copy of all reports
and records generated by the evaluating physician within 14 days of
completion of the evaluation. Prior to seeking reinstatement,
the defendant shall provide the N.C. State Bar with
a written release authorizing the Bar to contact the evaluating
physician and shall not revoke the written authorization.

I

e) The defendant shall comply with any treatment plan or
recommendation of the evaluating physician throughout the term of the
stayed suspension. If the physician recommends a course of
continuing treatment or therapy, the defelldant shall provide the N.C.
State Bar with written reports from the treating physician each quarter,
stating whether or not the defendant is complying with the treatment
plan and/or therapy. The reports shall be due in the Office of the
Counsel on Oct. 1, Jan. 1, April1, and July 1 of each year of the stay
of the suspension of defendant'·s law license.
f) Defendant shall violate no state or federal laws.

g) The defendant shall violate no provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

2. Any violation ofthe conditions set out in paragraph 1 (a)-(g) shall be grounds
to activate the stayed suspension ofthe Defendant's law license.
3. Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service of
the statement of costs upon him .

I

. 4. If the stay ofthe suspension of defendant's license is activated for any reason,
the defendant shall not be readmitted to the practice of law until such time that he
demonstrates by clear, cogent and. convincing evidence that he is not suffering from a
physical or mental copdition which substantially impairs his professional judgment or his
competence as an attorney.

/

I

I

Signed by the undersigned chair of the hearing committee with the consent of the
other hearing committee members.

.

~~

This the ~ day of

~8.~A

I

Chair, DisCiplinary Hearing Committeei'

,I

1

,1999.

/

I
" ,.

~

