NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G0319

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
HERMAN L. STEPHENS
Attorney At Law

1
1
1
1
1

REPRIMAND

On October 23,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman'of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In august 2007 you were hired by N. Neff to prepare and send a demand letter to a realty
company seeking return of Ms. Neff's security deposit. As of November 2007 you had not
drafted the letter and therefore neglected Ms. Neff's matter in violation of Rule 1.3: Diligence.
You also failed to communicate with Ms. Neff regarding her matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a):
Communication. In your response to the grievance you indicated that the reason you had not

drafted the letter was because of the Thanksgiving holiday. The Grievance Cominittee concluded
that your failure was not because of the holiday and therefore your statement was false andlor
misleading in violation of Rule 8.4(c): Misconduct.
Because of your hilure to prepare the lettcr, Ms. Neff first asked for a refund of the fee
she paid and when you did not respond, Ms. Neff filed a fee dispute petition. You failed to
respond to the fee dispute in violation of Rule 1.5(f): Fees and provided a late response to the
grievance in violation of Rule 8.4(d): Misconduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attoilley issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

day o

w

f

c

q

u

e Committee

,2008

