55!l
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROL~A STATE BAR
97GI582(IV)

NORlIH CAROLINA
I

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
JERRY S. BRACKETT,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

I

REPRIMAND

, On July 16, 1998, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against YOll by R.E.A.
'
: Pursuant to section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
discipIlnary action."
'
,The rules provide that after a finding pf probable cause, the Grievance Cornmittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplin'ary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Comn1ittee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Condu¢t and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
professi..m, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and iss~es this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you wiil
understand. fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You represented the former spouse of the complainant in this matter. You noticed the
depositipn of the complainant on May 19, 1997. The deposition was rescheduled for the
conveni~nce of the complainant and his attorney to Friday May 23, 1997. You were late for the
deposition because of a required court appearance that morning. When you returned to th~
office, the complainant made several comments about the fact that you were late and demanded

I
o08~i
o

1

that you pay his attorney's fees for the time he had to wait. As you led the complainant down
the hallway· in your office to take the deposition, there was a verbal exchange between you afid
complainant. You and the Complainant were in close physical proximity. While you and the
complainant were in close physical proximity, you g~abbed the Complainant by the neck.
Opposing counsel intervened to end the confrontation. The deposition was rescheduled. Your
conduct in grabbing the deponent at a time when he WaS under compUlsory process to attend the
deposition ~as conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation ofR-ule 1.2(d) of
the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct. See also Rule 8A(d) of the North Carolina
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct adopted July 24, 1997 containing the same provision. In
deciding to issue a reprimand and not impose more serious discipline, the Committee took into
account the fact that the complainant had made several provocative statements to you, and also
that there had been previous justifiable verbal exchanges at the time that complainant spoke
inappropriately to your client. The Committee also noted that there was evidence of a history of
domestic violence and threats by complainant against your client and that complainant was
subject to a domestic viplence order"as a result of having previously assaulted your client.
Although you may have perceived yourself to have been physically threatened or adequately
'provoked by complainant, you should not have reacted in the manner i!l which you did.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional ,
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the ~ouncil of the North
Carolina State Bar regardil1g the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

1

17

day of

1!t4;;" _

,

, 199.1.

m K. Dorsett, III
Chair, Grievance Committee

.
1
'.

," "
I.•

,

-

"j

