BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
86G 0625(1)

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNT;Y OF WAKE
..... r

)
).
)
)

IN TH;E MATTER OF
BILLY H. MASON
ATT0Rl'ffiY AT LAW

PUBLIC CENSURE

)
)

I

At its regular quarterly meeting on July 14, 1988, the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar conducted a preliminary hearing
under Section 13 of Article IX of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carol:ina State Bar regarding the grievance filed against you by Samuel L.
Getward. The .committee considered all of the evidence before it, including
your written statement to the committee. Purs~ant to Section 13(10) of the
rules" the committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined under
the rules as: "A finding by the Grievance Committee that there is reasonable
cause i to believe that a member of the North Caroli~a State Bar is guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action." The committee determined that a
complflint and a hearing .were not warranted in this matter and the commit;:tee
ordered a Public Censure upon your acceptance of it. Therefore, the committee
~ssue~ this Public Censure to you.
As Chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State ~ar,
it is' now my duty to issue this Public Censure and I am certain that you
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed, that you will
understand the censure, and appreciate its significance. The fact that a
. Public Censure is not the most serious discipline that may be imposed by t~e
North, Carolina State Bar should not be taken by you to indicate .that any
. member of the committee feels that your conduct was excusable or less than a
serious and substantial violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

You were appointed to represent Samuel L. Getward at the trial of his
crimibal cases in New Hanover County Superior Court. Getward was convicted
and received an active prison sentence. You were appointed to perfect
Getward's appeal to the North Carolina Court of Appeals on March 28, 1986.
You failed to file a record on appeal in Getward's case, take any other action
to perfect Getward's appeal, or otherwise protect his rights to an appeal.
In the Rules of Professional Conduct, an attorney is advised of his
obligations in handling his client's legal matters. Rule 6(B)(.J) states that
a lawyer shall act with reasonable diligence and promptness. in representing
the c~ient. Rule 7.1(A)(1) states that a lawyer shall not intentionally fail
to seek the lawful opjectives of his client through reasonably available
n,eans. In failing to perfect Getward' s appeal, you viola ted these rules.

I
:

'

.

~

..

.....
"

,'.

-,
The committee was aware that JYou thought a new attorney would. be
appointed to perfect Getward's appeal when Getward filed his second motion to
have you removed as counsel. However, Getward's m01;ion ..wa$ denied by the
,judge and it remained your responsibility to perfect the appeal. You failed
to follow-up to see whether you had been relieved of your responsibility in
Getward's appeal. You a~lowed the 150-day period within which to file the
record in the Court of Appeals to elapse without filing the record. The trial
court later had to appoint new counsel for Getward.

I

The ,committee is confident that this Public Censure will be heeded by
you, that it will be remembered by you, and will be beneficial to you. The
committee is confident that you will never ?gain allow yourself to dep?rt from
strict adherence to the highest standards of the profession. Instead of being
a burden, this Public Censure should serve as a profitable a~d everpresent
reminder to weigh carefu1:ly your responsibilities to your clients, to the
public, to your fellow attorneys, and to the courts.
Pursuant to Section 23 of Article IX the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar, it is ordered that a certified copy of this Public
Censure be forwarded to the Clerk of Superior Court of New Hanover County for
entry upon the judgment docket and to the Supreme Court of North Carolina for
entry in its minutes. This Public Censure will also be maintained as a
permanent record in the judgment boo~ of the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursu~nt to policy adopted by the Coun~il of the North Carolina State Bar on
the taxing of costs in cases where discipline is entered by the Grievance .
Committee, you are hereby taxed $50.00 as the adlJlinistrative costs in this
action.
This the

IO-tt

day of

-Cw.:.o:=~3~1J.QlICII.¥.t~----,

1988.
•

~~bn
The Grievance Committee

I

r

:;,..,.. .. ~/

........

. .:.
"

"

.

..;

I

I

I

