,

,

12'-ltol
STATE: OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE COURT OF GENERAL JUSTICE
COUNTY OF ORANGE
SUPERrOR COURT DIVISION

lLE.1j-~~;~~-1~;;

IN RE LICENSE OF BOYD LEE LAMBERT

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
:,
I"U?! ;,,:~
FINDINGS OF F-ACT CONCLUSIONS OF ·~.,,-'!!;¢,i~(,,

I

"

";*1 '"

I'

,

.. "if;,

.

~,

~;tfie~;~~~~~p;.p,:l:,

This cause came on for hearing upon the court's notice
appear and show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken~agalhst·h~~Up()Yl,;;-... .
call of the matter for hearing in Chatham County at the 7 June 1999 session, the
respondent mowed t~e court (1) to specify the charges, (2) to recuse, and (3) to dismiss.
.
The trial judge denied the motion to recuse, ove,rruled the objection to
jurisdiction, and specified violation of sections 5.3 and 5.4 of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
.
The respondent, Boyd Lee Lambert, was present and represented by his
Attorney James B. Maxwell. The plaintiff for the underlying cause, Attorney R. Hayes
Hofler, was also present.
...

..~ '.

HISTORY OF THE PROCEEDING
1, An action entitled Stacey O. Carden v. B. Lee Lambert, 97 CVS 696, regularly
appeared on the Orange County Superior Court trial calendar for 26 April 1999.
2. The undersigned Superior Court Judge regularly assigned to Orange County
pre~ided at the trial of the ~bove-referred case, beginning 26 April 1999 and ending
5. May 1999. Attorney R. Hayes Hofler represented the plaintiff. Attorney James B.
Maxwell repre!)ented the resPondent.

I

3. At the above-referred trial, tlie jury's verdict found a fiduciary relationship existed
when Stacy O. Carden and Attorney B. Lee Lambert entered certain business
transactions.
4. The jury also ruled in favor of the plaintiff by answering "No" to the issues: "Did the
respondent B. Lambert act openly, fairly and honestly, and take no advantage of the
plaintiff Stacey O. Carden?"
5. During all the times relevant B. Lee Lambert was actively engaged in the practice of
law and maintained a law office in Durham, North Carolina.
6. After the jury verdict, the undersigned entered an order finding probable cause to'
believe the dealings and transactions of B. Lee Lambert violated one or more
provisions of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
7. The Court directed B. l-ee Lambert to appear before the court at the Orange County
Courthouse 10:00 A.M., Thursday 6 May: 1999, and show why disciplinary action
should not be taken against him as an attorney at law.

1

I
.'~' '

00815

8. The Court notified the respondent that a written complaint was not required and that
• trial record in Harden v. Lambert properly discloses the subject of the inquiry .
. Having appeared and testified in the case, respondent Lambert had full notice.
9 .. The Court appointed attorney R. Hayes Hofler to present any available evidence· not
, previously heard by the Court.
10'. After discussion on the record, the court suggested that the trial court administrator
schedule th~ hearing.
11. The trial court administrator scheduled this matter, without objection, in Chatham
County at 2:00 P.M., Monday 7 June 1999.
FINDINGS OF FACTS
1.. On 15 April 1991 William Terry Carden, died unexpectedly and untimely, leaving his
widow, Stacy O. Carden, sole owner of Carden Investments Corporation. Carden
.
, Investments owned and operated the subject mobile home park.

I

2. ' Soon after the death of her husband, Ms. Harden received a letter from Attorney B.
Lee Lambert. The letter referred to a traffic charge for an employee of the late Mr.
Harden. In the letter Mr. Lambert also expressed his sympathy, and suggested that
, Ms. Carden contact him if she believed he could help her. Ms. Harden placed the
, letter aside.
3. ,After Mr. Harden's death, with no management experience, Ms. Carden undertook to
, manage the various business interests previously managed .by her husband,
, including the mobile home park.
,

4. ,While dealing With complicated, unresolved grieflloss issues, Ms. Carden attempted
to manage the n:'!ultiple businesses and -financial challenges suddenly thrust upon her
by the death of her husband. Her education, training, and work experience did not
•qualify her to handle a bad ~ituation. Her additions to the bad situation vastly
expanded its scope. Additionally, she apparently received little assistance from the
people she paid to help her.
5. 'Ms. Carden, under substantial stress from her financial reverses, was also
emotionally fatigued from looking after her children and their psychological needs.
6. In less than two years from the death of her husband, that is, by the spring and early
summer of 1993, Ms. Carden had spent approximately two million dollars. She
irecognized her need for professional assistance.

I

7. In May 1993 Wilkerson Contracting Company, Inc. filed an action against Carden
Investments for $41,810.52 incurred for the construction of water and seWer
improvements on the mobile home park.
I

8. Desperately grasping for resolution of her mounting financial and legal problem,
~xacerbated by emotional.distress affecting her ability or her thinking, Ms. Carden,
py chance, came upon the respondent's letter. She feeling directed by divine
~ntetvention sought help from the respondent.

2

I

9. In late June or early July 1993 in her first meeting with the respondent, Ms. Carden
surrendered, without consideration, 50% interest in her mobile home park to the
respondent.
10. In his effort to create a paper trail suggesting consideration, the r~spondent drafted
several paper writings reciting "consideration" in different amoJnt~, each resulting
from his musings on a plausible ,attorney fee. A fee based upon nothing but his bare
. assertion, resting on the authority of himself.
.

I

11. The respondent took advantage of his superior position by accepting 50% interest in
Ms. Carden's park without adequate consideration, when he knew or should have
known, she, under tremendous stress, would do almost anything for relief.
12. The respondent retained a lawyer to represent himself in th~ transfer of the property
to the disadvantage of Ms. Carden. The lawyer provided advice and counsel to the
respondent. For example, he explained to the respondent that the transfer could be
made so that he, the respondent, could opt out anytime. Ms: Carden, relying on the
respondent to represent her, had no such counsel and advice. In fact, her own
lawyer, the respondent, threatened to sue her When she expressed misgivings about
their arrangement.
13. Not satisfied with 50% interest, the respondent aggressively pursued greater interest
and control.
14. Although Ms. Carden protested giving up 51% interest, she still trusted the
respondent and believed then her sole option was to acquiesce; especially, after he
threatened so ~ue her if she did not yield to his demands.

I

15. Simply stated, Ms. Carden essentially gav.e 51'% of her park to her lawyer, who
subsequently hired a manager to manage the park. The manager paid not from the
respondent's funds but from park funds. After execution of all the new papers and
transfers, Ms. Carden's liability was neither reduced nor shared by the respondent.
Her home, park, and other property remained the primary collateral for the loans.
The respondent then owned 51 % park .. directed, and controlled it, yet none of his
property secured the old or new loans.
16. Although the respondent contends attorney fees constituted the consideration forihe
four proposed contracts, he maintained up until the jury charge conference that he
was Ms. Carden's busine$s partner, not her lawyer.

17. The respondent's ,individual

endorsem~nt

of the bank note exposeej him to only
incon$iderable risk; his contrary contention is unfounded. Ms. Carden's property
adequately secured the loa.ns.

18. The value of the park has increased; however, a careful analysis of the accounting
suggests the park was undervalued on the books of the new corporation, which
would account for some of the "increase in value." Additionally, moneys furnished by
the respondent were not infusions of additional capital but loans to the corporation.
19. The 'respondent increased his equity in the park by crediting loans due Ms, Carden
by amounts paid by the park to her for her labor at the park.
'

3

I

20,. The respondent caused Ms. Carden to execute the contract dated September 29,
1993, purporting to convey the mobile home park to the newly created corporation,
Mobile Acres II, 51 % of outstanding stock held by the respondent.
21. The respondent caused the articles of incorporation and stock certificates to be
issued pursuant to incorporation of Mobile Acres II, Inc.
I

I

22~. The respondent caused the preparation, execution, and filing of a general warranty
deed conveying real property, subject mobile home park, from Carden Investments
Corporation to Mobile Acres II, Inc., filed on January 31, 1994, in Book 1210, Pages
~ 452-4554, Orange County Registry.
I

23:. The respondent wrongfully threatened to institute legal proceedings with the intent to
, coerce an unfair transaction.

I

24. The contract to convey was entered, the transfer of corporate stock executed, and
the transfer of mobile home park arose out of a relationship when B. Lee Lambert,
, Attorney was representing Stacy O. Harden as a client.
I

'

25, The respondent B. Lee Lambert did not act openly, fairly, and honestly, and did take
advantage of Stacy O. Carden.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
The responcjent ,Lambert's conduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to
NCGS 84-28(d)(2) as follows:
I

I

a. By causing the execution of the contract dated September 29, 1993, purporting
to convey the mobile home park to the n~w.ly created corporation known as
Mobile Acres II, Lambert:
I.

Acquired a proprietary interest in the cause of action or subject of
litigation he conduCted for his client in violation of Rule 5.3(a) of the Rules
of Professional Conduct.

II.

Entered into a business transaction wi"th a client under any circumstances
unfair to the client in violation of Rule 5.4(a) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

I

, b. By causing the articles of incorporation and stock certificates to be issued
pursuant to incorporation of Mobile Acres II, Inc., Lambert:
I.

Acquired a proprietary interest in the cause of action or subject of
litigation he conducted for his client in violation of Rule 5.3(a) of the Rules
of Professional Conduct.

II.

Entered into a business transaction with a client under any circumstances
unfair to the client in violation of Rule 5.4(a) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
•c. By causing the preparation, execution, and filing of a general warranty deed
conveying real property, subject mobile home park, from Carden Investments
Corporation to Mobile Acres II, Inc., filed on January 31, 1994, in Book 1210,
Pages 452-4554, Orange County Registry, Lambert:

4

I
~

"

008/~
t

9

~ ..........

I.

Acquired a proprietary interest in the' cause of action or subject of..
litigation he conducted for his client in violation of Rule S.3(a) of the Rules
of Professional Conduct.

II.

Entered into a business transaction with a client under any circumstances
unfair to the client in violation of Rule SA(a,) of the .Rules of Profes~ional
Cond\jct.
.
.

Sased upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments concerning the appropriate discipline, the court hereby makes
the additional

I

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE.
1. Lambert's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
I.

vulnerability of victim;

II.

substantial experience in the practice of law;

2. The following factor mitigates Lambert's misconduct:
The respondent invested time, energy, and effort toward the preservation of the
mobile home park.
3.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factor.

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments
of the parties, the court hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

The respondent Boyd L. Lambert is hereby disbarred from the practice of law
effective immediately.

2.

The respondent $hall submit forthwith his license and membership card, if he has
such, to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.

I

wil~f~

Judge Presiding

Date: 28 June 1999

......

...~ .....,; \

5

I

