BEFORE THE
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA ~TATE aAR
99DHC 15

WAKE COUNT
NORTH CAROL ,

I

)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF

v.

)
) FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS
)
OF LAW AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLJNE
)

)
GEOFFREY C. MANGUM, ATTORNEY )
)
DEFENDANT

This matter was hearq on'Aug. 6, 1999 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Joseph G. Maddrey, Chair; Elizabeth
Bunting and Anthony E. Fotiest. The defendant, Geoffrey C. Mangum dldnot appear nor
was he represented by counsel. Cm-olin Bakewell represented the N.C. State,Bar. Based,
upon the pleadings qud the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee
hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of North
Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 ofthe North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar.

I

2. The defendant was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1981 and, prior
to July 26, 1996, was licensed to practice law in North Carolina. At all relevant times the
defenc;lant subject to the rules, regulations, and the Rules of Professional Conduct of the
NorthCaroiinaState Bar or the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar.
3. During all times relevant hereto the defendant was a resident of Greensboro,
North Carolina.
4. The defendant was personally served with the State Bar's summons and
complaint in this matter by the Guilford County Sheriffs Dept. on J~ne 4, 1999.

I
.

823

'.

I

"

' . • • .I.'~'

.
~.

~

. ". L

.F

:,,-~;,

T

.r
"

5. The defendant failed ,to file a timely answer or other responsive pleading by
June 24, 1999.
6. On June 28, 1999, on motion of the Office ofCounsef, the Secretary of the
State Bar entered the defendant's default and scheduled a hearing for 10 a.m. on Friday,
Aug. 6, 1999 to determine the appropriate discipline to be imposed.

7. Copies of the motion for entry of default, default, grounds for personal
jurisdiction, motion for discipline anq notice of hearing were mailed to the defendant on
June 28, 1999 .

I

. 8. The defendant was properly served with the pleadings herein and was
properly notified of the Aug. 6, 1999 disciplinary hearing.
9. On July 29, 1999, the defendant filed a pleading which he styled as an
Answer, Admission and Return of License. In that pleading, the defendant admitted all
of the allegations set out in the State Bar's complaint.
also indicated that he had no
desire to practi~e law and stated that he wished to surrender his license to the N.C. State
Bar.

He

10. By 1995, the defendant was in arrears regarding his mandatory continuing
leeal education obligations with the North Carolina State B.ar.
11. The N.C. State Bar sent two notices to the defendant in 1995, advising him
that he had failed to comply with the Bar's requirements regarding mandatory continuing
legal education.
12. On April 18, 1996; the State Bar issued a notice to the defendant, directing
him to appear a,rtd show cause why his law license should not be suspended because of
.his failure to comply with the Bar's mandatory continuing legal education obligations.
13. On April 29, 1996; the defendant was served with the April 18, 1996 show
cause notice by certified mail.

I

14. On July 1, 1996, the State Bar issued a second notice to defendant, advising
him that his law license would be suspended on July 26, 1996 absent a showing of.good
calise.
15. The defendant did not appear or show cause why his license should not be
revoked on or prior to July 26, 1996.
16. On July 26, 1996, the Council of the N.C. State Bar suspended the
d¢fendant's law license for faiiing to comply with the Bar's mandatory continuing legal
education requirements.
2

I
,
,'-

/

Ii"

17. .The written order suspending the defendant's law licens~' for failing to
comply with his mandatory continuing legal education requirements was signed on Sept,
2, 1996 and was served on the defendant by certified mail on Sept. 10, 1996.
18. Despite the fact that he knew tliat his law license was suspended, the
defendant provided legal services and legal advice to Charles and Hilda Kivett (hereafter,
the Kivetts) after July 26, 1996 respecting a federal court matter known as Wilmington
Trust Co. v. Cobblestone Associates, 2:96-CV-00780 (M.D.N.C.) (hereafter, Wilmington
Trust Co. case), in which the Kivetts were joined as third party plaintiffs.

I

. 19. The defendant did not tell the Kivetts that his license to practice law was
suspended and that he was not authorized to represent them in the Wilmington Trust Co.
case. In 1998, the Kivetts discovered fro~ l0ther sources that the defendant was not
licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
.
20. On various occasions between August 1996,and 1998, the defendant filed
pleadings and briefs in federal court on behalf of the Kivetts in the Wilmington Trust Co.
case. The defendant did not disclose to the federal court that his license to practice law
in North Carolina had been suspended and that he was not authorized to :represent the
Kivetts in the Wilmington. Trust Co. case.
.
21. On various occasions in 1997 and 1998, the defendant provided legal ~dvice
and legal services to Luther Lee Robinson (hereafter, Robinson), respecting criminal
charges which had been filec;l against Robinson in Guilford County.
22. On various occasions in 1997, the defendant filed pleadings. and documents
in Guilford County District Court on Robinson's behalf. The defendant did not reveal to
the court that his license to practice law had been suspended and that he was not
authorized to represent Robinson.

I

23. The defendant did not tell Robinson that his license to practice law had been
suspended and that he was not authorized to represent Robinson.
24. On at least two occasions in 1998, the defendant engaged in discussions and
negotiations with members of the Guilford County District Attorney's staff on
Robinson's behalf regarding criminal charges pending against Robinson. The defendant
did not r~veal that his license to practice law had been suspended.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:

3

I
I

,

•

.'-

-...

.;-.:"

..............~.. .-..----~. ..

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the cOnlnlittee has
jurisdiction over the defendant, Geoffrey C. Mangum, and the subject matter.
2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3) in that by knowingly
providing legal advice and services t9 Luther Lee Robinson, Charles Kivett and Hilda
Kivett after his law license was suspended, the defendant engaged in contempt of the
N.C. State Bar Council.
3. The defendant's conduct, a,s set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline put~uant to N.C. Ge~. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) as follows:

I

(a) By providing legal advice and legal services to Charles and Hilda Kivett and
Luther Lee Robinson after his license to practice law was suspended by the North
C~rolina State Bar, the defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 1.2(d) of the former Rules of Professional Conduct and Rule
8A(d) ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and engaged in the unauthorized
practice of law in violation of Rule 3 .1 (b) of the former Rules of Professional Conduct
and Rule 5.5(a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
(b) By failing to reveal to Charles and Hilda Kivett and Luther Lee Robinson that
hi~ license to practice law was suspended by the North Carolina State Bar, the defendant
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 1.2(c) of the former Rules of Professional Conduct and Rule 8A(c) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct and failed to explain a matter to the extent re~sonably
ne,cessary to permit his clients to make informed decisions regarding the representation in
violation of Rule 6(b)(2) of the former Rules of Professional Conduct and Rule lA(b) of
the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
(c) By failing to reveal to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North
Carolina that his license to practice law was suspended by the North Carolina State Bar
and by filing pleadings and briefs on behalf of Charles and Hilda Kivett with the Court
after the suspension of his law license, the defendant engaged in conduct involving
di~honesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(c). of the former
R~les of Professional Conduct and Rule 8A(c) of the Revised Rules of ProfessIonal
Conduct and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice·in Violation of
Rule 1.2(d) of the former Rules bfProfessional Conduct and Rule 8A(d) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

(d) By failing to reveal to the Guilford County District Court that his iicense to
practice law was suspended by the North Carolina State Bar and by filing pleadings on

4

I
i

,
'-

826
..... .-.-.y-.. "".. ~---•..

behalf of Luther Lee Robinson with the Cm"rt after the suspension of his law license, the
defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 1.2(c) of the former Rules of Professional Conduct and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in viohltion of Rule 1.2(d) of the
former Rules of Professional Conduct and Rule 8A(d) of the Revi~ed Rules of
Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law ~nd upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes additional

I

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The defendant's mi~conduct is aggravate~ by the following factors:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.

Substantial experienc~ in the practice of law.
A pattern of misconduct.
Multiple violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Absence ofa showing of remor!;le.
Prior discipline.

2. The hearing ~ommittee does not find that there are any mitigating factors
present.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of
the parties, the he~ing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

1. The license of the defendant, Geoffrey C. Mangum, is hereby suspended for a
period of four years, upon the following terms and conditions:
a. The defendant shall submit his license and membershjp card to the
. Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from service of
this order upon the defendant.
b. The suspension will become effective 30 days from service of this
order and will continue for a period of not less than one year.
c. Thereafter, the defendant may seek reinstatement of his license to
practice law upon filing a written petition and demonstrating compliance with the
following conditions:

5

I
,
I

j
/

......_,.. .... ,,~ •• ~"'.,;u. •••

827

1. The defendant has not violated any state or federal laws
during the period of active suspension and has not engaged in
the practice of law.
2. The defendant has not violated any provisions of the
Revised Rules of,Professional Conduct during the period of
active suspension.
3. The defendant has paid all costs incurred in this
proceeding and taxed against the defendant.
4. The defendant has paid all fines, costs and late fees
owed to the N.C. State Bar Board of Continuing Legal
Education, and has completed all continuing
legal education courses required by the Board of
CLE.

I

2. If an order staying this ~uspension and granting the reinstatement of the
defendant's license to practice law is entered, the order of stayed suspension shall
continue in force fot the balance of the term of suspension, provided that the defendant
complies' with the following conditions:
a. The defendant shall violate no federal or state laws.
b. The defendant shall violate no provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
c. The defendant shall pay any costs incurred in connection with his
reinstatement proceeding and assessed against the defendant.
d. The defendant shall comply with all mandatory CLE requirements
imposed by the N.C. State Bar Board ofCLE in a timel)! fashion.

I

e. The defendant shall comply with such other terms and conditions as
are deemed appropriate and necessary for the protection of the public at the time
of the entry of the order staying the remaining period of suspension of the
defendant's law license.
.

6

I
,

,,

'-

/

828

Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this

. fh

the /

J '"d;;y

.

.

of August, 1999.

I

I

7

I
,i
l

i

i .'
!

i

/

