I Z 5LtO
WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

.

IN RE REINSTATeMENT PETITION OF

REPORT OF THE
HEARING COMMITTEE

I

BILLY JOE SANDERS

This matter was heard on August 13, 1999 by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of James R. Fox, Chair, Kenneth M. Smith, and B. Stephen.
Huntley; with Marvin Sparrow representing the petitioner and A. Root Edmonson representing
. the North Carolina State Bar. Based upon the stipulations of the parties, the evidence presented
~t the hearing and the arguments of counsel, the hearing committee makes the following: .
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Billy Joe Sanders, (hereinafter Sanders), was licensed to practice law in North
Carolina in 1984. Sanders practiced law in D1,U'ham, North Carolina.
2.
In February 1986, Sanders was advised by a client who was about to be released
from federal prison that deceased relatives had left a Swiss bank acc(;mnt containing $3,1 million
dollars. Sanders l.lIldertook to go to Switzerland to retrieve the money from the account in
exch~ge for a percentage of the amount returned to the US for the client.
3.
Sanders solicited the assistance of Jack Brown, (hereinafter Brown), who had
lived in Europe a number of years, to retrieve the money from the Swiss bank.

I

4.
Sanders and Brown spent approximately ten days in Switzerland in a failed
attempt to retrieve the money from the account. Brown had to borrow some money from a
German friend to pay some ofthe expenses oftheir trip.
5.
After their return to the US, Brown began to pressure Sanders to pay all of
Brown's expenses incurred in the trip to Switzerland. Sanders believed that he only owed Brown
fo! Sanders' share of the hotel expense.
.
6.
On April 10, 1986, Sanders, Brown and a friend of Brown's met at the bar in a
hotel near the Greensboro airport. Sanders took a .38 caliber pistol to that meeting. After
Brown's friend had left the table, and after Brown made what Sanders considered a threat to
Sanders' family, Sanders stood up and shot Brown at least three times. Brown died as a result.

/
:'

'.'

'.'

."
....

,

..

"

..//'

7.
Sanders was charged with first degree murder. However, on October 2, 1986,
Judg~ F. Fetzer Mills accepted Sanders' plea to second degree murder and sentenced Sanders to
25 years in prison. Judge Mills also entered a separate order disbarring Sanders.
8.
Sanders was released from prison on August 11, 1993 and placed on parole.
Sanders was terminated from parole and his rights of citizenship were restored on January 7,
1994.
9.
In August 1994, Sanders began working as a paralegal for North Carolina
Prisoner Legal Services, Inc. (hereinafter NCPLS). Sanders is still employed in that cap~city.
Duri~g his employment, Sanders' work has been a benefit to the lawyers he has served as well as
the clients of NCPLS and he appears to have performed well in a structured and supervised
environinent.

I·

10.
Several of the present and former lawyers at NCPLS, including NCPLS's
Executive Dir~ctor, believe that Sanders could be of even more benefit to the clients ofNCPLS if
allowed to. apply his considerable skins as their lawyer.
11.
Although Sanders waS hospitalized in 1973 and 1975 after exhibiting psychiatric
symptoms, Sanders has not required any medication and has not had a diagnosed recurrence of
psychiatric symptoms since 1978. However, psychiatric testimony presented at the Sanders
hearing was to the effect that the condition(s) from which Sanders previously suffered tend to be
chronic. The psychi~tric testimony was also to the effect that Sanders is somewhat atypical in
not having suffered a known clinically .diagnosed recurrence since 1978. The Board of Law
Examiners admitted Sanders to practice in 1984 with knowledge of his psychiatric history.
12.
The Committee in making its decision was of the view that the crime for whiCh
Sanders was imprisoned and disbarred may have involved or been part of a recurrence of Sanders
prior psychiatric symptoms and that at a minimum such a recurrence could not be ruled out.
13.
Sanders published a notice of intent to seek reinstatement in the North Catolina
State Bar Joumal that complied with the requirements of27 NCAC IB, § .0125(a)(3)(A).

1

14.
At the time of his disbarment, Sanders complied with the requirements of the
predecessor to 27 NCAC 1B, § .0124 in winding'down his practice.
15.
With the exception of his terni of imprisonment, there have been no orders of the
commission" the councilor the courts with which Sanders had to comply.
16.
During the period of his disbarment, Sanders has not engaged in the unauthorized
practice of law.
, 17.
During the period of his disbarment, Sanders has not engaged in any conduct
which would constitute grounds for discipline.
18.

Sanders understands the current Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

2

1
,

840
../

-

19.
Sander~' misconduct did not cause any financial loss to clients and the Client
Security Fund did not disburse any funds in relation to Sanders' practice or disbarment.
20.
Sanders has paid all dues, assessments, penalties afl<l fees owed to the North
Carolina State Bar.

I

21.
Sanders has mad~ substantial efforts toward rehabilitation. However, taking into
account the gravity of his previous criminal offense, the Committee finds that Sanders is not
currently ahle to demonstrate the moral qualities required for admission to the practice of law in
this state,
22.
The applicable provisions of the Revised Rules do not provide for a per serule
against reinstatement based upon any partiCUlar offense which resulted in disbarment. As a
result, this Committee does not believe it is authorized under the Revised Rules to apply any
such per se rule to this case. However, taking into account Sanders prior psychiatric history and
the gravity of the crime which resulted in the order of disbarment, the Committee finds that
Sanders has not sufficiently demonstrated his reformation to the public and, consequently hi&
reinstatement to the practice of law would be detrimental to the integrity and standing of the bar,
to the administration of justice, and the publics interest. The crime which resulted in Sanders
disbarment is considered extremely grave by society and by the Committee. The Committee
further notes in this regard that no precedent from this state or elsewhere was cited to the
Committee which permitted reinstateptent after disbarment based Upon" the crime to which
Sanders plead guilty.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee' makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
Pursuant to 27 NCAC lB, § .0125(a)(3)(C), taking into account the gravity or the
misconduct which resulted in the order of disbarment, the Committee is unable to find based on
the current record that Sanders presently possesses the moral qualifications required for
admission to practice law in this state.

I

2.
Pursuant to 27 NCAC lB, § .0125(a)(3)(D), taking into account the gravity of the
misconduct which resulted in the order of disbarment, permitting Sanders to resume the practice.
of law within the state would be detrimental to the integrity and standing of the bar, to the
administration of justice, and the public interest.
.
3.
Sanders satisfied or complied with all of the other requirements'of27 NCAC lB,
§ .0125(a)(3).
THEREFORE, it is the unanimous recommendation of this hearing committee that the
petition for reinstatement of Billy Joe Sanders be denied.

3

I'

..

"

·~·~··'::;·:.L'~ .~

Signed by the Chair with the knowledge and consent of the other members of the hearing
committee this the I J.(.+\\ day of ~ . ,1999.
.

I

I

4

I
- . ..,

~842
./

..

..

:.,.~

or

