1221
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
95G0841 (IV)R

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
THOMAS T. DOWNER,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

1

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On October 22, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by EBS.
Pursuant to section .Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
'
Committee found probable ,cause.
t

'

Probable cause is dermed in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the
North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determhle that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not requi.red~ and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
. . aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure.
A Censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney's license.

I

The, Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in,this case.and issues this Censure to you. As chair.man ofthe
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Censure. I
am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You were the primary shareholder with the firin of Downer, Walters & Mitchener, PA
(the "Downer Firm") and were involved in ,the handling of a personal injury 9ase on behalf of tJ:te
complainant who brought this grievance. On May 8,1991, the complainant was hljured when
she tripped and fell over a flat of flowers at the Charlotte Farmers' Market. On June 10, 1991,
the' complainant retained the Downer Firm to handle the matter. The two potential defendants
were the North Carolina Department of Agriculture (the "NCDOA"), which owned and operated

·
,
'
I
"

.......
.

.. ~.....:~: ",',~'"
i,.........

,

:

...'

the Farmers' Market, and the individual who leased space from,the NeDOA at the Farmers'
Market (the "'essee"). An ass()ciate of the Downer'Pihh-conduc,ted the initial interview and
made demand on the NCDOA for settlement. He made no demand on the lessee. The NCDOA
wrote the Downer Firm return correspondence denying liability, identifying the lessee, and
supplying his name and address, denying that the lessee was its employee, and identifying'the
lessee's status as a lessee of the booth. Other members of the Downer Firm filed an affidavit
with the North Carolina Industrial Commission asserting a claim against the NCDOA under the
North Carolina Tort Claims Act, alleging tltat the le~see Was an employee of the department. On
June 17, 1993, NCDOA filed answer denying that the less~e was an employee and asserting
again that he was a lessee. 'Neither you nor the Downer Firm ever instituted an action against the
lessee nor discussed this option with the complainant. The statute of limitations ran against the
lessee on May 8, 1994. Although the claim had, in fact, been filed against the NCDOA on or
about May 4, 1993, on May 20, 1994, you met with the complainant and, at that time, informed
her that, as a result of ~e lack of evidentiary support, as well as contributory negligence
problems, the firm did not feel that the complainant had a meritorious claim against the NCDOA.
You further explained that the firm would, therefore, be taking a voh,llltary dismissal of the claim
without Iprejudice and would be closing its file. You had the complainant sign a disengagement
memo, acknowledging that she understood and agreed with your recommended ~ourse of action.

I

Even ifit was the Downer Firm's opinion that the information provided by the
complainant was insufficient to support a legal claim ~gainst the lessee; and that such a claim
was not 'well grounded in law and fact; and ,~ven if that opinion was correct, you or other
members of your firm should have nevertheless expla!ned the matter to the ~omplainant
sufficiently in advance of the running of the statute of limitations to allow her to make an
informed, timely, and independent decision about whether or not to proceed against the lessee.
Your actions violated Rule 6(a)(2) of the Rules of Professional Conduct in that you did not
exercise sufficient thoroughness and preparation reasonably necessary for the representation.
Your actions violated Rule 6(b)(2) in that you did not explain the' matter in a timely fashion to
the client to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the client to make a timel;y, informed
decision about whether or npt to proceed against the lessee.
FUrthermore, the Grievance Committee considered as ail aggravating factor that y(}ur
firm's manner and method of handling client files contributed to the neglect (}n the complainant's
file. Individual attorneys in the firm played specific, defined, and limited roles in the claims
handling ·.process and no one attorney had primary responsibility for handling cases from start to
fin~sh. Tl1e firm had approximately 2,500 or more cases pending at anyone time and opened or
closed approximately 50 or more cases every week. Had one attorney been primarily responsible
for reviewing individual files, that attorney would have, at the very least, provided the client with
propel' and timely information regarding his candid assessment of any and all potential parties, as
well as any and all potential causes of action. Your firm's handling of such a large volume ot
client files without anyone attorney being assigned primary responsibility for overseeing the
case created the likelihood that, at some point, a client could be prejudiced or,damaged during
the course of the professional relationship in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Had
this aggravating factor not been present, the Committee may have chosen to issue a lesser form
of discipline.
'

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules
of ~rofessional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this Censure,

'"

I

recognize the error that you have made~ and that"you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to th<? high ethical standards of the legal profession. This Censure should serve
as a strong reminder and'lnducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility
to the public, your clients, YOllr fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean
yourself as a respected member ofthe legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon
without Gluestion.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

I

,

.

Done and ordered, this

9

.J

day of ~

, 1999.

~.~

J~ K. Dorsett, III

Chair, Grievance Committee

I

~"

'''.

",

•

~#.

.

......~: :. ~.~ .....""-

,

,

