BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G0331

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Tracy H. Barley,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 23, 2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by M. B.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member ofthe North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hanll or potential hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case

and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North

Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.

You were retained to represent M.B. in administering her mother's estate after her mother
passed away in July 2005. In the fall of2007, you infonned M.B. that the necessary documents
had been filed to close the estate when you had not actually filed the required docwnents. In
October 2007, you decided you would no longer represent M.B., but did not infonn M.B. or
obtain M.B.'s consent to terminate the representation. M.B. attempted to contact you by

telephone, email, and written letters to inquire as to the status of her mother's estate and request a
copy of her file, but you did not respond to M.B. 's inquiries or requests. Instead, you closed your
file on M.B.'s estate matter and discontinued working on the estate. In July 2008, you still had
not filed a motion to withdraw as the attorney of record with the clerk of court, and had not yet
delivered a full copy of M.B.'s file to her new counsel despite repeated requests. The Grievance
Committee determined you neglected M.B.'s estate matter by failing to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing M.B. in violation of Rule 1.3; by failing to
communicate effectively with M.B. in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2), (3), and (4); and by failing to
properly terminate representation as well as protect M.B.'s interest upon termination of
representation - specifically, by failing to surrender papers to which the client was entitled - in
violation of Rule 1. 16(c) and (d) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct.
Additionally, you did not timely respond to the State Bar's Letter of Notice in this matter.
You did not submit a response to this grievance until you were subpoenaed by the State Bar to
appear before the Grievance Committee. The Grievance Committee determined you knowingly
failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of
Rule 8.1 (b) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remem bered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North

Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any

attomey issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount

of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the j b ~ day of l\A~

JRF/lr

,2008

