BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
97GI719(1)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

ANGELEA C. NORCROSS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 13, 1999, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina. State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by EAK.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North CarQIina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the'
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defmedin the rules as lireasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance COminittee may
determine that 'the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required~ and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The GrievaIlce Committee may issue an admonitiori, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential h~ to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member Qf the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not requited in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and 1 am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You represented Bob DeGabrielle and Associates, a residential builder and developer of
custom homes in the Outer Banks of eastern North Carolina (the "~lient"). As part 'of your
representation, you prepared drafts of employment agreement documents, and drafts of a noncompete clause for the Client. Although you did not participate in the preparation of
negotiations for the fillal employment contract and did not draft the final employment contract,
your earlier drafts .were incorporated in part into employment agreements for employees of the

....

~

,

......:

,

S49

Client. You subsequently represented the employees in transactions that could have been in
breach of the non-compete provisions in the employment contract. Rule 5.l(d) of the North
Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct provides that a lawyer who has formerly represented. a
client in a matter shall not thereafter represent another person.in the same or a substantially
related matter in which that person's interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former
client, unless the former client consents after full disclosure. Your representation of the fOrriler
empioyees in preparing contracts which could violate the tertns of a non-compete agreement,
whi~h you in part drafted, was a conflict of interest within the meaning of Rule 5 .1 (d). In
deciding to issue a reprimand, and not to issue more serious discipline, the Grievance Committee
took into account the fact that you do not have a prior disciplinary history.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
rem~mbered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, 'and that you will Iiever again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to yo~.
. Done and ordered, this .2.2.. day of. ~ , 1999.

. ~k~

~~orsett, III

Chair, Grievance Committee

I

:

.

.

I

','

"

.'~

....

'~"

.

":~t: ~ .• ~ ........

~

.

1

~
"

I.:·'.t:

850

