BEFORE THE,
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE. BAR
99G0095R

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
HARRELL POW~LL, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

1

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 21, 1999, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by client A.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline atid Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
.
disciplinary action. "

!

The rules provide that after a fmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may.
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary lIearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline
depending upon the misconduct, the actual Of potential injury caused, and any aggravating or
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admorution, a Reprimand, or a
Censure to the Respondent attorney.
A Reprimand is a wri~teJI form of discipline more serious than an Aflmonition issued in
cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has' caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case
and issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Qrievimce Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it IS now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will
understaJId fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On approximately March 31, 1997, clieJIt A hired you to pursue his claims for equitable
distribution, child custody and support, ~fl(;l alimony. Client A .had dismissed his previous
attorney and hired you with tlie express understanding that he needed innnediate attention to these
matter~. Client A informed you that he ytas in difficult financial circumstances and cOQsequently
.needed quick action on. the matter. Client A paid you a retainer of $2,500 to pursue this domestic
litigation.

I :·

..
"

." ~

.

"

" .... ~ ..... ~I; ~. ':or,! ""'~
'T"

~ ... -

851:

The Committee found that during the ensuing 16 J.Ilonths after he tetained you, you did nO
significant work to pursue client A's domestic claims. The Committee found that as a result of
your failure to take any significant action in the 16 months you represented him, client A's
financial condition worsened significantly and he was unable to visit with his 14 year old
'daughter during this time period~ The Committee found that during this 16 month period, you
also fail~d to respond to repeated letters and other requests for information regarding the status of
client A's case. Eventually, client A dismissed you from representing him in the domestic
matter.
The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rev:isedRules of
Professi9nal Conduct. First, the Committee found that your failure to take any significant action
on client A's domestic claims for over 16 months violated Revised Rule 1.3. Second, the
Committee concluded that your failure to respond to client A's request for information regarding
the status of his case violated Revised Rule l.4(a).

I

In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee considered the following aggravating and
mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered the prejudice caused to your client
as a result of your failure to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing him
and the fact that the Committee found multiple violations. In mitigation, the Committee
consider¢d the fact that you had no prior discipline.
y ~u are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembeJ,'ed by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In;accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina $tate Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative <;osts to any
attorney i~sued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to,You.
Done and ordered, this /

L

day of

~~, 1999.

I

~
a
K. Dorsett, III
Chair, .:Grievance Committee

I
~.

",

.

",

.......
. '~.~.

','

~.~.~
.:.'

.......

