NORTH CAROL
WA,KECOUNty

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

I

v.

)
)
)

)

JEFFREY M. GULLER, Attorney
Defendant

)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter came on to be heard &Ild was heard on Thursday, Septemb~r 9, 1999
before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing' Commission composed of
Richard T. Gammoll, Joseph G. Maddrey, and Catharine Sefcik. Fern Gunn Simeon·
represented the North Carolina State Bar. The Defendant, Jeffrey M. Guller, was neither
present, nor did counsel appear on his hehalf. Based upon the evidence presented by the
plaintiff and the .pleadings filed herein, the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes QfNorthCarolina, and the
Rules anq Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. The Defendant, Jeffrey D. Guller (hereafter Guller), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1966 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an- attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional-Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina,
3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Guller was actively
engaged in the practice oflaw in North Carolina and maintained a law office ih Gastonia,
North Carolina.
4. Guller was properly served with process and the disciplinary hearing her~in
was held with due notice to all partie-so

I
.

. ...
., ' .
,,'

,

'.

•

.t

.,

£:98 ~-.l

S. Guller did not file an answer or other responsive pleadings to the complaint
filed by the North Carolina State Bar in this action.
6. An entry of default was entered in this action by L. Thomas Lunsford II, the
Secretary ofthe North Carolina State Bar, on July 29, 1999.
7. On January 8, 1999, Guller was convicted offive counts of money laundering
and one count of conspiracy t() launder money in the United States District CoUrt for the
Western District of North Carolina. Guller's convictions related to laundering money
stolen from an armored car company in 1997.
8. On June 7, 1999; U.S. District Court Judge William L. Osteen Sr. sentenced
Guller to 97 months in prison for each of the six charges, with the sentences running
concurrently. The court ()rdered Guller to pay $1,139,900.00 in restitution. Guller was
also ord¢red to report to prison no later than August 10, 1999. Upon Guller;s release
from prison, Guller will be on three years' supervised probation.

I

I

9. On June 7, 1999, Guller gave notice of appeal of his conviction. There has
been no ruling by the courts on Gull.er'sappeal.
10. Guller did not obtain a stl;ly qfthis disciplinary action pursuant to N.C. G.S.
section 84-28(d)(I) and therefore discipline may be imposed without awaiting the
outcome of his appeal.
11. As of the date of the hearing on September 9, 1999, Guller was not
incarcerated in the federal prison system because Judge Osteen extended Guller's prison
reporting date to September 15, 1999.
12. Guller had notice of the proceedings held on September 9, 1999, but he did
not attend the hearing.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jUrisdiction over the person of Jeffrey M. Guller and over the subject matter of this
hearing pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28(b)(I) and 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter·1, Subchapter B, Section .0115.
2. The crimes of which Guller was convicted are serious criminal offenses
shOWing professional unfitness as defined in Rule .0103(17) of the Discipline and
Disability I{ules of the North Carolina. State Bar.
3. Guller's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Sec. 84-28(b)(1)(2).

j

,:

I

4. By laundering money stolen from an armored car company and by conspiring
to lallnder money stolen from the armored car company in violation of 18 U.S.C. Section
1956, Gllller has engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
. misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A(c), committed criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in
violation of Rule 8A(b), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8A(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

5. The offenses of which Guller was convicted are criminal om~nses that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, and fitness as a lawyer in other respects in
violation of Rule 8A(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and argument of the North Carolina-State Bar concerning the appropriate
discipline, the hearing committee hereby makes the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
..
1. Guller's misconduct il3 aggravated by the following factors:
a. Guller engaged in multiple violations of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
b. Guller had substantial experience in the practice of law at the time of
the offenses.
, .
c. Guller's misconduct was motivated by dishonesty or a selfish motive.
d. Guller has a history of prior discipline. Specifically, he received
stayed suspensions from the Disciplinary Hearing Commission in 1989
and 1991 for trust aCGount violations and he received a reprimand from
the Grievl;l11ce Committee in 1995 for neglect (}f a client's case and
lying to the client about the status of his case.

I

2. The committee finds that there are no mitigating factors.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, Jeffrey M. Guller, is hereby disbarred from the practice of law
effective 30 days from service of this order upon him.

,"

.

. :"..

.'•'"

~

865

...

-----------------------------~-------- ---,--

2. Guller shall surrender immediately his law license and bar membership card to
the Secretary ofthe North Carolina State Bar.
3. During the term of his disbarment, Guller shall violate no laws of the United
States or any state.
'
4. During the term of his disbannent, Guller shall violate no provisions of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
5. Guller shall pay the costs of this action within 30 days of the date of service of
the statement of the costs upon him.

I

6. Guller shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Sec ..0124 concerning winding down his practice.
Signed by the Chairman with the consent of all hearing committee members.
~
This the~ day of September, 1999.

.~lr:~

Richar T. Gammon
Chairman
Hearing Committee

.'

I

-

,

I
,-

,,
f

I

/

