'. :\\1
,.

NORTH CAR~~'

;1,fiA

WAKECOUN'~l'r

I....v:S6'
... ·'~~

~

'0

~

.

4

~

C?

;ZZ 5'1.':

FA

c9~

~: rJr'9

~\
BEFORE THE
-' SCIPLINARYHEARINGCOMMISSION

"II....~ ~g

V/t 0

C;$
~

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99DHC9

61st
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.

1

)
)
)

)

MATH!AS P. HUNOVAL, Attorney,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE .

This matter was heard on the 20th day of August, 1999, before a Hearing
Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Henry C. Babb, Jr.,
Chair; Jean Hauser, and Vernon A. Russell. The Defendant, Mathias Hunoval (hereafter,
the Defendantk~~p;~presented by James B. Maxwell. The plaintiff was represented by
Larissa J. Erkrilrin.' 'Based upon the pleadings, including the Stipulations on Pretrial
Conference sub!Ilitt~d by the parties, and the evidence introduced at the hearing~ the
Hearing Committee'!hereby enters the following:

:, I

"

1,1:,
1.

'

FINDINGS OF FACT

J~ 'Plaintiff, th~ North Carolina State Bar, isa body duly organized under

the laws ofNomh qarolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereund~r.

I

2.
The Defendant was a4mittecl to practice law in North Carolina in 1.970 and
has maintained an office for the practice of law in this State since that date. A~ all times
relevant to this action, he was subject to the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the
North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
At all times relevant to this matter, the Defendant maintaineci3A office for
the practice of law in Gr~ensboro, NQrth Carolina.

4.
The Defendant was properly served with process and the hearing was held
with due notice to all parties.
5.
At approximately dinnertime on December 30, 1997, the Defendant and
his son, Rob Hunoval, were in the restaurantlbf,ll' of the Bald Head Island Country Club
on Bald Head Island in Brunswick County, North Carolina.
.

1<
867
.....

6.
While in the restaurantlbar, the Defendant, the Defendant's son, and.
another patron, Robert Mauney, briefly engaged in conversation. In the presence of the
Defendant and his son, Mr. Mauney used profanity several times. The Defendant
believed that, in using the profane language, Mr. Mauney was directly addressing him. In
response to what he believed to be a verbal assault, the Defendant struck Mr. Mauney on
the side of his head with his fist.
7.
As a result of this incident, the Defendant was charged in Brunswick
CQunty with misdemeanor assault inflicting serious injury. The warrant for his arrest was
issued on March 30, 1998, and he was arrested on April 25, 1998.
,
8.
. On August 11, 1998, the Defendant entered a plea of no contest to the
charge of misdemeanor assault inflicting serious injury. The Defendant was sentenced to
45. days in prison, which was suspended, and he was placed on unsupervised probation
fot 24 months subject to the standard probationary terms. He is required to successfully
cOplplete an anger management program in which he voluntarily enrolled and to
reimburse Mr. Mauney for medical expenses in the sum of$I,330.24, which has been
paid. All conditions of the probation have been met to date. The remaining !'~"'f)d ofthe
24-month probation will expire in August 2000.
9.
On January 31, 1998, the Defendant was in a restaurant in Greensboro,
N<;>rth Carolina known as the Sunset Cafe. J. Michael Moreno entered the restaurant.
Before Mr. Moreno was seated, the Defendant approached him and struck him once with
his fist, knocking Moreno onto a table occupied by Mr. arid Mrs. Bruce Quigley and their
daughter, son-in-law and grandchildren. The Defendant contends that his assault on Mr.
Moreno was precipitated by a telephone call that he received from Mr. Moreno in late
1995 or early 1996, wherein Mr. Moreno verbally attacked the Defendant using vulgar
language.
10.
As a result of the Defendanfs assault on Mr. Moreno, Mr. and Mrs.
Quigley received medical treatment from an emergency medical squad. The Defendant
offered to reimburse the Quigley!? for their mec,'Jcal expenses. The Defendant has also
repaid the Sunset Cafe for darn:age to its carpet as a result of food spills.
11.
As a result of the January 31, 1998 incident, the Defendant was charged
with misdemeanor simple assault on February 1, 1998.

I

12.. On Septe~ber 17, 1998, the Defendant e~tered a plea of no c~?m~t~st to the
chflrge Qfmlsdemeanor Simple assault and was found gUIlty. The Defendanti'~s
·sentenced to 30 days injail, which was suspended, and was placed on two riio~ths of
unsupervised probation with the standard terms of probation, which have now been
satisfied.
13.
On the 30th of April 1999, and upon receipt of a payment from the
Defendant of $5,000, Mr. Moreno executed and delivered a full, final and complete
release to the Defendant for any and all claims arising out of the incident at the Sunset
Cafe on January 31, 1998.

2

I

,

..... -'

14.
Since early 1998, the Defendant has been in counseling with Dr. Jack
Coble, a'psychologist in, Greensboro, North CarOiina. Dr. Coble has recommended that
the Defendant periodically attend counseling sesElons for the foreseeable future.
15.
The State Bar has I\ot raised any,issues respecting the Defendant's conquct
as it relates to any attorney-client relationship. The State Sar has not presented any
evidence tending to show that the Defendant has failed to act competently and honestly in
his practice of law.

I

16.
The clear, cogent and convincing evidence demonstrates that the
Defendant has struggled with and continues to struggle with personal and emotio~al
problems related to a history of childhood abuse and alc.oholism that, to date, do not
appear to affect his capacity to practice law~ but which have directly contributed to the
unlawful conduct herein at issue.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the stipulation of the Defendant,
the Hearing Committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS' OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee. The Committee has
over the Defendant, Mathias HunovE;~1, and the s\1bject matter of this
proceeding.
.
2. The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(I) and (2) in that the
Defendant has been convicted of the misdemeanor criminal offenses of assault inflicting
serious injury and simple assault showing professional unfitness in, violation of General
Statute 84-28(b)(1), and the Defendant has engaged in criminal acts constituting ass~ult
inflicting serious injury and simple assault, which acts reflect adversely on his fitness as a
lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
'

jurisd~ction

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the Hearing
Committee hereby makes additional
'
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant's misconduct is aggra'}ated by the following factors:
a) A pattern of misconduct ,
b) Multiple offenses
2. The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a) Absence of dishonest motive.
b) Personal or emotional problems.

3

c) Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify consequences of
misconduct.
d) Full and free disclosure to the Grievance Committee imd the DHC and
cooperative attitude toward the proceedings.
e) Character or reputation.
t) Physical or mental i1l1pairment.
g) Significant efforts toward interim rehabilitation.
h) Imposition of other penalties or sanctions, including probntionary criminal
sentences, payment of court-ordered restitution to Mr. Mauney, and
payment of c~~l damages to Mr. Moreno.
3. Given the nature ~d gravity of the misconduct, the pattern of misconduct and
the mUltiple offenses, the ag~ravating factors outweigh the mitigating falctors.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitjgating factors and the arguments of
the parties, the Hearing Comtnittee hereby enters the following

I

OPPER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
. The license of the Defendant, Mathias Hunoval, is hereby suspended for
one year. The suspensioJ! ofthe Defendant's license is hereby stayed for two years upon
the following tertnsand conditions:
(a)

The Defendant shall not .violate any state or ~ederallaws.

(b)

The Defendant shall not violate any provisions of the North Carolina
State aar Discipline & Disability Rules or the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

(c)

The Defendant shall pay all costs incurred in this proceeding and
taxed against him by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar
within 60 days of receiving notice of such costs.

(d)

Th~

(e)

Defendant shall agree to be supervised by the North Carolina
State Bar Lawyer Assistance Program and shall cooperate fully with
the Lawyer Assistance Program. The Defendant shall enter into a
consent order with the Lawyer Assistance Program within 30 days of
service of this Order upon him and shall comply with all terms of the
consent order throughout the period of the stayed suspension.

I

Upon the request of the Lawyer Assistance Program, the Defendant,
. at his expense, shall obtain an addiction and/or mental health
evaluation by a physician approved by the Lawyer Assistant
Progr~ and shall submit to random alcohol/drug screens. Arty
evaluation or random drug screening conducted upon the request of
the Lawyer Assistance Program shall comply with the
addiction/mental health evaluation protocol or random drug
screening protocol adopted by the Lawyer Assistance Program.

4

I
.,.
:
.,

",

.....

870
..

-"

.':'

