,

..

(>\

"

...

.

~,

.

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

OCT 1999

FILE'O

BEFORE tHE
I:PLINARY HEARING COJviMlSSION
CP:, NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
~'
.
99 DHC 16 ~.
,.

, THE NORTH CAROLINA STAT~,~,.......'\..
Plaintiff

v.

I

DAVlb R. DOWELL, Attol11ey
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)

'CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCiPLINE

This inatter was considered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing CommiSSIon'
composed ofRichard t. Gammon, Chair; Jean G. Hauser, and Franklin E. Martin, upon the ptoPds~d
consent order of di~cipline submitted by the parties. The Plaintiff was represented by Larissa J. Erkmart.
The Defendant represented himself. Both parties stipulate and agree to the fmdings of fact and
conclusions of ll:i.wrecited in this consent order and. to the discipline imposed. Based on the cons~nt of
the parties, the Hearing Cotnnlittee hereby enters the following:'
.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized Ul,lderthe law~ of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority grl:l.llted itin,Chapter
84 ofthe General Statutes, of North Carolina, and the Rules arid Regulations of the North Cm-olip.a State
Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2.
The Defendant, David R. Dowell (hereinafter, the "Defendaht"); was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1991 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law
licensed t6 practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations ;md Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Catolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
Du.ring all relevant periods referred to herein, the Defendant was engaged in the practice
of law with the Dowell Law Offices in Jacksonville" North Carolina.
4. In February 1993, Mr. Almy J. O'Neal (hereafter, "Mr. O'Neal") was tried by general courtmartial for offenses including the murder of his wife during his aSf!ignment in Korea. Mr. O'NeaJ pled .'
guilty to involuntary manslaughter, among other charges, pursuant to the terms of apretrialagteement.
Mr: O'Neal was sentenced to a term,ofhnprisonmeht.
"
5.
Mr. O'Neal retained the Defendant to represent him in seeking post-conviction relief., Mr,:
O'Neal had authorized the Defendant to discuss:his c~se with Mr" O'Neal's bI:pther, Mr. Robert Lqwery,
with the understanding that Mr. Lowery would maintain contact with the Defendant throughout the .
appellate and post,.conviction proceedings in order to facilitate communication between Mr. O'Neal,
who' was incarcerated, apd the Defendant.
.

I

...

\

....

I

(,,'

6.
Mr. Lowery did maintain some contact with the Defendant during the appellate and postconviction proceedings in Mr. O'Neal's case. At times, however, the Defendant Was unable to teach Mr.
Lowery when he attempted to contact hint
7.
The Defendant filed a direct appeal and various petitions for post-conviction relief on
behalf of Mr. O'Neal. The Defendant filed a petitio1.l for new trial in accordance with Article 73 of the
Unifotni Code of Military justice ("UCMJ") in May 1996. In June 1996, the Chief of the Examinations
and New Trials Division of the United States Army Judiciary returned the petition without action. On
July 25, 1996, the Defendant tesubmitt~d the petition with a cover letter in the nature of a memorandum
oflaw. On July 30, 1996, the Chief of the Examinations and New Trials Division acknowledged receipt
of the petition,. which he described as " ... implicating both Article 73 [new trial] and Article 14
[request for clemency], UCMJ [.J" 'the July 30th letter informed the Defendant that the Chief of the
Examinations and New Trials Division had "forwarded the entirety of [the] petition to the Office of the
Judge Advo~ate General."

.1

8.
Based on the July 30, 19961etter from the Chief ofthe Examinations and New Trials
Division, the Defendant concluded that the petition for new trial; which he resubmitted on behalf ofMr.
O'Neal along with a memorandum oflaw, was being treated by the Chiefofthe Examinations and New
Trials Division and the Office of the Judge Advocate Gener~l as a combined petition for new trial and a
formal request for clemency. He therefore did not file a separate request for clemency.
9.
In response Jo an inquiry made by Mr. O;Neal, the Office of the Judge Advocate General
adVIsed Mr. O'Neal by letter dated December 23, 1996 that all of his petitions for post-conviction relief
had been denied, but that his attorney could still assist him in filing a request for clemency. Based on his
mistaken belief that the petition for neW trial and memorandum of law was being treated as a combined
petition for new trial and request for clemency, the Defendant advised or otherwise led Mr. Lowery
andlor Mr. O'Neal to believe that he had filed Mr. O'Nea1's request for clemency and that he was simply
waiting for a response from the Office of the Judge Advocate General.
10.
The Defendant did not advise Mr. O'Neal or Mr; Lowery that he did not file a separate
request for clemency on behalf of Mr. O'Neal. The Defendant did not make timely independent inquiry
with the Office of the Judge Advocate General as to whether the petition for new trial and memorandum I ·
oflaw were in fact being treated as a combined request for clemency. Much later, the Defendant learned
that it wOl:lld be necessary for Mr; O'Neal to file a separate request for clemency under Article 74,
UCMJ.
11.
On or around October 29, 1996, the Defendant signed a letter prepared by his legal
assistant addIessed to Mr. O'Neal's brother, Mr. Robert Lowery, explaining that he intended to prepare
and file on behalf of Mr. O'Neal a petitiop for extraordinary relief in the nature of a writ of error coram
nobis .. The Defendant did prepare a draft of the petition fot Writ of errOr coram nobis, but he never filed
the petition. In researching and preparing the draft, thle Defendant concluded that the grounds for the
petition were frivolous, and, absent an adequate basis in law or fact, the petition ought not be filed.
12.
The Defendant failed to advise either Mr. O'Neal or Mr. Lowery of his conclusion that a
petition for writ of error coram nobis ought not be· filed on behalf of Mr. O'Neal.
13.
In January. 1997, the Defendant moved his practice from his office to his home.
Beginning in the spring of 1997, the Defendant's health conditions, including a diagnosed heart
2

I

.~

condition, materially impaired his practice of law and his ability to represent clients, including Mr.
O'Neal.
14.
As a result of his health conditions, the Defendant decided to reduce his law practice by
taking no new cases and transferring to other attorneys those cases that were either to<) time consuming
or that he felt otherwise incapable of handling.
15.
However, the Defendant believed he could timely ~d diIigentIyhandle Mr. O'Neal's
case despite his health conditions. At the time the Defendant was transf~rriQg cases, he believed that
Mr. O'Neal's case was merely awaiting response, from the Office of the Judge Advocate Ge.neral on the
combined petition for new trial and request for clemency. The Defendant was mistaken.

I

16. ' The Defendant did not make any arrangements to have Mr. O'Neal's (:ase transferred to
another attorney. Nor did the Defendant seek to withdraw from representing Mr. O'Neal.
17.
On or around July 1, 1997, Defendant moved his practice and home to Alabama.' As of
July 1, 1997, the Defendant had no office staft: By mid-July 1997, the Defendant was suffering from
stress and subsequent depression. The Defendant did not advise Mr. O'Neal or Mr. Lowery where or
how he could be reached after the Defendant moved his home and law practice to Alabama.

.

'

18.
Since June or July 1997, neither Mr. O'Neal nor Mr. Lowery has had any communication
with the Defendant, despite attempts to reach him. Defendantbelie'ves that he, spoke with Mr. Lowery or
Mr. O'Neal in the fall of 1997, but does nbt recall the substance of the conversation and does not have
any notes.
19.
Despite numerous requests from·Mr. O'Neal and/or Mr. Lowery, the Defendant has failed ..
to provide to Mr. O'Neal records relating to the legal representation, which documents, at all relevant
times, have bee.n in the Defendant's possession.

I

20.
On December 9, 1997, Mr. O'Neal again wrote to the Office of the Judge Advocate
General requesting the status of his request for clemency. On January 26, 1998, the JUQge Advocate
General's Office advised Mr. O'Neal that no request for clemency had been filed with any office
affiliated with the United States Army Judiciary.
21.
The Defendant did not retain any unearned fees collected from Mr. O'Neal. In 14ct, the
Defendant's rec.ords show that Mr. O'Neal owes him at l~ast $796.72 in fees for legal services rend'ered
up to and including the Defendant's research related to the proposed petition for writ of error coram
nobis
22.
On December 22, 1995, the Defendant agreed to represent Donald C. Reed (hereafter,
"Mr. Reed") in an action for damages against the U.S. Marine Corps.
23.
The Defendant and Mr. Reed signed a written fee. agreement, a true and accurate copy of
which is attached to the Complaint filed,in this action as Exhibit A. The fee agreement called for
payment of attomey's fees to the Defendant in installments. Pursuant to the fee agreement, Mr. Reed
has paid the Defendant a total of$5,200.

3

I

....
•

t

~

....

. ..: ...

~

/'

------~--------------------------------------------------------

-

24.
From December 1995 to April 1997, Mr. Reed made repeated telephone calls and sent
nUmerous letters to the Defendant requesting information on the status of his case against the U.S.
Marine Cotps. At all times dming this period, the Defendant led Mr. Reed to believe that he was
working on Mr. Reed's case and would shortly prepare a draft complaint for Mr. Reed's review. The
Defendant furnished to Mr. Reed at least two drafts of the complaint bearing notations that the
documents were drafts on which the Defendant was continuing to work.
On April 16, 1997, Mr. Reed sent the Defendant a letter demanding that the Defendant
25.
either give him assurances that the complaint would be drafted or return his file and the attorney's fee'
totaling $5,200.
26.
The Defendant responded to Mr. Reed by letter dated May 8, 1997, acknowledging
receipt of $5,200 from Mr. Reed in payment of attorney's fees and setting out specific dates for
completion of the. formal complaint against the U.S. Marine Corps.
27.
Thereafter the Defendant completed a draft of the complaint and was working on a
memorandum of law to aCCOI11pany the complaint.

I

28.
The Defendant did not advise Mr. Reed where or how he could be reached after the
Defendant moved'his practice and home to Alabama on or around July 1, 1997 .

.

29.
By letter dated October i 8, 1?97 and addressed to the Defendant at his Jacksonville,
North Carolina address, Mr. Reed terminated the Defendant's legal services and requested that the.
Defendant forward the file materials to his new attorney. In November 1997, Mr. Reed located the·
Defendant and contacted him by telephone in Alabama, requesting that the Defendant refund the $5,200
that Mr. Reed had paid for attorney's fees. Mr. Reed has not received his case file from the Defendant.
Mr. Reed has not received a refund of the $5,200 he paid the Defendant in' attorney's fees .
On February 3, 1998, Mr. Reed filed a petition for fee arbitration with the North Carolina
. , 30.
State Bar. On February 4, 1998, the North Carolina State Bar sent a Notification of Mandatory Fee
Arbitration (hereafter "Fee Arbitration Notice") to the Defendant. The Defendant received the Fee
Arbitration Notice on February 12, 1998. The Defendant was required to respond to the Fee Arbitration
Notice within 15 days of receipt of that letter, or by February 27, 1998. The Defendant failed to respond
to the Fee Arbitration Notice.
On March 10, 1998, the North Carolina State Bar sent a letter notifying the Defendani
31.
that he had failed to timely respond to the Fee Arbitration Notice. The Defendant received this second
fee arbitration notice on March 12, 1998, and March 16, 1998"respectively. The Defendant waS
required to respond to the second fee arbitration notice letter within 10 days of receipt of that letter, or
by March 26, 1998, at the latest. The Defendant failed to respond to this second fee arbitration notice.

I

32.
The Defendant represented Samuel B. Thomas (hereafter, "Mr. Thomas") in
adI11inistrative proceedings before the Department of Veterans Affairs (hereafter, the "Agency") to
recover VA benefits. The Defendant obtained an award of full benefits for Mr. Thomas from the date of
Mr. Thomas's initial claim. Mr. Thomas sought an award back to the date of his military discharge.
The Defendant advised Mr. Thomas of his right of appeal from the agency decision awarding benefits
from the claim date and that Mr. Thomas waS not likely to prevail on appeal. Mr. Thomas nevertheless
insisted on filing art appeal.
4

I
....

894./

.

~

,

,

I

..
,33.
The Defendant filed an appeal of the Agency's, decision at the request of Mr. Thomas.
On appeal, the cottrt entered a decision in effect overtuling. the Agency's decision, and allowing Mr.
Tho~as to continue with his proceedings to recover past-due benefits. The matter was set for heariI;lg .'
before the Agency on Sevtember 10', 1997. The hearing was continued until June IS, 1998. The
Defendant did not appear at the June 15, 1998 hearing, So Mr. Thomas was forced to represent himself:'
34;
On May 8, 1998, the North Carolina State:sar sent Letters of Notice to the Defen4~t in
Grievance Files 98GO'447 and 98GO'448, concerning the O'Neal case and the Reed case, respectively,
(hereafter; "the May 8 Letters of Notice"). The Defendant received the May 8 Letters of Notice on May
Il, 1998. The Defendant requested and was grant~d by the North Carolina State Bar extensioh~, of time,
to and including June 22, 1998, within which to respond to the May 8 Letters of Notice. The State Bar
did not receive a response from the Defendant at that time.
'
35.
On July 2, 1998, the North Carolina State Bar issued subpoenas commanding the
Defendantto ~ppeat before Deputy Counsel at'the North Carolina, State Bar office in Raleigh onAugust
6, 1998 to testify and prodU(;:e documents in Grievance Files 98GO'447 and 9800448 (hereafter, '-'the July
2 Subpoenas")., The Defendant accepted service of the July 2 Subpoenas on JulY 9, 19:98 and on July 17,
1-998. By fa:csimile tnmsmission dated July 22,1998, the Defendant informed the State Bar that he.
could not appear in North Catolina for health reasons.
36.
On July 21, 1998, the North Carolina State B'ar,sent a Letter of Notice to the Defendant in .
Grievance File 9800'839, concerning the Thomas case (heteafter~ "the July 21 Letter of Notice"). The
Defendant received the July 21 Letter of Notice on July 25, 1998. The Defendant was required to
respond to the July 21 Letter of Notice on or befote August 9, 1998. The Defendant did not timely
respond to the July 21 Letter of Notice.
37.
On August 28, 1998, the North Carolina State Bar sent a follow-up letter to the
Defendant, advising that, as ofthatdat~, no response had been received in Grievance File 9800'839 ~d
that the Defendant should respond in some fashion by September 8, 1998. The Defendant did not .
respond on or before September 8, 1998.

I

38.
On December 8, 1998, the North Carolina State Bar issued subpoenas COiliinandingthe
Defendant to' appear before the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar in Ra,leigh on
January 13, 1999 to testify and produc'e documents in Grievance Files 9'8GO'447, 98GO'448, and
9800'839 (here~er, "the December 8 Subpoenas"). the Defendant accepted service of the Decel11per 8
Subpoenas on pecember 10', 1998 and December 14, 1998. Byhandwiitten letter dated January 12,
1999, the Defendant notified the North Carolina State Bar that he was unable to appear as commanded
ort January 13, 1999, because he was recovering from reconstructive surgery on his foot. The North
Carolina State Bar received no other correspondence from the Defendant.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact afid by consent of the parties, the I1earing COh1rhitt~e
enters the following: .
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1; All parties are properly berore the Bearing Committee an<;l the Committee has jurisdiction
over the Defendant, David R. Dowell, and the .subject matter of this proceeding.

5

I

'J

."

..
2. The Defendant's conduct, as s~t out in. the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds for
discipIlny pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing to act with reasonable diligence and prompmess in making.adequate inquiries to
the Chief of the Examinations and New Trial Division or the Office of the ~udge Advocate
General, on behalf of Mr. O'Neal, concerning the status of what he believed tQ be Mr.
O'Neal's combined petition for new trial and request for clemency, the Defendant violated
Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professionai Conduct.
(b) By failing to keep Mr. O'Neal reasonably infotltled about the status of the post-conviction
proceedings and by failing to promptly and accurately respond to all requests for information,
,the Defendant violated Rule 1.4 {a)(l} of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

.

(c) :Sy failing to withdraw from representing Mr. O'Neal after he determined that his physical or
mental condition materially impaired his practice of law and his ability to represent clients,
ine1uding, but not lhnitedto Mr. O'Neal, the Defendant violated Rule 1. 16(a)(3) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. .
(d) By failing to ~ct With reason~ble dilig~nce and promptness in filing the complaint on behalf
of Mr. Reed against the U.S. Marine Corps, the Defendant violated Rule 6(b)(3) of the Rules
of Professional Conduct andlor Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
(e) By failing to refund the une$'l1ed portion ofllie $5,200 fee and by failing to surrender papers
imd property to which Mr. Reed was entitled after Mr. Reed terminated the legal
representation, the Defendant violated Rule 2.8(c)(3) of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and/or Rule l.16(d) of the Revised Rules·ofProfessional Conduct.
(f) By failing to participate in good faith in arbitration of the fee dispute with Mr. Reed, the
Defendant violated Rule 1.5(f) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
(g) ~y failing to act with reason~ble diligence and promptness in pursuing Mr. Thomas' claims
for past-due veteran's benefits, the Defendant violated Ru1e 6.(b)(3) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
(h) By failing to keep Mr. Thomas reasonablY'imorrt1ed about the status of the legal
representation and by failing to prompdyand accurately respond to all requests fot
information, the Defendant violated Rule 6(b)(2) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and/or
Ru1e 1.4 (a)(I) of the Revised Ru1es ofProfessiQrtal Conduct.

I

,

(1) ay knowingly failing to respond to formal inquiries and lawful demands for information
issued by the North Carolina State Bar in Grievance Files 98G0447, 98G0448 and 98G0839,
the Defendant violated N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3) and Ru1e 8.1 (b) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

.

BaSed upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the consent of the
parties to the discipline to be imposed, the Hearing Committee hereby makes additional

6

I

FINDINOS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I. The Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a). pattern of misconduct
b) mUltiple offenses
c) substantial experience in the practice of law
2. The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)

I

personal or emotional problems
absence of a dishonest or selfish motive
full and free disclosure to the DHC
physical or mental impairment
remorse

3. The aggravating factors do not outw~igh the mitigating factors.

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Committee hereby enters the folloWing
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The lic~nse of the Defendant, David Dowell, is hereby suspended for three yeats upon the
following tenus and conditions:
a.
The Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from service of this ord~r upon him and shall
comply with all provisions of27 NC. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, respecting suspended attorneys.
b.
The suspension will become effective 30 days from service of this order upon the
Defendant and will continue for a period of not less than 36 conse·cutive months.
c.
The Defendant' shall provide to Mr. O'Neal all documents relating to his
representation of Mr. O'Neal in the matters referred to herein, as required by Rule 1.16(d) of the
Revi8ed Rules of Professional Conduct, at Mr. O'Neal's last known address, as follows: M~.
Almy J. O'Neal, Jr., Reg. No. 04693-000, P.O. Box 1000, Leavenwort~; KS 66048-1000, or at
such other addre~s us Mr. O'Neal may designate in writing in response to inquiry made by the
Defendant.

I

d.
The Defendant shall provide to Mr. Reed all documents relating to his
representation of Mr. Reed in the matters r~ferred to herein, as required by Rule 1.16(d) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct, at Mr. Reed's last known address, as foiIows: Mr.
Donald C. Reed, 2210 Encanto Drive, NE, Phoenix AZ 85007, or at s1,lch other address as Mr.
O'Neal may designate in writing in r~sponse to inquiry made by the Defendant.
e.
The Defendant pay restitution to Mr. Reed in the amount of $S,200.00
representing the unearned attorney's fee paid to the Defendant by Mr. Reed.

7

"

..

89"

;2.
At any time after a period of 12 consecut"/e months, the Defendant may seek a stay of the
remaining period of suspension and reinstatement of his license upon filing a written petition and
demonstration of compliance with all provisions of27 NC. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §
.012S(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules and the following conditions:,

a.

The Defendant shall have complied with paragraph 1(c) - (e) above.

b.
The Defendant shall not have violated any state or federal laws during the period
. of active 'suspension.
c.
The Defendant shall not have violated any provisions of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules or the Revised Rules of Profession&l Conduct during the
period of active suspension.

I

d.
The Defendant shall have paid all costs incurred in this proceeding and taxed
against the Defendant within ninety (90) days of service of this order upon him.
e.
The Defendant shall have voluntarily reported to the State Bar any instances of
misconduct involving neglect of client matters occurring during the period from July 1996 to the
date his license is hereby suspended, and the Defendant shall have executed a statement under
oath.verifying that no other instances of gross neglect exist (other than those for which he has
been disciplined in this matter or those that he has voluntarily reported).
f.
At the time that he seeks a stay of the remaining period of suspension, the
Defendant shall demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he is not suffering
from any physical or emotion condition that would impair his professional judgment or ability to
engage in the practice oflaw in a competent manner.
3.
Upon entry of an order staying this suspens~on -and granting the reinstatement of the
Defendant's license to practice law, the order of stayed suspension shall continue in force for the balqnce
of the term of suspension, provided that the Defendant compli,¢s with the foHowing conditions:
a.

The Defendant shall violate no federal or state laws.

b.
The Defendant shall viorate no provisions of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules or the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

c.
The Defendant shall pay any costs incurred in connection with his reinstatement
proceeding and assessed against him.
4.
If dur~ng any period in which the three-year suspension is stayed the Defendant fails to
comply with any ,one or more conditions stated in paragraph 3, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules.
5. If any stay of the suspension of the Defendant's law license is lifted, as provided in the
foregOIng paragraph, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order providing for such
conditions as it deems necessary for obtaining a stay of the remaining period of suspension or for
reinstatement of the Defendant's license at the end of the three-year suspension period.

8

I

•

I • •: . . . . . . .......

6. To 0btain reinstatement of his license at the end of the three-year suspension period, if no
stay is sought or entered (or if a stay has been lifted, as provided above), the Defendant must
demonstrate that he has fully complied with all provisions of27 NC. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .OI25(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. The Defendant
must also demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied with the
provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above, including, but not limited to, the requirement in paragraph 2(f)
that the Defendant demonstrate by cle~, cogent and convincing evidence that he is not suffering from
any mental or physical condition that impairs his professional judgment or ability to engage in the
practice of law in a competent manner.
7. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, SUbchapter B, §.OI14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules throughout the period of the three-year suspension.

I

Signed by the undersigned Hearing Committee chair with the consent of the other Hearing
Committee members.

This

the~ of ~99.
RIchard T. Gammon
Hearing Committee Chair

"
CONSENTED AND AGREED TO:

~issaj.
'I

rkman

Attorney or Plaintiff
Date: 1/~1fll

.

_A~Q~,

~dR.DoweH

.

.

Defendant
/
Date: . 10 l/i~31

9

~.

'."

..
"I

.............

