,

A'~;'\InTl4x~
~"
'cJ')"~

,""'::, .

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

/~
t,-;;;

A"

~,:\

Ur; 2o.""~
BEFORE THE
'08
\"Aj
rt'L..~
~~IEV ANCE COMMITTEE
~Ofj.
.;:~
OF THE
C
CAROLINA STATE BAR

.-_1'-;

i~

i;~~

\~/.

WAKE COUNTY

'0~~

D

------------"---"'l'~"""~h/R~ 0
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE

N~y!rH

(;.1

BAR'<!""l(''-~-'':-:'''''

08G0367

------..

Petitioner
ORDER OF
RECIPROCAL DISCIPLD\lE

v.

BARRY G. ROBERTS, Attorney,
Respondent

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chairperson of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Rules .01 05(a)(l2)
and .01 I6(b)(4) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, and based upon
the record in this matter, the undersigned finds as follows:
1.	

By order dated October 24, 2005 the Supreme Court of Georgia issued an order
accepting the voluntary surrender of the law license of Barry G. Roberts
(hereinafter "Roberts") submitted pursuant to Rule 4-227, Petitions for Voluntary
Discipline, Ga, R, & Rgs, Sf. Bar Rule DR 4-227.

2.	

Roberts submitted his Petition for Voluntary Surrender of License on or about
September 23, 2005. In his Petition. Roberts admitted he had pled guilty to a
single count of violation of 18 U.S.c. ยง 1001 for making a false statement to an
IRS agent, and admitted this constituted a felony. Roberts further admitted he
violated Rule 8.4(a)(2) of the Georgia Rules of Professional Conduct, that the
maximum penalty for such a violation is disbarment, and that his voluntary
surrender of his license was tantamount to disbarment.

3.	

As defined in Rule 4-110, Definitions, Ga. R. & Rgs. St. Bar Rule DR 4-110, a
"Petition for Voluntary Surrender of License" is "A Petition for Voluntary
Discipline in which the respondent voluntarily surrenders his license to practice
law in this State. A voluntary surrender of license is tantamount to disbarment."

4.	

Actions pursuant to Rule 4-227, Petitions for Voluntary Discipline, Ga. R. & Rgs.
Sf. Bar Rule DR 4-227, are discipline and subparagraph (a) of Rule 4-227 requires
that "A petition for voluntary discipline shall contain admissions of fact and
admissions of conduct in violation of Part IV, Chapter I of these rules sufficient
to authorize the imposition of discipline."

5.	

On July 13, 2008, Roberts was served with the North Carolina State Bar's Notice
of Reciprocal Discipline Proceeding by the Fulton County, Georgia, Sheriffs
Office.

6.	

Roberts failed to show cause that imposition of the identical discipline would be
unwarranted within 30 days of service upon him of the Notice of Reciprocal
Discipline.

BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS, the Chairperson of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1.	

The North Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this
proceeding and over the person of Barry G. Roberts.

2.	

The procedure for imposition of reciprocal discipline pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Rule .0116 of the North Carolina. State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules has been complied with.

3.	

The order of the Supreme Court of Georgia found that Roberts pled guilty to
violating 18 U .S.c. ยง 1001 by making a false statement to an IRS agent and
admitted he pled guilty to an offense which is a felony and which constitutes a
violation of Rule 8.4(a)(2) of the Georgia Rules of Professional Conduct. The
Supreme Court of Georgia found that the maximum penalty for such a violation is
disbarment. The Supreme Court of Georgia accepted Roberts' Petition for
Voluntary Surrender of License and noted this is tantamount to disbarment.

4.	

The conduct admitted by Roberts and found by the Supreme Court of Georgia
constitutes conduct in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and (c) of the North Carolina State
Bar Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and justifies the imposition of
reciprocal discipline in this state.

5.	

The equivalent discipline imposed by the Supreme Court of Georgia should be
imposed on Robert's right to practice law in the State of North Carolina. The
equivalent discipline in North Carolina to that imposed by the Supreme Court of
Georgia is disbarment.

THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1.	

Barry G. Roberts is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law
Carolina.

2.	

Roberts shall forthwith surrender his license certificate and membership card to
the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.

3.	

Roberts is hereby taxed with the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary.

In

North

4.	

Respondent shall comply with the wind down provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B. Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules.
th

This the 25 day of August 2008.

James R. Fox, Chair

Grievance Committee


