!3~FORE THE

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99 DHC8

~

\ ;A16Y

___ -r---~---------- ---- _.--

)
THE NORtH CAROLINA STAtE; BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
)
v.
)
)
EDWARD F:',. HAUSLE j ATiORNEY
Defendant )

FINDINGS OF FACT
AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

".

~.;

This matter was heard on the 29th day of October, 1999, before a Hearing
Committee of th~ Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Joseph G. Maddrey,
Chair; Kenneth M. Smith, and B. Stephen Huntley. Douglas J. Brocker represented
plaintiff. Gary S. Parsons represented defendant, Edward P. Hausle. Based upon the
pleadings and the evidence Introduced at the hearing, the Hearing Committee hereby
enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated

I

thereunder.
2. Defendant, Edwarq P. Hausle j (hereafter "Hausle"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on February 28, 1985 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an Attorney at LaW licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina Sta.te Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.

1

I
0.952
.' :

~

3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Hausle actively engaged in the'.
practice of law in the State' of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the cities of
, Winterville, Chapel Hill, and Greenville, North C"arolin~.
4. Dr. J,arOI Knowle$ and her former husband, Robert Anthony Knowles, filed
cross motions for custody ~nd support of their minor daughter, Dorothy Tar'!Yss
Knowles, in Orange County District Court, file number 96
537 (hereafter "custody
action").

avo

I

5. A hearing was held on the custody motions in August 1996 (hereafter
"custody hearing") before the Honorable Lowry M. Betts.
6. After the hearing, J'udge Betts entered an order on August 26, 1996 on the
Knowles' cross motions for clistody and support (herel;lfter "custody order").
7. The custody orqer awarded the Knowles joint legal anq physical custody of
Dorothy, with alternating annual physical custody between North Carolina and
Cambodia.
8. DL Knowles retained Hctusle on or about September 25, 1996 to represent
her in an appeal of the CUstody QrdeL
9.
appeal.

Dr. Knowles paid Hausle an initial ret~iner of $3,150 to represent her oli

10. Dr. Knowles was referred to Hausle by attorney llmsford Long.

11. Prior to September 1996, Hausle handled many appeals ,of civil matters in
. the North Carolina courts.

I

12. As a resl!lt, Hausle was familiar with the North Carolina 'Rules OfAppellat$
Procedure during all times relevant to this complaint.
13. Hausle sign,ed a Notice of Appeal of the Knowles' cl!stody order on
September 25, 1996. The Notice of Appeal was filed by Dr. Knowles' trial attorney,

.Constance Ludwig, ctt Hausle's direction.

.

-

14.

After the Notice of Appeal was filed, Hausle failed to perfectO'r. Knowles'
appeal of the custody order.

15;

Specific~IIy, in the Knowles appeal, Hausle failed to:

(a) contrctct with a court reporter in writing for the production of the transcript
within 10 d~ys after filing the Notice of Appeal,

2

~I

09S~

(b) request a copy of the transcription tapes,
(c) obtain a transcript,
(d) serve a propos~d record on appeal on opposing counsel, and
(e) file a settled record on appeal with the Court of Appeals .

.16. On approximately December 5',1996, Hausle obtained an order extending
the time to prepare the transcript until January 6, 1997 from the Orange County District

I·

Court.

17. No transcript was produced in the Knowles matter by January 6, 1997.
16. Hausle did not file any additional motions for an extension of time to
prepare the transcript on or before Janllary 6,,1997.

19. Several months later; on approximately May 16 ahd 17,1991, Hausle saw
Lunsford Long at a continuing legal ectucation ("CLE,j) semihar in Atlantic Beach, North
Carolina.
.
20. At that CLE seminar,. Long asked Hausle about the status of Dr. Knowles'
appeal.
21. Hausle represent~d to Long that there was a problem with the transcription
tapes in the Knowles case and that was why the record on appeai had not been filed.
22. Approximately two weeks after Long asked him at the CLE seminar about
Dr. Knowles' appeal, Hausle filed a Motion for Enlargement of Time in the Knowles
case with the North Carolina Court of Appeals. The motioh Was mailed on May 31 ,
1997 and filed on June 3, 1997.
.

I·

23. In the Motion for Enlargement of Time, Hausle repre~ented to the Court of
Appeals that he had cOhtracted with a court reporter on October 7, 19.96 for preparation
of the transcript ih the. Knowles matter. Hausle further represehted that the court
reporter needed additional time to prepare the transcript "tb]ecause of difficulties with
the tape recording."
.
24. In a cover letter dated May 31, 1.997 transmitting the Motioh for
Enlargement to Dr. Knowies; HaUSle also represehted to her that: "There was' a
problem with the tapes, and I will need to get neW tapes and have the transcript made.
from newtapes."
, .
25. Contrary to his representations to the Court of Appeals, Dr. Knowles, and
'Lunsford Long, Hausle neVer:

3

1
0954

(a) contracted with any court reporter for the prep~ratjon of the
. transcript,
(b) provided t~pes to any court reporter, or
(c) discussed ~ny tape recording udiffjculties with any court reporter.
j

,

I

26. Neither Hausle, PaLlI Walker, nor any other person listened to transcription
tapes of the Knowles custodY hearjn~ prior to May 31, 1997.
21. In fact, no difficulties or problems existed with the transcription tapes of the
.
Knowles custody hearing.
28. Hausle made knowingly false ormisleading representations to the Court Of
Appeals, his client; Dr. Knowles, ~nd fellow attorney Lunsford Long ..

29. The Olerk of the North C~rolina Court of Appe~ls entered an orqer denying
Hausle's Motion' for Enlargement on June 5, 1~97.
.
30. Hausle's Motion for Enlargement was filed over four months late, pursuaht
to the deadlines set forth in Appellate Rule 7(bH:l) .
•

-

':"60·

31. The Court of Appeals qenied Hausle's motion because it was untimely.
32. As a result of Haqsle's failure to perfect her appeal, Dr. Knowles lost her
right to a direct appeal of the custody order.

I

33. In adcHtion to f;:liling to perfect her appeal, H~usle alsO failed to keep Dr.
Knowles reasonably informecl abo~t the status of her case anq respond to her
reason~ble requests for information.
34. For example, between JanLlary and October 1997, Dr. Knowles made
repeated attempts to contact Hausle regarding the status of her appeal.

35. During thi~ time period, Dr. Knowles ieff numerous rnessages on HaLlsle's

telephone answering m~chine or with his assistant, including the following dates in
1996: October 10 & 22, ~nd the following dates'in 1997: January 16, February 5, 6; 7, &
11, May 16 & 20, ~nd September 22 & 25.

36. Hausle repeatedly failed to return Dr. Knowles'

c~'lIs.

4

I
0955

37. Hausle also failed to keep Dr. Knowles otherwise informed about the status
of her appeal, both before and after his Motion for Enlargement of ~ime was denied by
the Court of Appeals.

38. For example, Hausle never communicated to Dr. Knowles that the Court of
Appeals had denied his Motion for Enlargement.

39: Dr. Knowles learned for the first time in November 1997 that the Motion for
Enlargement had been denied. This information was first communicated to Dr. Knowles
through opposing counsel in the custody action.

I

40. After discovering and confirming that Hau$le failed to perfect her appeal, Dr.
Knowles and her general attorney, Lunsford Long, filed a grievance on January 9, 1998
with the North Carolina State Bar.

41. Hausle received a Letter of Notice regarding Dr._ Knowles' grievance on
March 21,1998.
42. Hausle was required to respond within 15 days of receipt of the Letter" of
Notice.

43. Hausle requested an extension of time until April 16, 1998 to respond to the
Letter 6f Notice.
,
"
"-"

44. Hausle failed to respond by April 16.

45. The State Bar sent Hausle a letter on April 28, 1998 again requesting him to
respond.

46. Hausle responded t() the Letter of Notice in the Knowles matter on May 8,
1998.

I

47. Hausle's response incorporated and inClUded the same false-statements
and misrepresentations set forth in paragraphs 21-28 above. Hausle also knowingly
misrepresented to the Grievance Committee that he contracted with court reporter Paul
Walker to prepare the transcript iri Dr. Knowles' appeal; and that he spoke with Mr.
Walker in May 1997 about the trahscripts.
"

"

48. On April 5, 1995, Brenda D. Brogden filed a complaint seeking equitable
distribution in Granville County District Court (hereafter "ED action").

49. On FebrUary 20, 1997, the Honorable Pattie S. HarriSon entered an order of
equitable distribution in the Brogden ED action (hereafter liED order").

5

I
0956

50. Ms,. Brogden was represented in the ED action at the trial level 'by R. Gene
'Edmundson and S. Katherine Burnette (hereafter "Edmundson and Burnette").
51. At the recomrn~ndation of Edrnund$on & B!Jrnett~i Ml)" Brogden retained
Hausle on approximately March 1'3, 1997 to represent her ,on the appeal of the ED
order.

I

52. Hausle, through Edmundson and Burnette, filed c;i Notice of Appeal to the
North Carolina Court of Appeal$ of the ED order on March 20; 1997.
.,
53. Ms. Brogden paid Hausle a fee of $7,500 to represent her on the appeal of
the ED order.
54. After acc'epting the fee, Hausle failed to perfect Ms. Brogden's appeal of
the ED order.
55. Specifically, a judicial conference to'settle the record on appeal in the
Brogden matter was held on Novernoer 10, 1997.
56. At the November 10, 1991 conference, J!Jdge Harrison settled the record
on appeal.
57. Haus!efailed to file the settled record on appeal with the North Carolina
. Court of Appeals after Judge Harrisc;>n settled the" record on appeal, as required
Appellate Rule 12(a}.

by

58. As a rel)ult of Hausle's failure to file the settled record on appeal, on .
February 5, 1998, opposing couns~1 in the Brogden ED action filed a Motion to Dismiss
the Appeal.
59. Haus!e was served by opposing counsel with th~ Motion to Dismiss the
Appeal and a Notice of Hearing for the Motioh.'
60.

Judge Harrison heard the Motion to Dismiss the Appeal on March 11~ 1998.

61. Hausle did not appear at the hearing. Through another attorney, Hausle
moved to Continue the hearing. Judge Harrison denied the Motion to Continue.
62. Judge Harrison then granted the Motion ,to Dismiss and entered an Order
dismissing Ms. Brogden's appeal of the ED order,
63. As a result of Hausle's failure to file the settled record on appeal, Ms.
Brogden lost her right to a direct appeal of the ED order.

6

I
- r

0957

64. During the course of their professional relationship, Hausle also repeatedly
failed to respond to numerous requests from Ms. Brogden for Information, and failed to
keep her reasonably informed about the status of her case after September 1997.

65. For example, Hausle failed to return telephone calls from Ms. Brogden to
his office number -- (919)355-2130'- on the following dates in 1997: October 27,28"
30, and 31, November 3, 10, and 26, and D~cember4, 15, 17, and 18.
66. Hausle also failed to return telephone calls from Ms. Brogden to his office
number in Chapel HiII- (919)962-4120 - on the following dates in 1997: October 20,
27, 29; and 30, and December 4.

I

67.

Hausle also failed to 'retUrn telephone calls from Ms, Brogden to his office
numbers - (919)758-3019 and (919)758- 2691- oli the follOWing dates in 1998 prior to
the March 17 hearing: February 9 and 10, and March 13, and 17.

68. Hausle also failed to r.espond to several letters from Ms. Brogden
requesting information on the status of her case. The first two letters were dated
December 18, 1991 ahd March 9; 1998. On March 16, 1998, Ms. Brogden sent Hausle
another letter inquiring about the status of her appeal. All three of these letters
indicated that Ms. Brogden was unaware of the status of her appeal and specifically did
not knoW that the record on appe~1 had been settled: HaUsle received these letters
from Ms. Brogden.
,,'

69. On the same day as the last letter- March 16, 1998 -- Hausle called Ms.
Brogden and left her a message to call him at his office in GreenVille. Ms. 6rogden
returned his call in the early afternoon.
10. During their conversation on March 16, 1998; HaUsle attempted to convince
Ms. Brogden to drop her appeal. When she refused, Hausle informed Ms. Brogden for
the firsttime that opposing coUnsel had filed a Motion to Dismiss the Appeal and that
the hearing would be held on the next day.

I

71. After this cOl1versation, Ms. Brogden went to the Court of Appeals and
discovered that Hausle had missed the deadline for filing her settled record on appeal.
72.

In a second conversation that same day, HaLJsle told Ms. Brogden that he

would not be attending the hearing on the Motion to Dismiss the Appeal but that he
would arrange for another attorney to request a continuahce.
73. Ms. Brogden appeared althe hearing on March 17, 1998, and was forced
to represent herself 011 the motion to dismiss after Judge Harrison denied the motion for
a continuance.
'

7

I
~

0958

74. After the hearing, M$. Brogden ag~in made numerous attempts'to contact
Hausle. For ex~mple, Ms. Srogden sent Hausle letters dated March 30, 1998 and AprU
13, 1998.
75. Ms. Brogden also left messages on Hausle's answering machine at 'his
office numbers on the following dates: March 24, and April' 8 and 20, which calls Hausle '
did not return. '
.

I

76. On approximately April 20, 1998, Ms. Srogden trav~led from her home in
Oxford to respondent's office in Greenvill~. On that date, respondent gave her a copy
of ~ letter that he claimed that he h~d previously serit to her. The letter was dated
November 12, 1997 (hereafter "November'12, 1997 letter").
77. In the November 1~, 1991 'etter, Hausle diSCUSsed how Judge Harrison
had settled the record on appeal ~nd stated that bec~use of the way the Judge had
seftled the record on appeal, he could not ethically represent Ms. Brogden any longer '
because there was no basis for the appeal.
'.
78. Hausle never filed with the Court of Appeals amotion to Withdraw his
representation of Brogden.
79,. Hausle took preliminary steps to perfect the appeal after November to,
1997, Tncluding, drafting a propo$ed judicial settJ$lJ1ent 0f the record. He also
represented to opposing counsel on November 2b, 1997 that he w~s going to file the
revised record On appeal.
"

80. Ms. Brogden nev~r received the NQvemper 1~, 1991 letter from, Hausle until
.
April 20) 1998.

I

81,

HaUsle never sent Ms. Brogden the November 1~, 1997 letter.

82. Rather, Hausle cre~ted the November 12, 1'997 letter sometime after
November 12, 1997 and after he' had missed the de~dlihe for filing the settled record on
appeal in the Brogden matter.
83, HaU$le created the letter after November 12, 1997 in ~n attempt tQconcea!
or cover up the fact that hef~iled to file the settled record on appeal in the Srogden
matter.
84. ,Hausle made knowingly false representations to Ms. Brogden and otbers
that he had sent her the November 12, 1997 letter in an ~ttempt to conceal or cover up
the fact that he failed to file the $ettled record on appeal.
85. After Ms. Brogden discovered that Hausle had f~iled to perfect her appeal,
she filed a grievance with the North Carolina State Bar.

8

I
,,' 0959

86. Hausle received a Letter of Noti.ce regarding Ms. Brogden's grievance from
the State Bar ()Ii JUly 3, 1998.
87.
Notice.
88.

Hausle was required to respond within 15 days of receipt of the Letter of

Hausle failed to respond Within 15 days.

89. The State Bar sent Hausle a follow up letter dated August 5, 19.98.
requesting him to respond by ALig,ust 16, 1998.
'90.

I

Hausle failed to respond by August t6, 1998.

91. The State Bar sent Hausle another follow up letter dated August 31, 1998
requesting him to respond by September 8, 1998
,92. Hausle responded to the Letter of Notice in the Brogden grievance in a
letter dated September 5, 1998.
93. Hausle's response to the Grievance Committee inclUded a copy of the
November 12, 1997 letter. In his response, in a further attempt to conceal or cover Lip,
the fact that he failed to file the settled record on appeal ih the Brogden matter, Hausle
knowingly misrepresented to the Grievance Committee that he sent Ms. Brogden the
November 12, 1997 lettet.
94. Hausle was properly served with process and the hearing was heio with
due notice to all parties.
Based upbn the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Heating Committee enters the
following:

I'

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee has
jurisdiction over Hausle and the subject matter.
2, Hausle's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact abOVe, constitutes
grounds for discipline pLirsuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28.(b)(2) and (3) and Rules of
Professional Conduct (hereafter "Rules") and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
(hereafter ''Revised Rules") as follows:
a. By failing tb perfect the appeal of Dr, JarolKriowles, Hausle:

9

1
.096.0

(i) . failed to act with reasonable diligE;!nce and promptness in
representing his client in violation of Rule 6(b)(3);
(ii) intentionally failed to carry out a contract of employment for
profes;sicmal services with his client iii violation of Rule 7.1(a)(2);
and
.

I

(iii) intentionally prejudiced or damaged his client during the course'
of their professional relationship in violation of Rule 7.1 (a)(3).
b. By misrepreS;Emting to the North C'arolina Court of .Appeals, his client,
Dr. Jarol Knowles, fellow attorney Lun$ford \"'ong, ~nd the State Bar in his
response to the grievance, that he contracted and communicated with court
reporter Paul Walker and that difficulties or problems~xisted with the
transcription tapes of the Knowles custody hearing, Hausle:
(i) knowingly made a false statement of f~ct to a tribunal while
representing a client in violation of Rule 7.4(a)(4);

(ii) engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrE;!presentation in violation of Rl!le 1,2(c); and
(iii) engaged in conduct prejUdicial to the administration of justice in
violation of RUle 1.2(d).
(iv) knowingly roade a false statement of material fact in connection
with a disciplinary matter in violation of Revised Rule 8.1 (a);

I

c. Hausle failed to keep his client, Dr. Jarol Knowles, reasonably informed
abQut the status of her appeal and promptly comply with her reasonable
requests for information in violation of Rule 6(b)(1) and Revised Rule 1.4(a).
d. Hausle knowingly failed to respond promptly to a lawful demand for
information from the Grievance Committee regarding Dr. Knowles' grievance in
violation of Revised Rule 8.1 (b).
' '.
e. By failing to perfect the appeal ofBrenda Brogden, Hausle:
(i) failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing his client in violation of ReVised Rule 1.3; and
(ii) intentionally prejudiced or damaged his client during the course
oftheir professional relationship In violation of Revised Rule
8.4(g).
'

10

I
I

.'

,0·961,

f. By fabricating, a purported letter to his client, backdating it to November
,12, 1991, and misrepresenting to Ms, Br~gden, another attorney, and the State
Bar that he had sent the letter, Hausl~:
(i) enga'ged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(c); and
(ii) knowingly made a false statement of material fact in connection
with a disciplinary matter in violation of Revised Rule 8.1 (a).

I~

g. Hausle failed to keep Brenda Brogden reasonably informed ~bout the
status of her appeal after September 1997 and failed tb promptly comply with her,
reasonable requests fbI' information in violation of Revised Ruie 1.4(a).
h. Hausle khowingly failed to respond promptly to a lawful demand for
information from the Gri,evance Committee regc;lrding Brenda Brogden's
grievance in violation of Revised Rule 8.1 (b),
Based upon the fbreg,oing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon
the evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the -appropriate discipline, the
Hearing Committee hereby makes these additio~,~I:
FiNDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

Hausle's misconduct IS aggravated by the following factors:
a .. prior disciplinary offenses;

./

I

b. a pattern of misconduct;
c. multiple offenses;
d. submission of false evidence, false statemehts, or other deceptive
practice dUring the disciplinary process; and
e. substahtial experience in the practice of law.
2. With respect to factor (d) above, the Committee specifically finds that Hausle
testified and represented to the Grievance Committee that he sent a letter to court
reporter'Paul Walker purportedly dated October 7; 1996. HaUsle asserted that this
letter formed a contract With Mr. Walker to prepare the transcript in the Knowles matter.
This purported October 7, 1996 letter was offered to attempt to explain Hausle's actions
in handling the Knowles matter.
11

I
'0962

3. The Committee specifically finds that Hausle fabricated the Optober 7, 1996.
letter, backdated it after the fact, and misrepre$~nted to the Grievance, Committee and
the Hearing Committee that he had sent that letter at tha,t time 'in an 'attempt to conceal
his neglect of Dr. Knowles' .appeal.
4. Hausle also represented to the Grievance Committee and the Hearing
Committee. that he had ~rafted and sent a letter purportedly dated JUhe .23, 1997 to. hiS
client, Dr. Knowles. Hausle asserted that he had informeq Dr..Know/es about the Coyrt
of Appeals' denial of the motioh for enlargement of time by Sending this letter.
5. The Hearing Committee finds that HaU$le also fabricated the June 23, 1997
letter, backdated it after the fact, and misrepresented to the Grievance Committee and
the Hearing Committee that he had sent the letter at that time in an attempt to conceal
his neglect and his failure to keep Dr. Knowles reasonably iriformed aboutthe status of
her appeal;
.

6. Hausle's misconquct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. Personal or emotional problems;

b. Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Committee or a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedinQ~::=,

.

c, Character or reputation; and
d. Physical or mental disability or'impairment.
7. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

I

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments .
of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following

12

I

ORDER OF DiSCiPLINE
1. Edward P. Hausle is hereby SUspehded from the practice of law for a period
of three years, _effective 30 days from s~rvice of this order 'upon him.
2. After no less than six months fOllowing the effective date of the order, Hausle
may file a verified petition for a stay of .the remaining p.eriod of the suspension in
accordance with the reqUirements of N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, S.ubchapter B, §
.012S(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules ("Discipline Rules").
Hausle's remaining suspension may be stayed if he establishes by Clear, cogent, and
convin'cing evidence the follOWing conditions:

I"

a. Hausle has complied with all the reql,lii'ements of Discipline Rule
.0124;
b. Hausle has complied with all the requirements of Discipline Rule
.012S(b);

c. Hausle has completed participation in a Lawyers Mahagement
Assistance Program, approved by the.State Bar, at his own expense
prior to his petition; Hausle shall contact sllch a program, make any
required adVahced payment, and haVe a plan in place within 60 days
of entry ·of this order.
-! ..'
d. Hausle paid all costs assessed by the Secret~ry in connection with this
proceeding withih 30 days of serv.ice of these costs by the Secretary;
e. Hausle has not violated any federal or state laws;
f.

Hausle has not violate-d any provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professiohal Conduct of the State Bar; and

1

g. Hallsle has submitted a certification from his treatihg psychiatrist that:
. (i) He has fOlloWed all recommendations for treatment of any
diagnosed psychological conditioh, including depression, for the
past six months; and
(ii) In the psychiatrist's opinion, Hausle's p.sychological condition
will hot prevent him from adequately performing the
responsibilities of an attorney or pose a threat to the publJc if he
is allowed to resume the practice of law.

13

1
-~

0965

The psychiatrist lTi~kibg such a certification must be one approvedby
the State B~r. If Hausle's treating psychiatrist is not approved by the
State Bar, the State Bar shall have the right to have Hausleevaluate¢J
by a psychiatrist, approved by it, to determine if the conditions set forth
in (i) and (ii) above have been s~tisfied. H~l.Jsle also must execute a
release allowing the State Bar to obtain his medical records and attach ,
that release to his petition for reinstatem~nt.
' ,

I

h. Hausle has agreed to p'articipate in the LaWyer Assistance Program
(LAP) of the North Carolina State Bar: In connection with that
Program, Hausle shall, before filing his petition for reinst~tement,
have:'
.
(i)

Entered into a Friehds Recovery Contract with LAP within 30
days of service of this order upbn him. As specified in 27 N.
C. Admin. Code" § 1.0.0652, all information obtained by LAP
concerning Hausle shall be confidenti~l, except as specified
in the Contract and this Order.

(ii)

Complied with the terms of the Friends Recovery Contract
during the term of the ~ctive suspension.

(iii)

Instruct his treating psychiatrist to Inform LAP immediately in
writing if, at any point'CIuring the suspension, he ceases to
be a patient or otherwise fails to comply with the course of,
treatment prescribed by 'his psychi~trlst.

Hausle shall attach to his reinstatement petition documentation that he
has satisfied the' conditions set forth in subsections (i) to (iii) above.

I

3. Upon the entry of an order st~ying the remaining term of Hal,lsle's
suspension, such. order of stayed sUspension maY continue in effect for the balance of
the term of the suspension only upon c,ompliance with all of the following conditions:
a. Hausle shall not violate any federal or state laws;
b. Hausleshall not violate any provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina Stat(:j Bar.
c. Hausle shall be responsible for ensuring that his treating psychiatrist
forward quarterly reports to the State a~r certifying that for the past '
quarter:
(i) He has followed all recommenciations for treatment of any
diagnosed psychological conditions, 'including depression; and

14

I
""0966'

(ii) In the psychiatrist's epinien, HaUsle's psychelegical cenditiens
Will net prevent him frem adequately performing respensibilities
as ~n atterney, or pese a threat to. the public, if he is allewed to.
continue practicing law.
These reperts shall be previded no. later thah January 1st, April 1st,
July 1st, and Octeber 1st, fer the remainder ef the stayed
suspensien.
d. Hausle shall centinue to. cemply with the terms ef the Friends
Recovery Centract. Hausle shall autherize the Lawyer Assistance
Pregram to. forward quarterly reperts to the Nerth Carelina State Bar at
the beginning ef each calendar quarter fer the remainder ef the stayed
sUspehsien. Th~ quarterly reperts shall either: (i) ·certify Hausle's
centinu~d cempliance with the Centract, or (il) alternatively disclese
the details ef Hausle's nen-cempUance with the Centract.

I

e. Hausle must des.ignate an active member ef the Nerth Carolina State
Bar to. meniter (hereafter "menitor") any appeals he agrees er is
appointed to handle. The State Bar reserveS the right to approve or
reject any person submitted by !~ausle as a monitor.
Throughout the stayed suspension, Hausle shall meet or discuss with
the monitor no· later than five business days after agreeing to any
appel/ate representation to discuss all relevant deadlines regarding the
appeaL Haus!e shall discuss the status of each ef his appeals with the
monitor at least every 14 days. Hausie also shall meet ~t least
monthly with the monitor to. discuss the status of each ef his appeals.
Hausle also shall be respensible fer filing quarterly progress reports
with the moniter. This quarterly report Shall include the fellewing
information for each case Hausle is representing a client on appeal: (i)
The date the notice of appeal was filed; (ii) Any extensions for appeal
deadlines; (iii) the d.ate the record on appeal Was required and filed;
(iv) The date the appellate brief waS req~ired and filed; (v) Any
.
reselutien ih the appellate courts; and (vi) The date of discussiens and
meetings betwee.n the monito.r and Hausle.

I

The repert shall be reviewed and sighed by the monitor and filed with
the State Bar en a.quarterly basis no later than January 1St, April 1st,
July 1st, October 1st in each year of the stayed suspension. The State
Bar shall not be responsible for makihg any comp~nsation or
reimbursement for any persen selected by Hausle as a monitor.

15

I
0967

4. If no p~rt of the s~spension is stayed or if the suspension i.s atayed and
subsequently activ~ted, H~usle must petition the OHC at the end of the three year
suspension and est~blish 'py clear, cogent, and"convin,Qing eviOence, compliance with
all of the condition$ set forth in p~ragraph 2(a) through (h) above before his license to
practice law is reinstated.
'

I

5. The Disciplihary Hearing Commissioh retains jurisdiction to impose any
additional conditions on the practice of law by Haus!e which a c;fuly impaneled Hearing
Committee believes ~re necessary for the protection of the public ~t the time Hausle '
petitions for reinstatement.
'
6. Hausle shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no I~ter than 30 days following service of this order upon him.

Signed by the chair with the consent ofthe other Hearing Committee members.

Q/Jt-

~

This the -.LI- d~y of ~ ~ 1999.

I

.I

16

I
,

.

"

'.0969

