~ "0

~
'V

U

.:J

11I1!

~.~

~

~!J.J~OoO~',

WAKE COUN 'Is:'

Dlttg{?RE -

NORTH CAROLI .

',f',

,~,~,

I

'

~

r.c?:tt2.?;\6

2_3 E '3l '" '.
E DIScipLiNARYHEA~ING COMMISS,ION
,.

. THE NORTH CAROI,..INA STATE BAR
99 DHC 27

)
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)

CECELIA M. RHASIATRY
Defendant

)
)
)

This matter came before ,a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Joseph G. Maddrey, Chair; Elizabeth Bunting and
Jean Hauser, pursuant t9 Section .0114 of the Discipline and Disability Rules of
the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "Bar Rules"). Defendant, Cecelia
Rhasiatry, represented herself.' Douglas J. Brocker represented plaintiff. Both
parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusion's of law recited
in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Based lIpon the consent .of
the parties the hearing committee hereby enter$ the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper p~rty to bring
this proceeding u'nder the authority grc;lnted it in Ch~pter 84 9f th,e General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina,
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Cecelia M. Rh~siatry (hereafter "Rhasi~try"), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar on March 22, 1997 and is, and was at c;lll. times
referred to herein an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in NQrth Carolina,
subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
I

1

I

3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Rhasiatry actively engaged
in the practice of law fn the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
the city of St~tesville, Iredell County, North .Carolina.
4. Rhasiatry waived her right to a formal hearing·.
5. Rhasiatry was properly served with process and the hearing was held
with due notice to all parties. .
.

6. Amparo and luis Marin retained Rhasi~try to represent them on two
separate legal matters on approximately July 6,

19~8 .

. 7. The Marins paid Rhasiatry $1,000 to assist them in regaining a
computer hard drive and other materials from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.

I

·8. The Marins also paid Rhasiatry $300 to draft a power of attorney.
9. The Marins wrote Rhasiatry a letter dated August 6, 1998 terminating
her services and requesting the return of their file and fee by August 10, 1998.
10. The State Bar subsequently contacted Rhasiatry on
occasions regarding returning the Marins' file and fee.
11.

a number of

Rhasiatry failed to return the Marins file and fee until October 7,

1998.
12. Mary Beth Carrigan retained Rhasiatry to represent her on a traffic
violation in Iredell County District Court.
13. Rhasiatry appeared on behalf of Ms. Carrigan on April 22, 1998 and
plead her guilty to the offense of improper equipment.
14. Rhasiatry subsequently sent Ms. Carrigan a letter dated April 27,
1998. In the letter, Rhasiatry instructed Ms. Carrigan to pay the court costs and
fine of $105 directly to Iredell County no later than May 12, 1998.

I

15. Ms. Carrigan sent $105 directly to Rhasiatry.
16. Rather than return the check, as a seNice to Ms. Carrigan, Ms.
Rhasiatry deposited those funds into her trust account on May 12, 1998. She
subsequently issued a check and paid the clerk's office on May 15, 1998.
17. DMV subsequently revoked Ms. Carrigan's license for failing to
promptly pay the court costs.
2

I

18, On Augu~t 8, 1998, Carrigan was arrested
for driving while
.
. license

revoked.

19. Carfigan subsequently filed a grievance with the North Carolina Stqte
Bar. At the time she filed the grievance, Ms. Carrigan asserted that. Rhasiatry
. .
,
had failed' to pay the $105 fine.

20. On October 8, 1998, Rhasiatry was served with a Letter of Notice .
regarding Ms. Carrigan grievance and required to respond within

I

15 days.

21.. Rhasiatry also was served with a. Subpoena for Cause Audit
regarding her handling of the funds Ms. Carrigan paid her for the costs and fine.
The subpoena required her to produce the requested materials no later than
October 16, 1998.
.

22. Despite repeated requests, Rhasiatry failed to produce the
documents iri response to the subpoena or respond to the grievance until
November 4, 1998.
23. After receiving the records from Rhasiatry, the State Bar confirmed
that she had disbursed the fuods from Ms. Carrigan appropriately and that those
funds had not been misused or misappropriated.

24. Herman Dagenhartretained Rhasiatry to represent him for a fee of
$70.
25. Rhasiatry withdrew from representing Dagenhart on thi$ matter by
letter dated February 13, 1998.
26. Dagenhart filed a 'grievance with the North Carolina State Bar on
February 24, 1998.
27. Rhasiatry received a Letter of Notice regarding Dagenhart's
grievance on March 24, 1998 and was required to respond within 15 days.
28. Rhasiatry failed to respond to this Letter of Notice within fifteen. days
of its receipt.
29. On approximately April 13, 1998, Rhasiatry was sent a follow up
letter asking 'her to respond to Dagenhart's grievance no later than April 24,
1998.
30. Rhasiatry failed to respond to Dagenhart's grievance by April 24,
1998.

3

I
......

;

,

------------------------------------

---------

31. Rhasiatry was subsequently subpoenaed to appear on May 19, 1998
regarding the Dagenh'art's grievance.
'
32. The ,subpoena was served on Rhasiatry on May 8, 1998.
33. After receiving the subpoena, Rhasiatry responded to Dagenhart's
grievance in a letter received by the State Bar on May 18, 1998.
, Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact,
the hearing committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

, 1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over Rhasiatry and the subject matter of this
proce~ding. '
,
'2.' Rhasiatry's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) and
(3) and the Revised Rules Of professional Conduct ("Revised Rules") as follows:
a. By failing to promptly return the Marins' client file and fee,
Rhasiatry Violated, Revised Rule 1.16(d);
b. By failing to respond timely to the Letter of Notice arid produce
documents in response to the Subpoena for Cause Audit in the
Carrigan grievance, Rhasiatry failed to respond timely to a lawful
demand for information from a disciplinary authority, in violation of
Revised Rule 8.1(b);.
c. By failing to respond timely to the Letter of Notice and follow up
correspondence until subpoenaed to appear in the Dagenhart
grievance, Rhasiatry failed to respond timely to a lawful demand for
information from a diSCiplinary authority, in violation of Revised
Rule 8.1(b)

'I,.

4

I
0973

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters
the following: .
.
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDIN<;3 DISCIPLINE

.

.

1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factor:

I

a. multiple offenses
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. absence of a prior disciplinary record;
b. absence of a dishonest motive; and
c. inexperience in the practice of laW.
3. The mitigating factors; outweigh the aggravating factors.
Based upon the'foregoing findings.offact and conclusions of I~w and the
findings regarding discipline and based upon the consent of the parties, the
hearing committee enters the following:

I

5

I
i ....

l

1"

t:

,.
'.l

.

:.-

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Cecelia M. Rhasiatry is hereby suspended from the practice of law for
The period of
suspension is, stayed for one year upon the following conditions:

gO days, effective 30 days from service of this order upon her.

(a) Rhasiatry attend and complete a Law Management Practice
'Program approved by the State Bar. Rhasiatry must schedule an
initial appointment \yithin 60 days of the filing of this Order of
Piscipline. Rhasiatry'shall be re$ponsible for paying all costs
,f1ssociated with attending ~nd completing the program as a
pondition of the stayed suspension. Rhasiatry shall send the State
,Bar quarterly progress reports from the program administrator until
~he satisfactorily completes the program, These quarterly reports
shall be due no later than April 1, July 1, and October 1, 2000, and
January 1,2001. Rhasiatry also shall send the State Bar
documentation that the program has been satisfactorily completed
no later than 60 days before the expiration of the stayed'
suspension.

I
.

(b) Rhasiatry shali not violate any Revised Rule of Professional
Conduct or any state or federal criminal laws during the stayed
suspension; and
(c) Rhasiatry shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within 60 days from the entry of this order.
2. If, upon a motion by the State Bar, a Hearing, Committee of the DHC
finds that Rhasiatry has violated any of the conditions in Section 1(a)-(c) of this
Order, the suspension of Rhasiatry's license shall be activated. If the
suspension is activated, prior to seeking reinstatement of his license, Rhasiatry
must:

.1

(a) comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the: N.C. State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules; and
(b) send the State Bar documentation that she has satisfactorily
completed a Law Management Practice Program approved by the
State Bar;

6,

I
,. '.0975

Signed by the undersigned hearing committee chair with the consent of
the other hearing committee members.

This the 3

r

,

day of--..:;;.~:.-=-.....::Y'-':"""'"

,/

I

..

We Consent

J

~b<?!~~k
Douglas J. Bfc)Cker

-

Couns~1

for Plaintiff

Geceii~ M. Rhasi t
Defendant

I
.

7

,'.f

•

<

r,.: ,=<,

0976

"

