IOY35
,-

,

THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
F THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99 DHC 14

I

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plamtiff

v.
MICHAEL T. MILLS, ATTORNEY
Defendant

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

,"

.

,

This matter was heard on August 25-26, 1999, 1;>efore a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Henry C. Babb, Chair; Fred H. Moody,
Jr. and Robert B. Frantz, 11Ie defendant, Michael T. Mills, was represented'by Joseph R
Cheshire; V, Wade M. Smith, and Alan M. Schneider. The plaintiff was represented by',
Douglas J. B~ocker. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the
hearing, the hearing cOJlllllittee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

'1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter ~'State Bar"), is a. body duly
organized, under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter ,84 of the qeneral Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the l\Torth Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. Defendant, Michael T. Mills, (hereafter "MUls"), was admitted to th~ North
Carolina State Bar on July 15, 1982 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolifla, subject to the rules, regulations,
and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter
"Revised Rules") and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. Dmingthe times relevant to this, complaint, Mills actively engaged in the
practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained,a law office in the city of '
Wilmington, New Hanover County, North Carolina;
,

1

I
'\

.'-

4. Mills was properly served with process and the hearing was held with due
notice to all parties.
5. On February 5, 1998 at the HucJ.son Belk store in Crabtree Valley Mall in
Raleigh, North Carolina (hereafter "Hudson Belk"), Mills was cited for misdemeanor
larceny of "one 'camisole worth $19.00" in-violation ofNCGS Sec. 14-72.
6. After a trial, on July 16, 1998, Wake County District Court Judge Paul G.
Gessner found Mills guilty on the misdemeanor larceny charge.
'7. Mills, by and through counsel, appealed his conviction of the misdemeanor
larceny charge to Wake County Superior Court.

8. A Wake County Superior Court jury returned a verdict of guilty against Mills
on the misdemeanor larceny charge on December 4, 1998.
-

I

9. Judge Ronald L. Stephens entered judgment against Mills on the
nUsdemeanor larceny charge on that same day.
.
10. While at Hudson Belk on February 5, 1998, Mills purchased several items at
Hudson Belk from a store cletknamed Susan Price (hereafter "first purchase").

11. At his criminal trial, th~ State contended that after making his fitst purchase,
Mills removed a white Calvin Klein camisole from a hanger, placed it in the shopping
bag with the items he previousiy purchased; and removed it from the premises without
paying for the item. 12. At his criminal trial, the State introduced, over Mills' objection, a Hudson
Belk surveillance, videotape.
13. The surveillance videotape shows~ among other things, Mills taking an item
of white :clothing off a clothes hanger and placing it in his hand after making his first
purchase.
14. A white Calvin Klein camisole was found in Mills's shopping bags when he
was detained after leaving Hudson Belk.

15. Mills did not pay for the Calvin Klein camisole before leaving Hudson Belk.
16. Mills testified in his own defense during his criminal trial in Wake County
Superior Court.

17. Mitis testified during his direct examination that he did not intentionally
remove the Calvin Klein camisole from Hudson Belk without paying for it. Mills further
testified during direct examination that the item he took or removed from a clothes rack

2

I
0983

or hanger after his first purchase was not the Calvin Klehl camisole but a similar Ralph'
Lauren Polo item that he claimed he set down before le~wing the premises.
"18. Mills denied during cross-examination that, after making his ilrst purchase,
(a) he had taken or removed frOIll a clothes rack or hanger the White
Calvin Klein camisole he was accused of stealing (hereafter
"Calvin Klein camisole");
(b) he folded up or balled up the Calvin Klein camisole in one of his
. hands; and
"

I

(c) he had' put the Calvin Klein camisole in his shopping bag.
19. The State Bar opened a grievance file against Mills (hereafter "grievance~'),
after lea.rnit)g that Mills had been arrested on the larceny charge.
20. Mills was not served with a Letter ofNetice regarding the grievance,
however, until after his conviction in Superior Court.
21. The Letter of Notice concerned Mills' conviction on the larceny charge and
allegations th~t he knowingly gave materially false testimony at his criminal trial.
22. :Mills, by and through counsel, responded op several occasions to allegations
set forth in the Letter of Notice and' related S~te Bar correspondence concerning
allegations that he knowinglr gave materially false testimony at his crimin~ trial.
23. In his responses to the Grievance Committee, Mills. denied that he took the
Calvin .Klein camjsole off a clothes hanger after making his first purchase.
"

24. In his responses to the Grievance Committee, Mills also represented that the
item that he took offthe clothes hanger after his first purchase was"not the Calvin Klein.
camisole, but was a similar Ralph Lauren Polo t;:mk item that he set down before leaving
the premises.
25. In his responses to the Grievance Committee, Mills also affirmatively
represented that he did not place in his shopping bag the item he took off the clothes
hanger after his flrst purchase but rather carried this item aroood the store with him and
pUmed it down on the second floor before leaving the store.
')

26. Mills's representations set forth in paragraphs 23-25 were made' in response to
a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary authority.
.
27. Mills' representations set forth in par!lgraph~ 17 and 18 (a}{c) were materi~l.
28. Mills' representations set forth in paragraphs 23-25 were material..

3

I
t
,

'0.984

29. After t:eviewing the 'evidence presented at the hearing, the Committee finds
that, after making his first purchase, Mills removed the Calvin Klein camisole from a
clothes rack and hanger, folded it up, put it in his shopping bag, and in,teritionally
remove(I it from Hudson Belk without paying for it.
30. The Committee further fmds that Milis knew the representations set forth in
paragraphs 17 and 18(a)-(c) were materially false at the time Mills testified at his
criminal trial.

.

'31. The Committee further finds that Mills knew the representations set forth in
paragraphs 23-25 were materially false at the time Mills responded to the Grievance
CoIilnlittee.,

I

32. After the hearing concluded but before the written order of discipline was
entered, the Chair of the DHC and this Com.tl}ittee, Henry C. Babb, was elected as the
th
councilor for the 7 District ·of the State Bar Council and thus resigned his position on the
DHC.
~3. Thereafter, the undersigned, James R. Fox, was substituted as the chair of this
Committee.
,

34. The undersigned, James R. Fox, as duly substitute Committee member and
Committee chair, reviewed and considered the record of the diSciplinary hearing in its
entirety 'and based on that review thereafter deliberated fully With the other members of
the Committee before signing this order with their approval.
.
35. The parties have no objection to the substitution ofthe undersigned as a
Committee mem1;ler or his execution of this order as chair of the Committee.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee enters the
followin~:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. All parties are properly before. the Hearing Committee, and it has jurisdiction
over ?yfi~s and the subject matter.
2., Mills.' conviction of misdemeanor larceny, as set out in the Findings of Fact 59 above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N~C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1) &
(2) and the North Carolina Revised Rule.$ of Professional Conduct ("Revised Rules") in
that, Mills:
(a) committed a crifninal act that reflects adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness and fitness as a l~wyer in other respects in violation of
Revised Rule 8.4(b); and
'

4

I
.. ,

"

0985

(b) engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, d~ceit, or
,misrepresentation in viola,tion of Revised Rule 8.4'(c).
3. Mills' foregoing c(::mduct constitutes grol,lllds for-discipline pursuant to NCGS
'
Sec. 84-28(b)(2) in that while testifying in Wake ,County Superior Court, Mills:
(a) knowingly made false statements of material fact to a tribUJ1al in
violation of Revised Rule 3.3(a)(1),
'

I

(b) engaged in conduct involving misrepresentation In violation of
Revised Rule 8.4(c), and
(c) engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Revised Rule 8.4 (d).
'

4. Mills' foregoing conduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to NCGS
Sec. 84-28(b)(2) & (3) in that in response to the State Bar's inquiries, Mills:
(a) knowingly made a false statement ofmatetial fact in connection with a
discjplinary matter in violatio~ ofNCGS Sec. 84..28(b)(3) and
Revised RuleS.1(a), and
(b) engaged in conduct involving misrepresentation in violation of
Revised Rule 8.4 (c).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence, the hearing comnrittee hereby makes additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

I. Mills' misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. dishonest or selfish motive;
b. submission offalse statem~nts during the disciplinary process; and
c. substantial experience in the practice of law.
2. Mills' misconduct is mitigated by the absence ofa prior disciplinary record.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. The discipline imposed is the result of the unique facts involved in this
particul~ matter.

5

I
"

J.

0986',

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, additional
findings of fact regarding discipline, the evidence and the argliments of the parties, the
hearing committe~ hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license of the defendant, Michael T. Mills, is hereby suspended for two
years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon him. The period of suspension is
stayed for three yea,t's upon the following conditions:
a. Mills shall not violate any state or federal laws
during the three year period of the stayed suspension.

I

b. Mills shall not violate any provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct during the three-year period of-stayed suspension.
. c. Mills shall pay all costs incurred in connection with this proceeding,
including all deposition 3Jld transcript expenses, within 30 days of
receipt of a bill of costs from the Secretary.

. 2. The Committee retains jurisdiction over this matter during the period of the
stayed suspension.
Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing ~ommittee members, this
the ~~dayof r:~

2000.

R. Fox
g Committee Chair

I

6

I

