~

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
)
)
v.
)
)
ROBERT L. BAYNES,
)
Defendant )

.

I

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

a

This matter came before Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of James R. Fox, Chair; Michael L. Bpnfoey and Robert
B. Frantz, pursuant to Section .0114 of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the
North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "Bar Rules"). Stephen T. Smith
repres~nted defendant. Douglas J. Brocker represented plaintiff. Both parties
stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this
conser'lt order and to the discipline imposed. Based upon the consent of the
parties,the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the pro'per party to bring
this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. Defendant, Robert Lindsey Baynes, (hereafter "Baynes"), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar on August 22, 1976 and was at all relevant times,
an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the Rules
and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar
(hereafter "Rules" and "Revised Rules" respectively) and the laws-of the State of
North Carolina.
.

1

I
'00004

l

,

~.

3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Baynes activelyeng~geq ,in.
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a· laW·0ffice 'in
the city of Greensboro, Guilforq County, North Carolina.
I

4. Bayneswillfully failed to file North Caroli.na state income tax returns
and failed to pay the taxes due fo('nlimerous years, il1cluding 1~95,. 1996, and
1997.
.
5. Baynes was arrested on September 24, 1998 and served with three
warrants for his arrest (hereafter i'arrest warrants").
.
.
.
6. The three arrest warrants charged Baynes with willfully failing to file a.
state tax return for calendar years 1995, 1996, and 1997 in violation of N.C. Gen.
stat. § 105-236(9).
7. The years charged in the arrest warra'nts - 1995, 1996, and 1'997 ..,.. .
were the three full years immediately preceding the issuance ofthe arre~t
warrants and the maximum number of years forwhich Baynes could be charged
pursuantto N,C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236(9).
8. the arrest warrants were issued out of Wake County District Court and
were entitled State v. Robert Lindsey Baynes,98 CR91341-:-,91343.
9. On January 6, 1999, Baynes, through his counsel Stephen T. Smith,
pled guilty to the three counts of willful failure to file tax returns set forth in th~
arrest warrants.
'

I

, 10. The Honorable William A. Creech presided at the January 6, 1999
session of the Wake County District Court. After entering a pleaof guilty, Mr,
Smith, oh behalf of Baynes, requested a prayer for judgment continued. ,
11. Judge Creech continued the matter until July 199,9; and granted
Baynes an opportunity to obtain counseling for depression arid' alcohol abuse, to
file his delinquent tax returns, and to pay the taxes due on those delinquent
returns.
12. Judge Creech heard the matter again on July-22, 1999, On that
date, Judge Creech entered judgment indicating that a prayer for judgment
would be entered if Baynes completed a total of 216 hours of community service .
by July 22, 2002.
13. Baynes was properly served with process and waived his right to
formal hearing in this disciplinary proceeding.

2

I

a

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact,
the hearing committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the def~ndant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. Baynes' conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C·. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1) & (2) as follows:

I

a. By tendering a plea of guilty to willfully failing to file state income tax
returns for 1995, 1996, and 1997, Baynes committed criminal offenses
showing professional unfitness in violation of NCGS Sec. 84-28(b)(1);and
(1) By willfully failing to file state income tax returns for 1995, 1996, and
1997, Baynes:
(a) committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on Baynes'
honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in violation of
Rule 1.2(b) and Revised Rule 8.4(b); and _
(b) engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraUd, and deceit in
violation of Rule ·1.2(c) and Revised Rule 8.4(c).·
'

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DiSCIPLINE

I

1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
A. A Prior Disciplinary Offense:
The State Bar Grievance Committee 'issued Baynes a private
reprimand in August 1989 for failing to represent a client in a
personal injury matter with reasonably diligence and
promptness.'
'. 1
B. A Pattern of Misconduct

3

I

'"
"

(i)

I

"

I

Baynes hC;1S admitted failing to file !3nd pay ~tate income
taxes timely for a ten year period from 1987 to 1997. He
currently owes significant amounts to the North Carolina
Dep!3rtrnent of Revenue (UNCDOR") fQr taxes, penaltie~
arid interest for those yea,t:s.
' ,', ,
, ~ ~\r:"

(ii)

".

.,

,',

Baynes also failed to file and pay federal income taxes '
timely for over a ten year period from 1987 to 1998, He
currently owes significant amounts to the Internal
Revenue Service' (UIRS") for those years.

C. Multiple Offenses
D. Substantial Experience in the Practice of Law

'E. Issuance of a

Lett~r of Warning.

,The State Bar Grievance Committee,isslJed Baynes a letter of
warning in August 1998 for failing to obtain title insurancefor a
real'e,state closing in a reasonably 'diligent-manner.
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by'the foHowing factors:
"

A. Efforts to Make Partial Restitution of Taxes Owed
B. Cooperative Attitude Toward Proceedings
C, Mental Disability or Impairment
Baynes has been diagnosed with clinical or major qepression!

I

D. Personal Problems
Baynes is analQoholic and began participating in the State
Bar's PALS program in May 199,5. Baynes contends thathe
has not had alcohol since that time:' "
",
:

"

E., Remorse
F. Remoteness of prior private reprimand
3. The aggravating factors outwei~h the mitigating factors.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the
'findings regarding, discipline and based upon the consent of the parties, the
hearing committee enters the following:

4

I
.

,~\

'

':,~QO,OO?

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Robert L. Baynes is hereby suspended from the practice of law for a
perioq of three years, effective 45 days from service of this order upon him.

2.

After no less than six months following the effective date of the order,
Baynes may file a verified petition for a stay of the remaining period of the
slJspension in accordance with the requirements of N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules
("Discipline Rules"), Baynes' remaining suspension' may be stayed if he
establishes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following conditions:

I

a. Baynes has complied with all the requirements -of Discipline
Rule .0124;
,
b. Baynes has complied with all the requirements of Discipline
Rule .0125(b);
c. Baynes paid· all costs assessed by the Secretary in cormection
with this proceeding within 45 days of service of these costs by the
Secretary;

-

d. Baynes has not violated any federal or state laws;
e. Baynes has provided documentation· to the State Bar that he
,has fileq all his state and feder~1 income taxes timely from the year 2000
through the year in which he petitions for reinstatement.
,

-

f. Baynes has provided documentation to the State Bar that he
has: (i) entered into a written contract or agreement with both the North
Carolina Department of Revenue and the Internql Revenue Service for
payment of all past taxes, penalties and interest, and (ii) complied With the
terms of the payment plans or agreements. At the time he files a petition,
Baynes also shall provide a release and authorization to the State Bar,
which permits it to inquire with the NCDOR arid IRS about the status of
his tax liabilities and payments under the agreements.

I

g. Baynes has not violated any provisions of the Revised Rules of .
Professional Conduct of the State Bar: and
. h. Baynes has submitteq a written certification from his treating
psychiatrist that he has followed all recommendations for treatment of any
diagnosed psychological or psychiatric conditibn(s}, including depression,
for the past six months. Bayhes also must execute a release allowing the

5

I
00008

"

,:

,"

':, .

,

,~

"

"

<\'"

State Bar to obtain his medical records and:attach that release to his
petition for reinstatement.
If Baynes' treating psychiatrist is not recommended by the 'State
Bar, the State Bar shall hav,e .the right to..t:\~ve Baynes evaloated by a
psychiatrist, selected by it, 'p'r'ibr to reinstateme'nt.

I

1 Baynes shall enter into a Recovery Contract and agree' to
participate in the L.awyer Assistance Program (tAP} of the North Carolina
.
State Bar prior to filing h'is petition.
3. Upon the entry of an order staying the remaining'term of Baynes'
suspension, such order of stayed suspension may continue in effect for the '
balance of the term of the suspension only ~lpon compliance with all of the
following conditions:
a. Baynes shall not violate' any federal or state laws.
b. Baynes provides docurnentc;lry proof that he has filed ali his
state and federal income taxes timely throughout the period of the stayed .
suspension. This p'roof of filing shall be provided to the State 'Bar not later .
than June 1 of each year of the stayed suspension.,
c. Baynes continues to comply with the terms of the payment
plans or agreements with NCDOR and IRS throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
,

,

d. Baynes shall not violate any provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar..

I

e. Baynes shall be responsible for ensuring that his treating
psychiGltrist forward reports to the State Bar certifying thGlt he has followed
all recommendations for treatment of any diagnosed, psychological or
psychiatric condition(s), inCluding depression. These reports shall be
provided semi-annually, no later than January 1 and July 1 of each year '
for the remGlinderof the stayed suspension.
'
f. Baynes shall comply with the terms of the LAP Recovery
Contract. Baynes shall authorize the Lawyer Assistance Program to
forward semi-annual reports to the North Carolina State Bar nolGlter than
January 1 Glnd July 1 of each year for the remainder ofthe stayed
suspension or the recovery contract, whichever is shorter. The reports
shall either: (i) certify Baynes' continued compliance with the Contract, or
(ii) alternatively disclose the details of l3aynes' non-complic:lnce with the
Contract.

6

I
J0009
,

,

'

4. If no part of the suspension is stayed or if the suspension is stayed and
subsequently activated, Baynes must petition the DHC at the end 'of the
suspension and establish by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, compliance
with all of the conditions set forth in paragraph 2(a) through (i) above before his
license to practice law is reinstated.
5. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission retains jllrisdiction to impose any
additional conditions on the prac~ice of law by Baynes which a duly impaneled
Hearing Committee believes are' necessary for the protection of the public at the
time Baynes petitions for reinstatement.

I

6. Baynes shall submit his license snd rn~mbership care;! to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 45 days from service of this order
upon t,he defendant.
Signed by the undersigned heating committee chair with the consent of
the other hearing committee members.
'

2000.

I

4~L·4,-~.
Robert L. Bayn{s

~~~
. DOUgla
rocker
Attorney for plaintiff

Stephen T. Smith
Attorney for defendant

7

I
000:10

