~

}

",'~

"

WAKE COUNTY

DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE ,

NORTH CAROLINA

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR.
99 DHC 11
.;'-'

,.

"

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

I

FINDINGS OF FACT"CONCLUSIONSOF •
LA W, AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

vs.
" ROBERT E. SHEAHAN, Attorney,
'Defendant .

This matter was heard on the 1st day of September, 1999 before a hearing committee of
the ~isciplinary Hearing Commissiol1 composed of Franklin E. Martin, Kenneth M. Smith, arid
Anthony E. Foriest. the Plaintiff was represented by Clayton W. Davidson, ni. The Defendarit, .
Robert E. Sheahan, was repres~nted by David C. Pishko. Based upon the pleadings and the
evidence introduced at the hearing, the hear~ng committee hereby epters the following:
DIRECTED VERDICT OF THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF
The Plaintiff failed to prove the violations alleged in the Third Claim for Relief by clear,

I

cogent, I:!11d convincing evidence, consequently, the Defend:;mt's motion to dismiss the third
Claim for Reliefmade at the close of the Plaintiff s evidence wa$, and is hereby granted, and the '. '
Third Claim for Relief is hereby DISMISSED.
FINDINGS OF FACT.
1.

The Plaintiff, the North C~olina State Bar (the "State Bar") is 'a body duly organized'
under the laws of the State of North Carolina and is the proper body to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted to it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of

Page 1

I
:'

...
.{

I

•

North Carolina and the rules and regul'ations of the State Bar promulgated pursuant
thereto (the "~tate Bar Rules and Regulations").
The Defendant, Robert K She~an, (the "Defendant") Was admitted to the State Bar:in

'2.

1~78 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice

in North Carolina supject to the State Bar Rules and Regulations and the Rules of
Professional Conduct of North Carolina.
During all or a part of the rel~vant peiiods referred to herein, Defendant was engaging in

3.

I

~he: practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in High
POInt, North Carolina (the "Law Office").
4.

in or about December 1992, iIuste4 and Husted Associates, Inc. ("Husted") retained the
pefendant to represent them in a lawsuit filed in Federal <;ourt in the Middle :Qistrict of
North Carolina 92CVO'O'770' (the "Lawsuit").

5.

At i$sue in the L~wsuit was an environmental site' assessment that Husted had performed

.

.

on real property (the "Property") for an electroplating company (the "Company").
I

i

, I

6.

The Property was subsequently foreclosed by the Company's creditor bank (th~ "Bank").

7.

The Bank brought an action alleging that Hust~d' s site assessment was negligent and
failed to disclose certain chemical leaks that reqUired remediation.

8.

Husted retained the Defendant to represent him in the matter.

9.

Ove;r the course of the representation, the pefendant billed Husted for in excess of

$63;0'0'0', and collected in excess of$45,O'OO'.
10'.

The Defendant's total charges were substantiallytnore than'the fees charged by another
law firm, Smith, Helms, Mulliss, and Moore to a co-defendant.in the matter. The amount

Page 2

I
.00026'

\.'-,

I;. • ·.'.'

,"

,'."

of legal time' and ~ffort required to defend Husted was roughly comparable to the amount·
of legal time ~d effort required to defel}d the co-defendant.

11.

','

Respondent was responsible for assigning individuals to work on the H;q~ted file.

I

".,

I

'

.~:

'<. . . .'

,

,

',"

I ~espongent assigned two summer as~ociates and a,n associate to work on the fil~.
:

i

Each

i i~dividual billed a' substantial amount of time to the file, including a substantial amount

I

of time spent researching environmental law. Much Qfthe time spent on theiile by the
associates was duplicative of earlier work.

12.

A substantial portion of the legal fees chargt)d w'!-s f0r interest on past due amounts. The
Defen~ant and Husted never entered into any contract 'or agreement that would allow

interest to be charged f9r past due legal fees,

and the rate of interest exceeded the legal.

rate.
13.

In 1995, the Defendant filed a motion for surrnnary judgmen! accompanied by a brief.
~

,

The motion and brief were prepared by a law student w.ho was a summer clerk with the
Defendant, and who had no law license and no experience in enYlrohmentallaw 'or
litigation.

14.

Subsequent to the filing of the motion for summary judgment, Husted settled the matter
for payment of$IO,OOO.

15.

On or about July 2, 1996 the Oefendani.hada telephone conversation with James Hust¢d .'
at a time when James Husted individually and Husted and Husted Associates, Inc. were

.

represented by another attorney, Robert R. Schoch ("Schoch"), concerning a dispute over.
the fees paid by Husted to the Defendant.

16.

I ~ ;

Defendant had previously been informed that Schoch represented Husted. During that
conversation, the Defendant threatened to sue Husted for treble damages for bad faith
Page 3

I
'I,",

'

'

·.00027 .

refusal to pay legal bills, which action and which d~ages would not be authorized by th
laws of the state of North Carolina.
17.

Husted informed the Defendapt during the telephone conversation that he was represente
by <schoch.

118.

After being informed by Husted that Husted was represented by another attorney, the

:Defendant continued the conversation, !Illd attempted to induce H1,1SI:ed to settle the fee

I

'dispute without involving Schoch in the conversation.
19.

:In referring to SchOCh, the Defendant stated
:[Y],ou couldn't think of a Worse person... '. [T]here's nobody in town that has any respect
for him. He's an asshole, he's a co~ehead, he's ... he's a shit ...

20.

,The statemen:ts made by the Defendant were false in that, among other things, Schoch has
never used cocaine and is not a "cokehead.

, 21.

,j

The Defendant further attempted to induce Husted to sign a confession of judgment
without adviSing Husted of his right to arbit;ration under the North Carolina State Bar's
'fee arbitration program.

24.

'In or about 1992, Charles E. Crotts ("Crotts") retained the Defendant to represent him in

a matter involving consulting work that Crow. had performed for a Delaware corporation,

I

Lamplighter Industries ("Lamplighter").
, 25.

The Defendapt agreed to represent Crotts for the purpose oifiling an action to compel
Lamplighter to issue stock, which Lamplighter had agreed to provide as Compensation for
.

!

the work done by Crotts, or in the alternative, to obtain injunctive relief and damages.
26.

In August 1994, the Defendant presented a bilI to Crotts in the amount of$28,718.89.

Page 4

I

,

27.

,",

'

A portion of the bill, approximately $8,625.61, was interest on allegedly past que
amounts.
Crotts never signed any ~gteementor otherwise entered into any contract allowing the
~, ,,"',
Defendant'to chl;U'ge interest for p'~st due amounts, arid the amount ofinterest charged
exceeded the legal rate.

I.

29.

On or about August 8, 1994, the Defendant requested that Crotts sign a confession ,of
judgemenJ for the amount of legal fees~ow~d, without informin,g Crotts of the existence 0
the North Carolina State Bar's fee arbitratiouprograpl. 'While Crotts never disputed tlie
.

I

bill, the Defendant did not adequately explain the bill to Crotts,.and the pefendantknew
or should have known that there Were substantial reasons to dispute the amoun,t of the

bill.
30.

The Defendant ultimately attempted t9 collect over $72,000 in1egal fees from Crotts and
Knightsbridge, Inc.

31.

. No legal proceedings on behalf of Crotts of Kpightsbridge;. Inc. were· ever filed.
Based on the foregoing findings of fact, the hearing committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1

The Defendant violated the North Carolina Rules ofProfessional Conduct! as follows:
a)

By charging excessive fees in the Husted matter, the Defendant violated Rule 2.6.

b)

By making untrue statements about Robert R. Schoch, the Defendant violated Rule 1.2.

I The conduct in this matter occuqed priOftQ July 24, 1997, the effective date oftheadoptipn bfthe R.evised Rules'
. of Professional Conduct, consequently the superseded Rules of Professional Conduct apply to this action.

Page 5

1

,

...
..

~

c)

.

By attempting to have Husted execute a confession or judgment without informing
,

Husted ofthe,Nortb Carolina State Bar's fee arbitration program, the Defendant violated
Rule 2.6.
d)

By charging excessive fees in the Crotts matter, the Defendant violated Rule 2.6.

e)

By charging interest in excess, of the legal rate when there was no contract for interest, the
Defendant violated Rule 1.2.

f)

By having Crotts execute a confession ofjudgl1ient without informing Crotts of the North

I

Carolina State Bar's fee arbitration prowant, the befendant violated Rule 2.6.
Based upon the foregoing Findings QfFact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence aJ,1d arguments at trial concerning the appropriate diScipline, the hearing committee
hereby makes the additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDINODISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant's misconduct is aggravatecl by the following factors:
a. A dishonest Or selfish motive;

c.

A pattern of misconduct;

d. Multiple offenses; and
e. Substantial experience in the practice of law.

I

. 2. The Defendant'~ misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:

a.

Absence of a prior disciplinary record.

3. The aggravating factors outWeigh the mitigating factor.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:

Page 6

I

··"OO.(]jo

'1

I

!

',-,

I

i ",: \~

1

\'

,,~'

:.'

,

_

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defe:ndant is hereby censured for his misconduct in the form attached hereto ..
Signed by the undersigned chair with the full knowledge and consent of all other
:.

.

..~,<.,

~

me~bers ofthe hearing committee this~lcray of fVl~

.

,"".'

,2000.,

'~~~,c:.. ~j'

I

,

,

'.~

c.

.. '.

Franklin E. Martin, Chair

,

~

'"

'

I
'-,

"

Page 7

I
, ,,00:031
"

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OFTHB
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99DHC 11

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKECbUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
I

,

ROBERT'E. SHEAHAN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

This matter Was heard on the 1st day of September, 1999 before a hearing committee of:
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Franklin E. Martin, Kenneth M. Srnith, and
Anthony E. Foriest. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the
hearing cohnnittee voted to issue this Censure to you.
,

I

.

A Censure is a written form of discipline more .s~rious than a Reprimand, issued in cases,
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has c'a4sed significant harm or poteritial significant harm to a client, the' administration of
justice, the profession or a member of the public, .but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney's license.
In 9r about December 1992, Husted and Husted Associates, Inc. ("Husted") retaine4 you
to represent them in a lawsuit filed in Federal Court in the Middle District of North Carolina
92CV00770 (the "Lawsuit"). At issue in the Lawsuit was anenvi~onmentl;ll site assessment that
Husted had performed on real property (the "Property") for an electroplating company (the
"Company"). The Property was subsequently foreclosed by the Company's creditor bank (the
"Bank"). The Bankbrought an action all~girigthat Husted's site assessment was negligent and
failed to disclose certain chemica.lleaks that required remediation.
Over the course of your representation of Husted, you billed Husted for in excess of
$63,000, and collected in excess' of $45,000. Your total charges were substantially more than the
fees charged by another law firm to a co-defendant in the matter. The amount of legal time and
effort required to defend Husted was roughly comparable to the amount of legal time and effort
required to defend the co-defendant. You ",{ere responsible for assiglung individuals to work on
the Husted file. You assigned tW9 summer associates and an associate to work on the file. Each
individual qilled a substantial amount of time to the file, inCluding a substantial amount of time
spent researching environmentallEl-w. Much of the time spent on the file by the associates waS
duplicative of earlier work. A substantial portion ofthe legal fees charged was for interest on
past due amounts. You and Husted never entered into any c<;>ntract or .agreement that would
allow interest to be charged for past due legal fees, and the rate of interest exceeded the legal
rate. By charging excessive fe~s in the Husted matter, you violated Rule 2.6 of the North
Carolina R~les of Professional Conduct. By chargipg interest in excess of the legal rate when
there was no contract for interest, you violated Rule 1.2

',1

I

,

,~"

-'

-:;

< "

. ,::

1

,

\'

.
I:
~
On or about July 2, 1996 you 'had a telephone c~nv~:t:satit:m with James, Hust~d at a, ,tim~
when James Husted individ~ally ~d Husted and Husted, Associates, Inc. was represented by ,
another attorney, Robert R. Schoch (','Schoch"), concerning a dispute over the f~es paid by •
Husted to you. You ,had previously been informed that Schoch represented Husted. During that
conversation, you threatened to sue Husted for tr~ble damages for bad faith refusal to pay 'legal
bills, which action and which damages would not be authorized by the law~ dfthe state of North
Carolina. Husted informed you 'during the telephone conv.etsation that he was repreSented. by
Schoch. After being informed by Husted~hat Huste~ was represented by another attorney, YOll
continued the conversation, and attempted to tnduce IIllsted to settle the fee dispute without
involving Schoch in the conversation. In referring to .schoch, you stated:
,

"

,i

I

I

I ,/

.

[Y]ou couldn't think of a worse person.... [T]here's nobody in town that has any respect
for him. He's an asshole, he's a cokehead, he's ... he's a shit ...
The statements maae by you were false i~ that, among other things, Schoch has never used
cocaine and is not a "cokehead." You a~so attempted to induce Husted to &ign a'confession of
judgment without advising Husted of his right to arbitration under. the North Carolina State Bar's
fee arbitration program. By making untrue statements about Robert R. Schoch, you violated Rule
1.2. By attempting to have Husted. execute a confession of judgment without informing Husted '
of the North Carolina State Bar's fee arbitrationptogram" you violated Rule 2.6.
.
On or about 1992, Charles E., Crotts ("Crotts") retained yqu to represent him in a matter
involving consulting work that Crotts h~d performed for a Delaware corporation, Lamplighter
Industries ("Lamplighter"). You agreed to represent Crotts for the purpose of filing @ actiontb
compel Lamplighter to issue stock, which Lamplighter had agreed to provide as compen&ation
for the work done by Crotts, or in the alternative, to obtain injunctive relief and damages. In
August 1994, you presented a bill to Crotts in the amount of$28,718.89. A portion of the bill,
approximately $8,625.61, was interest on allegedly past due amounts. Crotts never signed any
agreement ot otherwise entered into any cpntract allowing you to, charge interest for past due'
amounts, and the amount of interest charged exceeded the legal rate. On or about August 8, .
1994, you requested that Crotts siSTI a confession of judgment for,the amount of legal fee& owed,
without informing Crotts of the existence of the North Carolina State Bar's fee arbitration
program. While Crotts never disputed the bill, you did not adequately explain the bill to Crotts,
and you knew or should have known that there were substantial reasons to dispute the amount ·of
the bill. You ultimately attempted to collect qver $72,000 ill legal fees frOl11 Crotts and
Knightsbridge, Inc. No legal proceedings on behalf of Crotts ofI<nightsbridge, Inc. were ever
filed. By charging excessive fees in the Crotts matter, you violated Rule 2.6 of the North
Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct. By charging interest in excess of the legal rate "Yhen
there was no, contract for interest, you violated Rqle l.2. By having Crotts execute a confession
of judgment without informing Crotts of the North Carolina State Bar's fee arbitration prosram,
you violated Rule 2.6.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar fot your violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission trusts that you will ponder this,
Censure, recognize the error that you,have made, and that you will never again ;:i.llow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legaJ profession. This Censure should
serve as a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your
,
responsibility to the public, your cliellts, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you

I

. ,---

,

--....-~. '--,~ ~"

do not demean yourself as a respected meni'ber of the legal profession whose conduct may be
'
relied upon without question.

Done and ordered, this _~_

:;;.::-....~-'-~_--,.._'_, 2000.

:=::J~£;~
Franklin 'E. Martin, Chair
isciplinary Hearing Committee

I

I

I

