"
~

,1

,

, WAKE COUNTY

'BEFORE THE
,
DISCIPLINARY HEARINO COMMISSIO
OF THE
. ~.
NORTH
CAROLINA
STATE.B
,
,
"
, t:\J~.,

NORTH CAROLINA

"

.: ~'~:~'"

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

I

v,
TROY SLAUG~TER, ATTORNEY ,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

99DHC 32

fie

~
N

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLJ;NE

this matter camebefQre a Hearing Corrunittee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred H. Moody, Jr., Esq., Chair; .T. Paul Messick, Jr., Esq;; and Anthony E. Fariest,
pursuarit to 27 N:C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, 'Subchapter B Section .0114 (H) 6nhe Rules and-,
Regulations of the North Carolina ,State Bar. The defendant, Troy Slaughter, w~s represented by
Joseph B. Cheshire V and Alan M. Schneider. The piaintiff was, represented bY'Carolin
Bakewell. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions oflawreqited
in this consent order and to the discipline imposed.. Based upon the consent of the parties the
hearing committee hereby enters the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
,1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organizedun:der'the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted, it in
Chapter 84 oftM General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North' .
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant Troy Slaughter (hereafter, Slaughter), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1993, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law c
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State of North Carolina.

'.

3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein,,~laughter was actively engaged
in the practice of law in the State of North C:;rroli:na and maintainecJ. offices for the practice oOaw
in the City of Wilmington, New Hanover County, North Carolina. '
4. From March 1, 1996 until April 7, 1999, Slaughter was a 25% equity partner in ~he '
law firm then known as Jackson; Rivenbark and Slaughter (hereaft;er, the law firm). The oth~r
pa~ners in the law firm were Bruce Jackson (hereafier,Jackson) and Christina Rivenbark

000'35

-------:---------:---------:--------~------------- -- -

(hereafter, Rivenbark).
5. On or abollt December 11, 1991, James Bowen, Megan Bowen, John Bowen and
Stephen Bowen (hereafter, collectively, the Bowens) were injured in a motor vehicle accident in
New Hanover County. The Bowens were all minors at the time of the accident.
6. On or about Dec. 12, 1997, Rivenbark undertook to represent the Bowens on behalf
of the law firm. 7. Brian Eberly was the individual whose vehicle collided with the car in Which the
Bowens were riding at the time of the Dec. 11, 1997 accident.
8. In Ju~y 1998, the Bowens' -claims were settled with Eberiy's insurance carrier. -

I

9. R. Jay Short Jr. (hereafter, Short), was retained by Ebedy's insurance carrier to
effectuate t4e court approval of the minor settlements. In this regard, Short was to draft the
necessary documents for a Special-Preceeding in the New Hanover County Clerk of Court's
office.
10. :Because the Bowens were minors, the settlement respeCting their claims had
approved by the New Hanover County Superior Court.

to be

11. In late July 1998, Short forwarded to Rivenbark for-review a draft petition and court
order approving the minor settlement in the Bowens case. _The draft petition and order listed
Rivenbark as the attorney for th~ Bowens and the person to whom the attorney fees in the case
were to be paid. Short prepared the Court Order and other settlement-documents under the belief
that Rivenbark would appear in New Hanover County Superior Court on behalf of the Bowens.
12. In November of 1998, Jackson, Rivenbark, Slaughter and other staff members, had a
meeting in the firm's upstairs conference room; the purpose of the meeting was to reduce
Rivenbark's:caseload by reassigning her cases to others. Slaughter was assigned the Bowen
cases and the law firm's internal client list was updated to reflect this change. Slaughter began
discussions with Short to determine the status of the caseS and the work that was necessary to
resolve the c~ses. Slaughter reviewed the settlement documents and made the necessary
preparations to appear in New Hanover CountY Superior C~>urt to obtain court approval for the
minor settlement in the Bowens' case. Slaughter, having taken over responsibility for the case,
struck through the various petitions and added his name as the attorney for the Bowens.

I

13. On or about March 31, 1999, Slaughter presented the petition and brder approving
the minor settlement in the Bowens': case to Hon. W. Allen Cobb, Jr; (hereafter, Judge Cobb), for
review.
14. The proposed order of March 31, 1999 provided for $9,448.05 in attorneys fees to be
disbursed to Rivenbark The order contained two mathematical errors: 1) it called for $757 to be:

2

I

",.'

....,', :
!

", ,;

t'"

:.

'f' , .. ~

.' ~'

~ i

disbursed to Coastal Chiropractic ort beh8J.f of Megan B'ow~~and 2) it failed to require a $39.68
. payment to N.C. DMA(Medicaid) on behaif of John Bowen;
.
15. On or abo'ut April 9, 1999, Jackson informed defepdant that the law firm was
dissolved. Slaughter retained, th~ Bowen file, which had', not, yet been conclud~d',

,

",

'

'.~', ~r:..::,:~

II' ':

'~. \~ ~

16. Sometime shortly after April9,"i'999, Slaught~r cofltacted Short and asked him to
amend the Bowens' or4er to correct the mathematical mistakes referenced in paragraph 14 and to
identify Slaughter as the attorney of record.
.

I

17. On or ab9ut April 26, 1999, SI'J.ughter presented the amended order to Judg~ Cobb ..
The amended order corrected thi mathematical mistakes referred to in paragraph 14 and .
identified Slaughter as the person to whom the $9,448.05 in attorneys fees were to be paid.
18. On April 26, 1999, 'Slaughter presented the amended order to J~dg~ Cobb for
signature .. In J,'espc)ll~e to an inquiry from Judge Cobb, Slau¢1ter indicated that changes in the
amellded order were minor mathematical corrections and that the order as amended had been
reviewed and approved by Rebecca Cat;r?ll, a member of the Clerk of Court's stcd'f.
"

19. III fact, the order had been amended to substitute Slaughter, instead of Rivenbark, as
the payee for attorney fees. Slaughter did not advise Judge Cobb of.this change and incorrectly
stated that Ms. Carroll had approved the order as amended.

20. The N.C. State Bar has dismissed all other allegations against Slallghter set out in the·
original Complaint filed herein.,
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the COl1111'litteeenters the following: .

'CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By representing to Judge Cobb that the amended order in the Bowen case had been
reviewed and approved by Rebecca Carroll in its totality, and that changes ip the amended Qrder
were minor mathematical corrections, Slaughter engaged in condu<;:t involving a
.
misrepresentation 'in violation of Rule 8.4C c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters the following:

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I, The defendant's misconduct is Jl1iti~ated by the folloWing f'J.ctors:
(a)

absence of a prior .disciplinaryrecord; and

(b)

good character and reputation.'

"

3.

I
.00037

2. There are no aggravating factors.

.

.

Based upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLUSIONS OF LAW and the
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE and based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Committee enters the following,

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Fot the conduct described in this o~der, the Defen<;lant is hereby censured by the
North Carolina State Bar.
2. The Defendant is taxed with the costs as assessed by the Secretary.
•

•

I

>

Sigried by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
, members of the Hearing Commjttee.

This the!

;)..0

day of March, 2000'

Fred H. Moody, Jr., C
Hearing C01l11ilittee
We Consent:

em.

I

y for Defendanl

k-Lt.,'c4

Alan M. S~hneider
Attorney for Defendant

~\;~~zki,~
Carolin Bakewell
Attorney for Plaintiff

4

I

00038

