- .". '/ Z2~Z2
NORTfl CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE.
NORTH CAROLINA
. _.- STATE BAR

WAl<E COUNTY

, -

98G0078

IN THE MATTER OF

T. O. STOKES, III,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
}
)

REPRIMAND

On January20, 2000, th~ Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grie.vance filed ~gain&t you by GO'S.
Pursuant to section .,o113(a:) of-the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance C9mmittef,'l conducted a preliminary hearing. After consideririg the
information. available to it, including your respOnse to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committ~e fOUIld probable cause. Probable cause 'is defined in the rules ~s I~reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmiscon<;l~ctjustifying
.
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a fmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the :tiling of a compl~int and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not reql]ired, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, alid any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney, .
.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued' in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more' provisions of the Rules of Professional·
Conduct and has caused hann or potential hami to a client, the administration of justice, the,
profession,, or a member of the pl,lblic, but the ririsconduct does not require a censur~. .
The Grievance Comhlittee was ofth~ opinion that a censur~ is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
CarolinaState Bar, it is' now my duty to isslle this reprimand, and I am certajn that you will
understand fully the sPIrit in which this duty is performed.
'
In February 1997, you were forwarded a,~heck from Integon lfiSurance'ComparIY mad¢
jointly payable to you and.your client. ,As a condition ofn~gotiating the check, the insurance
company required that you have the client sign a property damage release and provide title with
the lien released to the wrecked vehicle. You negotiated the check without obtaining the signed;
release, and without forwarding a title to the vehicle. You failed to respond to multiple letters'
from the insurance adju~ter requesting the release and th~ tjtle. Your failure to f(dlow the
instructions of the insurcplce company regarding the disbursement of the funds viobltes Rule

t

,!

i

i

00048.

1.15-2. In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Grievance Committee took into accoUnt your
previous disciplinary history. The Grievance Committee further took into account the very short,
.two-page response which you filed :Which the Grievance Committee did not believe adequately
addressed the issues in this matter.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar 4ue to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be' .
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you.will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
. Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued Ii reprimand by the Grievance COlnmittee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 ate hereby taxed to you.
Don~ and ordered, this.

1:3 day of /?((At:(

I

.. ,2000.

~~ .
.Chair, Grievance Committee

I

I
.
\

00049'

,

