.-:,<
'-';

1(P
'WAKE COUNTY

..

NQRTH CAROLINA
"

t

'

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
,'
Plaintiff

v..
ROBERT W. ADAMS, Attorney
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

I

This matter was heard on November 6, 1997 before a hearing committee~tthe
Discipl~atY. Hearing Commission composed of Michael L. Bonfoey, Chair; Joseph G.
Maddrey, and B. Stephen Huntley. The North Carolina State Bar was represented by
Fern Gunn Simeon. The defendant, Robert W. Adams, represented himself. Based upon
the admissions of the defendant deemed from the default entered by the Secretary on
October 1O~ 1997 due to defendant's failure to file an ansWer or other pleading in this
matter and the evidence introduc'ed at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby 'enters
the followi~g:
.FINDINGS OF'FACT

1. The North Carolina State Bar, the plaintiff, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the \
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. The defendant, Robert W. Adams, Was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in 197'2 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
.practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional
Conduct ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. I?uring most of the periods referred to herein, defendant was engaged in the
practice of law in North Carolina and maintained it law office in Hickory, North
'
Carolina.

I

."

",

"",'

.,

'.

,'"

I"

-

--,

,

,

,

,,'

4. The defehdant was properly served with process and the hearing was held with
due notice to all parties.
5. In January 1996, Ned and Paula McLean (the McLeans) retain~d the defendant
to represent them ina lawsuit filed a,gain~t them by Asa and, Eunice Groves (the Groves).

I

6. On June 11, 1996, the Groves' attorney, Michael P. Baumberger; served upon
the defenciant a notice to take the McLeans' depositions on July 9, 1996,
7. The defendant did not tell the McLeans that Baumberger wanted to'take their
depositions on July 9, 1996.
'
8. Neither the defendant nor the McLeansappeared at the scheduled deposition of '
the McLeans.
9. On July 9, 1996, Baumberger filed a motion for sanctions for the McLeans'
failure to appear for their deposjtions.
10. The defendant was served with the motion for sanctions and the m;>tice of
hearing 4t the matter.
1i. The defendant did not tell the McLeans that a motiQn for sanctions had been
filed and he did not tell them about the hearing on the motion for sanctions scheduled for
July 29, 1996.
.
12. On July 29, 1996, neither the defendant nor the McLeans appeared at the
hearing on the motion for sanctions.

I

13. Judge Beverly T. Beal held that the McLeans willfully and wrongfully failed
to appear for their depositions and, he s!;Ulctioned the McLeans in the 'amQunt of $300.00.
Judge Beal ordered the McLeans to pay the $300.00 into the Clerk of Court's office on or
before August 28, 1996 or they wouid be subject to further sanctions, includ,ing striking
their pleadings in the civil action.

14. The defendant did not tell the McLeans about the outcome ofthe hearing 011
the motion for sanctions.
15. On August 6, 1996, a mediation conference was held respecting the
McLeans' case. The defendant agreed to settle the ma.tter ori behalf of the McLeans for
$1,500.00.
16. The mediator ordered the McLeans to pay the $1,500.00 within 30 days frotn,
August 6, 1996.

I

17. The defendant did not tell the McLeans that the $1,500.00 had to be paid by a
specific date.
18. In letters dated February 20 and February 21, 1997, State Bar counsel
directed questions concerning'the McLeans' grievance to the defendant. The defendant
was asked to respond to the questions within 10 days of the dates of the letters~
19~ 'The defendant did not respond to the questions concerning the McLeans'
grievance..

20. On July 25, 1996, the Grievance Committee issued a reprimand to the
defendant for his failure to respond to a grievance filed by Denise R. Queen (Queen), file
number 96G0320(IV).

I

21. On August 22, 1996, the defendant was served with the reprimand in the
Queen grievance by certified mail return receipt requested.
22. Pursuant to sectio~ .0113(k) of the Discipline atld Disability Rules of the
North Carolina State Bar, the defendant did not serve upon the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar written refusal of the reprimand and he did not request a hearing
before the Disciplinary Hearing Cotnmission within 15 days after the reprimand was
served upon him. Thus, the defendant had accepted the reprimand in the Queen
grievance ..
23 .. The defendant was taxed with the administrative and investigative costs in the
amount of $50.00 respecting the Quee~ grievance.
.
24. The defendant failed to pay the $50.00 costs, despite requests from State Bar
counsel to pay the costs.
25. On November 1, 1996, a grievance, file number 96G1345, was established
against the defendant for his failure· to pay the costs in the reprimand in the QueeJ)
grievance..

I

26. The defendant finally paid the $50.00 costs on February 6, 1997.
27. The defendant testified that he was divorced in 1989 and that he has had a
difficult ti~e coping in his personal life since that time.
28. :The defendant testified that he has been depressed since his divorce. He has
not been diagnosed as suffering from clinical depression.
29. The defendant testified that he did not have a substance abuSe problem
involving either drugs or alcohol. He did testify that he consumes three glasses of scotch
every night.

I

30. The defendant testified that he had some organization and law office
management problems \vhen his secretary left in 1990. However, the defendant believes
that his office situation is improving with th~ employment .or. new office personnel.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearins committee enters the
following:

1

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are prop~rly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant, Robert W. Adams, and the subje!;t matter.
2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) and (3) as fol1ow~:
a. By failing to represent the McLeans diligently in their case, the
defendant neglected a client matter in violation of Rule6(b)(3) and failed to catty
out a contract of employment entered i:p.to with a client for professi()nal services in
violation of Rule 7.1(a)(2) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
b. By failing to COlIimunicate adequately with th~ McLeans about their
case, the defendant has failed to communicate with clients in violation of Rule
6(b)(1) of the Rules of Professional conduct

1

c. By failing to respond to the State Bar counsel's inquiries concerning
the McLeans' grievance, the defendant failed to respond to a lawful inquiry of a
disciplinary authority in violatIon of Rule 1.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
d. By failing to pay promptly the costs of $50.00 in a reprimand imposed
by the Grievance Committee, the defenda:p.t has engaged in conduct prejudicial to
the administration of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a.

'I

prior disciplinary offenses, including:

i. a reprimand issued by the Grievance Cortnnittee in 1991;
ii. an admonition issued by the Grievance Committee in 1994; and
iii. a reprimand issued by the Grievance Committee in 1996.
b. pattern of misconduct;
c. multiple offenses;

I

d. bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by intentionally
failing to comply with rules or orders of the disciplinary agency; and
e. 'subst~tial experience in the practice oflaw.
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. absence of a dishonest or selfish motive; and
b. remorse.
3. The aggravating factors do outweigh the mitigating factors.
Basyd upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments or
the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license of the defendant, Robert W. Adams, is hereby suspended for two
years. This suspension is stayed for two years upon the following terms and conditions:
a. Within 30 days of the date of the hearing in this case, defendant shall
make an appointment with a board certified psychiatrist Who is a member of the
North Carolina Chapter of Addictions Medicine and is acceptable to the North
Carolina State Bar, for an evaluation of defendant's mental or emotional health.
This evaluation shall include a substance abuse assessment of the defendant.
Within five days of making the appointment with the psychiatrist, the defendant
shall notify the North Carolina State Bar of the name, address, and telephone
number of the psychiatrist that he wishes to use. The North Carolina State Bar
shal\ advise the defendant as quickly as possible of its approval or disapproval of
the psychiatrist that the defendant wishes to use.
I

"

b. If the psychiatrist recommends that the defendant receive treatment for
any mental or emotional problems or receive treatment for any substance abuse

I

-- ,

problem, the defendant shall follow the prescribed course oftreatmellt for as long
as the psychiatrist recommends.
c. The defendant's psychiatrist shall notify.the North Carolina State Bar
of the date that the 'defendant begins his treatment for any mental, emotional, Of
substance abuse probiems. At the conclusion of the defendant's treatment, the
psychiatrist shall file a wiitten report with the North Carolina State Bar about the
defendant's treatment. The written report shall specifically include the
psychiatrist's opinion about whether the defendant suffers from any mental,
emotional, or substance abuse problem which will interfere with the defendant
performing the obligations necessary to practice law.

I

d. The defendant shall not have violated any state or fedetallaws during
the .period of the two-year stayed ~uspension.
e. The defendant shall not have violated any provisions ofthe Rules of
Professional Conduct during the period of the two-year stayed suspensioil.
f. The defendant shall pay all costs incurred and taxed against him iIi'this
proceeding within 90 days of the elate that the: order of discipline is' signed. by the
heari:ng committee chairman.
Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this
the

I

'2.~

day of Nov--C-

, 1997.

c:=:==~.~
Michael L. Bonfoey,
Hearing Committee Chair

.

