WAKECO~TY

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMiSSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
00DHC7

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff'
)
}

v.
REGINALD SCOTT, Attorney
Defendant

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

)
)
)
)

THIS MATTER coming before the unqersigned Chairman of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission pursuant to.27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, §
.0117(d). of the North Carolina Stat¢ Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon the affidavit
of the Consent to Disbarment executed by the defendant, Reginald Scott, on May 23,
2000 and filed with the undersigned on May 23, 2000 and the undersigned finds from that
Consent to Disbarment the following·:

I

. 1; The defendant's Consent to Disbarment was freely and voluntarily rendered,
was not the result of coercion or duress and the defendant W/ilS fulIy aware of the
implications of submitting this Consent to Disbarment.
2. The defendant is aware that a hearing has been scheduled respecting the
allegations contained in the State_ Bar's comp1a.4tt in this matter and that by submitting
this Consent to Disbarment he is giving up the right to d~f(md himself against those
allegations at that hearing.
3. The defendant has adinitted that the material facts contained in the State Bar's
complaint ate true.
, 4. The 4efendant has admitted that he is guilty ofthe misconduct alleged in the
. State Bar's complaint that is mcorporated herein by reference.

5. :The defendant's' Consent to Disbarment was submitted because the defendant
knows that he could not successfully defend against the allegations in the State Bar's
complaint in this matter.
.
'BASED UPON the foregoing fmdings, the 'undersigned concludes as follows:
(a} The affidavit of the defendant contained in his Consent to Disbarment meets
the requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1; Subchapter B, § .0117(d) of the
.
North Carolina State ]3ar Discipline & Disability Rules.

I

.

·,',

"'ro".

...

(b) The Consent to Disba1'111-ent filed by the defendant herein should be accepted. ..

(c) The fact~ as.found constitute grounds for disbarment.

I

THEREFORE it is hereby ORDEREP:
1. The defendant, Reginald Scott,. is hereby DISBARRED fr9m the practice 9f
law in North Carolina.
2. The defendant shall submit his law license and membership card to. the
Secr~tary of the North Carol~a State Bar no later than 30 days following serVice ofthis

order upon the defe~dant.
3. The defeIldant shall pay the costs of this pmceeding as assessed by the .
Secr¢tary by July 31',2000.
4. The defendant shall comply with all provisions of2'J N.C~ Adntin; Code
Chapter 1, Subchapt~r B, § .Oq4 of the North Carolina State Bar DisCipline &
Disbarment Rides.
.
This the Q

I

s4day ofhlay, 2000.

DiSCIplinary Hearing Commission

,

I

.

!..••

~,

