BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G0549

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Donald W. Marcari,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)


REPRIMAND

On July 17,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You sent a direct mail solicitation to a person who had been involved in a car accident.
The advertising notice, "THIS IS AN ADVERTISEMENT FOR LEGAL SERVICES", was not
on the front of the direct mail solicitation envelope. In addition, your solicitation letter to the
potential client had the advertising notice in a font that was smaller than your law firm name on
the letterhead.

The Grievance Committee found that the aforementioned conduct violated Rule 7.3(c)(l)
of the Rules of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee was particularly concerned
about the absence of the advertising notice on the front of the envelope. The Grievance
Committee believed that the lack of advertising notice on the front of the envelope goes to the
very heart of Rule 7.3 as it relates to giving the recipient of the direct mail solicitation the
opportunity to discard the letter without opening it once the recipient knows that the letter
contains an advertisement for legal services.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

JRF/lr

10 \.h

day of

y

,

2008

