'I

0,

3111

L. . • •_."_'~' ".

NORTH CAROLiNA'
WAKE COUNTY

,

~

:.

:~

.

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE·BAR'
,;,;,.,'
9900709
"

.
."

,

IN THE MATTER OF

I

Romallus 0; Murphy
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

< •• :'

RErRIMAND

j

On April 13, 2000 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed ag~inst you by Katie L. Brown.
Pursuant to Section .0113{a) 'of the Discipline & Disability Rules offue North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance,Cominittee conducted a preliminary hearin~. After considering the
information available to it, including yoUr response to the Letter of Notice, the Grievance
Committee found 'probable caus'e. ,Probable cause is defined in the Rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the Norih, Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action.~'
The Rules provide that after a f1nding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
.
Commi~sion are not required, and the Grievance Committee may Issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the act\.lal or potential injury caused, and any·
aggravating or mitigating factors. The'Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand,or a censure to, the respondent attorney.

a

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm toa client, the administration of Justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was'of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
'and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance' Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am c;ertain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
The Complainant, Katie L. Brown, retained you on or around October 27, 1993 to file a
medical malpractice action. You filed the suit on her behalf on May 8, 1995. This lawsuit was'
filed before Rule 90) was adopted, requiring review of the allegations ih the complaint by a
healthcare provider relating to the standard of medical care. Subsequently, you could not find a

I
"

medical expert to testify at trial, so you'took a voluntary dismissal ofthecase without prejudice.
You advised the Complainant of the 'voluntary dismissal and the reasons for the dismissal by
letter dated August 3, 1995. You again wrote the Complainant on May 6, 1996, advising her that
her medical malpractice claim was stiUalive, but that you had been unable to obtain medical
r~portsi Y op promised to refile Complai1;l~t' s lawsuit by August. On August 1, 1996, you
tefiled the Complainant's medical'malpractice action. By this ti~e, Rule 90) had been adopted,
requiring medical review of the malpractice pleadings. You identified medical experts who
would have opined that the medical care the Complainant received did not comply with the
applicable standard of care. However, you did not receive the experts' reports prior to refiling
the civil cOl11plaint on August 1, 1996. You received the medical reports on August 16, 1996 and
September 16, 1996. Thereafter, you filed a motion seeking to supplement the pleadings. You
provided the Complainant with a, copy of the motion, the supplemental pleadings and the
medical rep0rts that you filed with the supplemental pleadings. On October 23, 1996, the trial
court 4ismissed Complainant's lawsuit for failure to comply With Rule 9(j), ruling that Rule 90)
precluded an amendment of the pleadings. pursuant to Rule 15, as a matter oflaw. You reviewed
the relevant Jaw and decided thatthere'was no basis for appeal from the trial court's dismissal of
Complainant's lawsuit.· Therefore;you'did not file an appeal. It appears that you were precluded'
from refiling the lawsuit after th<:? dismissal by the trial court because yOU had already entered a
voluntary di$missal without prejudice in August 1995. Subsequently, you filed a Rule 60 motion
With the trial' court based in part on Cases involving Rule 9(j) which had been decided by the
North Carolina Court of Appeals following the, dismissal of Complainant's lawsuit. The trial
court denied 'the Rule 60 motion. You did not appeal the trial court's decision. Although you
apparently informed the Complainant of the trial court's denial of the Rule 60 motion, it is clear
that you did not adequately explain the proceedings in this case to the Complainant so that she
could understand the proceedings and co~ld make an informed decision abolit the legal matters.
Based on the foregoing facts, the Grievance Committee concluded that you violated Rule 6 of the
superseded Rilles of Professional Conduct by failing to keep Complainant adequately and
reasonably informed of all critical issu~s and rulings in her case.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina StClte Bat for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethIcal standards of the legal profession.

I

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative ~osts to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the 2.;2.. day Of_.L..JlJ1."--'""~'-"7<lr-'_______,)000.

1

. Dorsett nIChair

Grievance Committee
"

"

I

