BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G0759

1\ORTH CAROLINA
,If AKE COUNTY

N THE MATTER OF
SCOTT B. SPRANSY,
J\ttorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)


REPRIMAND

On October 23,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
mnsidered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
illformation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
On or about February 25, 2008 D. Yost hired you to represent K. Barnes in a traffic
matter. Ms. Yost paid $375 for your services. Your legal assistant failed to open a file for Ms.
Barnes and therefore the matter was never calendared resulting in the issuance of a failure to
appear against Ms. Barnes. Ms. Barnes was also notified that her license was in jeopardy of

luspension. Your legal assistant also failed to relay messages left by Ms. Yost concerning this
lI1atter and failed to infOlm you of the fee dispute petition Ms. Yost filed.
As of at least January 2008 you were aware of problems created by your legal assistant,
namely her acceptance of clients, collection of fees and failing to infonn you of the same and
failing to infonn you of phone messages and correspondence from clients and the State Bar.
.'\lthough you were aware of your legal assistant's failures, you failed to adequately supervise her
in violation of Rule 5.3(c): Responsibilities Regarding Nonlawyer Assistants. Had you done so,
the harm to Ms. Bames would have been avoided. The Committee therefore concluded that you
failed to handle Ms. Barnes' matter in violation of Rule 1.3: Diligence and Rule 8A(d):
Misconduct and failed to communicate with Ms. Barnes in violation of Rule 1.4(a):
Communication.
Since you were not served with the ce11ified letter containing notice of the fee dispute, the
Committee determined that you had not violated Rule I.S(t): Fees.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done aIld ordered, this the

JRF/lr

\.~~

day

of~

,2008

