,~

,

• <

:.

.,

..

...

-

\

)

WAKE COUNT .NORTH CAROLI

.1 ;~ •• :

',j

I

}
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)

KENNETH N. BARNES,
Defendant

)
)
)

This matter came before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplin$ry Hearing
Commission compo$ed of James R. Fox, chair, T. Paul M~ssick, Jr., and Charles
'Barnes, pursuant to Section .0114 of the Discipline and Disability-Rules 'of the
North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "Bar Rules"). Defendant represented,
hi,m~elf. Dquglas J, Brocker represented plai[ltiff., Both parties .stipulate and ,,'
agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order
a'nd to the discipline imposed. Based upon the consent of the parties the,
hearing committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Baril). is a body
duly organized under the laws Of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring
this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84' of the General
.
Statutes of North Carolina, 'and the Rules and Regulations ,of the North CarQlina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Kenneth N. Barnes, (hereafter "Barnes"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 22, 1987 and was at all relevant times', '
an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the Rules,
and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar
(hereafter "Rules l ' and "Revised Rules" respectively) and the laws of the State of
North Carolina.

1

I
,

'
"

"'.

· 3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Barnes actively engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
the cify of Raleigh, Wake County, North Caroliha.
4. Sheelagh M. Anderson (hereafter "Anderson") was involved in Cl
seriou's automobile accident on February 7, 1994 (hereafter "accident").
5. Anderson retained the law firm of Stratas & Weathers to represent her
in pursuing claims for personal injuries and worker'scompen$ation benefits
arising out of the accident.

I

6. Anderson signed two contracts for legal services with Stratas &
Weathers,one for her personal injury claim and a separate one for her worker's
compensation claim (hereafter "contracts for legarservice$,ll).
7. Stratas & Weathers filed a proceeding before the North Carolina
Industrial Commission for recovery of the worker's compensation benefits.
8. Stratas & Weathers obtained worker's compensation benefits for
Anderson through this proceeding,
9. Stratas '& WeClthers also filed a complaint in .Orange County Superior
Court for her personal injuries caused by the ·accident· . "
1, O. At,a mediated settlement conference on August 7, 1.9.97; a settlement
was reached on:Andersotl's personal injury claim;. "

11. On September 2, 1997, Anderson signed a final settlement agreement
, On both the persohal injury and worker's compensation claims.

12. The North Carolina Industrial Commission subsequehtly entered an
order approving the finClI settlement agreement.

I

13. After signing the final settlement agreement and after the Industrial
Commission had approved it, Anderson refused to pay Stratas & Weathers the
fees called for in the contracts for legal services.

14. Anderson subsequently hired Sarnes to repteseht het regarding her
refusal to pay Stratas & Weathers' fees.
15. Barnes wrote to Stratas & Weathers about the disputed fee on
October 8, 1997. In that letter, Barnes, among other things, threatened to
involve the StClte Bar if the fee dispute was not resolved.

2

I
"·:.~OQ149
".
.
,, '

-,

~

.

"

,l·

'.

~".- .. _,

16. Bprnes continued to demand that Stratas & Weathers accept p
.signifiCant fee reduction and threaten to ihvolve the State Bar and damage the
firm's reputation if the firm did not agree to C\ substanHal fee reduction.
17. Both contracts for legal services provided that the parties would
submit to binding fee arbitration through the Tenth JUdicial District Bar.

I

18. Banies; on behalf of Anderson, refused to submit to binding fee
arbitration as provided in the contract
19. After Stratas & Weathers refused to agree to a substantial fee
reduction, Barnes filed a grrevance with the North Carolina State Bar on April 28,
1999, against Nicholc:ls A. Stratas, IV {hereCifter "Stratas"), senior partner of
Stratas and Weathers.
20.0n May 8, 1998, Stratas & Weathers,·through retained counsel, filed a
declaratory judgment action against Anderson (hereafter "qeclaratory judgment
action").
.
21. The declaratory judgment action sought a. declaration of the parties'
rights and duties under the contracts for legal services.
22. On Septemb<?r 3, 1998; Barne,s, on behalf of Anderson, fileg an.
Answer and Counterclaims in the declaratory judgment ,action .
. .;"

:

,', ,

'.

.. 23.The Answer'and Counterclaims,were signed by Barnes and verified by'
Anderson.
24. Barnes advised or counseled Anderson to verify the Answer and
Counterclaims.

I

25, Barnes, on behalf ·of Anderson, asserted nine different defenses anq
four different counterclaims.
26. Stratas & Weathers, througl'il couh~el, file~ a motion for summary
judgment in January 1999.
27. The Honorable Superior Court Judge Narley L. Cashwell entered an
Qrder on February 15, 1999, granting Stratas & Weathers' motion for summary
.judgment. The order .granted judgment in favor of Stratas & Weathers on its
declaratory judgment claim anq against Anderson on her counterclaims.
28. On March, 12, 1999, Stratas. & Weathers, through counsel, filed a
motion for costs, attorneys' fe'es, and sanctions against Anderson and Barnes
pursuant to Rule 11 of the Rules of Civil Procedure.

3

I
~Hu"';
,. L
"

,

;'~:A_' (}(()lS'O' ~,
.

-.,

29. After a hearing, Juc!ge Cashwell entered qn order on March 24, 1999,
awarding costs, attorneys' fees and sanctions against Anderson and Barnes
(hereafter "sanction order").
30. In the sqnction order, Judge Cashwell concluded that the defenses
and counterclaims, asserted by Barnes and verified by AndersOn, were not well
grounded in fact anc! not warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for
the extension, modificqtion, or reversal of existing law.

..
"

31. Judge Cashwell also found that the defenses and counterclaims pled
by Barnes on behalf of Anderson were "interposed for the improper purpose of
harassment of Stratas & Weathers and to needlessly increase the cost to Stratas
& Weathers of th[e] litigation .."

I

32. Judge Cashwell further concluded that the grievance flied by Barnes
against Stratas was broWght for the improper purpose of seeking to force a
resoluti.on of the fee dispute on Barnes' and Anders00's terms.
33. Judge Cashwell ordered that Anderson and Barnes pay Stratas &
Weathers $85,000 in attorneys' fees and sanctions and $1,529 ,in costs. Judge
Cashwell also authorized Stratas and Weathers to deduct Anderson's portion of
the sanctions from the proceeds of the settlement of the civil suits.
34. Barnes appealed the sanction order and that appeal is currently ,
',pend,ing. The parties 'agree, however, that the dispositionofthe appeal will not
be a basis to set aside this consent order unless Judge Cashwell's findings that
the, dj3fenses Clnd counterclaims asserted by Barnes were not well grounded in
fact and not warranted by existing law are reversed or vacated. In that event, if
a subsequent order is entered setting aside the consent order, th'e State Bar
shall have the right and discretion to proceed on all the original allegations in the
complaint in this matter.

I

, 35. On October 14,1997, Mr. Gus Zapantis suffered injuries when a tree
limb fell on his head while he was walking along Hillsborough Street in Raleigh,
North' Carolina (hereafter "tree limb accident").
, 36. On October 20 1997, less than a week later, Barnes agreed to
represent Mr. Zapantis on a claim arising from the tree limb accident.
37.ln approximately December 1997, Barnes' assistant requested some
medical records for Zapantis related to the tree limb accident.
38. For the next six months approximately, Barnes took no further action
to pursue Zapantis' claim.

4

I
.

: i. ~"
"

·,O:Q·'1.51
; J ",

~
,

'

'"'-,

39. On June 3, 1998, Barnes wrote the Attorney for the City of Raleigh
requesting a statement about the existence of liability coverage for the City to
cover Mr. Zapantis' claim.
.
40. Associate City Attorney, Dorothy K Woodward, advised Barnes! in
letter date June 8, 1998, that the City was uninsured for any claim less than
$1,000,000.

I

~

41. Ms. Woodward alSb informed Barnes that the, City's investigation
disclosed that A-1 Tree Service felled a ne~rby oak tree for a homeowner at the
time of Mr. Zap ant is' injuries.
.
42. After sending his June 3, 1998 letter and receiving a response, Barnes,
took no further action to pursue Mr. Zapantis' claim for over one year.
43.!3arnes did not identify or locate A..,1 Tree SerVice or determine
whether it was still in business.
44. Mr. ZapClntis regularly called Barnes' office to request a status Oh his
claim. throughout the course of the representqtion.
. 45. Barnes failed to keep Mr. Zapantisi reasonably informed about the
statl,{s of his claim.
46: In July,1999, Mr. Zapantis requested that-Barnes'return his fiJe ...

.

47. Barnes returned the file with a letter dated July 27, 1999, which was'
approximately three months before the statute of limitations expired on his claim.

I

48, Mr. Zapantis was unable to file suit on his claim before the statute of
limitations expired.
49. Mr. Zapantis incurred rtJedical bills and other expenses as
the tree limb acciclent.

a result of

50. Mr. Zapanti$ also suffered personal injuries from the laceration to his
head caused by the tree limb accident.
51. Mr. Zapantis' claim is now time barred.
52. In 1998, Kimberly Turnage Moore was involved in a child support
dispute with her ex-:husband, Jeffrey Scott Moore, in Wake County District .court;
file number 94CVD 2386 (hereafter "child support action").

5

I
' j
,

t ,'.

•

.:

~4

.'

.:'

"

53. On October 7; 1998, Barnes signed and filed a motion for' attorney's
fees (hereafter Motion") in Wake County District Court on behalf of Ms. Moore in
the child support action.

"

,~.

'."
(.
(

54. In the motion, Barnes requested that Mr. Moore be ordered to pay Ms,
Moore attorney's fees,
.
55.As a basis for the motion, Barnes represented to the court that: "[a]s a
result of Defendant's [Mr. Moore's] continuing contempt, Plaintiff has been made
to suffer substantial legal bills 'to enforce the Orders of this Court."

'.1

56, Ms. Moore had not paid Barnes ahy fees for his representation of her
on the child. support action at the time he filed the motion, or thereafter.
i

57. Barnes had not billed Ms. Moore, or otherwise attempted to collect any
attorney's fees from her, either before or after he filed the motion for attorney's
fees.
, 58, Ms. Moore had not p~id any other lawyer any fees for representing her
in .contempt proceedings in the child support action.
59. Barnes knew that Ms. Moore had not paid any. other lawyer any fees
for representing her in contempt proceedings in the 'child support action.
• 60. Barnes' motion was heard before the honofqble We.ke County District.
Court' Judge Ann Marie Calabria on October 20, 1.998,' . .......
.
61. Judge Calabria heard but denied Barnes' motion.

62. Barnes did not tell Judge Calabria at any time that:
(a) Ms. Moore had not paid him any attorney's fees;

I

(b) he had not billed Ms. Moore or qttempted to collect any
attorney's fees from her; and
(c) Ms. Moore had not paid any other lawyer any fees for
representation of her in contempt proceedings in the child
support e.ction;
Judge Calabria was not aware of these facts .at the time of the hearing.
63, Whether Ms, Moore had paid or .been charged legal fees for
representation of her in contempt proceedings in the child support action was
material to Barnes' motion for attorney's fees,

6

I
00153
.

i' ! 1 .

. d.

I

!

64. Barnes waived his right to a formal hearing;
~.

r"

65. Barnes was properly served with process.

:
,

Based upon the consent of the PClrties arid the foregoing Findings of Fact,
the hearing committee enters the following:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the .
committee hEls jurisdiction over defendant and the subject matter of
this proceeding.
2. Barnes' conduct in representing Sheelagh M. Anderson, as setQut in
the Finclings of Fact above, constitutes grounds for diScipline pursuant
to N.C. Gen. Stat. 984-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By asserting frivolous defenses and counterclaims on behalf of
. Anderson, Barnes violated Revised Rule 3.1; and
(b) By advising and counseling. Andersoh to verify-frivolous .defenses
and cOL,Jnterclaims .and thereby subjecting her to sanctions'and
.. additional attorneys' fees, Barnes prejudiced .and damaged. his
. client during the course .of their professional .. relationship, in ".
violation of Revised Rule 8.4(g).

I

3. Barnes' conduct in representing Gus Zapantis, as set out in the
Findings of Fact above, constitutes grouncls for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. 984-28(b)(2) as foJlnws:
(a) By failing to failing to pursue Mr. Zapantis' claim in a reasonabLy
diligent and prompt manner, Barnes violated Revised Rule 1,3 and
prejudiced or damc;lged his client during the course of their
professional relationship, in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(g); a'nd
(b) By failing to keep Mr. Zapantis reasOnably iriformed about the
status of his case, Barnes violated Revised Rule 1,4(a).
4,

Barnes' conduct in representing Kimberly Moore, as set out in the
Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds for diSCipline pursuant to
N.C" Gen. Stat.) 84-28(b)(1) & (2) as follows,

7

I
,

('

.\

,.

...
,

,

By representing to the Wake CQunty District Court that Ms. Moore
"had been made to suffer substantial legal bills to enforce orders of
.
this Court," Barnes:
(a) made a false or misleading statement of material fact to a
tribunal in violation of Revised Rule 3.3(a)(1 ),; and
(b) engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Revised Rule 8A( 0).

I

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
A. Multiple Offenses
B. Substantial Experience in the Practice of Law
C.' Previous Sanctions
The HonOrable Wake 'County StJperior Court Judge Donald W.
StepHens previously sanctioned Barnes $5,000 in an'order filed
on November 20, 1997. Barnes was sanctioned for a khowing,
willful, and intentional violation of Rule 37 of the Rules of Civil
Proced~re and Rule 8.4( d) of the Revised Rules of Professional
for intentionally failing to appear at a deposition of his client in a
civil matter. Judge Stephens subsequently reduced the amount
of sanctions to $750 gfter Barnes personally tendered an
apology to the court for his conduct.

I

2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
A. Personal problems
B. Cooperative Attitude Toward Proceedings
C.

Imposition of Other Sanctions

O. Remorse

8

I
00155.
-

,

3. The aggravating factors do not outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon the foregOing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the
findings regarding discipline and based upon the consent of the parties, the
hearing committee enters the following:

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license of Kenneth N. Barnes is hereby suspended for
six months, ,effective 30 days from service of this order upon him. The
period of suspension is stayed for three years upon the following
conditions:
a.

Barnes shall not violate any Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct during, the stayed suspension.

b. Barnes shall not violate any local, state, ,or federal criminal law
during the stayed suspension.
c.

I

Barnes shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by'
the Secretary within 60 days from the service of the costs upon
,him by the Secretary.

"d." Dl:Irihg each ,of the three years of the stayed st:lspension, "',".'
Barnes must take the required 12 hours of CLE, plus an
additional three-hour ethics block of CLE , for E! total of 15 CLE
hours for each of the three years of the stayed suspension. At
least one hour per year, which can include fhe three-hour
ethics block, must be on the topic of ,professionalism.
e. Barnes must designate an active memb-er of the North Carolina
State B~r, practicing in the county where Barnes primarily or
most frequently practices or an adjoining county, to monitor all
legal matters he agrees or is appointed to handle (other
designated bar member hereafter. referred t6 as "monitor").
The State Bar must approve the monitor in writing and reserv$s
the right to reject Clny person $ubmitted by Barnes as a monitor.'
Vaughan S. Winborne, Jr. is designated initially as the monitor.
Throughout the course of the stayed suspension, if he is
handling any legal matters, Barnes shall meet monthly with the
monitor. During these meeting, Barnes and the monitor shall:

9

I

•

.'

I

.~.

I

.'

~

t

(1) review all active, ongoing legal files Barnes'is handling;
(2) review all actions that have been taken to ensure that
all client matters are being handled in an appropriate
alld timely manner, and assist Barnes in taking any
action necessary to correct any problem(s).

I'.

Barnes shall be responsible for filing with the State Bqr a
qUqrterly progress report. This quarterly report shall include:
(1) the dates of meetings betw~en the monitor and Barnes,
(2) a discussion of all problems Bqrries, experienced in the
handling of any legal matters in that quarter, or alternatively if
nOne existed, a representation that they were no such
problems.
Barnes shall ensure that the monitor r~views and signs this
report and th~t it is filed with the State B.ar on a quarterly basis
no later thqn January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1, in each
year of the stayed suspension. If Barnes did not handle any
legal matters during any given quarter, he must file a quarterly
report with the State Bar so stating.
, .. The State Bar shall not be responsible fOr in'aking any
compensation or reimbursement to any person 'selected .by
Barnes as a monitor.
f.

Barnes has participated in a preliminary evaluation by the North
Carolina State Bar Lawyer Assistance Program (hereafter
"LAP"). The initial evaluation by LAP disclosed the existence of
a mental health problem. Therefore, during the stayed
suspension, Barnes shall:
(1) enter into a Recovery Contract and agree to participate in
the Lawyer Assistance Program (LAP) of the North Carolina
State Bar within 30 days of the professional evaluation,

'w

I

(2) comply with all recommendations for treatment and
counseling of all medical personnel required by LAP, ahd
(3) Elnsure that all his treating medical personnel forward written
reports to the State Bar certifying that he has followed all
recommendations for treatment of any diagnosed condition(s).
These reports shall be provided semi-annually, no later than
January 1 and July 1 of each year of the stayed suspension.

10

I

'.,..

• ..-i

Barnes also shall authorize any physician or medical personnel
who evaluates or treats him during the suspension, to reHease,
upon request, to the State Bar Office of Counsel C!ncj LAP only,
information C!bout his status as a patient, including a copy of the
evaluation ancj recommendations for treatment.
.

'1,-

2. If a Hearing. Committee of the DHC finds that Barnes has violated any
of the conditions in Section 1(a)-(f) of thi$ Order, the suspension of
Barnes' license shall be activated, and the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission retains jurisdiction to impose any additional conditions on the
practice of law by Barnes, which a duly impaneled Hearing Committee
believes are necessary'for the protection of the public.. It'the suspension
is activated, prior to seeking reinstatement of his license, Barnes must:

(a) comply with all provisions of 27 N. C. Admin. Code ChClpter 1.,
Subchapter B, ~ .0125(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline &
Di$ability Rules; and
(b) provide the State Bar with evidence that he has satisfactorily
complied with the conditions set forth in section. 1(a)-:-(f) forctt least
the six months immediately prececjing the fil'ing of his petition for
reinstatement.
Sign'ed by the undersigned hearing committee chair', with the con~ent of
the other hearing committee members.
" "
This the

a~ay of

2000.

I
~

\
Douglas J.
oker
Attorney for plaintiff

11

1

