NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE. THE
Y HEARING COMMISSION
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99DHC21

WAKE COUNTY

',''''-;:',

,;.,',

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

I

v.
J. BROOKS REITZEL, JR., Atj:ol1ley,
Defendan~.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter was heard on the "27th and 28 th days of April 2000, before a
Hearing COl1111iittee iof the pisdplinary Hearit,lg Commission composed of Fred H"
Moody, Jr.. , Chair; Vernon A. Russell and Catharine Sefcik. The DefeQ.dant, J.
Brooks Reitzel, Jr., was J,'epresentf(d~by James B. Maxwell. The plaintiff was
represented by Larissa J.:Erkman., Based upon the pleadings; inCluding the
Stipulations on Pretrial Conference submitted by the parties, and the evidence
i!1troduced at the hearing, th~ Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
PINDINGS OF FACT

I

1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Catolina ~d is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina,
and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
Defendant, J. Brooks Reitzel,)r .. (her~inaftet, "Defendant"), was
2.
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on September 13, 1971 and is, and was at all
times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice law in North Carolina,
subject to the rules, regulati6ns:arid Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the periods' referred to herein, Defendant was engaged in the
practice of law in North Carolina and maintained a primary law office in the City of
High Point, Guilford County, N0t:th Carolina.

I

...

",
"',

I

4.
During the course of his law practice, Defendant has handled a wide
range of legal matters primarily relat.ed to corporate law, real estate, and finan,cial
issues for individual and porpQ:rat~ ciients.
'
5.
Defendant has h~dled a substantial amount of legal work in the
United States Bankruptcy Court ~d ~as regularly appeated in the United States
Bankruptcy Courts for all D~stt:icts of North Carolina. Defendant served as a
member ofthe Chapter tPap.el,.o£Trustees for the Middle, District of North Carolina
through December of ~ 9~7.
6.
Prior to June 1994, Defendant was a partner in the High Point law firm
ofRob'erson~ Haworth &' Reece,('~RH&R").
I

7.
In October 1994" Defendant joined the High Point law firm of Wyatt
Early Harris & Wheeler ("WEH&~').

I

8.
'In 1993, Richar~ Johnson ("Johnson") retained Defendant to represent
him and his company, Richard John~on Investments, Inc. ("Rll"), after Rn
encountered financial difficulties" Johnson and Rll were in the residential
construction business.
9.

Defendant represented Johnson and RJI on various legal matters,
but not limited to; significant disputes With William F. Aldridge and his
wife, Martha Aldridge (hereafter collectively "Aldridge") concerning the construction
of a new residence located at 1845. Country Club Drive, High Point, North Carolina
(hereaft;er, the "new residence')'
includi~g,

~. ,

:10.
Aldridge had contracted with Johnson and Rn for the construction of
the new residenc.e and had paid to.Rll a sum of money for the construction of the neW
residence.

11.

Disputes arose between Al,dridge and Rll by late September or early
October 1993 concerning, among other things, payment of subcontractors for labor
perforined and materials used in the new residence.
i2.
Martin's Systems, Inc. ("Martin's Systems") was a subcontractor that
performed some work on the new residen~e .
. ,

.

~3.
Martin's Systems also performed work on Defendant's residence in
March 1993 and August 199'3.'· :'

14.

Martin Systents'wasone ofthe subcontractors that had not been paid
for its labor and materials put into'the Aldridge's new residence.
.
.
15.
Martin Systems sought the assistance ofD~fendant's law firm, RH&R,
to pursuy a collection action against Aldridge for labor and material costs related to
work that Martin Systems performed on the new residence.
2

\'

001C5

I

...

~

;

',: .>' '
16.
Defendap.t aske~'aU associate attorney ~mployed by RH&R, Thomas
Kangur("Kangur"), to handle the Martin's Systems' collection action.
.
17.
Aldridge file4 suit'~gl:tinst Richard' Johnson and Rll in Guilford
County Superior Court ~n Janu~ry 14,'1994.
:.

."',

18.
On January 26, J,994, Defendant filed voluriifu.y bankrUptcy petitions
under Chapter 7 of the U.S .. BaI1.k:f.:!1ptcy Code on ,behalf of Johnson,.individu~l1y, and .
Rll.
.
Defendant represented johnson and Rll in the bankruptcy proceedings.
\

I

19.

20.
In Johnson's and RIT'.s bankruptcy petitions, Martin's Systems was
listed as a general un$ecured creditor. Aldridge was listed as an unsecured creditor in
Rll's bankruptcy petition.
.
21.
In Johnson's·and.RJI's bankruptcy petitions, Defendant and his wife, .
individually, were listed as general,unsecured creditors.
On or aro~nd J&n,uary 28, 1994, K~ngur filed in Davidson County,
22;
North Carolina, a notice of claim Qfiien and claim of lien (collectively "notice of
lien") by Martin's Systems. .
23.
The notice of lien was filed pursl'tant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 44A-12
within 120 days after Martin's Sy.ste~s last furnished materials and labor at the new
residence. The notice of lien n~ed Aldridge and his wife as the recorcl owners of the
property on which Martin's Systems claimed its lien and named Johnson as the
person with Whom Martin? s Systems contracted for furnishing labor and materials.

I

24.
The law firm ofRa&R simultaneously represented Martin Systems, a
first tier subcontractor, and Rn'and Richard Johnson, the general contra¢tor, in
connection with
claims related to
.
. the
. Aldridge'8 new residence.
25.
On March 2" 1994, Aldridge's attorney, Joe Craig, sent a letter to
Kangur, advising that ,he ·believed.th~ law firm ofRH~R had a conflict. of interest
because Defendant represented. Richard Johnson and RJI while the law firm also
represented Martin System',s on the lien against the Aldridges and Rll, the general
contractor.
26.

Kangur advised Defendant of Mr. Craig's letter dated March 2, 1994.

27.
Oli April 18, 1994; Kangur filed a complaint for money owed against
Johnson, RJI and Aldridge in Davjdson County, District Court. The summons and
complaint filed by Martin's Systems against Johnson, Rn and Aldridge were not
properly served on Aldridge, in accordance with the North Carolina Rules of Civil
ProcedlJI"e. Consequently, Martin':s Systems' lien rights expired.
3

I
;

1.."\1
I

,.
~

oJ","

. . . .1

001es·.
.,
,

,':. "

"

, 28.
On June 29, 19~4, Aldridge commenced an adversary proceeding
against Richard Johnspn, individually, and RJI in their pankruptcy cases;
29.
On July 27, 1994, the bankruptcy court approved a report of the
bankruptcy trustee of no distribution and closed Johnson, and RJI's Chapter 7
.
bankruptcy caseS.
,30.
Defendant did not disclose to Martin Systems, Inc. the nature and
scope of his representation of 1,ohpsqn, individually, and Rn or that his representation
of Johnson and RJI was advers,e to the interests of Martin Systems, Inc. Defendant
did not obtain Martin Systems' consent to his simultaneous representation of Johnson
&RJI.
31.
.In early September .1995, Lindsay Amos, Jr. ("Lin Amos"), a
shareholder in Textile Industries, Inc. ("Textile"), contacted Charles Cain ("Mr.
, Cain"), a partner in WEHW, for advice concerning a potential sale of Textile to
Royce HOSiery Mills, Inc. and cfeg~ding bankruptcy options. .

I

'32.
In early Sept¥mbet 1995; Mr. Cain, Defendant and another attorrtey
from the law firm, James Hundley ("Mr. Hun4Iey"), met with the Textile
shareholders, Lin Amos, William D. Coble ("Coble"), and Robert T. Amos, III ("Bob
Amos").
33.
At or around the tiJ;11e.ofthis meeting, Defendantwas advised of the
background ofWEH&W's attorney-client relationship to Textile and its shareholders,
Lin Amos, Coble, and Bob Amos.
34.
Defendant leam~d that, prior to September 1994, WEH&W had served
as atto~eys for two related Gorppani~s, South Centennial Investors Limited
Partnership ("South Centennial") and National Hosiery Corporation ("National
Hosiery").
35.
South Centennial is 'a limited partnership formed by WEH&W at the
request of Lin Arnos, Coble, and Bob Amos. Lin Amos, Coble and Bob Amos were
general 'partners in the Squth Cenien!Iial partnership. South' Centennial was the
landlord for Textile's mantifacturi.ng plant under a multi-year lease providing for
substantial monthly payments.

I

36.

National Hosiery was a corporation formed by WEH&W prior to
September 1994 at the request c:>f Lin Amos, Coble, and Bob Amos. Lin Amos,
Coble, ahd Bob Amos were the ol1~y shareholders, officers ~d directors of National
i-Iosi'ery; National's primary business was marketing hosiery under a license from
Nautica Apparel; Inc.
37. . Textile supplied most. of the hosiery marketed by National. By the
. middle qf 1995, National owed Textile at least $400,000 for hosiery.

4

I
'.1

OO~C7

,.

,

.,:;,,;,.

38.
At this i~itialmeet~ng, Mr. Cain, Defen:dant attu Mr. Hundley were
informed that in May 1995"balton 1. McMichael, Sr. and Dalton L. McMichael, Jr.
(the "McMichaels") had inyested ,$400;000 in Textile.
. 39.
Textile's sharehol4ers instructed WEH&W to prepare necessary
documents to reflect the $400,000, investment by the Mc;Michaels.
:. ,
~ ,

I

'-'J,.

1

,

\

40.
At the initial meeti~g, Mr. Cain; Defendant an4 Mr. Hundley were also
informed that National Hosiery had assumed the $400,000 debt obligation of Textile
payable to the McMichaels in cOl1sideration for cancellation oftrade payables owed
by National Hosiery to Textile.,. "'" .
,

~

41.
Textile's sharehplders instructed WEH&W to prepare necessary
documents to reflect the ~ss.ig~entofthe $400,000 subordinated debt to National
Hosiery.
'''.
42.
Mr. Gain; D~fe1fd~t, and Mr. Hundley discllssed the ramificCitions,of
the debt assignment between Textile and National Hosiery with Textile's shareholders
and with Martin Schlaeppi oft~e ~ccounting firm Dixon,Odom & Company.
43.
Mr. Cain, Defenda,t).t and Mr. Hundley were advised by Textile's
management and Mr. Schlaeppi that the trade payable owed by National Hosiery to
Textile was uncollectable because'National Hosiery was insolvent:
I

"

44.
After the initial meeting with Textile's shareholders, Mr. Cain
prepared documents to effect the cancellation of the trade receivables owed by
National Hosiery to Textile and the assignment of the $400,000 subordinated debt to
'
National Hosiery.

I

Mr. Cain also pr¢par~d documents'reflecting that National Hosiery had'
45:
assumed Textile's $400,000.00: obligation to the McMichaels and had prepared a
second note for $150,000 payable, by National Hosiery to the McMichaels for a
second equity infusion into National Hosiery.
46.
Mr. Cain, Defendant and Mr. Htmdley were all 'aware that WEH& W
represented both Textile and National Hosiery in the transactions canceHng Textile's
trade receivables owed by National Hosiery and assigning Textile' $ subordinate4 debt'
to National Hosiery.
47.
Later, Mr. Cain, Deffmdant and Mr. Hundley, met with the Textile
shareholders, Lin Amos and,Bob Amos, a second time to .discuss issues regarding'
Royce Hosiery's proposed acq\lisition of Textile and the possible scenario and timing
of a Chapter 11 ba,nkruptcy filing for Textile Industries.
48.
Defendant, Mr. Cain and Mr. Hundley specifically discussed with
Textile's shareholders a mu:hber of issues raised by the bankruptcy filing; including
5

I.
,0:0,168
t

"

,\,

the effect of the prior $400,000 debtexchartge transaction between Textile and
National Hosiery.
<

· 49.
The discussion specifically addressed the possibility that the debt
exchaQ.ge transaction could be attacked by the creditors of Textile as a fraudulent
conveyance.
.'

'1

· 50.
Defendant, Mr. Cain and Mr. Hundley were'again advised by Textile's
management and its accountant thflt the trade receivables from National Hosiery had
no vaiue to Textile. As a result, t1:Ie ~anagement of Textile viewed the debt exchange
as advantageous to the creditors of Textile because it removed a $400,000 liability to
the McMichaels from Tex~ile's balance sheet, making the company more attractive to
Royce Hosiery, as a potential acqyir~r.
. '\ ~·I· . ~
·51.
After the secbnci;meeting with Textile shareholders, Mr. Cain prepared
an initial draft of an asse.~ p~rc~as~ agreement to Royce Hosiery.

1

52.
Textile decided ·that it could not continue operating if it did not file a
Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition" Mr. Cain, Mr. Hundley and Defendant discussed
with counsel for Royce Hosiery the possibility of a Chapter 11 filing for Textile.
.

.

53.
Textile retained WEH&W to prepare the bankruptcy petition and to
seek thy bankruptcy court's approval ofthe sale of Textile to Royce.
54.
The legal work rela,ted to preparation of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy
petition and the. contemplated sale of Textile to Royce Hosiery was divided among
the attorneys at WEH&W. ..'
'
.
55.
Mr. Cain was m.charge of preparing the purchase agreement with
Royce Hosiery and handling negotiations and details related to the sale transaction.
56.

Mr. Hund,ley;agteeq to prepare the bankruptcy petition and schedules.

$7.
Defendant agreed to prepare and file with the bankruptcy court a
motion seeking the court'.s approval of the proposed sale to Royce Hosiery.

I

58.
On September 20,1995, Textile filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition
in the Uruted States Bankruptcy CoUrt for the Middle District of North Carolina, case
no. 95-12517C-l1 G ("the
bankruptcy
.
.
. proceedings").
59.
Simultaneously, Textile .filed an application to employ WEH& W as its
bankruptcy counsel pursuant to section 327(a) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and Rule
2014(a) of the Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure.
60.
Rule 2014 of the Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure requires that
attomey~ seeking approval to represent a debtor must disclose all facts that might be

6

.1
..:

00lC9

i

·

, ~ , '\

"S',

(;\t,I.;'

,"t I.:;'~',.

relevant to the court's determinatipn, under section 327(a), of whether an attorney is
disinterested .or holds or represent$ ap. interest adverse to the debtor's estate.
61.
Rule 2014 of the Rul~s bfBankruptcyProcedure requires that the
debtor's application for employtn~nt of attorneys b,e accompanied by a verified
statement of the attorneys as to the facts showing the attorneys' cOImections~ if any,
with the debtor, creditors or any party in interest. The verified statement mil'st
disclose the identity of persons .or .ed~ities with which the attorneys have connections
and must describe the nature of-the connections.
.

I

62.
The disclosure reqUirement of Rule 2014 is a definite, affirmative duty
placed on the attorneys seeking,the ~()1.lI1:'s approval to be employed by the debtor. .
The disclosure requirement of Rule 2014 con#nues throughout the entire bankruptcy
case.
"

~'i

,

-',

63.
In acc()rdalJ.ce with Rule 2014 of the Bankruptcy Rules, WEH& W
filed a verified statement setting forth its connections with the debtor, creditors or any
party in interest in thebankr1Jptcy ,estate (hereafter referred to as the "affidavit of
disinterestedness").
64.
The afficlavit of disinterestedness was prepared, executed and delivered
by Mr. Hundley, as part of the bankruptcy petition.

..

I

~

65.
The application:to ,employ WEH&W listed Defendant, Mr. Hundley,
, and Mr, Cain as attorneys employed by WEH& W who were likely to expend time on,
Textile's bankruptcy matter.
,
.
66.
The affidavitof.~:lisinterestedness attested that WEH&W had: "no
connection with the Debtor [Textile], the creditors, or any otherparty in interest, or
their respective attorneys,. and that [Hundley] and the Firm represents [sic] no interest
adverse to the Debtor [Textile], or.the estate in the matters upon which he and ·the
,Firm are to be engaged."
.
.
67.
The affidavit of disihterestedness did not disclose to the bankruptcy
coUrt WEH&W's pre-petition connections with the debtor, Textile; its shareholders,
Lin Amos, Coble, and Bob Amos;, or its connections with National Hosiery and South
Centennial.
68.
The United States Bankruptcy Court entered an order on September
28, 1995 authorizing Textileto 'employ the law firm bfWEH&W as its attorneys in
the bankruptcy proceedings.,
69.
On November 1~, 19~5, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order
approving the sale of Textile;s assets to Royce Hosiery.
70.
Mr. Hundley;s active:participation in the bankruptcy proceedings as an
attorney for Textile was: Hmited after October 11, ~995 when the bankruptcy petition

7

I

.,

..

",

>,

,',

and schedules were filed ,and the creditors meeting was held. His participation in the
ba.nkniptcy proceedings. ceased altogether after January .10, 1996.
71.
After Decem1:>er 3J, 1995, Defendant was the primary attorney at
WEH&W who represented Textile in the bankruptcy proceedings. However, Mr.
Cain assisted Defendant in answering inquiries from the unsecured creditor's
committee.
72. . After Textile fil~d bankruptcy, WEH& W continued to simultaneously
represent Textile, the Chapter 11 debtor-in-possession, and Lin Amos, Coble, Bob
Amos, ,South Centennial land N~tipnal Hosiery.
,

J

,,"

73.
WEH&W's und'i.sclosed post-petition connections with Textile's
creditors and other parties in interest in the Textile bankruptcy estate include the
following:
. ,
(.

I

,

(a)
Beginning in early 1996, WEH&Wrepresented National Hosiery and
its shareholders, Lin Amos, Coble and Bob Amos, respecting the sale of
National Hosiery's assets to Great American Knitting MitIs, Inc. ("Great
American").
(b)

As part of its legal:services to National Hosiery, WEH&W reviewed

tan agreement entered between National Hosiery and Great American on
tMarch 5, 1996 whereby Great American acquired from National Hosiery,
among other things,- the N autica license.
(c)
On or around April 11, 1996; WEH&W performed legal services for
Natjonal Hosiery in conne~tion with the'closing of the asset sale transaction
,between National HoSiery,and Great American.
(d)
WEH&W reviewed a list of National Hosiery's creditors to be paid
from the sale proceeds of National Hosiery's asset sale ~d acted as escrow
agent for the sale proceeds.
(e)
As escrow agent, WEB:&W received n~t sale proceeds of $433,375.50
and distributeq sums to itself and its ciients, Lin Amos, Bill Coble and Bob
Amos, athong other creditors of National Hosiery. Textile received no
payment from the sale of~ational Hosiery's assets to Great American.

I

74.
The legal workto c'onsummate and close the sale of National Hosiery
to Great American was substantially performed by .Mr. Cain.

75.

Defendant was aware ofWEH&W's post-petition representation of
National Hosiery and its shareholders, Lin Amos, BoJJ Amos and Bill Coble in the
sale transaction
with Great American.
!

8

I

.

,-. ......

~

• '.:', .•••",",....
' .

'

':',

t'

~

:,;,

, ' . , '

;~

"

1'1
'.'"

J.'

'

76.
Durmg the penqency of the bankruptcy proceedings, Defendant also
represented Lin Amos and Bill C~ble, indiv~qual1y, in defense of a l~wsuit filed by
Center Capital Corporation against Amos and Coble for payments owed by Textile on'
the lease of computer equipment. .Amos, and Coble had guaranteed p~yments' on the
lease.
•

,t<,,,_,

77.
On March 15., 1:996', Defendant filed a CR~p~er 11 Plan of Liquidation .
and Disclosure Statement by Debtor Textile Industries, Inc:'; .
78. , On Apri172,.l~9.6i.t~e Unsecured Creditors' Committee filed an
Objection to the Disclosij,l'e Statement.

I

79.'
Defendant agreed with the Unsecured Creditor's Committee's
attorney, Sarah Sparrow, that the -debtor Textile would attempt to re~olve the issues
raised in the objection by providing additional information concerning Textile's
history and financial condition to the Committee.
80.
Mr. Cain and Defe9dant thereafter provided information toMs.
Sparrow and the Unsecured Creditors' Committee.
On behalf of: the C~editors' Co~ittee, Ms. Sparrow sought disclosure
81.
of the exact relationship between the dehtorTextile, National'Hosiery, South
Centennial Investors and their common shareholders, officers and directors.
82.
The Unse<;mred Creditors' Committee also sought information
concerning WEH&W's attomey-¢Fent relationship with National Hosiery, South
Centenni~l Investors, Lin Aplos, Coble, or B<;>b Amos.
:.'

'.i

'

83.
D.espite specific inquiries addressed to Defendant, Ms. Sparrow and
the Unsecured Creditors' Committee learned of the National Hosiery sale from a
third-party and not from Defendant, WEH&W, or the debtor-in-possession, Textile.

I

84;
By letter dated July 2; 1996, Ms. Sparrow asked when National
Hosiery Was sold to Great American Textile Company and noted that no notice Was
sent to Textile pursuant to the Bulk Sales Act.
85.
On July 16, 1996, Defendant filed a First Amended Chapter 11 Plan of
Liquidation and a First Amended Disclosure Statement by Debtor Textile Industries,
Inc.
86.
The Unsecured Creditors' Committee subsequently objected to the
amended plan and disClosure statement, sought permission fr~m the court to employ
its own accountant and sought permission to file suit on behalf of the debtor Textile
against Great American, the:putchaser of National Hosiery's assets and other parties
involved in the Great American transaction.

9

'.'

I
·A.nA
'i.J1'vV Jl ~2
., .

j

81.
Despite specific inquiries addressed to Defendant, Ms. Sparrow and
the Ul1;secured Creditor~' COl1111J.ittee did not learn of the cancellation of the $400,000
trade receivable owed by. National' Hosiery to Textile from Defendant, WEH&W, or
the debtor-in-possess,ion, Textile. Rather, Ms. Sparrow and the Unsecured Creditors'
Committee learned of the debt cancellation transaction only after the Committee had
obtained authority to employ its oWn accoUntants and the Committee's accountants
discovered the debt cancellation in reviewing Textile's books. Members of
WEH&W, including De{en~an~, did 'deliver information and docUinents to Ms.
Sparrow, the Unsecured Creditors' Committee and the accountants employed the
Comm~ttee.

88.
The Unsecured Cr~:ditor's Comtnittee filed a motion with the
bankruptcy court seeking appointqlent of a Chapter 11 trustee for Textile, the debtorin-possession.

I

;89.

On October 7, 199<? and October 9, 1996, respectively, the bankruptcy
court granted authority to file a suit on behalf of the debtor against Great American
and grapted the motion for appointment of a trustee. Charles M. Ivey was appointed
to serve as trustee for Textile. ,
90.
Defendant arid the ,other attorneys ofWEH&W had an on-going
affirmative duty to disClose to the;~ourt WEH&W;s pre-petition and post-petition
connections with Textile, its shareholders, National Hosiery and other parties in
interest in the bankruptcy estate.

.

.

'91.
No attorney at WE!-~:&W, inciuding Defendant, took any steps to
amend the affidavit ofdisinterestedness or to otherwise disclose to the bankruptcy
court its pre-petition and post-p~ti#onconrtections with Textile's creditors or other
parties in interest in the bankrupt<;y
estate.
,
92.
WEH&W's pre-petition and post-petition conneQtions with Textile's
creditors and other parties in i~terest: were disclosed only after inquiry by the
unsecured creditor's conunittee,ari,d the trustee ,appointed by the bankruptcy court.
93.
Neither Defendant, Mr. Cain or Mr. Hundley specifically advised any
of their 'clients or their client' s pti~cipals or shareholders about the potential or actual
conflicts of interest related to WEH&W's simultaneous rep17esentation of Textile,
National Hosiery or their common shareholders, Lin Amos, Bob Amos, and Bill
Coble.
,
,
"

'.

I

.,"

Defendant w~s the"attotney at WEH&W who had the most experience
handling bankruptcy c~ses, haying" served as Ii Chapter 7 trustee for numerous years,
and was, the attorney in charge ,of tJ,1,e Textile bankruptcy proceedings after December
1995.

94.

Upon motion by th~ bankruptcy trustee to disgorge fees paid by
95.
Textile to WEH&W and to disqualify WEH&W from continued representation of,
10

.:

001-73

I

"

'.;,

.'

,

.

,

" : ~1,:', ",~,J.

, .. '

Textile, the bankruptcy court det~rrn.ined that the various interests ofWEH&W's
clients Lin Amos, Cobl~, Bob,Amos, South Centennial,and National Hosi~ry were
materially and directly adverse to those of Textile's bankruptcy estate.
96.
The' bankruptcy co.urt ordered WEH& W to disgorge the fees paid by
Textile and removed ~H~W from further representing Textile in the bankruptcy
c ..);:'f,
proceedings.
,
,

I

'

.. '"

97:
Defendant ap.d~H~W continued to represent Te4tile's bankruptcy
estate front the ipception ofthe b~ptcy proceedings until August 1997 when the
bankruptcy court entered an order removing WEH&W as Textile's attorneys and
ordered WEH&W to pay fees to ¢e,trustee; Charles Ivey, and to the attorney for the
Unsecured Cre4itors' Committee; Sarah Sparrow, in the approximate amoUnt of
$112,000.
98.
In addition to orderirig di1lgorgement ofWEH&W's fees andpayment
of fees to. the trustee aI1.d to:the ,attorney for the Unsecured Creditors' Committee as
sanctions, the bankruptcy court. disallowed nearly $50,000 in fees requested by
.
WEH&W which had accrued but 'had not been paid by Textile during the bankruptcy.
The bankruptcy court also 4isallowed reimbursement of costs that had been advanced
,'\ .;'. : ~
by WEH&W.
99.
Defendant individuaIJy''cont,.-ibuted to the payments ordered to be
disgorged and fees to the trustee and the Unsecured Creditors' Committee, as did
other partners in WEH&W.· Def<:?ndant also individually contributed to the paYl11ent
of sums in settlement of Textile,g·:claim for damages again&t WEH&W and others.

I

100. In Janllary 1998, the Bankruptcy Administrator for the United Sta,tes
Bankruptcy Co~ for the Middie :District of North Carolina notified Defendant that
he would not be reappointed as a in~mber of the Chapter 7 Panel of Trustees for the
Middle District of North Carolina. The Bankruptcy Administratpr did.req1.lest that
Defendant continue to serve as trustee in two complex bankruptcy proceedings in
which Defendant was alread.y 'serving as Chapter 7 trustee. Defendant has recently
concl1.lded one of those procee~ings and continues as trustee in the other proceeding.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the stipulations of the
Defendant, the Hearing Conunittee ~liters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee. The
Committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, J. Brooks Reitzel, Jr., and the subject
matter of this proceeding.
2.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline'pursuant to N.C. Gen.: Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as
follows:
11
',,'

I
.

\

00174.

. (a)
Defendallt violated R~es 5.1(a) and 5.1 1(a) of the Rules of
Professiopal Condu~t by.simpltaneously representing Johnson, RJI artd
Martin's Systems.in'the. same or substantially related matters, when their
interests were materially
and.directly
adverse.
.
'.

(b)
Assuming arguendo that the interests of Martin Systems were only
potentially adverse to Johnson and lUI, Defendant violated Rules 5.1(a) and
5.1 1(a) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by simultaneously representing
Johnson, Rn and Martin's Systems in the same or substantially related
'matters, when their interests were potentially adverse and Defendant did not
fully disclose the impli<:~atio11,s, advantages and. risks of the simultaneous
representation to Martin's Systems and did not obtain Martin's Systems'
.consent to the simultaneo~s'representation after full disclosure.

I

(c)
Defendartt vIolated'Rules 5.l(a) and 5. 11 (a) Qfthe Rules of
·Professional Conduct by representing, with other members of WEH& W,
Textile, a Chapter 11 debtor-in-possession; in the sa1i1e or a substantially
related matter ~o that.iri~hich his. law firm WEH&W simultaneously
represented Lin Amos, Coble~ Bob Amos, South Centennial and National
Hosiery, whenTexti1e'~ interests and ~he interests of the bankruptcy estate
were materially and dir~c~y adverse to those' of Lin Amos, Coble, Bob Amos,
South Centennial and National Hosiery;
l'
(d)
Defendant violated, Rples 2.8(b)(2), 5.1(c) and 5.11(a) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct by f?iling to withdraw from representing, or by failing
to recommend to WEH& W that it withdraw frOin representing, or by
otherwise refusing to. represent Textile and/or Lin Amos, Coble, Bob Amos,
South Centennial and National Hosiery when it became apparent that
WEH&W's continued representation of Textile and these related entities and
persons would re~ul~ in ~ y.io~ation of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
(e)
Defendant failed to: disclose to the bankruptcy court,. or failed to
reco1nmend that other qlembers of WEH&W disclose to the bankruptcy court,
the nature and extent. of wEH& W' s pre-petition and' post-petition connections
with Textile and its cteditors'and parties in interest, despite an legal obligation
to do so and despite specific requests from the Unsecured Creditors'
COl11inittee, in violation of Rule 7.2(a)(3) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct; and
. ' ..

I

(:t)
Defendant engaged. in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
jllstice by f~ling to disclose to the bankruptcy court, or by failing to
recommend that other members of WEH&W disclose to the bankruptcy court,
the nature and extent ofWEH&W's pre-petition and post-petition connections
with Textile and its creditors and parties in interest in violation of the
.Bankruptcy Code and' Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure and in violation of :Rule
1.2(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
12

.,'

I

:

'!

.' .'# .,
,

'"

"

',,: :--~.\

"

, Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact arid' ConClusIons of Law and upon
the evidence and ar~ei:)ts of'~he' parties concerning the appropriate .discipline, the
Hearing Committee hereby makes additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING PISCIPLINE
',::l; ~~~::" \

',' ," .,'

1. Th~ Defendant' s' misc~nducfi~ aggravated by,the' following factors:
a) Prior disciplinary 6'ffI~nses, including: a two-year stayed suspension iti
1997 for violating Rules 10.1(a) and (c) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct relat~d to trust accounts and for violating Rules 5 .l(a) and (b)
related,to conflicts 'of interest; and a Reprimand in 1998 for violating
the Rule 7.1 (~) 9f the, Revised Rules of Professional Conduct by
sending a misleadfug direct mail letter soliciting client referrals.

I

b) Multiple offenses; 'and
c) Subst~ti~l exp~ri~nc~ in the practice of law.
2. The Defendan:Cs' mi~conduct is mitigated by the following f&ctors:
a) Absence
of dishonest'
or selfish motive.
.
-.

.

<~

b) Full and free disClosure to the hearing committee and cooperative
attitude toward proceedings.
.
, ....
c) Delay in disciplinary proceedings related to the Martin Systems'
matter through no fault of the defendant.
•

l"

d) Remorse; and
~) Imposition of other' significant penalties or satlctions.

3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
Based upon the forego41g ~ggravating and mitigating factors and the
arguments of the parties, :the Hearing Corhmittee hereby enters the following
I

ORDBR OF DISCIPLINE
,'I

-.

--

1. The license of the Defendant, J. Brooks Reitzel, Jr., is hereby suspended
for three years. The suspem!iori of the Defendant' ~ license is hereby stayed for three
years upon the following terms and conditions:
(a)

The Defendant shJlnot violate l;Uly state or federal laws.

(b)
The Defendant shall not violate any provisions of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules or the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.

l3

I
',:

00176
"

~~\:-,v .;.::~/

(c)
During e~~h' year ~f the three-year ,stay~d suspension, the Defendant
,shall enroll in and attend a: 3-'hour block of Continuing Legal Education in
ethics, which program shatl have been approved by the Board of Continuing
. Legal Education and shall-be~presented by a Sponsor accredited by the Board.
, This 3-hour ethics CLE requirement is over and above other mandatory CLE
, requirements that De:fend~t PlUst meet in order to maintain his license to
practice law in North CaroUna in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code,
Subchapter D, Section . 16.90'et seq.; t;:xcept that, in arty year in which
Defendant must satisfy th~ mandatory 3-hour block of CLE credit in ethics in
order to maintain his license, his satisfaction of the mandatory CLE
requirement shall also satisfy the Defendant's requirement to complete a 3,hour block ofCLE in. ethi~s
in that year for ptirposes of this Order.
..
'

(d)
Defendant shall provide written proof ofhis compliance with
paragraph (c) to the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel no later than
June 15, 2001; Jupe,15,~0~)2 and June 15,2003.

I
\

(e)
The Defej1dant sha\l pay all costs incurred in this proceeding and taxed
against him ,by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 60 days of
receiving notice of such~,costs.
'
,

,

I

,

2. If during any period h{\.vhich the three-year suspension is stayed the
Defend~nt fails to comply witl\ any cine or more conditions stated in paragraph 1, then

the stay ofthe suspension ofhfs l~w license,may be lifted as provided in §.0114(x) of
the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

p.

If the stay of the suspension of the Defendant's law license is lifted, the
Disciplinary He&ring COIl111.1-issio~ may enter an order providing for such conditions
as it deems necessary for reinstatemeht of the Defendant's license at the end of the
, three-year suspension period.
4. The Disciplin,ary' He'aring Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Adrllin. Code Chapter 1; Subchapter B, §.0114(x) of the
North Carolina, State Bar: Discipline. & Disapility Rules throughout the period'0fthe
stayed suspension.
,

"

,

!

I

i'

Signed'by the undersigned. Hearing Committee chair with the consent of the
other Hearing Committee, members. ;'
_,2000.

Fred. H. Moody, Jr., Chairman"---'"
Heating Committee
14

I
"

