BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G0910

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN TKE MATTER OF
Stephen F. Wallace,
Attorney At Law

1
1
1

REPRIMAND

On January 22, 2009 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Mr. Sommer.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ~Cmisconductjustifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing berore the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not reauired, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused h m or potential hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented the plaintiff in Mchlillari v. Swifret nl, Wake County file no. 05 CVS
9881 (McMillnn I) and in Mchlillnn v. SUJ$ et 01, Wake County file no. 06 CVS 6276 (12IcMillnn
II). 111December 2006 the court sanctioned you for filing the A4cMillar? I1 action citing that
adding several of the same defendants in McMillar? I to McMillnn II was "not warranted by
existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law

because it clearly violated the doctrines of res judicnm and collnternl esloppel." The court also
found that you filed the Amended complaint in McMillali I1 for the improper purpose of
circumventing tlle court's prior order granting summary judgment in McMillnn I.
Despite the fact that your client's suit had been dismissed, including a dismissal by the
North Carolina Court of Appeals, you sought to settle with defendant Mr. Sommer the original
claims outlined in the two complaints you filed. Although Mr. Sommer filed a coullterclaim in
his Answer to the complaint, Mr. Solnmer did not pursue such counterclaim and understood that
since the court previously granted summary judgment dismissing him from both McMillan I and
AdcMillan II, he was no longer a party to any lawsuit. Ihowing that Mr. Sommer did not
understand that he had no legal obligation to your client, you continued to pursue Mr. Sommer in
an effort to obtain a settlement based on the original claims for relief included in McMillan I and
McMillan II. You took advantage of Mr. Sommer'spro se status and have therefore violated
Rule 4.4(a)'s prohibition against using means that have not other substantial purpose other than
to .. . burden a third person.. . Your conduct was also prejudicial to the administration of justice
in violation of Rule 8.4(d): Misconduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
day of
Done and ordered, this the 1

Y

, J & ~ RFox,
.
chair'

,2009

