: ::,:;::. "~'-;2"
':'" '°01.;',': ' ::
v

:"~"'::"7

. "I ,..: .. ' '.

NORTH CAROLINA

'i'

.'~

•

'i..

••

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
, OFTBH
NORTH: CAROLINA STATE BAR
98G 1297(111), 98G1420(III), 99G0324, 99G044,5~
99G0751, 9900825, 99G0962, 99G1347
,,'
:......:..-,~,:/

IN THE MATTER OF

I

-

'

)
)
)
)
)

WALTER T. JOHNSON, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

,~

,

"

REPRIMAND

On July 19,2000, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina ,State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by o. M. D., W. S., B. J." N. S. H., the North
Carolina State Bar, and B. H. and F. B.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) 'of the Discipline and Oisability Rules of the' North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance ,Committe,e conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information avaj1able to it, includmg your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance .
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cau~e,to
believe that a member of the North C~olina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable calise, the Grievance COminittee may
determine that the ,filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various lfwels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
a~gravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to 'the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has .caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure' is not required in thi~ case
and issues this reprim,and to you. As chainnan·ofthe Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
.
98G1297(1II)

The Complainant in this matter retained you to represent her s<?n at a parole hearing'. Y~*
assigned a nO,n-Iawyer employee'from your office'to handle the matter. You did not pef:~opally ,ppe¥:at
the parole healing. The Complainant alleged that she' believed that your employee was an attorn(ey who
I

I
246'
~

;.-

was representing her. It is your responsibility to adequately supervise your employees, and you failed to
do so.

98G 142 0(In)
Vou agreedt9 represent the Cornplainant's daughter in an effort to get her case reopened and the
sentence reduced. The Complainant pm4 you $1,900. You ~ade initial attempts to locate a key witness
in October 1998. Subsequently, you did not either return the fee, or take any'additional action on the .
matter. You failed to act with reasonable diligence on behalf of your client.
"
99G0322
Ypu were retained to represent Complainant's husband in January 1998, concerning postconviction relief. The Complainant pmd yo~ $3,800. Since that time, you have taken action to
attempt to locate witnesses and get affidavits from witnesses. Those affidavits have never been
forthcoming. No motion for appropriate relief, or other action concerning post-conviction relief,
has been filed'in the matter. You 'did notretiun any of the $3,800 fee that was pajd. The failure
to render any appreciable services in exchange for the fee' would make the fee clearly excessive,
.
and you fctiled to act with reasonable diligence on behalf of your client.

I,' .

99G0445 '
Yriu were retairied in July 19~4, and were paid a $2,500 retainer to assist in obtaining, postconviction relief. In your response you stated that during 1996 and 1997 the Parole Commission made a
policy decision not to release inmat~s fr<:>m prison with charges similar to Complainant's. Y Qu,provided
no information concemhig why betwe~n 1994 and 1996 you took no action on behalf of the client to
obtain any relief. You failed to act with reasonable diligence on behalf of your client.
99G0751
",
A fee arbitration petition was filed by a former client ofyows on AprilS, 1999, 99FD0093. the
Chairman, of the Greensboro Bar Association Fee Arbitration Committee, Wiiliam O. Mosely, ~r.,
notified yo~ of the filing of the fee arbitration petition by letter dated April 9, 1999, and asked you to :
respond to the allegations. You failed to do so. On April 15, 1999, a mediator, John W: Hardy; wrote a
letter to you requesting that you respond. You failed to do so. On May 20, 1999, the mediator flgain '
wrote a letter to you asking you to respond. You again failed to do so. Your failure to respond ~o the fee
arbitration petition of the local committee constitutes a failure to cooperate in good faith with tIie fee
arbitration proceeding. ,

I

~~

.

A petition for fee arbitration was filed with North Carolina State Bar on'March 26, 199~r. You':
were notified of the 'petition on April 9, 1999. You were requested to respond within 30 days o~the date
of the notification. You failed to do so. Your failure to cooperate with the local fee arbitration
committee constitutes a failure to participate in good faith in the fee arbitration process.

99G0962.
The Complainant retained you and paid you $1,400 in August 1996, for the purpose of optainitlg
parole release and teduction in his sentence. You stated in your response that at the time you :fiIf~t started
working on 'the case, the North Carolina Parole Commission had adopted a policy that they w€r~ taking a
very conservative line on persons who were convicted of crimes in the category of the crime of 1jhe
Complainant. It Was not until early 1998 that the Cominission's policy began to liberalize. Yo-q state
that you put your efforts on behalf of Respondent on hol4. You did not attempt to get him a hearing
.
,

2

1
247

,

,.

"~

,

.

i.

.~ "~,;:

t

t

"

until October 1999. Given that yo~ \\Tere retained in 19'96; the ti~~ fr~e In which the p()licy waS in
place, your actions in accepting the' fee and then pla~ing ,the matter on hpld wjthout notifying the client
of the fact that you were not proceeding to attempt to obtain parole, would not constitute reasonable'
diligence on your part.
99G1347

,

,

You were retained in 1994 to represent the Compl~infY1t in filing a motion for approppate
relief, You stated in your response that your 'investigation dia 'not reveal sufficient information
to justify the filing of a motion for appropriate relief. Yo.ur failure to take any action from
November 1994 to 1999, and the retef,ltion of the fee during that time period is a lack of'
reasonable diligence on your part. '
,

I

The foregoi~g actions constitute violations of Superceded RtUe6.0~ and Revised Rules
1.3 and 1.4. In addition, the actions constitute violations of Superceded Rule 2.6 and Revised
Rule 1.5. Ii1 deciding to issue ,this reprimand, and not to issue more serious discipline, the
Committee took into account your previous disciplinary history, including ,the fact that ~ou had
recently peen the subject oian action before the Disciplinary Hearing Commi$sion. It was the
hope of the Committee that the conditions placed on your continuing practice of law by the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission would be helpful to you, and would enable you to avoid ~e
pattern of rule violations that is evidenced in this reprimand~ Consequently, the Committee, in
this <;:ase, elected to issue this repri1?1and and not to take any more severe action. Subseqllent
failures could result in in:0re severe discipline.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due'to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you wHl heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never a,gain allow yoi1ts~lf
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Couticil of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the ainount
()f $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
'
Done and ordered, this

1

day of "AI<.f~,

' 2000.

~;<~
K. Dorsett, III
-

~

, S : :

Chair, Grievance Committee

3

I

,',"'.:

