,

,',

"

WAKE COUNTY"

,

I

)
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
v. '
)
)
JON S, JOHNSON, ATTORNEY
)
Defenpant )

.,' "~.
, ".'

.

FINDINGS OF FACt,
CONCLUSI()NS OF LAW,
. AND ORDER OF DISciPl,..INE

This matter was heard on November 3, 2000, before a hearing committee of the
OisCiplinary Hearing Commission composed of James 'R. ,Fox, Chaitlllan, Joseph G. '
Maddrey, and Robert 8. Frant~., Defendant, Jon S. Johnson, failed to appear in person
or through an attorney. Douglas J. Brocker represented plaintiff. Based l:Ipon the
pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby
enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1.

Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Sar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the,
General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

Z.

Defendant, Jbn H. Johnson, (hereafter "Johnson"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Sar on August 18, 19,84, and is, and was at all times .
referred to herein; an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North,
'
Carolina, subject to the rules,' regulations, and Rules of Professional:
Conduct of the Nbrth Carolina State Bar an~ the laws of the state of North
Carolina.

1

" 26-:

3.

During the times relevant to this complaint, Johnson actively engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law
office'in'the City of Matthews, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.,

4.,

During1993 to 1998, Johnson's law office was a sole proprietorship
operated by him.

5, I

,

During 1993 to 1998, Johnson had employees in his law office to whom
he paid wages and salaries.
.

6. :

For each pay period, Johnson issued his employees a check for their net
salary.

7. '

Johnson withheld from his employees paychecks the appropriate
amounts for stat~ and federal taxes and other deductions and held thos,e
funds in trust for payment to the state and federal government on behalf
Of his employees.

8.

For tax years 1993 through 1998, Johnson provided employees with W-2
forms.

9.'

The W-2 forms John$on provided to his employees included the total
compensation paid, and separately listed the social security, Medicare,
federal income, and state income taxes withheld from his employees.

10.

Johnson provided the W-2 forms to his employees in January or February,
of the year immediately following the previous tax year. For example,
Johnson provided the'W-2 forms for 1993 in January or February 1994.

11.,

Johnson, therefore, knew the amounts he was suppo~ed to be
withholding for his employees and paying to the appropriate federal and
state government agencies.

12.

Johnson failed to file with the United States Internal Revenue Service
("IRS") in a timely fashion his federal quarterly and annual tax retUrhS for
employee withholding for all quarters and years from 1993 through 1998,
inclusive.

13.

Johnson, failed to file with the North Carolina Department of Revenue
("NCDOR") in a timely fashion his state quarterly and annual returns for
employee withholding taxes for all quarters and years from 19,93 through
1998, inclusive.

I

"

'

I

i"

I

I

I

14.

Johnson failed to pay to the IRS in a timely fashion his federal employee
withholding taxes for all quarters and years from 1993 through 1998,
inclusive.

15.

Johnson failed to pay to,th.e NCDOR in<a:-,timely fashion his-state
employee Withholding taxes for all quarters and years from ,1993 through
1998, .inclusive.

16.

Johnson's unp~id and delinquent federalerttployee withholding taxes for
1993 through 1998 exceeded $60,000, as ·of approximately August 1,

1999.
17.

The penalties and interest on Johnson's unpaid and delinquent federal
employee withholding taxes for 1995 through 1998 exceeded $35,000, as .
of approximately August 1, 1999.

18.

Johnson's unpaid and 'delinquent state employee withholding taxes for
1993 throLlgh 1998 exceeded $13,OQO, as of approximately June 1, 1999.

19.

The penalties anc;! rnterest on Johnson's unpaid or delinquent state
employee withholding taxes for 1993 through 1996 exceeded $3;500,
of approximately June 1, 1999.

20.

During 1993 thr~.ugh 1998, Johnson continued to receive income from hi$
law office, paid his employees salaries, and paid other expenses
necessary to run his law office.

21.

In March 1996, ali employee in Johnson's office prepared state and
federal quarterly and annual tax returns for 1996 and provided them to
Johnson.

,-,.-,

The employee also provided Johnson' with in!;trlJctions on where the
documents needed to be filed.

23.

Johnson failed to file returns or pay taxes after receiving these 1995
returns from his employee.
'

24.

Sometime during the first half ot' 1999, Johnson became aware that a
'former employee had or was going to report him to the tRS and NCDOR
for failure to file returns and pay employee withholdinQ taxes.

25.

In June 1,9Q9, Johnson filed with the NCDOR his state emplbyee
withholding tax returns for 1995 through 1998.

t:..L..

qS

3

.

I
.,:

.
"", "

264

~~; ( ,

. '.

' ~,:,

26.

In June 1999, Johnson paid to NCDOR his delinquent state employee
withholding taxes for 1995 through 1998.
'
,

.

27.

In August 1999, Johnson filed with the IRS his federal employee
withholding tax returhS for 1995 through 1998.

2&.

In August 1999, Johnson paid to the IRS his delinquent employee
withholding taxes, interest, and penarties for 1995 through 1998.

29.

On January 10, 2000, I\.espondent received a letter of notice ahd
substance of grievance from the North Carolina State Bar alleging that he
had failed to file and pay employer withholding taxes for 1993 through

I

'

' .. '

1998.
30~

On approximately January 31, 2000, Johnson filed with the IRS and
NCDOR his federal and state employee withholding tax returns for 1993 '
and 1994.

,

31.

At the time' he filed his returhs, Johnson paid the federal and state
employer withholdihg taxes due for 1993 and 1994.

32.,

Johnson has hot p;:tid the interest and penalties due for state and federal
employee withholding taxes for 1993 and 1994.

33.'

Johnson conducted a'real estate closing forWiilie and Al'lnette Simpson
on approximately April 25, 1996. The Simpsot:l closing involved a
refinancing of the Simpson's existing property and the payoff of their
previous mortgage holder, Principal Residential Mortgage (hereafter
"Principal").
.

34.

In 1998, the Simpsons experienced difficulties in attempting to refinance
their property because Residential had not cancelled the previous deed OF
trust.

35.

i

I

The Simpsons contacted Johnson during 1998 and 1999 and requested
that Johnson ensure that Principal cancel the previous deed of trust.

36.' The Simpson's eventually filed a grievance with the 26th Judicial District
Grievance Committee.,

37.

'

of

The Chairmah of the local Grievance Committee sent Johnson a copy of
, the Simpson's grievance on May 4, 1999, and instructed him to respond
within 15 days.'

4
1

I

,

I

"

",

38.

Johnson failed to respond to the grievance within 15 dayl;i of his receipt of
this letter.

39,.

On May 25, 1999, Johnson's office received a follow-up letter from the,
local investigating attorney notifying him tharhe had failed to respond,
and instructing him to respond within 15 days.

40,. Johnson again failed to'respond to the grievance.

I

41.

The defendant was properly served witli process arid the hearing was •
held with due notice to all parties.

42.

The State Bar filed a complaint against Johnson in this matter on August '

10,200Q.
43.

Johnson was served with the summons' and' complaint in this matter by
certified mail, return receipt requested, on August 14, 2000.

44.

Johnson's answer, as set forth in the summons, was due no later than 20
days after service ofthe complaint - on or about September 5, 2000.

45.

Johnson did not file an answer or other responsive pleading in this matter.

46.

On September 13, 2000, upon motion of the office of counsel, the
Secretary of the State Bar entered default a~ainstJohnson.

47..

Johnson was served with the motion for entry of default, grounds for ,
personal jurisdiction, and entry of default.

48.

On September 20, 4000, the State Bar filed a motion for entry of order of
discipline and notice of hearing for its motion,

49.

'The motion for entry of order of discipline and notice of hearing setting
that motion for October 27, 2000., were served upon Johnson.

50.

On October 23, 2000, attorney Harry H. Harkins, Jr. requested a
continuance of the October 27, 2000 hearins date on behalf of defendant.

51.

011 October 24; 2000, t~e Hearing Committee entered all order continuing
the October 27th hearing date in order to allow Mr. Harkins time to prepare
to represent Johnson.

52.

Attorney Harkins entered an appearance on behalf of Johnson and
became counsel of record for him on October 24,2000.

5

,,
f

I
'''J
(.,

, :' : ~'"\\ •

,,: .,',<',

G6
,

'

53.

On October.27, 2000, the Hearing Committee entered an order
rescheduling the hearing date in this matter for November 3, 2000.
,

.

54.

'On October 27,2000, Attorney Harkins was provided a copy of the order
rescheduling the hearir,lg date for November 3, 2000.

55.

Attorney Harkins subsequently communicated the November 3, 2000,
rescheduled hearing date to Johnson ..

56.

On October 30, 2000, attorney Harkins moved to withdraw, asserting that.
he had been unable to get Johnson to communicate with him.

57.

Thereafter, on October 30,2000, Johnson personally received an order
rescheduling the hearing date for November 3, 2000.

58,

Later that same day, Johnson communicated with the state Bar
acknowlec;lging that he was aware of the rescheduled November 3, 2000
hearing date.

59.

On November 1, 2000, the Hearing Committee entered an order allowing
Mr. Harkins to withdraw and confirming th~ November 3, 2000 hearing
date.

60.

. On Nbvember 1, '2000, Johnson received a copy of the order aI/owing Mr.
Harkins to withdraw and confirming the November 3, 2000 hearing date.

61. .

Because a default has been entered against Johnson, the allegations in
the State Bar's complaint are deemed admitted and the violations of theRules of Professional Conduct set out in the complaint are deemed
established as a matter of law.

62.

Apart from the effect of the entry of default, the State Bar introduced
evidel1ce in support of the all~gations in the complaint

63.

The Hearing Committee found that this evidence established each of the
Rule violations alleged in the complaint by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence.

64.

Johnson was not present at the hearing, nor Was he represented by
counsel, despite the Hearing Committee's efforts to allow him to be
represented by counsel in providing a continuance of the original October
27th hearing date.

I

I

6

I
",

.

.

,',

,

','

..,

, .
,
"

.,

"

I

65.

Johnsol1 was afford~d the opportunity object to evidence tendered by the
Bar a,nd to introduce evidence on his own behalf, but waived that right by "
failing to appear ~t thelhearing in person or through counsel.

66.

The State Bar reqlJested in discovery in·;this·,action informatiOn and
documentation regarding Johnson's filing and payment of hi$ personal
'
'income taxes.

67.

Johnson failed to respond to the discovery requests or the State Bar's
subsequent Motion to Compel responses.

68.

The Hearing Committee made no findings regarding Johnson's personal
income taxes and did not consider this issue in any way in entering this'
order of discipline.

Based upon the foregoing FincUngs of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following;
.

j

, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All parties ·are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over ~ohnson and (he subject matter.
2. Johnson's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes .
grounds. for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. St~t. § 84-28(b)(2) and (3) in thatJohnsonJ
committed the following violations of the North Carolint;l Rules of Professional Conduct
(hereafter "Rule") 'or Revised R,uies of Professional· Conduct (hereafter "Revised Rule'''):

I

A. By willfully failing to collect or pay qver a tt;lx, in violatiOn of 26 U.S.C.§
7202, and willfully failing to file returns, supply information, or pay tax in.
violation of 26 U.S.C,§ 7203, Johnson committed criminal acts that reflec.t
adversely on his honesty, trustworthY, or fitness as a I;:.wyer in 'violation ·o~
Rule 1.2(b) and RevisetJ Rule 8.4(b);
B. By failing to willfully collect or truthfully account for and pay over taxes al1~
willfully failing to pay the tax, file the return, or supply the information in '
violation of N,.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236(8) & (9), Johnson"committed
criminal acts that reflected adversely on his honesty, trustworthy, or
fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 1.2(b) and -Revised Rule 8.4(b);

7
.'

I

..

C. Johnson~s foregoing actions, set out in sub-paragraphs A arid B above,
constituted conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
l'nisrep'resentatiOri in violation of Rule 1.2(c) and Revised Ruie 8.4(c).
:0. By failing to responq to a laWful demand for information from a disciplinary
authority, Johnson violated Revised Rule 8.1(b) and NCGS § 84-28(b)(3).

Ba~ed upon the foregoing 'Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon

the eviden,ce and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline,. thehearing committee hereby makes the additional

I

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1 .Johnson's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
i

A.

A lengthy and significant prior disciplinary history:
(i) Johhson Was reprimanded in November 1989 for repeatedly failing
to respond to a client;s grievance and for failing to zealously
represent that client.
(ii) Johnson was reprimanded in November 1992 for failing to,
communica~e with a client and for repeatedly failing to respond to
that client's grievance.(iii) In December 1999, Johnson was suspended for six months,
stayed for two years, for repeatedly failing to respond and
participate in a fee arbitration filed by one of his clients and for
repeatedly failing to respond to the resulting grievance in violation
of Revised Rules 1 ,5(f) and 8.1 (b),

B., Dishonest or selfish motive,

I

C.: A pattern of misconduct,
D.: Multiple offenses over a period of humerous years, arid

E. • Substantial experience in the practice of law Clt the time Of the offenses.
2. Johnson's miscqnduct is mitigated by the fol/owing factors:
I

A. . Personal or emotional problems: Johnson suffered several deaths in his
family, which in turn have contributed to his depression mentioned below,

'8

I
'"

~.

,.

-

'>'

•

B, Character or reputation, and
C. Mental disability or impairment: Johnson has been diagnosed with, and is
; currently being treated for, recurrent rryajor depression.

3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

I

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments .'
. of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1. Defendant, Jon S. Johnson, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for
a period of five years, beginning 30 days from the service of this order upon
him.
2. johnson shall submit his license and membership card to the Seoret~ry of the
North Carolina St~te~ar no later than 30 days following service of this order
upon him.
3. After no less than three years following the effective date of this order,
Johnson may file a verified petition for a stay of the remaining period of the
suspension in accordance with the req.uirements of N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B § .012S(b) of the North Carolina State Bar's
Discipline and Disability Rules ("Discipline Rules"). Johnson's' remaining
suspension may be stayed if he establishes by clear, cogent, and convincira9!
evidence the following Conditions:

I

A. Prior to the filing of any petition for ,stay of suspension or r.einstatement,
Johnson shall meet all tax obligations for which he is currently in default,
including but not limited to the filing of all past due federal and state tax
returns, and the payment to the appropriate t~xing authority of all taxes,
with holdings, penalties, and interest due and owing 0/1 all state and .
federal tax returns.
B. Prior to the filing of any petition for stay of suspension or reinstatement,
Johnson 'Shall timefyfile all tax returns and other related filings which he i$
required to make by state or federal law, and shall timely p'ayall taxes or :
payment$ that are due and owing pursuant to those. filings or by law.

C.

With any petition for stay of suspension or reinstatement, Johnson shall
.provide to the North Carolina State Bar suffieient evidence that he has
fulfilled the requirements of subparagraphs A and B above, including but
not limited to personal income taxes, and shall execute authorizations anq ,

9

"tv "'I'} O·.
'!"

'

,

releases requested by'the North C~rolina 'state Bar to enable it to verify
with any qppropriate taxing authority that JohnSon has fulfilled the
provisions of subparagraphs A and B above.
D. With any petition for stay of suspension ot reinstatement, Johnson shall
submit a written certification from his treating psychiatrist that .he has
followed ali recommendations for treatment for any diagnosed
psychological or psychiatric condition(s), including depression, fot the past
six months. Johnson also must execute a release allowing the State Bar
to obtain his medical records and attac;h that release to his petition for
reinstatement.
.

I

If Johnson's treating physician is not recommended by the State Bar, the
State Bar shall hav~ the right to have Johnson evaluated by a psychiatrist,
selected by it, prior to reinstatement.

S.

Prior to filing any petition for a stay of suspension, Johnson shall enter
. into a recovery contract and agree to participate .in the North Carolina
State Bar Lawyer's Assistant Program (hereafter "LAP") throughout the
remainder of the suspension. Johnson shall include proof of compliance
with this requirement with any petition for a stay of suspension .

.F:

Johnson has complied with all the requirements of discipline Rule .0124.

G. Johnson has comp'lied with

all the requirements of discipline Rule

.0125(b).
H: Johnson has paid all the costs assesSed by the Secretary in connection
· with this proceeding, within 30 days of service ·of these costs by the
. Secretary.
I. ' .Johnson has not violated any federal or state laws.

I

4. Up(:>o the entry of an order staying the remaining term of Johnson's
suspension, such order of stayed suspension may continue in effect for the
balance of the term of suspension only upon compliance with all the following
conditions:

A. :Johnson shall not violate any federal or state law.
"

B. ,Johnson shall not violate any provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct or subsequently enacted Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar.

10

I

·

.

C. Johnson shall timely file all tax retllrns 'orother related filings which he is
required to make by state or federa~ law, and shall timely pay all taxes or
p~yments that are due ·and owing pursuant to those filings or by law.
Johnson shall forward copies of all filings and evidence of all payment to
the North Carolina State B~r simultaneo.u.~JY' with the filing.of such
documents..
.
. '.
D. Johnson shall agree. to be supervised by LAP and cooperate fully With that
program. In connection therewith, Johnson shall :

I

i. comply in all respects with the recovery cOhtract entered into with LAP
throughout the remaining period of the suspension,
iL authorize his psychiatrist, psychol.ogist, and any other physician or
medical personn'el who evaluates or treat him during the sU$pension, to.
release upon request, to the State Bar office of Collnsel and LAP,
information about his status as a patient,
iii. instruct his treating physician. and psychologist to inform the Office of
Counsel and LAP immediately in writing if, at any point, during the
suspension he ceases to be a patient or otherwise fails tO,comply with
the course of treatment prescribed by his psychiatrist and psychologist,:
iv. be responsible for ensuring that his treating psychiatrist, Dr. G,H.
Dorrtblazer, or another psychiatrist approved in-advance by the State
Bar, forward quarteriy reports to LAP certIfYing that for the past quarter~
(a) He has followed all recommendations for treatment of any
diagnosed psychological conditions, including depression; and

I

(b) In the psychiatrist's opinion, Johnson's psychiatric condition(s) Wi'li
not prevent him from adequately performing his responsibilities as
an attorney, or pose a threat to the public, if he is allowed to
continue practicing law.
These reports shall be provided.to LAP no later than January 1S\ April
S
1 t, July 1SI , and October 1St, for each year during the temainder of the
stayed suspension.
v. be responsible fQr ensuring that his treating psychologist, Dr. Mark
Worthen, 'or another psychologist approved' in advance by the State'
Bar, forward quarterly reports to LAP certifying that for the past quarter:
(a) He has followed all recommendations for treatment of any
diagnosed psychological conditions, including depression; and
11
I
I

It

I

"

), \!

(b) In the psychologist's opinion, Johnson's psychological condition(s)
, will not prevent him from adequately performing his responsibilities
as an attorney, or pose a threat to the public, if he is allowed to
continue practicing law.
These reports shall be prOvided to LAP no later than January 1st, April 1st,
st
July 1 , and October 1st, for each year during the remainder of the stayed
suspension.
vi. be responsible for having LAP forward quarterly reports to the State Bar
Office of Counsel no later than February 1st, May 1st, August 1st, and
November1 st for each year during the remainder of the stayed
suspension.

I

5. In the event that Johnson fails to petition for, or meet the requirements for
any stay cif·the suspension, or in the event that any stay of the suspension is
,lifted, and the suspension is reactivated, as a condition of reinstatement
following the suspension, Johnson: must meet the requirements of
subparagraphs A, B, C, .0, F, G, and' H of paragraph .3 above. This
,requirement is in addition to" and shall not deem to. limit the proVisions of
'Disciplinary Rule .0125

Signed by the,chair with the fl!\1 knowled
nsent of all' other 'members of
the hearing commiUee, this the '$ "eY dal"Ly~o~f .......J.:.~~~=- 2000.

........

I

12

I

r:;•• '"4' 3

