,

,

~'l

,

NORTH CAROLINA

..

WAKE COUNTY

I

"~.; ~

BEFORE THE GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF TBE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
'0UG0759

THE NORTH ~AROLINA STATE BAR
Petitioner

v.
ROGER W .. RIZK, ATTORNEY
Respondent

)
)
)
) ORDER OF REC1PROCAL
) DISCIPLINE PROCEEDING
)
)
)

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chair of the GrIevance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Awnin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §§
.0105(a)(12) and .0116(b) of the N. C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules and based
upon the record in th.is matter, the unc;lersigned fmds as follows:

I

1. By order dated June 29, 2000, the Supreme Court of Florida issued an Order of
Suspension from the practice of law agairist respondent Roger W. Rizk (hereafter
"Rizk"). The Supreme Court of Florida found that Rizk failed to act with reasonable
diligence and prdmptness in representing ~ client, failed to keep the client infonned
r~garding the ~tatus of the representation, and failed to explain the matter to the extent
reasonably necessary to permit the client to make infor,med decisions regarding the
representation.
2. On approximately August 22,2000, a Notice of Reciprocal Discipline
Proceeding was served upon Rizk by the North Carolina State Bar via cert~fied mail. The
Notice advised Rizk that th,e North Carolina State Bar was considering imposing identical
discipline, based upon the iS$uance of the Order of Suspension in Florida.
3. The Grievance, Committee of t4e North Carolina State Bar considered this
matter at its October 18, 2000 meeting. The Grievance Committee concluded that Rizk
failed to show cause why the imposition of the identical discipline in North Carolina
would be unwarranted and failed to satisfy any of the conditions set forth in to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapt~r 1, Subchapter B, § .0116(b)(3).

I
274
,J';

,

BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS the Chair of the Grievance
Conunittee makf(s ~he following CONCLUSIONs OF LAW:,
1.

The North Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this

proc~eding and over the person of the respondent; Roger W. Rizk.

2, The Grievance Committee has complied with the procedure for imposition of
reciprocal discipline set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, SUbchapter B, §
.01 16(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability.
3. The Supreme Court of Florida's June 29, 2000 Order of Suspension against
Rizk el)tablishes that Rizk engaged in conduct constituting violations of Rule 1.3, Rule
1.4(a), and Ru1e 1.4(b) of the North Carolina Revised Ru1es of Professional Conduct,
.which justifies the imp~sition of reciprocal discipline in this state.

I

4. The suspension imposed by the Supreme Court of Florida is the equivalent of
a Suspension as described and Set Qut in North Carolina General Statute Section 8428(c)(2). Respondent's right to practice'law in the state of North Carolina shall be
suspenqed for ten days.
:THEREFORE IT is HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

1. the Respondent; Roger W. Rizk, is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw
for ten qays effective 30 days after service of this orderupon him.

2. Respond~nt is hereby taxed with the costs of this proceeding as assessed by

the Secr¢tary.

3, Respondent shall comply with 27 Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B §
.0124 in all respects, unless otherwise noted in this order. Respondent shall notify all
clients and any court in which any cliertt matter is pending of this suspension, but shall.
not be required by this order to withdraw from such matter provided that he is reinstated
within 30 days of the effective date of the Suspension. Respondent may resUme handling
any such matter, with the client's consent, following his reinstatement. Respondent also
may retai~ client files and materials, provided that he is reinstated within 30 days and that
the client consents to. his continued representation following his reinstatement.

This the

2i:day of <2~

I

,2000.

VUtuVL:ID.~

~s K. Dorsett III; ChaIr
I

,

Grievance Committee

I
Z75·

