r'2'6'2
'otf
"
'. "
~

•
~t

<',-

DA1I;llSONOO

F,' l ED

"~(--

t'_~~

-,,~--

NO:RTH CAROLIN
, ' . IN T 'GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE .
DAVIDSONCO _ Y
'NOV ~~ ,2000 SUP RIORCOURTDMSION
ATtf.::J6. O'Cl~_Q 0_0 . S 10544
BY '
tMY\ . ~ _ _M

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

)
)

v.

I

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS
OF LAW, AND ORDER OF DrSCIPLINE .

)
)
)

WILLIAM DENNIS WORLEY,
Defendaut.

)
)

TH1;S CAUSE, coming q,~ t.o ,be heard and bejng heard bef.ore the undersigned'
judge presidil1g at the November 6, 2000, sessi.on of the Superi.or Court of Davids.on
C.oUnty, N.orth Carol#1a, as a proceeding f.or the discipline of a member of the Bar .of the
State of N.orth Carolina; and the- CQurt, after hearing the evidence presented:, fmds the
following facts by clear, cog~nt B.U:d c.onyincing evidence: .
.
FINDINGS OF FACT
'I. The defendant, William Denni~ Worley, and his att.orney, Stephen D, Barnhin,
were present before the c.ourt oil N.ovember 9,2000. .

I

2. The North Car.olina State Bar's duly auth.orized representative, Caro lin p.
Bakewell,. was also present in open court on November 9, 2000, and
participated on behalf of The N.orth Carolina ~tate Bar in this proceeding.

~

The defendant, his attorney, and counsel for The North Carolina State Bar
were given due notice of the hearing of this matter, and no objection has been
made to the'heatil1g of this matter on November 9,2000.

4. The defendant was adtrlitted to The North Carolina State Bar on August 20,
1993, and is, and was at all times, referred to herein, an attorney at law
licensed t.o practice in' N.orth Car.olina, subject to the rules, regulations' and
Rules of Professi.onal Conduct .of The North Car.olina State B~ and the laws '
of the State of North Carolina.
5. Dl,lring the time relevant to this Order, the defendant actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of N.orth Carolina and served as an assistant
attorney general in the N.orth Carolina Department .of Justice from 1994 until

i

"

'.',:.) 1.

I

April, 2000. Prior to serving in that capacity the defendant served as a law
Clerk to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of North Carolina.

.

.

6. The defendant was arrested for felonious possession of a Schedule I controlled
substance, methylenedioxymethamphetamine, ("MDA") in violation of the
North Carolina Controlled Substances Act.

7. The date of the offense was April 17, 2000.
8. After bis arrest the defendant voluntarily admitted himself to Fellowship Hall
in Greensboro, North CatolijIa, which specializes in working with individuals
who have a substance problem. A significant portion of this organization's .
patients are, in fact, professionals. The defendant received therapy and
counseling at Fellowship Hall where he remained from April 19, 2000, until
.
May 1 6 , 2 0 0 0 . '

I

9. Since being released from Fellowship Hall, the d.efendant has successfully
continued treatm~nt and has satisfactorily .participated in The North Carolina
State Bar Positive Action for Lawyers ("PALS") Program.
10. The defendant waS admitted to the Keys to Recovery Intensive Outpatient
Program on May 15,2000, and successfully completed that program. He was
discharged on June 30, 2000, and he has maintained an aftercare program and
participated iIi individual counseling with Keys to Recovery at least through
August 8, 2000..

11. The "defendant entered a plea of guilty to felonious' possessiqn of a Schedule I
controlled substance, MDA, on November 9, 2000, before the undersigned
judge presiding in the Superior Court of Davidson County. The court found a
factual basis for the plea and found that the plea of guilty was freely and
voluntarily' entered. The court accepted the plea, and found the defendant
guilty of felonious possession ofa Schedule I controlled substance, MDA.

I

, 12. The defendant has' had no prior discipline by The North Carolina State Bar or
by any court.
.

,13. Don Carroll, Executive Director of the PALS program of The North Carolina
State Bar, .and Dale Talbert and William Ferrell of the Office of the Attorney
General of North Carolina testified on behalf of the defendant. The court :Gnds ;
that the defendant exhibited no mental or physical problems at his Work; that'
he had an outstanding record as ail attorney while working at the Office of the
Attorney General; that the defendant was remorseful; and that the defendant
was not unfit to perform hi.s duties while at work.

I

.-.

•. ,
j'

'

'~,,:"

""

,,:.• ,.: • t

i

'.
• •;

~

..

.~,

',~.

",., - .:_ ,,_

,

•

~

f

"

-~ ~~";~.~ '~'.'~~:l:~ ':.

BASED ON TaE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF FACT, THE COURT MAKES
THE FOLLOWING:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. The court has jurisdiction over the parties ~iYthe subject l11att~r. All ~ariies
are properly before the court and were given proper noti<;:e to appear in court
to present any and ali: evidence deemed necessary, by the parties for
consideration by the court .respecting imposition of professional discipline on
the defendant.
2 .. Pursuant to' Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and tb'e .
inherent powers of this court, the court has authority to impose sanctions upon
the defendant.
. .
3. The. defendant has pled guilty to and been sentenced for a criminal act that
reflects adyersely on ,his honesty, trustworthiness' or fitness as a lawyer.
4. The conduct of the defendant which.resulted in his conviction violated North
Carolina Rule ofProfessiOllal Conduct 8.4 (b).
5. The defendant"has committed. misconduct warrailting imposition of discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. 84-28(b) (1) and (2).
, BASED ON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF FACT
OF LAW, THE COURT ENTERS THE FOLLOWING:

AND

CONCLUSIONS

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1. William Dennis Wotley is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw in North

I

Carolina for a period of three (3) years, effective on November 9,2000.
2. The suspension is stayed 'for a period of thrl.e (1) years as long as lht.;

defendant satisfies all'bf the following conditions: '
a. The defendant must abstain from the use of all alcohol and nonprescribed controlled substances.
b. The defendant .shall have random drug tests performed by The North
Carolina State Bar throughout the three-year stay at SU9Q. times as may'
be qetertnined by The North Carolina State Bat. These tests must be
performed within twelve hours after a telephone request by the Office
of CoUnsel of The North Carolina State Bar. A written Notice of
Request for a drug test shall be filed with the Secretary of The North
Carolina State Bar, giving the date and time of the request· for the test
and the location where the test shall be perfonned. A copy of the

I
'.

--------------;-------..,..---------------1
Notice of Request shall be 'sent' to the defendant when. filed. The
defendant shall file a Notice of Compliance with the request, and the
results of'the test, with the Secretary of The Nort4 Carolina State Bar
. no later thilt ten (lO) days after the Notice of Request is filed.
c. The defendant 'shall continue to satisfactorily participate in the PALS
program throughout the three-year stay. The defendant in open court
has waived anY right to confidentiality with respect to reports by the
PALS program to the State Bar Office of COliilsel as' to his
participation in the PALS program. The defendant shall be responsible
for having the PALS program director or his monitor forward to the
Office of Counsel a report demonstrating his continued satisfactory
. participation. The defendant shall cause such reports of compliance to
be sent every six (6) months during the entire. three-year stay. The
defendant ·sh~l cause the required reports to be forwarded to the State
Bar no lat~r ,than May 9 and November 9 of each year of the stay,
beginning ,on May 9,2001, and ending on November 9; 2003.

I
.

d. The defendant shall comply with all of the foregoing conditions during
the entire three-year stay. Failure of the defendant at any time during
the three-year stay to comply with any of the conditions set forth
above, Or if the defendant tests positive as a result of a test fot illegal
9rugs, then either of these acts or omissions shall constitute a violation
of this order and shall be sufficient grounds for the State Bar to file a
motio~ to require the defendant to show cause why the stay should not
. be withdrawn andthe entire tbree-year stay activated..
e. the defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professiona~
Conduct.
,3. The defendant shall be responsible for all 'costs in this proceeding and those
associated wit~ complying with t~s Order and the conditions specified above,

Under no drcumst'imces shall the State Bar be responsible to the defendap.t cr
any third parties for the cost of defendant's compliance with the conditions of
this Order.
This the

I

~ay of~ovember, 2000.

1fMc.~~
Wm. Erwin Spainhour
. .
,
Judge Presiding

I

279

