..

.''

4 toto
8"
t7

f'~~':ri ~

I:~~~-' .~~ ~.

_.J.t";~

'0 CV '\,11,
!\u''''~l''':'!t
",,~,
''-II'

-.....J .

: ~~. 'iN Tim GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

NORTH CAROLINA
HERTFORD COUNTY.
Iirt \i1__'_

INRE:

I

Conduct ofROSBON D. B. WHEDBEE,
Attorney.

)
)
)
)
)

r!=
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter came on for herujng on S~ptember 11,2000, pursuant to an Amencfed Order'.
to Show Cause issued by Judge W. Russell Duke, Jr. that was properly served upon the
respondent, Rosbon p. B .. Whedbee. Rosbon D. 8. Whedbee was present and represented by
cOUnsel, Grover P. Hopkins of Tarboro, NC, The North Carolina State Bar a,cted as"prosecutor in
this matter and was represented by it~ deputy counsel, A. Root Edmon$on. Based upon the .
consent of the parties, as. eVidenced .by the signatures of counsela:ffixed hereto, Elhdfue record
before this Court, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. On May 18, 1998, Southern States Cooperative, I:p.c. (hereinafter, Southern States)'
sued Larry Fairless and his wife, Gloria Fairless, in Hertford County Superior Court, tile number
98-CVS-223, to collect a debt owed to Southerp. States. The respondent, Rosbon D. B.- Whedbee
(hereinafter, Whedbee), appeared for and represented both of the F airlesses in Southern. States'

SlJ.it.

1

2. After taking both of the Fairlesses' depositions, counsel for-Southern. States filed a
motion for summary judgment against each of them. 'On March 22, 1999, Stimmary judgment for
Southern States was granted against tarry Fairless and derued as to Gloria Fairless.

I

.'

3. On April 22, 1999, at a mediated settlement conference was heldin Plymouth, NC,
Gloria Fairless agreed to pay SQuthern Siat~s $7,000 and to release allclaims'she had to the
proceeds from the sale ofthe Fairlesses' farm equipIllent in exchange for Southern States
releasing Gloria Fairless from any ftJrtherclaims.
-#

4. At the settlement conference; Gloria Fairless signed the folloWing statement in the
presence of Whedbee:
Mrs. Fairless agrees not to claim or otherwise take any action to impede
tlie collection by sS of the mom~y proceeds held for husband. She agrees
1

I.

\

0°0
h.
U' .

·

.

not to stop any collec~ion attempt by SS [and] agrees she has no further
claim to the proceeds of sale.
5, On May 4,1999, Southern States' couttsel filed a notice of right to have exemptions
designated and served it on tarry Fairless.
6. On May 5, 1999, as a result of the agreement reached with Ms. Fairless, Southern
States filed a voluntary dismissal of their claims against Gloria Fairless.
7. As a result of a motion to clai~ exempt property filed by Larry Fairl~ss, an order
designating exempt property was signed on 111he 30, 1999. On that date, counsel for Southern
States filed a writ of execution against Larry Fairless with the Sheriff of Hertford County.

I
{

8. On August 9, 1999, Deputy Ronald Stallings returned the writ of execution unserved
because he1could not locate property upon Which to levy.
9. On August 13, 1999, upon motion of Southern States, Hertford County Clerk of
Superior Court Shirley Johnson (hereinafter, the Clerk) ordered Larry Fairless to appear before
her at a supplemental proceeding to answer under oath ail proper questions concerning property
which he had that could. be applied toward the satisfaction of the ju~gment in 98-CVS-223. The
Clerk also ordered that:
I

Defendant [Larry Fairless], and alI other persons, be and he [sic] hereby
are enjoined from transferring or making any disposition of or interfering
with any property belonging to the defendant which is exempt from
execution.

10.. On August 17, 1999 Deputy Ronnie Stallings served the Clerk's order upon Larry
Fairless·.
11. The Fairlesses had creditors in addition to Southern States who Were owed money,
including the Intemal Revenue Service and the NC Department of Revenue. Whedbee had been
negotiating wlth all of the Fairlesses' creditors seeking to have each of them agree to accept
payment of a 'redUced amount in complete satisfaction of the Fairl(:l$ses' obligations.

I""

.

12. In anticipation of the taxing authorities accepting partial payments as a resUlt of the
negotiations, Gloria Fairless delivered to Whedbee a Centura Bank certified check dated October
19, 1999 payable to Gloria Fairless in. the sum of$21,050.50. The certified check was purchased
with a portion of the proceeds from the sale of Larry Fairless' farm equipment that had been
forced by Centura Bank pursuant to the bank's security interest in the equipment.
13. On October 28, 1999, upon wpedbee's request, Gloria Fairless took the October 19,
1999 certified check back to Centuri'Bank and get two certified checks, one payabie to the
Internal· Revenue Service for $16,443.08 anq one payable to the N.C. Department of Revenue for
$4,607.42, and delivered them to Whedhee.

I
~.

t'I

8"1

.' ,1/":.; ..

.

~'

',.

,

~

1'.J

14. On October 28, 1999, prior to Larry Fairless' supplemeptal proceeding, Whedbee
mailed the certified <i;hecks brought to him by Gloria FairIes~ to the Internal Revenue Service and
the NC Department of Revenue.
15. In the afternoon on October 28, 1999, Larry Fairless ~ppeared and testified Uilder
oath in the supplemental proceeding .. Whedbee represented Larry Fairless at theproceediI\g.
Initially, the Clerk was hot present.,while Southern States's counsel, Luther Starling, examined
Larry Fairless.

I

16. During the supplemental proceeding, Starling asked Larry Fairless'.about the balance
of the proceeds trom the· sale of Fairless' fru:m equipment. Fairless testified that the ptoceeds~ad
been used to pay some debts, his lawyer's fees and that some had been usedtQ pay his wjfe"~·.
payment to Southern States. Fairless testified that he thought that "~ome twenty thousand" of the
proceeds remained.
17. When Starling asked him where the remaining money was, Fairless testified, "My
lawyer's holding it for the government payment of taxes."
18. After securing the Clerk'spresen,ce .at the proceeding, Starling again asked Fairless
about the money left over from Centura Bank's .sale of his farm equipment. After again
establishing that some twenty thousand in sales proceeds remained, Starling asked, "'and you're
holding that in an account with yom attorney; is that correct?" Fairless answered, "Right"
19. After the Clerk detemiined that the taxjng authorities had not issued a levy and that
ho other creditor of Larry Fairless had ajl,ldgment or lien of record, the Clerk ordered Larry
Fairles~ to hold the proceeds from ilie equipment sale so that they could be turned over to
Southern States. Faide~s told Starling on the record that he understood what the Clerk was
ordering.

I

20. Although Whedbee knew that the equipment sale proceeds had been disbursed prior
to the proceeding, he made no effort to have Larry Fairless correct or change his sworn
testimony.
21. On November 2, 1999, the Clerk signed and filed a written Order reqUiring Fairless
to pay over all moneys being held by Whedbee to the Clerk by 5:00 p.m. on November 5, 1999~
That order further ordered Fairless and his attorney not to dispose of any funds in their
possession related to the matter.
22. On November 9, 1999, after getting a copy ofthe Clerk's order, Whedbee called
Starling to advise him that he never had held any of the Fairlesses' funds in his tnist account, but
that he had mail~d certified checks to the taxing authorities for the Fairlesses prior to the Clerk's
order being ~ntered. Whedbee subsequently filed an affidavit to this effect.

I
28·2 .
,.1.'

'

..

",

~

,

23. At a heating on November 30, 1999, Judge W. Russell Duke, Jr. held Larry Fairles8
in willful criminal contempt for disbursing funds to the taxing authorities in violation of the
.
terms of the Court' s orders~
',,\.

24. Had Whedbee advised the Clerk on October 28, 1999 that the $21,050.50 had already
been mailed to the taxing atlthoriti~s after Larry Fairless testified to the contrary, his client may
have avoi~ed being cited for criminal contempt.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Court makes the followihg:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. This Court, pursuant to its inherent power over officers of the Court, has jurisdiction
of the subj~ct matter of this proceeding and ,personal jurisdiction over the respondent, Rosbon D,
B. Whedbee.

I

2 .. Whedbee's conduct, as set out above, is grounds for discipline pursuant to NCGS §8428(b)(2) in ,that he violated the NC Revised Rules ofProfessionaI Conduct as follows:
a. By failing to take steps to· correct the consequences ofhis client's testimony
that he knew to be misle.~ding concerning whether Whedbee was "holding"
~'some twenty thoUSaild~~ in farm equipment proceeds for Larry Fairless,
Whedbee failed to disclose i:l neceSsary material fact to a tribunal in violation
of Revised Rule 3.3(a)(2).
b. :ay failing to take steps to correct the consequences of his client's testimony
which resulted in further 'court proceedings and resulted in his client, Larry
. Fairless, being held iil willful 'criminal contempt, Whedbee engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Revised
Rule 8.4(d).
THE~FORE; IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, JUDGED AND DECREED:

I

1. The respondent, Rosbon D. B. Whedbee is suspended from the practice oflaw in
North Carolina
for six months.
i
,

."

2. The suspension of Whedbee's license is stayed for three years upon the following
conditions:
.,
a. T.Qat Whedbee not violate' any of the Revi~ed Ru1es of Professional Conduct
dtJrlng the stay.
b. That Whedbee pay the costs ofthis proceeding by December 31, 2000,
including reimbursing the NC State Bar $300.96 for the travel costs of its
deputy counsel for two overnight trips relating to this matter.

,-If

I

~f

,

,;~:
~"'

'.

- •• :,~

!.,~~

.

">.~~,,: '. "," :~~.

-:i:, /':~:"
;,:!

~

':

'.~' :'"

. '.

Consented to.:

fl· ;(.

£1----...---~.~~

A. Root Edmonson
Deputy COl,l1lsel
North Carolina State Bar

. over P. Hopkil1$
Attorney for the Respondent

".

I

I

,~<,

,'.

,

-',

