,

..

13LoJ9
t:-- --BEFORE

NORTH CAROLINA

nui-----·-

W A.K.E COUNTY

IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
00 DHC 18

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR;
Plaintiff '..

)
)

).

v.
CAROLYN N. MIYASHITA, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT
AND
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

This matter c8lt\e on to 'be heard on November 3, 2000 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hemng COmnllssion composed of James R. Fox, Chair; Joseph G. Maddrey, ·and
Robert B. Frantz..Larissa J. Erkman ·represented the North Carolina State Bar and the defendant,
Carolyn N. Miyashita appeared.but was not represented by coUnsel. Based upon the allegations
.. in the Complaint which were taken as true due to the defauit of the defendant, and the evidence
presented at the hearing, the hearing committee makes the following:
·FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws'of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The defendant, Carolyn N. Miyashita (hereinafter Miyashita), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar oli September 18, 1987 and IS, and until January 16, 1999, was an
Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws oithe State of North.
Carolina. As of January 16, 1999, Miyashita's license to practice in North Carolina was
suspended, but Miyashita remained subject to the rules and regulations ofthe North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Catolina.
3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Miyashita actively engaged in the practice .
of law before the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the City of San Francisco, CA by
virtue of her license to practice law in North Carolina.

I

4. On August 31, 2000, Miyashita was served, With the Complaint ih this matter py
c~rtified mail, return receipt requested, restricted delivery, as ,evidenced by theretum receipt
which she signed that is contained in the file.
,

."'

5. Miyashita failed to file an answer9r other responsi¥t}'pleading in this:niatter.
,"

6. Miyashita was served with the State Bar's Motion for Order ofDisc~pline and ~ N()tice
of Hearing advising her of this hearing date.
.
.

I

7. Alexander Volobuev (hereinafter, Volobuev) w~ a foreign Principal Violinist
present in the United States as a foreign exchange student on a J-l visa.
8. In March 1998, V()l()buev was hired by the Alabama Symphony Orchestra as a
'
Principal Second Violinist.
9. As a result, Volobuev retained Miyashita to file an 0~1 Alie~ of,Extra6rdinary Ability
Petition (hereinafter; 0-1 visa petition) on his behalf with the Immigration and Naturalization' ..
Service (hereinafter, INS).
10. Volobuev paid Miyashita the $500 retainer she requested in March 1998.
11. Volobuev's J-l visa ~as,to expire in the summer of 1998.
12. Miyashita agreed to ~pply for Volobuev's visa within ~o weeks, ~d complete the
visa process within ~ month, to enabie Volobuev to have the visa in time for him to travel to
Greece to jom the Athens Chamber Orchestra for its summer tour.
13. When Miyashita had not gotten Volobuev's 0-1 visa by the end ofApril as
.
promised, Volobuev applied for an extension of his J-l visa.

I

(

14. The INS granted Volobuev an extension of his J-l visa until January 1'999.
15. Volobuev made repeateq requests of Miyashita concerning the status of his 0-1 visEl- ..
petition.
16. Miyashita did not respond to V610buev's requests for a status update.
17. In July 1998, Volobuev attempted to discharge Miyashita. However, when he finally
reached her by telephone, Miyashita -assured Volobuev that she was within a week of filing his
.
petition. As a result, Volobuev did nQt discharge Miyashita.
18. In August 1998, Volobuev went to Greece a& planned. While there, Volobuev w~s
able to secure support letters from sortie of the top symphony conQuctors and pe:rformers in
Europe to attach to his petition.

I

',", ,

,-.,,~

-,

..

19. When he returned to the Uriited States in September 1998, Volobuev learned that
Miyashita had not yet filed his 0- f visa petition.
~,~

20., Volobuev sent the lette~s of support to Miyashita to be inclUded with his 0-1 visa

petition.

21. Volobuev called Miyashita weekly upon his reiutnto the United States. In October
1998, Volobuev finally was able to sp~ak w141 Miyashita. Miyashita assured Volobuev that she
would be sending a petition for him.to sign within one week.

22. In November 1998, Miyashita told Volobuev that she had sent the 0-1 visa petitioli
to the American Federation of Musicians (hereinafter, AFM) for a consultation. Miyashita told
Volobuev that she had signed his name to the copy she sent to AFM.

I

23. Knowing that a consultation with AFMshould only take about a week, Volobuev
soon began to make inquiries with Miyashita's office about the status of his matter.

24. Miyashita finally admitted to Volobuev that s4e had not sent anything to AFM.
Miyashita contended that she ~ad decided to handle the matter in a different way.
25. In January 1999, after hi.s J-l visa had expired, Volobuev's attempts to contact
Miyashita 'Were unsuccessful.
26. After not receiving any status updates from Miyashita after his repeated requests,
Volobuev cOlitacted a former employee ofMiyashita's~ Galina Fedorova (hereinafter, Fedorova). ,.
27. Miyashita advised Fedorova that Volobuev's 0-1 visa petition had ~eell filed prior to
, the expiration of his J-l visa.
28. By the beginning of February 1999, Volobuev learned that, if Miyashita had filed an
0-1 visa on his behalf, the INS would have issued her a receipt notice.
29. Volobuev
began to ask Miyashita's office to send him a copy ofthe receipt notice
I
for his application.
.

I

30. Miyashita never responded to Volobuev's requests.
31. In March 1999, a friend ofVolobuev's, Lev Rankov (hereinafter, Rankov), went to
Miyashita's office on his behalf to inquire about the status ofthe 0-1 visa petition.
32. M;iyashita told Rankov that Volobuev's petition had been filed.

:3 3. Miyashita never filed an 0-1 visa petition for V 010buev.

'I

"~2

..;\1

I

34. In May 1999, Volobuev realized that pothing.wasbeing ~oile on his behalf and
discharged Miyashita. Volobuev asked Miyashita to refund his retainer.
.
35. Volobuev also .asked Miyashita to return his file to !lim, particularly. the valqable
letters of support that Volobuev acquired while·he was in EQ.t~pe~ These letters':\vere very
'important to Volobuev's applicatio.t1'and were not easily repiaceable.

·,
~

36. Although Miyashita had not performed any legal services for Vol'obuev,Miyashita
never respon,ded to Volobuev's requests for a refund.

37. Miyashita Bever returned Volobuev's file to him.
38. By allowing Volobuev's J-l visa to expire without filing an 0-1 petition on his
behalf, Miyashita potentially prejudiced Volobuev's immigration status with lNS.
39. By notrettJrning Volobuev's'letters of support to him, MiYaShita potentially
prejudiced Volobuev's chances t<;> pqrsue his 0-1 visa through other counseL
.
.

,

40. On June 17, 1999, Volobuev'Sent a letter to the North Carolina State :aar
complaining about Miyasl)jta's conduct.
41. On June 2l, 1999, a grievance fIle was established against Miyashita with Volobuev
as the complaining party. This file was designated 99G0791.
42. On July'26, 1999, aLetter of Notice w~sjssued to Miyashita pursuant to 27 NCAC
IB, §.0112.
43. Ort August 5, 1999, the Letter of Notice and a Substance of Grievance containing t,he
substance of Volobuev' s allegatioils Was served upon Miyashita by a private process server
.
leaving a copy with Miyashita's receptionist, Alba Rosales.
44. Pursuant to 27 NCAC lB, §.Ol12(c), Miyashita \-va3rcquired to respond to the Letter
of Notice with a full and fair disclosure of all of the facts and circumstances pertaining to,the ,
alleged misconduct within 15 days~ .'
45. Miyashita.failed to respond to the Letter of Notice.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the follOWing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All partie~ are properly before the hearing committee and the committee ha,s
jurisdiction over Miyashita and the subject matter.

I
'0.... \

-.';' _'.

,:

-------------------------------------"

-

J.~

2. Miyashita's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
.

,

(a). By failing to timely file art 0-1 visa petition for Volobuev, Miyashita failed to act
with reason~ble diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of
Rule 1.3.
(b) , By failing to respond to Volobuev's numerous requests for a status update on his
, 0-1 visa petition, Miyashita failed to keep her client reasonably infonn~d about the
. status of a matter and promptly comply with reasonable requests for infonnation in
violation of Rule 1.4.

I

(c) . By falsely telling Fedorova that she had filed Volobuev's 0-1 visa petition prior to
•the expiration of his J-1- visa when no petition had been filed, Miyashita engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud~ deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
.8.4(c).
(d) :By falsely telling Rankov that she had filed Volobuev's 0-1 visa.petition when
none had been filed, Miyashita engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
,deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule R.4(c).
(e)

By failing to reful1d the unearned portion ofVolobuev's fee when asked to do so
. upon the termination of her representation, Miyashita failed to refund an advance
payment of fee that had not been, earned iIi viol~tion of Rule I.I6(d).

(f)

By failing to retum'Volobuev's file to rum when asked to do so upon the
termination of her representation, Miyashita failed to surrender papers and property
to which Volobuev was entitled, in violation of Rule I.I6(d).

(g)

By failing to file an 0-,. visa application on Volobuev's behalf prior to the
expiration of his J-l visa, and by failing to ret).l11l the valuable letters of support
Volobuev had been abl~ to 'ubtain whi1~ in Europe that would be essential to any
subsequent counsel that"vo!obuev would retain, Miyashita intentionally prejudiced
or damaged her client during the course of the professional relationship in violation
of Rule 8.4(g).
::

(h)

By failing to respond to the Letter of Notice issued t6 her pursuant to 27 NCAC IB
§.OI12, Miyashita failed to aIlswer a formal inquiry issued by the North Carolina
State Bar in a disciplinary matt~r in violation ofNCGS §84-28(b)(3);

(1)

By failing to respond to the Letter of Notice issued t~ her pursuant to 27 NCAC IB
§.0112, Miyashita knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for information
from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 1.1 (b) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

./

I
.

__

,

-

"

J:.'
)

• "

;'

\

~.

• ~,

I

'

'

", '.;~~r,

Signed this the '3 J. day of November, 2000 ~it4 the kriowl~dge
members of the hearing ·committee.

I

I

,

.

,

'

~

~~,

. '.' .

'-;

:1 .'

and c~nsent ofthe oth~r

,,

NORTH CAE-OLIN
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
CAROLYNN. MIYASHITA, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

This. matter came on to be h~ard on Novemper 3, 2000 before a Hearing Committee of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of James it Fox, Chair; Joseph G. Maddrey,
and Robert B. Frantz. Larissa J. Erkman represented the North Carolina State Bar and the
defendant, Carolyn N. Miyashita, appeared, but was not represented by counsel. All parties are
properly before the Hearing Committee. The Committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant
Carolyn N. ,Miyashita, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
Based upon the pleadings on file, upon the evidence and arguments of the parties
'concerning the appropriate discipline, and upon the Findings of F'act and Conclusions of Law
entered at the hearing due to the default of the Defendant, the Hearing COIn1;llittee hereby
makes the following additional findings of fac~:

.

...

'

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
On December 17, 1998, the defendant, Catolyn N. Miyashita
("Defencianf'), WRS serven with an ,order nf discipline in a p.rior proceeding entitled The
North Carolina State Bat v. Carolyn Miyashita, 97 DHC 33 ("the prior disciplinary -'.proceeding"). the prior disciplinary proceeding was instituted against Defendant ifl1997.
The prior disciplinary proceeding was heard by a committee ofthe Disciplinary Hearing
COmniissibn on September 18, 1998. A disciplinary order was entered on December 8,
1998 ("the prior disciplinary order'). Defendant was served with a copy of the prior
disciplinary order on December 17, 1998. The prior disciplinary order became effective
on January 16,1999.

I

I

I

2.
. The prior disciplinary order suspended Defendant's license to practice law
in North Carolina for 5 years, effective January 16; 1999, for misconduct occurring in
1995 and 1996. The prior disciplinary order provides that, at any time after two years, the
Defendant may apply for a stay of the suspension of her license if she meets certain

I
,

"

,,

.
-,

conditions. Defendant is therefore cUrrently suspended from the practice of law and
not be eligible to seek a stay of the suspension ofhedic'ense .until January 16,.2001.

will

of

3.
Defendant's misconduct, which is the subject this proceeding, occurred
during the period ofMarch 1998 through May 1999. Her mis9.opduct occurred"
_
contemporaneous with her defense of the prior disciplinary'pt6&eeding and coniinued
following entry ofth~ prior disciplihary order.

I

4.
Pursuant to the prior disciplinary order, Defendant was required to Wind
!lown her practice oflaw pursuant to section .0124(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b). In order to
wind down her lawpnictice, she was required to promptly notify all client~ being
represented'in pending matters of her suspension from the practice of law by certified
mail, return receipt requested, and to return client files.
5,

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law entered in this
pro~eeding, Defendant failed to comply with the wind down provisions 'of the prior
disciplinary order in that she did not notify Mr. Volobuev of her suspension from the' ,
practice oflaw and she did not return to Mr. Volobuev file materials and property to
which he was entitled.
6.
The Defendant's mi~conduct, as described in the Findings of Fact and
.conclusions of Law, is aggravated by the following, factors:

I

a)

Defendant has a record of prior discipline.

b)

Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct similar to the misconduct for
which she was disciplined in the prior disciplinary proce~ding.

c)

Defendant engaged in multiple violations of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

d)

Defendant has substantial experience ip. the practice law.

e)

The victim QfI)efendant's misconduct was vulnerable.

1.
The Defendant's misconduct, as described i~ the Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law, is mitigated by the following factors:
a)

Defendant experien9,ed personal or emotional problems at the time Qfili,e
misconduct

b)

Defendant has shown some degree of remorse for her misconduct that is
the subject of this preceeding.

I
.
•

~ ... "

•

1

\.

',~',

,I

·.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating &nd mitigating factors and'the arguments of the
parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLiNE
1.
The license of the Defendant, Carolyn Miyashita, is hereby suspended for
three years. The suspension of Defendant's license shall be effective as, of January 16,2001,
the date that she would be flrst eligible to seek a stay of the suspension of her license under
the prior disciplinary order.

I',

2.
At any time after the expirat\on of the 3-year period of suspension, Defendant
may file a petition pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter)3, § .0125(b)
seeking the reinstatement of her license, except the petition should be filed with the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission. Upon receipt of Defendant's petition for reinstatement of
her license, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission shall conduct a 'hearing wherein Defendant
must prove ,by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that she has met the following
conditions in order to obtain reinstatement of her license:
(a)

She has not violatec;l any state of federal laws during the ~ctive
suspension of her license to practice law.

(b)

She haS not viblated any provisions of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules or the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct during the active suspension of her license to practice law.
.' '

(c)

(d)

(e)

She has complied with all requirements of 27 N.C. Admin. Code
- Chapter 1; Subchapter B, § .0124 following entry of this order
suspending her license to practice law.,
Within 30 days of the entry of this order, she has delivered to her former
client, Mr. Volobuev, or his new counsel, Klari B. Tedrow, all papers
and property in her possession to which Mr. Volobuev is entitled under
the ,Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Such papers include, but are
not Illnited to, ail papers dellvered to Defendant by Mr. Volobuev or
persons acting on his behalf; any original documents related to his
immigration c'ase; all correspondence received or generated by
Defendant; and all other documents and things in Defendant's file
related to her representation of Mr. Volobuev, with the exception of
Defendant' s p~,rsonal notes and incomplete work product. The mailing
a,ddress for Mr.,Volobuev's new counsel is: Klari B. Tedrow, Attorney
at Law; 4 OffiCe Park Circle, #303, Birmingham. AL 35223. Ms.
Tedrow's telephone number is (205) 871-8084.

.'

!

1

She is not disabled within the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter
1, Subchapter B, § .0103(1~). To carry her burden of proof that she is

I

"

"

"

~

not disabled v1thin the meaning of § .0(03{18), Defendant must present
the opinion testimony of at least one 'qtiali~ed,'boatd-certHied
pSy'chiatrist that she does not suffer ·from ·a mental Qr physical condition,
which significantly impairs her pr9fessionaljudgment, performance or
competence. Jhe m~dical opinion testimony Q.1ust be basecJ qn a
thorough medical exatrlination ofDefertd~'tby the testi:tYitig
psychiatrist, which takes into account the misconduct that was the
subject of the priQt disciplinary proceedmg and this proceeding, as well
~s any other factors deemed relevant by the psychiatrist. Defendant
must file with her petition for reinstatement ,a notice giving the name and
address of the psychiatrist upon whose opinion she seeks to rely in
. support of her petitIon for reinstatement; a copy of all medical records.
regarding treatlnent and evaluation of Defendant prepared or maintained
'by the psychiatrist; a list of all' health care professionals of any type or
kind that have,:ti'eated Defendant for any reason during the two-year '
period imIned~litely preceding her petition for reinstatement; and an
executed release, in the form of Exhibit A hereto, authorizing the State
Bar to obtain Defendant's medical records from her treating psychiatrist'
and health care professionals., In addition, at the time she·petitions'fot
reinstatement, the hearing cpmmittee of the Disciplinary !leming
Commission assigIled to hear Defel1dant'spetition for reinstatement may,
require Defendant to undergq psychiatric, physical or other medical
examination or testing by qualified. medical experts selected by the
hearing committee in order to obtain a second opinion concerning
whether Defendant is disabled, within the meaning of § .0103(18}.
Defendant shall be responsible for all costs associated with presenting
evidence in support of her petition for reinstat~lt1en,t.

(f)

I

Defendant has an interest in keeping confidential those records that are
subject to the physician-patient privilege, which interest overrides any
interest ofthe'flUblic in obtaining disclosure ofthose records. That
overriding interest cannot be protected,by any measure ~hort of sealing
the records 'so produced. Except.pursuapt to an Qrder Qf the Disciplinary
Hearing Comrn:ission, or other court of competent jurisdiction, the ' .
Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar shall keep confidential
all physician's reports or other medical records obtained pursuant to
subparagraph (e) above, and shall not disclose those records to any
person other than officers, councilors and employees of the North
Carolina State Bar and members of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission.

(g) . Defendant shall pay all costs incurred in this proceeding and taxed
against her by the Secretary: of the North Carolina State Bar.

"l""

I
<,

•

, ,

,{
!

(h)

The suspension of Defendant's license to practice law, pursuant to thjs
order, is intended to run concurrently with.the discipline impqsed in the
pri 9r proceed~g and to preclude Defendant from seeking a stay of the
remaining tetm of suspension of her license under the terms of the prior
disciplinary order. A copy of the prior disciplinary order is attached as
Exhibit B hereto. To the extent that the prior disciplinary order imposes
on Defendant conditions for reinstatement of her license, then Defendant.
must also prove by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that she has
complied with the following conditions set out in the prior disciplinary
order to obtain reihstatement of her license:

I

(1) She has paid the $500 fine asses'sed against her by the 9th Circuit
Court ofAppeals.
"

(2) At least two year$ prior to her petition for reinstatement of her
license, she began regular· psychological counseling with a boardcertified psychiatrist.

(3) At her sole expense, she continued attending regular counseling
sessions and otherwise complied with the treatment plan as
recommended by a board-certified psychiatrist ,and any other
mental health profe$sionals to whom she may have been referred
.
by the ps~chiatrist.
'. (4) At least-once every 6 m.ortths during which she underwent
counseling, she submitted reports, to the Offic.e of Counsel of the
North Carolina State Bar from her treating' psychiatrist and mental
health professionals, confirming that she complied with the
treatment-plan of the psychiatrist and mental health professionals.
(5) Within 45 days of commencing treatnlent, she executed a written
waiver, authorizing the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina
State Bar to contact her tr~ating psychiatrist and mental health
professionals fuld to .inquire respecting her compliance with the
terms ofthis order. The written authorization should be in the
form of EXhibit A hereto.

!

I

(6) She paid $500 in restitution to Yuriy Zhestkov.
(7) She paid the costs ofthe prior disciplinary proceeding, 97 DHC 33,
as assessed by the. Secretary of the North Carolina State Bat. Such
costs included all costs incurred by the N.C. State Bar in
cOllfiection with the depositions of ArthUr Hainsworth, Pat Hill and,
Yuriy Zhestkov.
.

"

I
• ,I

3.
The Disciplinary Hearing COinmissiori will retain jurisdletiori of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code chapter 1. SubchapterB, §.0.114(x) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipiine & pisability Rules throughout the period of the suspension and up to an'
including entry of an order reinstating Defendant's license to practice law.
Sigtied by the undersigned Hearing C.ommitte~ chaiJ;',~w,ith the consent ofthe other
Hearing Committ~e members.
This the

~ ~~ay of ~

,2000.

I

!

I

I
.

' ~

'. '

.:

-,

. "'11
o.,l -

-

EmmIT A
Disciplhial'y Order, 00 DHC

1~

AUTHORIZATION TO RELEASE MEDICAL INFORMATION
TO: C!arolyn N. Miyashita's treating physicians, psychiatrists, psychologists, counselors and
other health care professionals:

..

YOU ARE HEREBY AUTHORIZED to furnish to:
The Office of Counsel
North Garolma State Bar
P.O. Box 2590B,
Rflleigh, NC 21611
[mailing address]

208 FaYt?tteville Street Mall,
Raleigh, NC 27601
[street address]

all infonn'ation and records (including, but not limited to, test results, Written evaluations,
exainination notes, nurses notes and all other memoranda or documentation of treatment of any
kind) that ate' in yout possession regarding the evaluation, examination, testing, coUnseling
andlor medical treatment of Carolyn N~ Miyashita.
This medical release also authorizes you to speak with the staff of the North Catolina State Bar
concerning your evaluation andlor treatm~nt of Ms,Miyashita and,concerning her compliance
with your ;treatment recommendations.

TillS IS THE _---'--_ _ _ _DAY OF_ _~~~_-----" 20_~.

'"

Carolyn N. Miyashita

II

Sworn and, ascribed to before me,
this
day of
, 20_.

Notary Public

.

'

My Conimission Expires: _ _~--:-_

I

,

"

,

f'I·2

...., .I.

