-~

/--------

-~

- -

~----

-

-

--

-------

--~--~!

20[(09
BEFORETHE---~,
LINARY HEARING COMMISSION
~ RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
00 DHC 26

.. .

TfIE NORTH CAROL

<9

Plaintiff,··

v.
DOUGLAS B. UNDERWOOD,
Defendant

,

)
)
)
)
)

)
)
)
)

i

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE ,

I

.'

this matter was considered by a Hearing Co11ltf1ittee of the Discip~inary Hearing
composed of Fted B. Moody, Jr., Chair; Jean G. Hauser and Carlyn G.
Poole, upon the proposed consent order ·of discipline submitted by the parties. The
Plaintiff Was represented by Larissa J. Erkman. The Defendant was represented by John
H. Painter. Both parties stipulate and agree to the fmdings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Based on the cons·ent of the
parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
COn1l11i~sion

FINDiNGS OF FACT

L
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bat, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State B~r promulgat~d there~der.
2.
Defendant, Douglas B. Underwood (hereinafter "Defendan~"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 20, ·1993 and is, and' was at all times
referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to
the rules, regulations ~nd Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar. and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

I

3.'
During the periods referred to herein, Defendant was engaged in the
practice oflaw in North Carolina and maintained a law office in the Town of Monroe,
Union County, North Cardlina.
4.
On November 3, 1997, Defendant was notified by letter from the North
~ .9arolina State Bar (hereinafter "~ta~e Bar") that he had been randomiy selected for a
.: procedural audit his trust accounts pursuant to the random audit procedpres authorized

of

I
. .."..

~;..

3'10

~

... ,;

',\"

-

..

-',

I"

in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapt~r 1, Subchapter B, Rule .0128(b); A Subpoena, for,
Random Audit Was duly served on Defendant.
' "
5. ' Pursilant to the Random Audit Subpoena, on December 1 t, 1997, Bruno
DeMolli (hereinafter, "DeMolli"), a staff auditor for the State Bar, condtJcteci- a
procedural audit of Defendant' s t~sta,~69unt l11ainta~~~1;#.t~,~irst iJ~ion I\\qti(;mal Bank,
Account Number 660406. DeMolh prepared a.summary of hIS fmdmgs frofu the
procedural audit on December 11, 1997. The summary of his findings was entitled
"Trust Account peficiency Statement."
,
6.
DeMolli discovered and listed in the Trust Account DeficJency Statement
the following deficiencies in Defendant's trust account procedures accotding to Rules
;'
1.15-1 and 1.15-2 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct:
(a)

Defendant did not maintain a ledger for each persQn or entity for' '
whom trust money was received;
1

(1:))

Defendant did not reconcile his trust account quarterly; ,

(c)

, Pefendant did not always provide his clients with Written,
accountings at the completion of disbursement of ~ll funds 'held in
trust; and
i , '

(d)

Defendant qid not maintain a ledger ofattor,ney funds on deposit to
service his trust account

iI,

7..
DeMolli personally delivered to Defendant on December
1997'a copy
of the Trust Account Deficiency Statement, and Defendant signed the Trust Account
'
Deficiency Statement, acknowledging his receipt of it.

I

8.
in the Trust Account Deficiency Statement, the State Bar specifically
asked Defendant to provide a copy of an Amended I)irective to First Union National
Bank and to the State Bar and to provide assurances that his trust account had been
reconciled for the month of December, 1997.
9.
In the Trust Account Deficiency Statement, the State Bar also requested
that all hoted deficiencies in Defendant's trust account procedures be corrected andth~t
the State Bar be notified in writing within 15 calendar ,days of the random review as to
action taken or l;Illticipated by Defendant to correct the deficiencies in his trust account
procedures.
'
10.

Defendant failed to respond to the State Bar within the time stated in the
Trust Ac~ount Deficiency Statement. Defendant provIded an Amended $irectiveto the,
, ba~ within, 15 days, but he did not provide a copy of the Amended Directive to the State
Bar. Nor did Defenc;lant provide to the State Bar assurances that his trusfaccount had

2

I
.<

341,
,':

i
"

."

been reconciled for December 1997 or notice of any actions he had taken to correct the
I
deficiencies.
11.
On March 10, 1998, DeMolli notifi'ed Defendant by follow-up letter ("the
DeMolli Follow-up Letter") that he had failed to' comply with the Trust Account
DefiCiency Statement and that he had ten days to respond following his receipt of the
March 10, 19981etter. The DeMolli Follow-up Letter was mailed to Defendant by
certified mail, postage prepaid, article number P136866767.
12.

Defendant received the DeMolli Follow-up Letter on March 13, 1998.
Defendant did not respond to the DeMolli Follow-up Letter.

14.
As of the date ofthe filing of this complaint, Defendant hC).S not notified
the State Bar of any actions that he has. take!). to correct the deficiencies in his trust '
account 'procedures revealed in the Trust Account Deficiency Statement since the tandom
procedural audit was completed on December 11, 1997.

I

15.

Defendant has failed to correct the deficiencies in his trust account
procedures revealed in the Trust Account Deficiency Statement since the random
proced~raI audit Was completed on. December 11, 1997.
'
I

~6.

As a result of Defendant's failure to correct his trust acco~nt deficiencies
and his failure to respond to the State Bar' s T~st Account Deficiency Statement and the
DeMolli Follow-up Letter, the State Bar initiated a.gtievance investigation against
Defendant.
.

'

\

~ 7.
On April 17, 1998, the State Bar sent a Letter of Notice (the "Letter of
Notice"), Substance of Grievance (the "S~bstance of Grievance") and a Subpoena for
Cause Audit (the "First Grievance Subpoena") to Defendant by certified inail, postage
prepaid, :article Z122889979.

18.
Defendant was served with the Letter of Notice, the Substance of
Grievance and the First Grievance Subpoena on April 20, 1998.

I

19.
The Letter of Notice informed Defendant that, pursuant to Section
.0112(c) of the Discipline and Disability Rules, he was required to respond to the
Substanqe of Grievance within 15 days of receiving the Letter of Notice.
20.
D~fehdant did not respond to Substance of Grievance within 15 days of
receiving the Letter of Notice; as required by Section .0112(c) of the Discipline and
Disability Rules. .
21.
The First Grievance Subpo,ena comnianded Defendant to appear and
produce trust account documents on MayA, 1998 at the offices of the North Carolina
St!:l.te Bar.

3

I
342

'!',C;(',,'

22.
Defendant failed to appear,and produce·trust account documents on May
4, 1998 or othe:rwis~ respond to the' Fi~st Grievance Subpoel1a .
23.
On June 9, 1998, Larissa 1. Erktuan; Deputy Counsel to the North Carolina'
State Bar ("Erktuan"), sent a follow-up':letter to Defel\9.,~ti.by certified maikpostage
'
prepaid, article number ZJ22890159 again reqqesting I;>efendant's response to the Letter
ofNotice, Substance of Grievance and First Grievance S4bpoena by June 15, 1998 (the
"First Erktuan Follow-up Letter").,
'
24.

Defendant received the First Erktuan Follow-up Letter pn: June 9, 1998.

25.
Defendant failed to respond by June 15, 1998 as requested 'by the First
Erkman Follow-up Letter.
26.
On June 15, 1998, T. Paul Messick, Jr., as Chair of the Griev.ance
Committee oithe State Bar, issued to Defendant a subpoena commanding Defendant to
appear before the Grievance Committee of the State Bar in Pinehurst, North Carolina at
9:00 AM on July 16, 1998 to testify in a confidential grievance investigation and to bring
any and all reco:rds, papers and documents pertaining to the grievance, including
Defendant~s trust account records (the "Second Grievance Subpoena").,
27.
On June 16, 19~8, State Bar Investigator David Frederick ("Frederick"),
pursuant to the authority provided by N. C. Gen. Stat. §.84-31,. personally served a copy of '
'
the Second Grievance Subpoena on Defendant at his office in Monroe, North Carolina.
28: 'Defendant failed to appear, testify and produce documents before the
Grievance Committee on July 16 as required by the Second Grievance Subpoena':~d
failed to otherwise respond to tIfe subpoena.
' ,
29.
au July 16, 1998, Frederick attempted to contact Defendant by telephone
at Defendant's office telephone number, 704-292-1176, to determine why Defendant had,
failed to appear.

I

30.
Defendant was not available to take Frederick's telephone call, so
Frederick left a message at Defendant's office informing Defendant that he could, be held
in contempt for failing to appear pursuant to the Second Grievance Subpoena on July 16,
1998 and, in order to purge the contempt, Defendant had to appear and produce
documents at the office of the S,tate Bat on July 27, 1998.
31.
Defendant failed to appear at the offices ofthe State Bar on July 27, 1998,
and he failed to notify the State Bar as to arty reason why he could nO,t appear on that
date.
.
,
On August '17, 1998, Erktuan mailed to Defendant a letter (the "Second
32.
Erkman Follow. .up Letter") informing J?efendant that his failures to respond to the Trust

4

I

--

-

"'4'3.

.'
'I) ,.. '

!

.'

i

~

,

,

.; ,

~

'

..

Account Deficielicy Statement, the Letter of Notice and Substance of Grievance and the
subpoenas commanding him to appear, testify and produce documents would be reviewed
by the Grievance Committee at its OGtober 1998 meeting and that his failUres to respond
may be deemed a violation pfN.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3) and Rlde 8.1 (b) ofthe
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
33.'
The Second Erkman Follow-up Letter also enclosed a notice to Defendant
that the State Bar had subpoenaed his trust account records from Fitst Union National
Bank in accordance with the Financial Privacy Act and that he would be taxed with all
expenses related tQthe bank's production of the records ifhe did not produce the records
on or before August 31, 1998 (the "Financial Privacy Act Notice").
34.
Defendant did not produce his trust account records to the State Bar on or
before August 31, 1998.

I

35.
First Union National Bank fotwarded a copy of Defendant's trust account
records to the State Bar in response to the State Bar's subpoena. The State Bar incurred a
cost of $76.00 in obtaining Defendant's trust account records from First Union National
Bank.
I

•

36.
On September 1,,1998, the State Bar Council issue.d a Notice to Show
Cause in re Membership Fees to Defendant (the "Me~bership Notice to Show Cause").
The Membership Notice t9 Shotv Cause informed Defendal}t that he had failed to timely
pay his meinbershipfees for 1998 in the 81110tlnt of$175.00 and that his fees were
delinqu~nt.

37.'
The Membership, Notice to Show Cause advised Defendant that he was
required to pay his membership fees of $175.00 plus a $30.00 late fee by October 13,
J998 and that failure to do so would result in the State Bar Council entering an order to
suspend :his license at its meeting .in Raleigh on October 1998.
3'8.
Defendant did'not pay his membership fee for 1998 and the late fee by the
time of the State Bar Council's October 1998 meeting.
On October 23, 1998, Def~ndant' s license was suspended for non39.
payment'ofthe State Bar's 1998 membership fees. '

I

a

49.
On October 30, 1998, Erkman sent letter to Defendant by telecopy and
first class mail reminding him that he still had not responded to the Trust Account
Deficiency Statement, the Letter of 'Notice and Substance of Grievance and the
subpoenas issued by the State Bar (the "Third Erkman Follow-Up Letter").
41.
The Third Erkman FqiloW~up Letter explained to Defendant that the
; .,., . grievanc~'pending against him was lipt reviewed by' the Grievance Committee in
.October, but would be reviewed by the Committee in January 1999, again invited
Defendan,t to respond to the grievance and outstand~ng subpoenas by November 30, 1998,

5

I
~ ~~'...

~'I

••••

',' I ..

I. (

~ •• -

•

and requested that Defendant explain his proper f~ilufes to respond as Qutlined in the
Second and Third Erkman Follow-up Letters. '
,
42.
On November 10, 1998, Frederick met with Defendant at Defendant's
office in Monroe and served Deferidant with the order of ~uspension for non-payment of
membership fees entered against him ,b)hithe State Bru.:'iIQ9,Vricil. Frederick,also gave
.
Defendant a copy of the Third Erkman Follow-up.Lett6r~'\··Frederick agvised Derehdan,t to
~all Erkman, and Defendant agreed that he would do so.

I

4~.
On November 10, 1998, Defendant gave Frederick an official bank check
in the amoUilt of $205.00 for his mandatory 1998 dues and late fees. Defendant was
;
subsequently reinstated to the practice of law.

44.
Despite receiving by personal delivery the.Third Erkman Fqllow-up
Letter, which again requested a response from Defendant,. Defendant failed to' respond to
th~ grievance and the outstanding subpoenas.
45.
The grievance against Defendant, including. his failures to respond to th~
Trust Ac~ount Deficiency Statement, the Letter of Notice and Substance of Grievance
and the State Bar subpoenas, was considered by the Grievance Committee at its January
1999 meeting, at which time the· Grievance Committee continued the grievance to allow
time for the Positive Action for Lawyers ("PALS") program to contact Defendant in
order to determine if Defendant were suffering from depression or other problems, in the
hopes that the PALS program would be able to ~sist the Defendant in meeting his
obligations to the Bar.
46.
On December 10, 1999, Erkman contacted Defendant by telephone and
explained that the gt,ieyance would again be presented to the Grievance Committee at its
April 2000 me~ting.
'
Erlanan instructed Defendant that, prior to FebrtJary 29, 2000, Defendant
47.
should respond to the Letter of Notice and Substance of Grievance., respond to the Trust
Account Deficiency Statement, respond to the subpoenas, explain his prior failures ~o
respond, and meet with a representative of the Lawyer Assistance Program, the successor
>to PALS, as directed by the Grievanc~ Committee.
48.
Erkman.sent a letter to Defendant dated December 10, 1999 (the."FoUrth
Erkman Follow-up Letter") confirming their telephone conversation. The Fourth Erktnan
Follow-up Letter was mailed to Defendant by certified mail, postage prepaid, article
nttr,nber Z297833993.
49,

,Defendant received the Fourth Erkman FollOW-lIP Letter.

50.
As of the date of the filing of the complaint in his proceeding, Defenqant
still had not responded to the Trust Account Deficiency Statement, the peMolli Followup Letter, Letter of Notice and Substance of Grievance, the First Grievance Su,bpoena,

6

I

", f'.

','

the Second Grievance Subpoena, the FirstErkman Follow~up Letter, the Second Erkman
Follow~up Letter, the Third Erman Follow-up Letter, or the Fourth Erkman Follow-up
Letter, all of which were issued by the State Bar.
51.
As of the filing of the complaint in this proceeding, Defendant had not
contact~d the Lawyer's Assistance Program.
~2.
As ofthe fiiing of the corriplaint in this proceeding, the State Bat had not
obtained from Defendant client ledger cards and other supporting documentation
necessary to conclude whether Defendant corrected the deficiencies in his trust account
pr()cedures and ,complied with the requirements of Rules 1.15-1 and 1.15~2.

53.
A grievance has been filed by Kelly Leon Moore and is designated State
Bar file number 00G0852 (the '~.Moore grievance"). Defendant waives any further notice
and any fmding of probable ca~se ~s to the Moore grievance.

I

. 54.
The Moore grievance alleges that Defendant failed to perfect appeals from
criminaijudgments entered agaihsthloore in Union County, 91~CRS-17776 and 98-,CRS1.0367. On September 29, 1998, Defendant was appointed to represent Moore ih his
appeals from the two criminal cases. On June 18, 1999, Defendant filed a motion to
enlarge the time for filing the records on appeal. On July 7, 1999, the State of North
Carolina: filed a motion to dismiss the appeals. After hearing both the parties, Douglas
Albright, presiding judge, denied the motion to enlarge time and dismissed the appeals on
August 43, 1999. Defendant; through counsel, is presently taking steps to file a motion
'. for,appropriate relief on behalf of Mr. Moore.
55.
Sirice at least October 1995, Defendant has suffered from severe
depression and alcoholism.
56.
befendant obtained a substance abuse assessment and has entered a
Recovery Contract with the Positive Action for Lawyers Program. Defendant has
voluntarily admitted himself for intensive inpatient treatment and has been following all
recomme,ndations of his treating physicians and counselors.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and by consent of the parties, the
Hearing Committee enters the following:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1..
All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee
has jurisdiction OVer the Defendant Douglas B. Underwood and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Defendarit, with the advice or counsel, has waived any further notice of
the M00te Grievance and any finding of probable cause as to the Moore grievance and
cons~nts to that matter being adjudicated in this proceeding.

7

I

~

T, ,

3.
The Defendant's conduct, as set o~t in the Findings, ofF~ct above; ,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to. N:C. G~ri. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) and 8428(b)(3) as follows:
'
','

(a)

By knowingly failing to 1,'e~pond to numerousla:wful 4emands for
information from the State Bar and by f~gj~g·to answer'fOm1fll inquiries
issued by the State Bat in' a disciplinary tn~tter" Defendant vioiated Rule
8.l(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and N.C. Gen. Stat. §
84-28(b)(3).

(b)

By faili11g to maintain a ledger for each person or entity for whom trust
money was rect:!ived, failing to reqoncile his tr\lst flccount quarterly cmd '
failing to maintain a ledger of attorney funds to service 'his trust account,
Defendant violated Rule 1.15-1' of the Revised Ru1es of Professional
Conduct.

(c)

By failing to' provide clients with written accountings at compietion of
disbursement, Defendant violated Rule 1.15-2 ofthe Revised Rules of
Profe~sional Conduct.
'

(d)

By failing to perfect the criminal appeais on behalf of Mr. Moore after he'
was appointed to represent Mr. Moore, Defendant violated Rule 1.3 of the ,
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in that he failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client.
.
By failing to perfect the criminal appeals on behalf of Mr. Mo.ore after he
Was appoInted to represent.Mr. Moore, Defen4ant violated Ru1e 1.3 of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in that he failed to act with
reasonable dilig~nce and promptness in represent,ing a client.
,

(e)

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and ~bilclusions of Law and upon the
consent of the parties to the discipline to be imposed, the. Hearing Committee hereby
makes additional ~

I,

FINDINGS Of FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the follawing 'factars:
a) A pattern af miscanduct.
b} Prior discipline far failing to timely respand to. a grievance in 1996,
althaugh Defendant ultimatelyrespanded.
c) Multiple offenses; and
d) Vulnerability of the victim., Mr. Moore.
2. The Defendant's miscanduct is mitigated by the fallowing factors:
a) Persanal or emational prablems involving depression and alcoholi~m:
b) Absence of a dishonest ar selfish m a t i v e . '

8

;'

,

, ,

,'"

,

c) Free and full disclosure to the DHC.
d) Physical or mental disability ot impairment, as verified by a medical
assessment performed by qualified physicians.
.
e) Demonstrated efforts toward interim rehabilitation.
f) Remorse.
3. The aggravating fac~ors do not outweigh the mitigating factors .
•Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF bISCIPLlNE

I

1.
The license of the Defendant Douglas B. Underwood is hereby
suspended for two years. The suspension of Defendant's license is hereby stayed for
two years so long as Defertdant complies with the following terms alid conditions
during the period of the stay:
(a)

the Defendant shail not violate a,ny state or federal laws.

(b)

The Defendant shall not violate any provisions of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules or the Revised
Rules of Professional
Conduct.
,

(c)

Defendant ,shall timely comply with all lawful demands for
information issued by or on behalf of the State Bar, the
Grievance Committee or the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
ip. any grievance or disciplinary matter.

(d)

Defendant shall comply with all tenns and conditions of the
Recovery Contract that he entered with the Lawyer Assistance
Program ("LAP") on November 30, 2000. A copy of the
Recovery Contract is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

(e)

If, at any time LAP deems it reasonably necessary to modify,
revise or amend the terms and conditions of befend ant's
Recovery Contract regarding a medical treatment and monitoring.
plan, then Def~mdant shall enter into a modified, revised or
amended rehabilitation corttract with the LAP upon such terms
and conditions as. LAP deems appropriate.
.

I

.

. (f) . Defendant -shall comply with all tenns of the LAP rehabilitation
contracts (whether presently executed ot to be executed upon
recommendation of LAP) throughout the period of the stayed
suspension and sh&ll cooperate fully with the LAP.

9

I
..'.'. : -,. ',.

"

'.

~

,

I

."

,.

,

~,

'

(g) , As part ef any censent erder atld rehabilitatien centract with the
Lawyer Assistance Prqgn~m~ Defendat)t shall autherize the
Lawyer Assistance Pre gram arid its representatives 'to. release all
. recerds and infermatien cencerning his participatien in the
Pre gram to.' the Office ef Ceunsel and the Di~ciplinary Hearing
Cemmissien. Sueh;infennatien m{l.x~include, but is pqt Ilimited
to., recerds and infennatien cencerrting whether Defendant has
cemplied with the censent order and rehabilitatien cepiract and
recQrds er reports ef medicaltreatrnents er evaluatiens that
Defendant ,receives er Undergoes in 'cenjunction with his
participatien in the Program. Defendant shall also. expressly
waive any right which he may etherwise have to cenfidential
cemmunicatiens with persens acting en behalf ef the Lawyer
Assistance Pre gram to. the extent it is, necessary fer such persens
to. communicate to. the Office ef Ceunsel and the DisciplinCll'i
Hearing Certnnissiell whether Defendant is coeperating and
satisfacterily particiPating in the agreed upen rehabilitatien
pre gram er hascempleted that pre gram'.

(h)

As part of any rehabiiitatien centract with the' LAP, Defendant
shallautherize the Office ef Ceunsel and the Griev:ance
Cemmittee efthe Nerth Carelina State Bar to disGlese to the
Lawyers Assistance Pre gram and its representatives infermatien
cencerning any grievance filed against Defendant during the
stayed suspensien so. that the Lawyer Assistance Pre gram and its '
representative can assist Defendant in respending to. said
grievance and any lawful demands fer informatien issued by the
State Bar in a timely manner. By censenting to this Order ef
Discipline, Defendant is hereby expressly waiving any rights of
confidentiality, pursuant to 27 N. C. Admin. Cede Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, §.0129 efthe Nerth Carelina State Bar Discipline'
& Disability Ru1es, that he may assert with respect to grievances
filed against him during the peried ef the stayed suspension;
Defendant's waiver ef his rights ef cenfidentialityshall not be
deemed to. be a waiver for any purpose ether than fer preductien
of infermatjen cencerning the existence, substance and
precedural status ef pending grievances to the Lawyer Assistance
Program ,as' required by thi~ erder.

(i)

At least ence each quarter througheut the period ef staye~
suspensien, l)efend,,mt shalt submit written reports to the Office
efCeunsel efthe Ne'rth Carolina State Bar frem a physician or
ceunselor fanliliar with his treatment pre gram and from the
Lawyers Assistance Program confirming that Defendant has
c<)mplied with all recommendations for treatment and recovery

I

,

,

10

I
r

'"

~

3&9
>

...

made by his treating physicians or counselors and that Defendant
has compl~ed with the Recoyery Contract. The first such written
report shall be submitted to the Office of Counsel no later than
. March 1, 200 1. The remaining quarterly reports shall be due in
the Office of Counsel no later than JUly 1, October 1 and January
1 during e!:j.ch year of the stayed suspension.
G)

Defendant has an Interest in keeping confidential those records
that are subject to the physician-patient privilege, which interest
overrides any interest of the public in obtaining disclosure of
those records. That 'overriding interest cannot be protected by
any measure short of sealing the records so produced. Except
pursuant to an order of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, or
other court of competent jurisdiction, the Office of Counsel of
the North Car<;>Iina StClte Bar· shall keep confidential all
physician's reports or other medical records obtained pursuant to
subparagraphs 2f above, and shall not disclose those records to
any person· other than Officer&, councilors and, employees of the
North Carolina State Bar and members of the Disciplinary
Hearing Col11.ri:rissiofi. Defendant's consent to an order and
rehabilitation contract with the Lawyer Assistance Program. shaH
not be deemed to be a waiver ofthe physician-patient privilege
for any purpose other than for production of documents .and
infol1l1atiori to the Lawyer Assistance Program and to the Office
of Counsel as required by this order.

I

•J

(k)

Within 90 days of entry of this· order, Defendant shall bring his
trust account records into compliance with Rules 1.15-1 and '
1.15-2
of the Revised Rules of Professional .Conduct.
.

(1)

Defendant shall maintain all trust account records required to be
maintained by the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

(m) Defendant shall hire at his own expense a ~ertified Professional
Accountant. who shall during the pendency of the stayed
suspension audit Defendant's trust account annually in
accordance. with the standards for auditing in the accounting
profession and the various section of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct concerning Defendant's handling of client
funds. Written reports of the results of each audit shall be
furnished to the Office of Counsel on December 31 st of each year
during the stayed suspension. The CPA's audit report shall
in?lude the following:

(i) .

I

"

a list of all bank accdunt mto which client or fiduciary
funds have been deposited

11

I

.

(ii)

a certification that Ddendant i~ co~plying with the
Revised Rules of Professional Condllct respecting each
bank account into which fiduciary or client funds have
been ,deposited and, in partic1,1l:;lx, a certification that:
nb.:i:)'ersonal
funds;have
'been
commingled
with
a)
- ••U·'
,- .
client or fiduciary funds
'
b)
Defendant maintains accurate, current ledgers
on each person, firm or corpqration for whom
he holds funds in a fiduciary capaCity
c)
Defendant has reconciled each account into
which client or fiduciary funds have been
deposited at least once each quarter
d)
Defendant maintains all baDk receipt~ or deposit
slips showing the source of the deposit, the
deposit amoun.t, client name and date of receipt
of funds
e)
No instruments are draWn on an account in
which client or fiduciary funds, are held that ate
made out to cash or bearer
f)
No instrtmients are drawn on an accolJnt in
which client or fiduciary funds are held that ~e
made out to Defendant, any attorney OJ: member
of Defendant's staff, unless the name of the
client is also indicated on the instrument
g)
The requirements ofparagtaphs 1(m)(ii)(a) -, (f)
shall apply if Defendant handles client or
fiduciary funds or delegates slJch tasks to a nonlawyer, such as an account, legal assi~t!:U1t or
bookkeeper.
;
h)
If Defendant is employed by a law firm which
handles all client and fiduciary funds, then the
CPA shall certify that the law firm is complying
with paragraphs 1(m) (ii) (a) - (f)
,i·;~V\.

I

I
.

:.

,I

•

(n)

Defendant 'shall be responsible for all costs associated with
complying with this order and the above-mentioned conditions.
Under no circumstances, shall the State Bar be responsible to
Defendant or any third parties for the costs of Defendant's
compliance with the conditions of this order. '

(0)

Defendant shall pay all costs incurred in this proceeding and
taxed against him by the Secretary of the North Carolina State
Bar within 180 days of receiving notice of such costs, including
the costs in the 'amount of $76.00 incurred by the State Bar in ,

12

I
,:"

'.

,

"

:151

obtaining necessary bank records pursuant to the Financial
Privacy Act Notice.
2. If during any period in wJ::rich the two-year suspension is stayed the
Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more conditions stated in
paragraph I, then the stay ofthe suspension of his law license may be
lifted as prqvided in §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Dis9ipline
& Disability Rules.
.
3. If the stay of the suspension of the Defendant's law license is lifted, the
Disciplinary Hearing Co1ninission may enter an order providing ~or such
conditions as it deems necessary for reinstatement of the. Defendant's
license at the end of the two-year period where in Defendant's license is
actively suspended.

I

. 4. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. CQde Chapter I, SUbchapter B,
" §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar DisCipline & Disability Rules
throughout the period of the stayed suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Committee chair with the consent of the
other Hearing Committee members.
This the J5'" day

of~~~~~x:._, 200 L

Fred H. Moody, Jr., Ch .
DHC Hearing Committee

I

.""

Douglas B. UnderYV'l:'.'~~
Defendant
P.O. Box 1127
Monroe, NC 28111

tt~rneyfor Defendant
P.O. Box: 1788 .
Monroe, NC 281'11-1788
(704)282-1167

13

I
....

"

.

..

~

