~~.

'E (34 '.;

,I.

,

.

BEFORE THE
LINARY HEARING COMMISSION
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
OODHC29

Plaintiff,

v.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

GARY GOODMAN,
Defendant

This matter'was considered by a Hearing Committee oftbe Oisciplinary Hearing
Commission composed ofT. Paul Mes~ick, Jr., Chair; Michael L. Bonfoey~ and James N.·
Parrish, upon the proposed consent order of discipline submitted by the parties. The
Plaintlffwas represented by Larissa J. Erkman. The Defendant Was r(;}presented by .Tam.es
B. Maxwell. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of
law recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Ba~ed on the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and istne proper party to bring this proceedlng under the
authority granted it 'in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina~ and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2.
The Defendant, Gary B. Goodman (hereinafter, "Mr. Goodman"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1978 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at -law licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the' rules~
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the periods referred to herein, Mr. Goodman was engaged in the
practice oflaw as an assistant district attorney in the 18th Judicial District, Guilford
Comity, North Carolina.
Since 1988, Mr. Goodman has been one of the assistant district attorneys
4.
charged with handling major felony cases, including capital cases, j.n the Superior Court
of Guilford Co11l1ty, North Carolina.

I
. '.41~

5.
Mr. Goodman's employment as an assistant dist#ct attorney in the 18th
Judici~l Oistrict, Guilford C;ounty, North Carolina ended effective February 29, 2000.
6.
Mr. Goodman is presently engaged in the practice pf criminal defense law
in Guilford County, Greensboro, North Carolina.
:7.
On or around September 7, 1995, Antonio Davis ("Davis" or "the victim")
was ropbed and killed in Greensboro, North Carolina. On November 6, 1995, Bryant
Lamon,t Bowens ("Bowens") alid Johnny Naki~ Little ("Little") were indicted on first. .
degree1murder and armed robbery charges in the death of Davis.
'8.
The charges against Bowens were issued 41 State ofNorth Carolina v.
Bryant Lamont Bowens, Guilford County Superior Court, 95 eRS' 61503 and 95 CRS
62257 ("State v. Bowens"). The charges against Little were issued in'State ofNorth
Carolina v. Johnny Naida Little, Guilford County Superior Court, 95. CRS 62280 and 95
CRS 62281 ("State v. Little "). Mt. Goodman waS assigned to prosecute the c~ses of State
v. Bowens and State v. Little
, on behalf of the Guilford County District Attorney.
.

I

9.
On September 7, 1995, Greensboro. Police Officer J. T. Irizarry,prepared
and filed a report of the police investiga,tion of the shooting death of Davis ("Officer
Irizarry's report"). Officer Irizarry's report contained some evidence that person(s) other
than Bowens and Little shot the victim.
10.
On September 7, 1995, Kenneth Brown was detained by the Greensboro
Police Oepartment for questioning in connection with the shooting of Davis. Detective
Walker of the Greensboro Police Department took the statement of Kenneth Brown
("Brown's 'Statement"). Brown's Statement contained evidence or information that
tended to negate guilt or, at a minimum, tended to negate the offense of first-degree
murder against Bowens and Little, in that it established Kenneth Brown was at the Scene
of the Davis shooting, that Bowens did not shoot the victim, and that Little may have
acted in [self-defense.
11.
Mr. Goodman knew of the existence and substance of Officer Irizarry's
report and BroWn's Statement at all times relevant to the proceedings inState v. Bowens
and State v. Little. Despite receiving requests for voluntary discovery in both cases, Mr.
Goodman did not disclose to Bowens' or Little's defense counsel the existence or
substance of either Officer Irizarry's report or Brown's .statement.

12.

II

Little's defense attorney learned, through hjs own investigation, of the

exist~nceand substance of Officer Irizarry's report and the fact that the police had

detained and questioned Brown. With his client's consent, he shared this information
with Bowens' defense attorney.
1~.
On Apri14, 1997, Bowens, through cou,nsel, filed a petition for writ of
habeas cQrpus. A hearing on Bowens' petition for writ of habeas corpus Was set for

April 15-, '1997.

2

I
419

14.
On April '14, 1997, Bowens' attorney, David Clark, filed an affidavit in
support of the petition for writ of habeas corpus. The affidavit contained'facts to support
Bowens' claim that Mr. Goodman had withheld exculpatory informatiOli from Bowens'
defense counsel in that he had not'disclosed two, witnesses' statements contained in
Officer Irizarry's report and had not disqlosed Brown's:\S~atement.
."

I

15.
On April 15, 1997, Mr. Goodman entered a plea agreement with Bowens
whereby'the District Attorney dismissed the ,first-degree mUrder charge against Bowens,
reduced the armed robbery charge to common law robbery, did not indict Bowens as a
habitl,lal felon, dismissed six Ul1l'elated misdemeanor charges and agreed.to a sentence of
19 - 23 months in return for aowens' testimony against Little.
.
16.

As of April 15, 1997, Bowens had been incarcerated almost 19 months.

17.
As of April 15, 1997, Bowens' request for voluntary discovery had been
on record for approximately 17 months.
18.
On Apri128, 1997, Mr. Goodman responded in writing to tittle's request
for voluntary discovery and motion for discovery, served on November 20, t995 and
February IS, I996,respectively. Mr. Goodman disclosed to Little's defense counsel only
a portion of one witness' statement from Officer Irizru.:ry's report, and he did' not disclose
Brown's Statement. .

I

19.
At a Pretrial conference, Mr. Goodman voluntarily gave to the court, for in
camera examination, copies of witness statements he had not believed to be exculpatory:.
On 1\priI30, 1997, the court entered an order in State v. Little on the defendant's pretrial
motion to determine whether Officer Irizarry's report and Brown's Statement were
exculpatory and whether the evidence had been withheld by the State. The court
determined Officer Irizarry's report contained exculpatory information or information
that may lead to the discovery·of exculpatory evidence anel that, although Brown's
Statement was incriminatory of Little, it a~so contained information favorable to Little.
20.
The court concluded that the defendant, Little, was entitled to pre-trial
discovery of the information in Officer Irizarry's report and Brown's Statement under the' '
due process clause of the 14t1l Amendment to the United States Constitution as interpreted
by Brady v. Maryland, 373 U.S. ~3 (1963) and Kyles v. Whitley, 115. S. Ct. 1555 (1995), .
but that the defendant had not established any prejudice to the defendant by the State n,ot
releasing the infolmation until the date of the ruliIig. The court granted defendant
additional time prior to trial to investigate and develop the information for trial purpos~s.
21.
As of the coW1's April 30, 1997 discovery order, Little's request for
voluntary discovery had been on record for approximately 17 months and Little's motion
for discovery had been on record for approximately 15 months.

3

I
"

'

420

2i

On May 13, 1997, Little pled guilty, with the consent of the District
Attorney, to voluntary manslaughter and common law robbery and was sentenced to jail
for a minimum term of 36 months and a maximum term of 53 'months.

,23.
On April 19, 1993, the Guilford County grand jury indicted Steven Mark
Bishop on a charge of conspiracy with Kenneth Alonzo Kaiser to commit the felonies of
first-d~gree kidnapping and first-degree murder, atnong other crimes. The charges against
Bishop were issued in State ofNorth Carolina v. Steven Mark Bishop, Guilford County
Superior Court, 93 CRS 20410 - 23 ("State V"Bishop"). The case was designated as a
death penalty case under Rule 24 of the Rules of Criminal Procedure.
:24.
Mr. Goodman was assigned to prosecute the case of State v. Bishop on
behalf of the Guilford County District Attorney.

I

25.
On or around March 30, 1993, the Greensboro Police Department
submitted to Mr. Goodman a prosecution summary containing the written statements of
Bishop~s co-conspirator, Kaiser, and all of the police investigative reports. The
prosecution summary included the statement of Ta.ttunie Hopkins, a K-Mart employee,
whQ pbtced Bishop at a local K-Mart purchasing garbage bags at approximately 6 p.m. on
the day 'of the crime (hereafter "Hopkins' Statement").
26.
Hopkins' Statement was materially inconsistent with statements made to
the police by the co-conspirator, Kaiser. Hopkins' Statement was both impeachment and
eXCUlpatory material that should have been made available to defense counsel prior to

.

tri~

27.
Bishop, through defense counsel, filed a request for, or alternative motion
for,. discovery ("request for discovery"). On December 17, 1993, Mr. Goodman filed a
response to the discovery request on behalf of the. ~tate of North Carolina. In his
response, Mr. Goodman did not disclose Hopkins' Statement.
48.
On January 4, 1994, defense counsel filed a motion for discovery on
behalf of Bishop ("motion for discovery"). The court ordered the State to disclose to
defense pounsel prior to trial any exculpatory material that defense counsel had
specifically requested, including all evidence that called into question Kaiser's statements
implicating Bishop. Mr. Goodman did not disclose the substance of Hopkins' Statement
to defen$e counsel prior to trial.

I

29.
Bishop was capitally tried to ajury at the April 4, 1994 Criminal Session
of Guilford County Superior Court. The State's case against Bishop was presented
through the testimony of Bishop's co-defendant, Kaiser. Kaiser was the State's key
witness against Bishop.
30.
During his defense, Bishop presented two witnesses who explained that
they had :been with Bishop at a location in Greensboro, a short distance from K-Mart,
from around 5:15 p.m. to around 6:00 p.m. on October 7, 1991.

4

I

31.
Bishop's defense counsel had not asserted an' alibi defense prior to the
start of trial, and Mr. Goodman learned of that ,defense as the trial unfolded. Mr.
Goodman did not disclose to defense counsel either the existence or substance of
Hopkins' Statement to Bishop's defense counsel even after defense counsel presented
.-,. .
''':" .,y
.. '
alibitestimony at trial.
32.
Because Mr. Goodman did npt disclose Hopkins' Statement to Bishop's
defense counsel, the jury never had an opportunity to weigh Kaiser's credibility in light
of the inconsistent independent evidence contained in Hopkins' Statement and the
defendant never had art opportunity to use Hopkins' Statement'to corroborate the alibi
testimony presented at trial. .

I

33.
Mr. Goodman was assigned to prosecute the cases of State v. Larry De.bro
Chambliss,-95 CRS 42653, and State v. John Christopher Cooper, 95 CRS 44098 and 95
CRS 20517, on behalf oftbe Guilford County District Attorney. Chambliss and a codefendant, Christopher John Cooper (hereafter, "Cooper") were both charged with firstdegree murder.
34.
The evidence tended to show that, on May to, 1995, Chambliss mid
Cooper sought to avenge a dispute with the victim, Sawyer. The two located Sawyer in'
his car and pursued him in another vehicle. Chambliss fired between 7 and 9 shots opt of
the passenger side window~ Cooper also fired his gun. Sawyer's car crashed into.a lltility
'pole. Both defendants fled the scene. Sawyer died as a result of a gunshot wound in the
back.
.

I

35.
The record ofprQceedings in State v. Chambliss, 95 CRS 42653, discloses
that, on May 10, 1995,~ Chambliss' defense coUnsel served a discovery request pursuant
to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 15A-902, seeking voluntary disclosUl;e of all witnesses for the
prosecution who claimed that Chambliss was linked or connected to the crime, all
affidavits signed by witnesses for the prosecution, all forensic evidence that the district .
attorney claims linked the defendant to the crime, and aU evidence that the district
attorney intended to offer at trial.
36.
On May 11, 1995, CQoper provided a statement to the police that
implicated Chambliss as the shooter. In this statement, Cooper did not admit firing a
weapon toward the victim.
.
'
.37.
Mr. Goodman served a discovery disclosure on August 18, 1995. the
State's discovery disclosure fQcused on Chambliss' statements to the police, his prior'
criminal records and physical evidence obtained at the scene, as well as forensic tests .and
examinations performed by law enforcement agents. It did not contain Cooper's
statements to the police.

5

,'----

I

422
. '..
,

38.
On August 25, 1995, Cooper pled guilty to second-degree murder pursuant
to a plea agreement with the District Attorney, consented to by Mr. Goodman, in
exchange for Cooper's testiinony against Chambliss.
.
On November 22, 1995, Chambliss' defense counsel made a motion for
39.
disclosure of evidence pursuant to N.C. Gen. St~t. § 15A-903 and under Brady v.
Maryland, requesting permission for Chambliss to inspect and copy any written. or
recorded statement made by Chambliss and all relevant statements made by the codefendant, Cooper. The motion also sought an order of the court compelling the State to
produce statements of the State's witnesses.
,

40.

A hearing was conducted before Judge Steve Allen. Judge Allen ruled
that Ch~bliss was entitled to discovery.

I

Chambliss' defense counsel submitted a proposed ord¢r to Judge Allen
41.
followhtg the hearing.
42.
On December 15, 1995, Mr. Goodman filed a Supplemental Disclosure
#1, disclosing the transcript of plea, dated August 25, 1995, pertaining to the State's ple~
. arrangement with Cooper.
43.
At the s~e time, Mr. Goodman filed exceptions to Chambliss' defense
counsel"s proposed order on Judge Allen's discovery ruling and a memorandum of law
related to, among other things, disclosure of statements made by Cooper. Citing N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 15A-903(f)(1), Mr. Goodman contended that any statements by Cooper. need
not be d~sclosed until Cooper had testified on direct examination at trial.
414.
On December 22, 1995, Judge Allen nevertheless entered the proposed
order submitted by Chambliss' defense counsel (hereafter, the "December 1995
discovery order"), ruling that "[t]he defendant [Chambliss] is entitled to receive all copies
of all statements made by the codefendant Christopher Cooper [and] is entitled to
production of any plea bargain or cooperation agreement the State has entered into with
[Cooper]' .... "
.
45.
Mr. Goodman did not produce "copies of all statements made by the
codefendant" Cooper, as required by the December 1995 discovery order.
46.

I

On January 10, 1996, Chambliss' defense counsel filed a motion for

sanctions~ asserting that the State had willfully refused to comply with the December.

1995 discovery order. On January 15,
defendant's motion for sanctions.

1996,Mr~

Goodman filed a response to the

. 47.
In the response, Mr. Goodman stated that he had not thus far complied
with the December 1995 discovery order because the order exceeded the authority of the
court respecting statements of witnesses, for the 'reasons outlined in the exceptions that
the State had filed on December 15, 1995. •

6

I

'. ,t

.' .

'

48.
Mr. Goodman did not file an interlocutory appeal to test the vruidity of the
court's ruling in the December 1995 discovery order..
49.
On January 25, 1996, Guilford County.§¥perior Court, Judge.Melzer
Morgan, presiding, heard the defendant's. mot jon for sanctions. In open conrt,Judge
Morgan ordered~. Goodman to fully comply with the December 1995 discovery order..

I

50.
Judge Morgan also instructed Mr. Goodman to execute an affidavit under'
oath certifying that he had already disclosed all letters, wxitten memos, and oral
understandings between counsel and law enforcement relating to Coop~r' s plea bargain
or cooperation agreement with the State. Judge Morgan also ordered Mi': Goodman to
file with him, for in camera inspection, all information obtained by law enforcement or
the prosecution from eyewitnesses and all law enforcement summaries or interviews or
reports concerning information obtained from alleged eyewitnesses. The purpose of this
fi~ing was so that the court could enter aU order deciding what information was
discoverable under Maryland v. Brady. Judge Morgan also ordered Mr. Goodman to file
an accompanying affidavit that the materials submitted were all that were known to exist .
by the District Attorney's office ahd by involved law enforcement agencies.
51.
On January 31, 1996, Mr. Ooodman flied &ffidavits and submitted
materials for in camera review by the court.

On or around February 14, 1996, Chambliss' defense counsel filed a
motion to compel the State's compliance with the December 1995 discovery order and
with the discovery order entered by the Court on January 25, 1996.
52.

I

53.
The defend~t's motion to compel was heard by Judge Morgan. Judge
Morgan entered an order dated February 27, 1996 again directing Mr. Goodman to
disclose to defense counsel all the details of the plea agreement with Cooper, as well a~
all written statements made by Cooper to law enforcement officers, and any written
summaries thereof. Judge Morgan also ordered Mr. Goodman to disclose to defense
coUnsel sUll1IJlaries of interviews with three witnesses relatfng to statements made to them
by Cooper. Judge Morgan further required Mr. Goodman to provide to the Court, for in
camera review, all notes, memoranda, police reports, prosecution summaries or any thing .
else reflecting statements made by Cooper regarding ~e homicide which the State did not
provide to defense.
54.
Mr. Goodman filed an amended dis~losure statement to correct a technical .
error in his prior disclosure regarding the statements of Cooper and filed a supplemental
affidavit of the law enforcement officer, summarizing the dates· of interviews with
Cooper and the statements taken as a result of the interviews. The law enforcement
officer affirmed that the stateinents already turned over to defense counsel were the only
statements, documents, letters, written memos, or notes containing the substance of his
mterviews with Cooper. Mr. Goodman also filed supplemental affidavits of Cooper's

7

I
:

~"

:

!

.

attorney, Bruce Lee, and himself, affirming that the plea transcript already produced
contained the entire arrangement with Cooper and no other documentation existed.
·55.
On March 7, 1996, Judge Morgan entered an order recognizing that,
pursuant to paragraph 4 ofthe court's .tanuary 25, 1996 discovery order, Mr. Goodman
had filed under seal an affidavit containing a factual synopsis of the circumstances
surrounding the homicide of Sawyer, together with excised copies of all the known
Greensboro police officer reports containing information provided by purported
eyewitnesses.
56.
Upon In camera review of the materials filed under seal, Judge Morgan
concluded that the statements or interviewsum.maries of seven witnesses cdntamed
inform~tion favorable to the defendant or impeachment information and that the,
defendant Chambliss was entitled to the information as a matter of law under Brady v.
Maryland. Judge Morgan ordered the Clerk to deliver a copy of these materials to
defense counsel. '

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and by consent of the parties, the
Hearing .committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Commjttee and the Committee
has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Gary Goodman, and the subject matter of this
proceeding.

4.

The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing to timely disclose to Bowens' defense counsel evidence.or
information known to him that tended to negate the guilt of Bowens or
mitigated the criminal offense, Mr. Goodman breached
special
responsibilities as a prosecutor in violation of Rule 7.3 (4) of the superseded
(1985) North Carolina Rules of Professional. Conduct (hereafter, "Rules of
Professional Conduct");

his

I

(b) By failing to timely disclose to Little's defense counsel evidence or
information known to him that tended to negate the guilt of Little or mitigated
the· criminal offense, Mr. Goodman breached his special responsibilities as a
prosecutor in violation of Rule 7.3(4) of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
(c) By failing to timely disclose to Bowens' defense counsel evidence or
information known to hipl that tended to negate the guilt of Bowens or
mitigated the criminal· offense, Mr. Goodman engaged in conduct that,Is
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(d) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct; imd

8

I

,.,'

Cd) By failing to timely disclose to Little's defense counsel evidence or
information known to him that tended to negate the guilt 'of Little or mitigateq
the crilninal offense, Mr. Goodman engaged in conduct that is ptejudiciai to
the admini,stration of justice in violation of Rule 1.4(d) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
,I.',

I

.

(e) By failing to timely disclose to Bishop's defense counsel eVidence or
information known to him that tended to negate the guilt of Bowens or
mitigated the criminal offense, Mr. Goodman breached his special
'responsibilities as a prosecutor in violation of Rule 7.3(4) of the Rules of
PrcifessionalConduct.
.'
(t) By failing to timely disclose to Bishop's defense cOWlsel evidence or

information knoWn to him that tended to negate the guilt of Bowens or
mitigated the criminal offense, Mr. Goodman engaged in conduct that IS
prejudicial to the administiation of justice in violation of Rule 1.2(d) Qfthe
Rules of Professional Conduct.
'
'
(g) By disregarding rulings of a tribunal made in the course of a criminal
proceeding, without taking appropriate steps in good f~ith to test the validity
of the ruling, Mr. Goodman violated Rule 7.6 of the Rules of Professional
Conduct; and
(h) By disregarding rulings of a tribunal such that the court believed it necessary
to require Mr. Goodman to file affidavits of compliance and to require in

camera review of prosecution materials to assure his compliance with iegal
obligations related to disclosure of exculpatory or impeachment infonnation,
Mr. Goodman engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation ofRl,lle 1.2(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct

I

Based,upon the foregoing Findings of-Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the consent
of the parties to the disciplin~ to be imposed; the Hearing Committee hereby makes
.
,
additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

i. The Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a)
b)
'c)
d)

A patte~ of misconduct.
Multiple offenses.
Vulnerability of the victims.
Supstantial experience in the practice of law.

2. The Defendant's niisconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a) Absence of prior disciplinary record.
b) Free and full 'disclosure to the DHC and cooperative :attitude toward
the proceedings.

9

-" '.,'.

'.

---------------------;-------------

c) Remoteness of the underlying offenses, coupled with a significant
change of circumstance, in that Mr. Goodinan is nQ longer employed
{is a prosecuting attorney and has not been so employed since Pebruary
29, 2000 and has :ho present intention of seeking employment as a
prosecuting attorney.
d) Delay in disciplinary proceedings through no fault of Defendant.
3. The aggravating factors do outweigh the mitigating factors .
. Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the consent of
the patties, the Hearing COmniittee hereby enters the folloWing
ORDER OF DISCiPLINE

I

I.' The license of the Defendant, Gary Goodman, is hereby suspended fot
two ye~s. -The suspension of Defendant's license is hetebystayed for two yearS so
long as Defendant complies with the foHowing terms and conditions during the period
of the stay:
.
(a)

The Defendant shall not violate.any state or fedetallaws.

(b)

The Defendant shall not violate any provisions of the Nqrth
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules or the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.

(c)

The Defendant shall not seek or accept employment with any
federal or state prosecutor's office for the period of the stayed
suspension.

(d)

Should the Defendant seek employme:ht at any future time with
the office of any federal or state prosecutor, he shall make them
aWare of this Order of Discipline.

(e)

Subject to the approval and consent of the local criminal defense
bar, the Defendant shall be required to attend 7 of 12, or at least
60%, of the meetings held by the local criminal defense bar
during each year of the stayed suspension.

(f)

Within 30 .days of entry of this order, the Defendant shall select a
member of the criminal defense bar who is willing to serve as a
criminal law practice mentor ("Mentor") for all felony cases in
which Defendant serves as defense counsel during the stayed
suspension. The member of the criminal defense bar selected by
Defendant shall serve as.Mentor subject to the approval of the
NC State Bar Office of Counsel.

I

10

--

._---. _._- '.-

I

I ••

I.: . .

--

,',

I

,.

':, ..'

".'

(g)

The Mentor shall consult with and advise Defendant regarding
case strategy, communication with clients, discovery and other
.discretionary decisions related to Defendant' s repres~nU\tion of
criminal defendants in felony cases. Service of the Mentor in
this role shall be voluntary and ~~01Jlpensated and, in po eyent,
shall the Mentor be deemed to represent the criminal defendants
ht such felony cases for purposes of professional liability or
allegations of ineffective assistance of counselor the like.

(h)

At least once a month during the period of the stayed suspension,
the designated Mentor and the Defendant shall meet and discuss
and review at least each offue following aspects of all felony
cases that the Defendant may be then handling:
1.

ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
vii.
...

~

Vlll.

ix.
x.

I

",: -~

Xl.

xii.
xiii.
xiv.

A list of all felony cases in which Defendant is ~erving as
defense counsel and the court in which each case is pending.
A procedural summary, including a Sl11ll1l1afy ofthe
irwestigative and pre-indictment proceedings, as well as'
post-indictment proceedings.
A summary of facts and evidence.
A discussion ·of proposed case strategy.
A summary of legal issues to be researched and research
completed to date, along with research conclusions.
A summary of the Defendant's communications with his
client, including the dates and substance of communicat~(ms .
A summary of facts and evidence sought through discovery.
A summary of facts and evidence disclosed by Defendant to
the prosecution.
A summary of plea negotiations.
An analysis of any plea offer(s) and Defendant's
recommendation on whether his client should accept the
plea offer(s), make a c·ounter-offer(s) or reject the offer(s)
with supporting reasons. .
.
Defendant's recommendation on whether the criminal
defendant should testify at trial and the reasons for his
recommendation.
A report of any other developments. in the case that affect
case strategy or that need to be connnunicated to his client.
Case outcome and appellate or post-conviction issues.
Any other information that the Mentor requests.

If the Mentor deems it necessary or appropriate, the Defendant
shaiI provide this infomlation in written form to the Mentor prior
to their meetipgs. The Defendant shall answer any questions that
the Mentor may have regarding the Defendant's handling of
felony cases and shall receive advice and consultation frOID the

11

I

'.'"

,~

"

!

Mentor on any aspect of Defendant's felony cases that the Mehtor
deems appropriate and necessary.
(i)

-

-

During the period of the stayed suspension, the Defendant shall
handle no direct appeals other than those that might involve
Motions for Appropriate Relief or rulings-on Motions to
Suppress. The Defendant shall provide to the Mentor a list of all
appeals involving Motions for Appropriate Relief or rulings on
Motions to Suppress in Which he is involved. The Defendant
shall answer any questions that the Mentor may have regarding
the Defend~t' s handling of such cases and shall receive advice
and consultation from the Mentor oli any aspect of Defendant's
such cases that the Mentor deehls appropriate and necessary.

I

During the period of the stayed suspension, the Defendant shall
also report to the Mentor and to the NC State Bar Office of
Counsel any filings in federal or state court that he receives from,
or on behalf of, a criminal defendant that he currently represents
or formerly represented alleging ineffective assistance of
counsel.
(k)

The Mentor shall report to the NC State Bar Office of Counsei
the Defendant'.s failure to substantially comply with any of the
above conditions.

(1)

Defendant shall pay all costs incurred in this proceeding and
taxed against him by the Secretary of the North' Carolina State
Bar within 180 days receiving notice of such costs.

of

2.
If, during any period in which the two-year suspension is stayed, the
Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more conditions stated in paragraph 1, then
the stay of the suspension of his law.Iicense may be lifted as provided in §.0114(x) of
the North Carolina State Birr Discipline & Disability Rules.
3,.
If the stay of the suspension of the Defendant's law license is lifted,
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order providing for such
conditions, as it deems n~cessary for reinstatement of the Defendant's license at the
end of the two-year period where jn Defendant's license is actively suspended.

!

I

4;
_The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pUrsuant to 27 N;C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §.0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules throughout the period of the
:
stayed su'spension.

12

I

-:~

,"

Signed by the undersigned Hearing Committee chair with ~e cons~nt of the
other Hearing CO!11mittee members.
This the

.Z6..~ay"f

l\\Aec..+I-

I

.201)1.
\ . ' -.<.

Slt~

T. Paul Messic ,Jr., Cha~man '
DHC Heqring C mmittee

~'SE~1J

, •T?:

"/{
,It
<'.......,- arissa J. ~
an
Attorney fbrPlaintiff
The North Carolina State Bar
Post Office Box 25908

Raleigh. North Carolina 27611
(919) 828.,4620

.~

es B.Maxwell

,Attorney for bdtlnd,ml

I

13

I
•

'. "",1

.t ,1)

(l!.

~~ly

