i

. (q3 '62

________

NORTH CAROLINA

._~

:

_ _ " _ _ _ _ "O

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99G0558, 99G0359, 9726GR027 & 99G0084

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

SHARON D. JUMPER,
ATTO~EY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

I

On January 20, 2000, the Grievance COmIilittee of the North C~olina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by CEE, BOO, RLG, and RBR, Jr.
Pursuant to seCtion .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
COIi¥l1ittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe thllt a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action. Ii .
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the fili1).g of a complaint and, a hearing before the Disciplinary B.earing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipiine depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in whi~h ali attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client; the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the publics but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I"'
.

The Grievance Committee was bfthe opinion ~at a censure is 110t required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina S~ate Bar, it is now my duty t6 issue this reprimapd, and I am certain that you will
understand ,fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
.
Yoil were ~erved With a letter of notice and substance of grievance in grievance file
number 99G0359 on May 6; 1999. You failed to timely. respond to the grievance, resulting in a
subpoena being issued for you to appear before the North Carolina State Bar. In file number
99Gp558, the po.st office attempted to serve a certified mail letter on your office oli three
different occasi9ns, August 27, 1999, August 31, 1999, and September 7, 1999. Ultimately they
had to retuql the letter unclaimed. Subsequently, the letter of notice was ser,ved by a sheriff to
your home address. The sheriff s retvrn indicates that it was served by leaving a copy with your

I
I

. '.

\

'(.~

l.
,

.'

.

".

.

.~

.,
,I

,~

"

.

thirteen year old son, on August 22, 1999.. In yoUr response, you stated that you never re~eived
the letter of notice from your son. However, the Grievance Committee was troubled by the 'fact
that the post offi(,::e attempted service of the certified letter three times, anft was unable to serve
your office. In file ~umbe~ 9726GR027, you were mailed a fetter dated April 23, 1997 by the
th
26 Judicial District Grievance Committee asking you to respond. You never responded to the
letter of notice. On June 1; 1998, you were served with a letter of notice and substance of
grievaJ:!.ce ~ro~ the North Carolina State Bar. You did not respond to that grievance in a timely
fashion. Uitimately, a subpoena was issueq for you to app',¢ru:.foryou to appear:before the North
Carolina State Bar. In file number 99G0084, you were served with a letter of notice on March 1,
1.999. You failed to respond to the letter of notice. On April 19, 1999, you were mailed.a
follow-up ietter. You failed to respond to that grievance. Your multiple failures to respond to '
lawful requests for information from a disciplinary authority violates Rule 8.1 of the North
Carolina Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. In deciding to i~sue a Reprimand, the State Bar
took into accoUilt t4e multiple instances of misconduct in this matter, ,and your previous
.
disciplinary history.
'

I
.'

'1""

• ,,'

t

' _ ' _

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional'
misconduct. The Grievance Comniittee trusts that you will heed this reprimaD.d~ that it will be
remembered by you, that.it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself .
. to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In ac;:cordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council Qfthe North
Caroiina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to arty
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this actioll in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

/.3

day of .

'lll4Acd

,2000.

~Ji~
.
Je
KriOrsett, III
, Chair" Grievance Comrriittee

I

.

I
,

: .,

''''

..

".
.~

,

" ~

...
1

436

