,I,'

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE

OF THE

WAKE COUNTY

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
, hi.','"
00G07~'~::':r.
IN THE MATTER OF

I

WILLIAM R. BURTON
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 25, ~001 the Grievance Committee Qfthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Donna Wilder.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
informat~on available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
.
disciplinary action."

I

. The rules provide that after a fmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
.'
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue variou() levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand,' or a censure to the respondent attorney. .
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or mote' provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the adtilmistration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, 'and I am certain that you will
understand funy the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You held a conference with both the ~omplainant, Donna Wilder, and her ex-husband,
Ronald Jefferson Quattlebaum, regarding the preparation of a Separation Agreement and
Property Settlement (hereafter, separation agreement). Thereafter, you prepared a separation·
agreement for the parties and charged a fee of $200.00, which was paid by Mr. Quattleba~m.

I
470

You claim that you setved only as a scrivener in the drafting of the separation agreement. You
further claim that you did not represent either the Complainant or Mr. Quattlebaum.
In your response to the: Grievance Committee you stated that you would communicate
concerns that the Complainant had about the separation to her ex-husband, Mr. Quattlebaum.
You later prepared a divorce complaint for Mr. Quattlebaum to file. You also prepared
an answer for the Complainant to sign. You indicate that yO\! never told the Complainant not to
answer the divorce COIi1plain~ that you prepared on behalf of Mr. Quattlebaum. Although you
think you told her that if she didn't answer the divorce complaint she would be in default after 30
days. You have indicated that the Complainant asked you what she needed to do about obtaining
a divorce. You provided her with advice on how to proceed to get a divorce.
.

1
.

The :Complainant and Mr. QuattlebaUm subsequently obtained their own attorneys for the
divorce. Mr.. Quattlebaum was tepresenteq by Thomas Eagen. Mr. Eagyn asked you to provide
your recollections of your interaction with the Complainant and Mr. Quattlebaum. In your letter
of December 2, 1998, you related to Mr. Eagen conversations you had with the Complainant or
Mr. Quattlebaum. At that time, you knew that Complainant was represented by Attorney Tracy
K. Lischer, put you did not share your recollections with Ms. Lischer.
The Grievance Committee found that your conduct in this matter violated Rule 1.7(a) of
the Revised 'Rules of Professional Conduct. Although you claimed to be: only a scrivener, you
gave advice ;to the Complainant about various aspects of the separation and divorce processes.
You clearly attempted to represent two individuals whose interest~ were inherently in conflict.
The 9rieva)lce Committee was further concerned that your involvement in the
Complainant and Mr. Quattlebaum's separation agreement was prejudicial to the interests of both
parties. Ag*n, although y()u claimed to be only a scrivener, the Complainant relied upon you for
advice and assistance in obtaining a separation agreement.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

·1',

In aCGordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50;00 are. hereby taxed to you.

1
(\ ,-

!J ~

A,
'1

"I 1

'; '/. ~ :!!,' ,
!",

,~,~, ~':.; %~;>,j :'.':'.!

, , :?,~

•.

.

,",

"

n" . ,\.

Done and ordered, this the

:? '5 ~ay 'of

C

'6<"-""'L--

"

, 2001.

qc~U::;6
,

')

,

, , ,\

•

-

Calvin E. Murphy, Chair
Grievance COnunittee

I
CEMlswe

I

, ..

I~.

J. 1

~

