BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
00G1058·

NORtH CAROLINA
WAKECODNTY

INRE:

John H. Bennett
, Attorney At Law

)
)

CENSURE

)

I

On January 18,2001, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Caroli~a
St4te Bar, the .Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considerhi.g the
information a~ailable to it, including your response to the letter notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable calise. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

of

. The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ate not warranted and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.
.
.

ot

A censke is a written form of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provi'sions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused significant harm or potential significant haml to a client, the administration of
justice, ·the profession or a member of the pubtic, but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney:s license.

I

The Grievance Committee waS of the opinion that a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Col11i11ission is not required in this case and issue$ this censure to you. As chairman of
the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State bat, it is now my' duty to issue this censUre.
I am certain th~t you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In March 1995, you represented the United States Government in the trial of William
Talley. Mr. Talley was charged with conspiracy. to possess with intent to distribute crack
cocaine, possession with intent to distribute powder cocaine and a firearm violation. At the trial,
you elicited testimony from two witnesses that Mr. Talley shot at a car and the driver Was found
dead of a bullet wound in the car.

I

• I

~

'"r

,

,

"'<

;:....,

'.

. ~. .... ~.

~I.

•

,

~'I

,

I""

In your closing argument, you argued that Mr. Talley not only shot at the ear, but kHled
the driver. Afthe time you made this argument to the jury, you knew that another man had been
convicted in state court of the driver's murder, You also argued on rebuttal that Mr. Talley
murdered the driver ofthe car.
,,~~.t~'i .'
~

;.

. Mr. Talley had not been charged with murder. He was charged With ,the various drug
offenses and a firearms v~olation. The jury convicted Mr. Talley on all ,charged offenses.

I

In May 1995, about two months after the trial, you sent a letter to a United States
ProbatjonOfficer with YOll!' qbjections, to the proposed presentence report. In your letter, you
again state that Mr. Talley was "responsible for homicide", he fired into a person's vehicle and
that person was subsequently found dead. Again, you knew that Mr. Talley had not been
convicted of such an offense, but another man had been convicted of the .!uurder.
Mr. Talley appealed his conviction to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals .. The Fourth
. Circuit held that your "murder argument" appeared "to have been a del~berate, calculated
deCision to assert facts not in evidence in order to divert the jury from the real issues in the case."
U.S. v. Wilson, 135 F. 3d 291, 302 (4th Cir. 1998). The court also found that your argument was
inflCll1l111atory and created a "serious risk that the jury decided to convict Talley simply because it
believed he was a'murderer, not because it weighed the evidence for proof of drug conspiracy
and possession, the crimes actually charged." Id. at 300 The court vacated Mr. Talley's
convictions because of prosecutorial misconduct and rem~ded for a new trial.
Your jury argument was improper. YOll: argued facts that were not in evidence. You also
argued that Mr. Talley was responsible for a murder when you had information to the contrary.
You compounded your misconduct by advising the court that it should consider the murder in
sentencing Mr. Talley.
Your conduct in this regard violated Rule 1.2(c) and (d) of the North Carolina State Bar's
Rules of Professional Conduct.
The Grievance Committee is mindful that the conduct in question occurred approximately
six,years ~go and that'your profes~ional record is otherwise unblemished.
You are hereby censurec;l by the North Carolina State Bar fm:.your violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The GrievaIlce Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure $hould serve as
a strong reminder and' inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your ,responsibility to
. the public, your clients, your fellow 'lttomeys and the coUrts, to the end that you demean yoUrself .
as a. respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied. upon without
question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any

I

attorney issued a censure by the Grievance COrillnittee, the costs of this action in the amount of
. $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the

f'/L.
r-:-.
I) . Of_..:::J~_"'---=-~t===-.,
day

a VIn E. Murphy, Chair
Grievance .committee

20,01,:.-'_ __

I

CEMlkah

I

I

