12ZY1
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
00GQ?5,'5'
.~ "I~: , ,

WAKE COUNTY

"

IN THE MATTER OF

I

)
)
)
)
)

Van H. Johnson
, Attorney At Law

'

;i)

REPRIMAND

On April 25, 2001 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State ~ar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Ami Pearse.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After con:;idering the '
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee founq probable cause. Probable ca,use is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
di$ciplimrry action."
-

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
.
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required; anq the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual Qr potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Co'm.mittee may issue 4n admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofProfessional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client; the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance C0111l11ittee was of the opinion that a cenSure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this repritpand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On or about May 14, 1998, you began representing Ami Pearse in a domestic case. You:
and Ms. Pearse had sexual relations on the same day that you first conferred with her. YOut'
sexual relationship with Ms. Pearse, which you contend was consensual, continued throughout
your representation of Ms. Pearse in her domestic action.

I

"

"

Your sexual relationship with Ms. Pearse during the time you represented her was in
violation of Rule 1.1 8(a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. The prohibition upon
representing a client with whom a sexual relationship develops applies regardless of whether the
relationship is consensual. Indeed the comment to Rule 1.18(a) indicates that an impermissible
copflict of interest is created when a lawyer has a sexual relationship with a client and that
conflict of interest cannot be ameliorated by the client's consent.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
a~omey issued a reprimand by. the Grievance Committee, th~ costs of this action in the ~ount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
. Done and ordered, this the

Ir

day Of-7-M4t.,£f"--C:.;:1;.....i.ll---~--:' 2001.

CEMIswe

I

I

