WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
2000 BCS I

IN THE MATTER OF THE
TENDER OF LICENSE OF:
JESSE EDWARD WELBORN

)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar
pursuant to Section .0017 of Subchapter B of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar upon an
affidavit of tender oflicense executed by Jesse Edward Welborn and filed in the offices of the North Carolina
State Bar on December 14,1999.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Jesse Edward Welborn's conduct of misappropriating
client funds is grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28(b)(2) in that Jesse Edward
Welborn violated Rule I.2 (b) & (c), Rule 10.I(a) & (c), and 10.2(d) & (e),ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct
and Rules 8A(b) & (c), 1.15-1 (a) & (d), and 1.15-2(g) & (h) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon motion being duly made and seconded, the Council enters the following order:
1.	 The tender of surrender of license of Jesse Edward Welborn be accepted.
2.	 Jesse Edward Welborn be and hereby is DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North Carolina.
3.	 Jesse Edward Welborn shall comply with the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .0024 of the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required
by Subchapter B, Section .0024.
4.	 That the costs of this action be taxed against Jesse Edward Welborn.
Done and Ordered this ~ day of January 2000.

C essie H. Thigpen Jr.,
North Carolina State Bar

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE
AFFIDAVIT
TO:

The Council of the North Carolina State Bar

I, Jesse Edward Welborn, hereby tender my license to practice and desire to resign from the North

Carolina State Bar. My resignation is extended freely and voluntarily, and is not the result of coercion or
duress, and I am fully aware of the implications of submitting this, my resignation.
I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation or other proceedings regarding allegations
that I have been guilty of misconduct, specifically that:
1.	 I misappropriated over $250,000 of funds from my client trust account in 1997, 1998, and 1999 by

issuing numerous checks to myself.
2.	 The funds I misappropriated in paragraph one above eventually caused there to be insufficient funds
in my trust account to pay offmy client's real estate loans and obligations in a timely manner. Once
this occurred, I repeatedly misappropriated funds by using clients' funds from subsequent real estate
closings to payoff interest and penalties that had accrued on previous clients' real estate loans and
obligations.
3.	 At the time I was enjoined from handling client funds in August 1999, the defalcation in my trust
account exceeded $500,000.
I acknowledge that the facts as set forth in paragraphs 1-11 are true. I am submitting my resignation
because I know if charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully
defend against them.
Thisthe

i-?

of

(Je ceYY7!J~r

1999.

/

Ad4J ~-;lt(Jtt/~/a~if{7Jx,
Jesse Edward Welborn

Sworn to ~ subscribed before me,
this I J -of r:OP "- 1999.

rfY~ JJ-if~

Notary Public	

My Commission Expires: f) w~

Y


J, Yg,.,.

