tZ\LPrg
• _

WAKE COUNTY

~

.......... t.. .... __

~ .......... ;.:,~

......

_.J

BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01 DHC 6
~_"'~

NORTH CAROLINA

)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)

v.
CHARLES E. HESTER, JR.
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)

This matter coming before the undersigned Hearing Committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofT. Paul Messick, Jr., Chair, W. Steven
Allen, Sr., and Betty Ann Knudsen, pursuant to Section .0114 of the Discipline and
Disability Rules of the North.Carolina State Bar (h~reinafter "Bar Rules"). Douglas 1.
Brocker represented plaintiff.. David B. Freedman and Dudley A. Witt appeared as
counsel for defendant.
.

" .

Both parties have agreed to waive a formal hearing in this matter and ~tipulate and
agree to the following findings of fact and conclusions Qf law and to the discipline
.
imposed. The Hearing Committee enters the following:
r

I

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a bOdy duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the .proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. Defendant, Charles E. Hester, Jr. (hereafter "Hester"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on March 24, 1984 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to pract~ce in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Hester actively engaged in the
practice of raw in the State ofNorth Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of
Selma, Johnston County, North Carolina.

I
:....

,:,..

48'3

Upon information and b~lief~ the State Bar alleges:
4.
Hester was the attorney and settlement agent for a real estate closing
transa,ction on July 31, 2000 (hereafter, "closing").
5.
The closing involved property located at US 70 business in Clayton,
North Carolina (hereafler,"property").
: 6.
Perry D. Perdue Was the buyer and Rufus Brown was the seller of the
property in the closing (hereafter referred to collectively as, "parties")
· 7.
In connection with the closing, Hester prepared a HlJD-l settlement
statement (hereafter, "original HUO-l ").

I

8.
In the original HUD-l presented to the parties at closing on July 31, 2000,
Hestercorrectly listed the contract sales price as $75,000 and the amount paid by the
buyer, :Mr. Perdue, as $7,291.36.

9.
the closing was completed and the property was transferred from Mr.
Brown'to Mr. Perdue.
10.
Sometime after the closing was completed, Perdue requested that Hester
prepare an altered HUD-l settlement statement (hereafter, "altered HUD-l ").
!11.
Perdue asked Hester to increase the sales price by $100,000 on the altered
HUD-l:to indicate that the contract sales price was $175,000.
,12.
Hester prepared an altered HUD-l indicating that the contract sales price
was $175,000.
!

13.·

The altered HUD-l prepared by Hester also indicated that Perdue paid
$107, 4~3.86, which was over $100,000 more than· Perdue actually paid in cash to
purchase the property.

I

14.
. At or before the closing on July 31, 2000, Iiester received a copy of the
offer to purchase and contract (hereafter, "contract") entered into by the parties on May
17, 200q. The contract listed the purchase price as $75,000.
15. . Hester, therefore, knew in August 2000 that the contract sales price for the
property, was $75,000, not $175,000.
.
I:6.
Hester also received and disbursed the funds for the closing, including the
amount paid by Perdue in cash to purchase the property.

2

I
484

17.
Hester, therefore, knew that Perdue had paid approximately $7,291.36 to ..
purchase the property, not the $107,453.86 indicated in the altered HUD-'I.
.
18.
At the time he provided the altered HUD-1 to Perdue in August 2000,
Hester knew that the $175,000 contract sales price and the $107,453.86 cash paid by
Perdue shown on the altered HUD-1 we~~: misrepresentatiops and false statem~mts of
material fact.
19.
Hester prepared and signed the altered HUD-1, certified it as a true copy,
and gav~ it to Perdue in August 2000.

I

In August 2000, Perdue attempted to borrow between $90,000,. $100,000
20.
from Steve Clark.
21.
The loan from Clark to Perdue would have been secured by a de.ed of trust
on the property involved in the closing.
22.
On or about August 31, 2000, Perdue provided to Clark the altered HUD-1
prepared by Hester in copnection with his attempt to obtain the lo~ from. Clark.
23.
Perdu~ sent Clark the altered .HUD-1 prepared by Hester in an effort to
fraudulently obtain the loan by misrepresenting the value of the property and the amount·
of equity Perdue had in the property.
24.
The State Bar does not have clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that
Hester was aware when he prepared the altered HUD-I that Perdue was going to use it to .
attempt to fraudulently obtain a loan or for some other improper purpose.

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, th~ hearing committee enters. the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing .committee and the committee has
. jurisdiction over defendant Charles E. Hester, Jr. and the. subject matter.
2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings'o{Fact above, constitutes

grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that by preparing the
altered HUD., 1 s~ttlement statement knowing that it contained misrepresentations and
false statement of material fact, including an inflated sales price and cash amount paid by
Perdue, signing it, certifying it as a true copy, and providil1g it to Perdue, Hester engaged

3

I
';',:', .. ',' ..

in conduct involving misrepresent~tion in violation of Rule 8A(c) ofthe North Carolina
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

l. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a) substantial experience in the practice oflaw,
(b) use by a third party of respondent's violation to attempt to defraud a
member of the public, and
( c) issuance of a letter of warning within three years immediately
preceding the filing of the complaint

2.

I

The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a) substance abuse and psychological problems, contributing to the
violation,
(b) full and free diSClosure to the hearing committee and cooperative
attitude toward proceedings,
(c) re~orse,
(d) absence of dishonest or selfish motive, and
(e) failure of respondent's violation to result in any harm to the public

3. The aggravating factors do not outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of
the parti~s, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
L Defendant, Charles E. Hester, Jr. is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw
in the State of North Carolina for a period of one year from the date this Consent Order of
Discipline is filed. The period of suspension is stayed for three years upon the following

I

conditio~s:

A.
Hester shall enter into and comply with a Lawyers Assistance
Program ("LAP").rehabilitation contract and actively particIpate in a 12
step rehabilitation program monitored by LAP, in which Hester shall:

1. Totally refrain from the use of alcohol and all mind altering
substances except as may be specifically prescribed and approved
by Hester' personal physician. Prior to the use of any such

4

I
:: ' .... ;..

~t86

'

. .

,'4,

.:

. -'(~:. ~

,

,

. "";"';;"~;~b:\~,::,:} Y',: :»t~

'.},:;::}::':'",.
J

c-

:,t ,.'.

prescribed drugs Hester will infonn his physician ofhis _
participation in LAP, communicate the identity of his physician to
LAP and havt( his physician consult with LAP. Prior to the uSe of
prescription medications, Hester shall provide LAP with aqeqmite
documentation from the prescribing physician indicating tJIat the
prescribing physician knows of He~ter' dependence ancr,4as
concluded that the' use of such drug or drugs is nevertheless
required.

I

2. Accept such person or persons as may be designated by LAP ~
monitor(s) of his perfonnance under this Order and'shall ml:lke at
least one personal contact per week with said monitor or more
frequently as prescribed by the monitor.
3. Provide the monitor with whatever substantiating
documentation the monitor may require to assure compliance with '
this order.
4. Ensure that monthly monitor reports are submitted to LAP no
th
later than the 15 day of the next mop,th following each preceding
month throughout the entire three-year stay.

5. Continue to see an addictions therapist, approved by LAP,
every other week for the next six months and thereafter on such
basis as the therapist and LAP determine is appropri~te and
necessary. Hester shall ensure that JIis addiction counselor
forwards to LAP and to the State Bar a quarterly report certifying
that Hester is in compliance with his addictions counseling. These
reports shall be due no later than January 1, April I, July i, and '
October 1- for each year of the stayed suspension while Hester is
being treJted.

I

6. Attend at least four AAI NA meetings each week. Hester will
keep a sign-up sheet signed by the leaaer of each meeting he
attends to verify his attendance and provide this sheet to his
monitor on a monthly basis. The number of meetings to be
attended will be reviewed at the conclusion of the 120-day period
following entry of this Order and may be decreased, .maintl;l.ined, or,
increased at the sole discretion of LAP, but shall in no event be
less than three meetings per week. .

7. Join a home group and attend its meetings every week. Hester
will maintain a sponsor and an active relation with his sponsor at
all times. The identity of his sponsor shall be communicated to
LAP and Hester will authorize LAP to communicate with his
sponsor regarding the status of his recovery. No confidential

5

I
. :..: ... ,:,

infonnation shared with the sponsor shall be sought by LAP except
information as to status of recovery.
8. Arrange for and submit to random urine drug screens. Hester
shall employ ~ drug screening service that provides a toll free
number for him to call each day to det~rmine if he is to be screened
that day. The failure to call each day or the failure to report
promptly for a screen shall be deemed a positive test result. The
results of the drug screening or the failure to call or to report
promptly for a screen shall be reported directly to LAP and the
State Bar by the screening agency and Hester shall be responsible
for seeing that this is cione. Hester may use arty testing service
such as the National Confederation of Professional Services
("NCPS';) (telephone 1-800.;948-8589) or another similar service
approved by LAP. Hest~r is responsible for all costs associated
with this screening process.

I

9. Ensure that monthly reports are made to his LAP monitor and
that LAP makes quarterly reports to the State Bar certifying that
Hester is in compli~ce with each aspect of his rehabilitation
contract and program set forth above. The quarterly reports
regarding LAP compliance must be sent to the State Bar no later
th~ January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1, for each year of the
stayed suspension.
10. Execute appropriate. releases for urine or blood screens,
breathalyzers, treatment center records, therapist records, and other
written and verbal information needed for LAP and the State Bar
to verify 'compliance with the terms of the rehabilitation contract
and progr;:nn.
r

11. Immediately notify his monitor if he uses any mind-altering
substances, including alcohol, in violation of paragraph I.A.l of
this order:

I

12. Continue to be treated for any diagnosed psychiatric conditions
by Leonard Handelsman, MD or another psychiatrist approved by
LAP. He~ter Sh~l.l1 see the psychiatrist at least every other month
for the first ~ix months and thereafter on such basis as the
psychiatrist, and LAP determine is appropriat~ and necessary.
Hester shall ensure that the psychiatrist forwards to LAP and to the
State Bar a quarterly report certifying that for the past three
months: (1) he has followed all recommendations for treatment of
any diagnosed psychiatric conditions, and (2) in the psychiatrist's
opinion, Hester's psychiatric conditions will not prevent him from

6

I
... .

',"

· .

;'4'::5
, ~ - <

.'

I

:,

adequately performing the responsibilities of an attorney or pose a
threat to the public, ifhe is allowed to ,continue practicing law.
These reports shall be due no later than January 1, April 1, July 1, '
and October 1 for each year of the stayed suspension while Hester
is being treated. ":"\';""
.+:~!):<;,
.

I

The failure of Hester to comply with any of the foregoing aspects
of the program of rehabilitation set forth in Section I.A.I-12 above
shall constitute a violation of the conditions of the stay and warrant
activation of the suspension of Hester's license.
B. Hester shall not violate any provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct at any time during the three-year suspension.
C. Hester shall not violate any state or federal criminal laws at any time
during the three-year suspension.
D. Hester shall pay the costs of this proceeding, including all deposition
costs, as assessed by the Secretary, within 60 days of entryofthls order.
E. Hester shall be solely responsible for compliance with all the conditions
of this order. Under no circumstances shall the State Bar be responsible
for payments or bills associated ,with Hester's compliance with the
conditions of this Order.

II. If, upon a motion by the State Bar, a Hearing Committee of the DHC ftnds
that Hester has violated any of the conditions in Sections I A-E ofthis Order,
the suspension of Hester's license shall be activated. If the suspension is
activated, prior to se~king rein&tatement of his license, Hester must:
r

I

A. Comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules; and
B. Complete a LAP rehabilitation contract and program as set forth in
Section I.A.I-12 of this order prior to seeking reinst!:ltement.

7

I
.: ...... .

,
.

Signed by the undersigh~d hearing committee chair with the consent of the other
.
hearing cOinmittee members.
This the

\t\--\!.

day

of~Th"¥seL, 2001.

T. Paul Messick, J
Chair, Hearing Co

I

We Consent:

~<r0
QUgi~ ~
Counsel,for Plaintiff

~
Ch
Sjf es7r5r:
Defendant

I

8

I
: '.::

.<. '

