- -------1

5387
WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

I

)
THE NORTH CARO,L1NA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
}
)

)

~

RICHARD M. PEARMAN,
Defendant

)
)
)

This m~tter came before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of T. Paul Messic~, Jr.", Chair; Step'hen E. Culbreth, and
Betty Ann Knudsen, pursuant to Section.0114 of the Discipline and Disability
Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
. .Edward C. Winslow 11/ and Reid L.
Phillips represented defendant, Richard M. Pearman. Douglas J. Brocker
represented plaintiff. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and
cone/asions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed.
'Based lfpon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the
r
following:
.

,

I

FINDINGS OF FACT
I

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Caroliha and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes: of North Carolina, ·and the Rules and Regulations of the North, Carolina
State B9r promulgated hereUnder.
(

2.
Defendant, Richard M. Pearman, (hereafter "Pearman"), was.
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 14, 1970 and is, and was' at
all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North
Carolina; subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct <;>f
the North Carolina State Bar and .the laws of the State of North Carolina.
I

1

I
510

3.
During the times relevant to this complaint, Pearman actively
engaged in the practice of Iqw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a
law office in the city of Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.' .
4.
Pearman is subjectJp·the personaLa~d subject matten;";
jurisdiction of this body and voluntarily waived his right to a formal hearing.
First Claim for Relief

I

5.
First Republic Mortgage Company (hereafter, "First Republic
Mortgage""JJ) is a North Carolina corporation engaged in the business of brokering
.
loans for real estate trqnsactions.
6.
Freedom Insurance Company (hereafter, "Freedom Insurance").
is a North Carolina corporation engaged in the business of providing title
insurance for real estate transactions.
7.
Since 1992, First Republic Mortgage and Freedom Insurance
have been owned by a trust for the benefit of Pearman's daughter, the Amanda
L. Pearman trust number 2.
8.
First Republic Mortgage and Freedom Insurance are located in
the same office building qnd floor as Pearman's law office.
9.
Employees of Pearman's law office also were employed
simultaneously by FirstRepublic Mortgage and Freedom Insurance.
10.
The only corporate di'rector for First Republic Mortgage between
.March 1992 and September ~ 999 was Pearman's employee and legal secretary.
She also was an officer of First Republic Mortgage during this time period..

I

11.
The corporate directors and officers of Freedom Insurance from.
March 1992 through 1995 were either Pearman's law office employees or his
fiance.
12.
Pearman depositec! his personal funds into accounts forboth
First Republic Mortgage and_Freedom Insurance.
13.
Pearman received funds from the accounts of First Republic
Mortgage.and Freedom Insurance.
Since at least 1992, Pearman has acted as closing attorney for
14.
loan closing transactionsl;>rokered by First Republic Mortgage, and for which
Freedom Insurance provided the title insurance.

2

I
~ll'
'tI.I
.'.

15.
transaytions.

Pearman received attorney's fees in connection with these ,

16.
First Republic Mortgage received brokerage commissions on
these transactions closed by Pearman.
17.
Freedom Insurance received premiums for title insurance on
these transactions closed by Pearman.
18.
Since at least 1992, Pearman regularly has provided legal
services to' First Republic Mortgage and Freedom Insurance and received
payment for those services, apart from the loan closings discus$ed above.

I

Second 'Claim for Relief

19.
Dependable Housing Inc. was a North Carolina Corporation that'
engaged in the business of manufactured homes sales in Roxboro, North
Carol,ina from approximately 1993-98.
20.
Dependable Housing also acted as general contractor to provide
set-up and related construction services, such,as electrical, plumbing, masonry,
and carpentry work, for the homes it sold.

21.

Dependable Housing was owned by a trust for the benefit of
Pearman's d;:iUght~r, the Amanqa L. Pearman trust number 2.
22.
Pearman was the President of Dependable Housing from
approximately 1994 until 1997.
Dependable! Housing used the same post office box mailing
23.
address: as First Republic Mortgage and Freedom'lnsurance. This post office
box was in Greensboro, where Pearman's law office was located, not in
Roxboro, where its sales office was located ..

I

24.

Employees of Pearman's law office also were employed and
paid by Dependable Housing to perform bookkeeping and other services for the
company.
2~.
Pearman deposited his personal funds into accounts for
Dependable Housing.
'

26.

Pearman received funds from the accounts of Dependable

Ho~sing,

3

I
:.

\'

:

.. :.'

27.
Pearm(;Jn provided legal services to Dependable Housing and
received payment for those services, apart from conducting loan closings to
which it was a party, as set forth beloW.
28.
Pearman acted as'closing attorney'·for loan closing transactions,
in which Dependable Housing was the seller of a home (hereafter, "Dependable Housing Iban closings").

I

29.'
In the Dependable Housing lo~n closings, Pearman received
attorney's fees.
30.
closings.

Dependable Housing also rec~ived a sales !)rofit from the loan

31.
In at least one of the Dependable Housing loan closings that
Pear.man handled, First Republic Mortgage brokered the loan .and received a
brokerage commission, and Preedom Insurance- received a premil,Jm and
provided the title insurance.
In the Oependable Housing loan closings in which Freedom
32.
Insurance provided the title insurance, Pearman issued the title opinion upon
which the title insurance was issued.
33.
In the Dependable Housing loan closings that Pearman
handled, Pearman received the loan funds and -disbursed them to the parties,
including funds paid to Dependable Housing.
34.
A portion of the loan funds were for certain specified costs to
set-up the manufactured homes ("set-up costs").
.

I

I

35.
Pearman was supposed to disburse the set-up costs to
Dependable Housing as s~lIer and general contractor onc~ that work was
completed.
36.
In some closings, the set-up work had not been completed at
the time of closing.
37.
Some of the subcontractors who performed the set-up work on
these homes were not paid by Dependable Housing.
38.
As (;J result, some of the subcontractors who performed the set- .
up work on these homes and were not paid filed notice of claims of liens against
the homes and filed civil actions against Dependable Housing and the borrowers .

.

39.
In at least one instance, Pearman executed an escrow
agreement between a borrower .and Dependable Housing for a closing he was

4

"·'1"3
~'.' .

handling. Pearman, the borrower, and a representative of Dependable Housing
executed the Escrow Agreement on the day of closing.
40.
The Escrow Agreement ~tated that certain improvements had
not been completed by Dependable Housing and provided that Pea'rman was to
hold funds in his escrow to assure seller's completion of such improvements.
41.
Pearman did not hold the funds in escrow and disbursed the
funds for such improvements to Dependable Housing on the date of closing.
Based upon the consent ofthe parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact,
the heairing committee enters the following:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1,. All parties are properly before the hearing ,committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over Pearman and the subject matter of this
proceeqing.
~. Pearman's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2)in
that Pearman committed the following violations of the North Carolina Rules of
ProfeSSional Conduct (hereafter, "Rules") or Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct (hereafter, "Revised Rules") as follows:

a.
By conducting real estate closings involving corporations,
First RepubJic Mortgage and Freedom Insurance and Dependabie
Housing, in which at I~ast his daughter had a beneficial interest and which
he represented on othter matters, Pearman represented clients in matters
in which his representation may have been materially limited by his
responsipilities to other clients, or by his own inter~st, in violation of Rule
5: 1(b) and Revised Rule 1. 7(b).

I

b.
By issuing title opinions on property insured by Freedom
Insurance, in which at least his daughter had a beneficial interest and
which he represented on other matters, Pearman represented clients in
matters in which his representation may have been materially limited by
his responsibilities to other clients, or by his own interest, in violation of
Rule 5.1(b) and Revised Rule 1.7(b).
c.
By indicating that he would act as escrow agent between
the borrowers 'and Dependable Housing, in which at I~ast his daughter'
had a beneficial interest and which he represented on other matters,
P~armari represented clients, the borrowers, in matters in which his
representation may have been materially limited by his responsibilities to

I
: ..

'

'::'

~i}\, i:{1~~i;~t~~;:~'; h,le ~\{~';',i'l~:Yi~!; i;l::\::"';;" 'I~'"",
,

another client, or by his own interest,
Revised Rule 1.7(b).

,

,

in violation of Rule 5.1 (b) and

d.
By immediately disbursing the,escrow funds tQ""
Dependable Housing, Pearm~'h disbursed tHg'~scrow :funds d8fit~ary to
the terms of the escrow agreement in violation of Rule 1o..2(e), Revised
Rule 1.15-2(h), RPC 66, and 98 F.E.O. 11.

I

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the fol/owin'g factors:
a. a pattern of misconduct,
b. multiple offenses, and
c.' substantial experience in the practice of law
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following 'factors:
a. absenc.e of a prior disciplinary record,
b. cooperCltiv$ attitude toward proceedings, and
c. delay in disciplinary proceeding~
3. The aggravating factors do not outweigh the mitigating factors.

I

Based upon the foreg6ing findings of fact and conClusions of law and the
findings regarding discipline and based upon the consent of the parties, the
hearing committee enters the following: '
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant, Richard M. Pearman, js hereby suspend~d from the
practice of law for three years, effective 30 days from service ofthis order upon
him. The suspension is STAYED. for a period of three years, upon compliance
with the following terms and conditions during all three years of the stayed
suspension:
(a) Pearman shall not act as clOsing attorney or otherwise provide
any legal service or representation in any real estate or loan
closing trans!3ctions that involve in any manner First Republic
Mortgage, Freedom Insurance, or any other,entity owned or
controlled by Pearman or his relatives, iricJudingany entities

6

I
:':

.... :.'

owned by a trust for the ben~fit of himself 9r his relatives, by
blood or marriage, such as the Amanda L. Pearman trusts.
Prior to the effective date of the suspension, Pearman shall
provide the State Bar with a written list of all entities owned or
controlled by Pearman or his family, including any entities
owned by a 'trust for the benefit of himself or his, relatives, by
blood or marriage, such as the Amanda L. Pearman trusts, as
of May 1, 2001. Pearman shall notify the State Bar during the
term of the ,stayed suspension of any chang~ in ownership of
any company identified above, immediately upon his knowledge
that such a change has occurred. The prohibition set forth
above regarding Pearman shall apply to any entity identified by
Pearman that subsequently changes ownership during the term
of stayed suspension.

I'

Pearman also shall be responsible for submitting, on a semiannual basis, a written, sworn certification indicating whether he
has complied with the terms of this condition. Pearman shall
submit such certifications to the State Bar no later than July 1
and January 1 of each year of the stayed suspension.
(b) Pearman shall not violate any provisions of the R~vised Rules
of Professional Conduct.
(c) Pearman shall not violate any state or federal criminal laws.
,(d) Pearman shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within 30 days of service of this order on him.
r

(e) Pearman shall attend 3 hours of continuing legal education
("CLE") on general ethics or the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct during each of the three years of the stayed
suspension. The 3 hours of general ethics CLE shall be in
addition to all Pearman's normal CLE requirements. Pearman
shall attend these additional hours and provide proof of his
compliance with this condition to the State Bar no later than July,
31, 2002, July 31, 2003, and July 1, 2004.

I,

2. If Pearman's suspension is activated, he shalJ comply with all provisions
of 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the N.C. State
Bar Dis,cipline & Disability Rules and satisfy conditions 1(d) and (e) of this order,
prior to seeking reinstatement
of his license.
,
,

'

7

1
:":

.... :.

Signed by the undersigned hearingcom,mittee chair-with the consent of
the other hearing committee members.

This the

ll~ay of O~~

2001.

Chair
Hearing Committee.

Richard . Pearm
Defendant .

&11JlW{ (-

./

v.;,:7fo,-1J

. Edward C. Wim~low "I
Attorney for Defendant

8

I
':

'

~

~' ...

Attorney for Plaintiff

I

,

..

'''';'.

