WAKE'COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
JAMES G. HUFF JR. Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

This matter wa$ heard on Wednesd~y, JUly 11, 2001 before a hearing committee
of the Djsciplinary He~ing Commission composed of Joseph G. ¥addrey, Chair; Carlyn
G. Poole, and Lorraine Stephens. The defendant, James G. Huff Jr., was represented by
Dudley A. Witt and D~vid B. Freedman. The plaintiff was represented by Fern Gunn
Simeon. .:aased upon the pleadings, the stipulated f~cts and the evidence introduced at the
hearin~, ,the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
t

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The North Ca±olina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws ofNqrth
Carolina: and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar.

2:. The defendant was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1993 and was
at all times relevant hereto licensed to:'practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulatiop.s, Rules of Professional Conduct, and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
of the North Carolina State Bar.
3, During all times relevant hereto the defendant was actively engaged in the
practice of law in Raleigh, North Carolina, and maintained a law office in Raleigh, North
Carolina.

/.

',',"

,51<:?t

I

1,-

I

4. The defendantwas properly seryed' with process and the hearing waS held with
:
.
due notice to aU parties.
5. The defendant mllintained an attorney trust account (hereafter, trust accotmt) at
,_" ..:
WachoviaBank, account number 6266-070580.
~'~ :::<:

~:."·:~lf<

·'t·lfl,;!;.:,·.

6. The defendant maintained an operating account at Wachovia Bank, account
nU11lber 6262-070898.

I

7. On or about October 18, 1999, the defendant prepared a deposit slip that
provided for the deposit of a total of $123,94L 13 into hjs operating account, account
number 6262-070898. The.$123,941.13 vyere funds that the d~feildant collected for a real
e~tate closing that he handled for Garnant Magee Jasper (hereafter Jasper).
8. The $123,941.13 from the Jasper closing should have been deposited into ,the
defendant.' s trust account and disbursed in accordance .with the closing statement.
9. Between October 19 and October 21, 1999, six checks drawn on the
defendant's trust account in the amount of $111,960.56 for payment of expenses in the
Jasper closing cleared the defendant's trust account. There were no funds belonging to
Ja~per in the defendant's trust account between October 19 and October 21, 1999. _
10. Prior to October 21, 1999, the defendant handled several other closings 'and
deposited funds into his trust account on behalf of the following c,lients: Terry and
Millicent Snow, Larry and Beverly Hartbarger, Hava Silverstein, Ellen and Samuel
Ballard, Dick and Kurmaskie, Louis Marinello, Peggy and Chris Crocker, Gary and
Debor~ Stone~ Scott Wallace, faye B. frazier, and Melvin alJ.d Mattie Davis.

I

11. On October 21, 1999, there should have been a, balance of $44:, 865.91 in the
defendant's trust account on be~alf of Terry and Millicent Snow, Lanyand Beverly
Hartbarger, Hava Silverstein, Ellen and Samuel Ballard, Dick and Kurmaskie, Louis
Marinello, Peggy and Chris Crocker, Gary and Deborah Stone, Scott Wallace; Faye B.
Frazier, 'and Melvin and Mattie Davis because.checks written on behalf of those clients
had not cleared the defendant's trust account on October 21, 1999.
12. On October 21, 1999, the balance in·the defendant's trust a,ccoimt dropped
below $44,865.91, the amount that should have been in his trust account for Terry and
Millicent Snow, L~y and Beverly Hartbarger, Hava Silverstein, Ellen and- Samuel
Ballard, Dick and I<urmaskie, Louis Marinello, Peggy al1.d Chris Crocker, Gary and
Deborah Stone, Scott Wallace, Faye B. Frazier, and Melvin and Mattie Davis.
13. There was a bal~ce of $2,539.91 in the defendant's trust account op October
21, 1999.
14. On October 21, 1999, there was not epough D;loney in the defendant's trUst
account to pay outstanding checks from the closings for the defendant's clients: Terry

2
/

.:'::,:

....

and Millicent Snow, Larry and Beverly Hartp~get, Hava Silverstein, Ellen and Samuel
Ballard, Dick and Kuimaskie, Louis Marinello, Peggy and Chris Crocker, Gary-and
Deborah Stone, Scott Wallace, Faye B. Frazier, Melvin and Mattie Davis, and Garnant
Mag~e Jasper.
15" The defendant's trust account bank records reflect that a deposit of "
$123,941.13, the Jasper closing funds;was credited to the defendant's trust account on
October 22, 1999.
"
"

16. With respect to tlie Jasper closing ;funds, in 1999 the North Carolina State Bar
investigated two checks that were pres"ented to the defendant's trust account for payment,
but there were insufficien.t funds in his trust account to pay those checks.

I

17. Pursuant to the State ~ar's NSF check program, Harry B. Warren (hereafter,
Warren} sent a letter dated December 15, 1999 to the defendant and asked that he provide
an explanation for the NSF checks.
18. The defendant responded in a letter dated January 5, 2000 to Warren that the
Jasper closing funds were "inadvertently put in our operating account instead of our trust
account. The deposit was taken to the bank by a new employee on the 18th so I did not .
catch th~ error nor did the bank."
19. The defendant also sent Warren a copy ofthe deposit slip that the defendant
prepared, depositing the Jasper closing funds into t~e defendant's operating account.
20. The defendant never told Warren that it was the defendant's actions that
caused the J aspet closing funds to be deposited into his operating account instead ,Of his
trust account.
2,1. The defendant's January 5; 2000 response to Wal.'ren was deceptive and
~
misleading.
22. On May 11, 1999, the defendant represented Terry M. Snow and his wife,
Millicent A. Snow (hereafter, the Snows), in
. a real estate closing.
.

I

23. According to the .settlement statement, the defendant Was supposed to
disburse $5,580.47 to First Union Nat~onal Bank (FUNB) to payoff a second mortgage
for the Snows.
.
,

24. By letter dated October 15, 1999, the defendant told the Snows that he sent a
check to FUNB to payoff the loan in May 1999. The defendant told the Snows that
FUNB sent the payoff check back to him because someone other than the defendant had
"
paid off the loan.
2~.

On or aboJIt October 15, 1999, the defendant's offic~ sent trust account check
IlU11lber 6131 in the amount of$5,580.47 to the Snows.

3
/

I
..

5:21

'.~

.

..

26. The defendant failed t~ return $5,580.47 to the Snows for several months.
- 27. The defendant represented William Riddle aI1~, wife~ Rebecca <h~.t~after,
Riddles) in a real estate closing on September 30, 1999. "T'i :'.'
. \,.,~t;:·
28. The lender, First Tennessee Bank, over-funded the Riddles' loan by
$7,000,00. The Riddles were due a refund of$7,000.00.

I

29. The defendant did not refund the $7,000.00 to the Riddles Until January 13,
2000.
30. On October 21,1999, the balance in th~ defendant's trust account c4'opped
below $7,000.00. There was $2,539.91 in the defendant's trust account C?n October 21,
1999.
31. On October 21, 1999, there was not enough money in the defendant' s trust
account to pay the $7,000.00 that was due. the Riddles.
32. The defendant represented Samuel Bqllard (hereafter, Ballard) in a real estate
closing on October 15, 1999.
33. The lender, American Wholesale Lender, over-funded the Ballard loan by
$2,065.00.'
,
34. The defendant did not refund the $2,065.00 to American Wholesale Lender
until Apri12000.
35. The defendant handled
real estate closings
for clients in 1998
and 1999.
I
.
.

I

36. On several occasions, the defendant disbUrsed more money in a closing than
he received for the client; thus, leaving a shortage of funds or a negative balance for
'
another client whol)e funds were on deposit in the defendant's trqst account.
37. These negative balances for clients were brought to the defendant's attention
by an employee, James Duley. As of the date of the disciplinary hearing on July 11,
2001, many of the defendant's former plients still have negative balances.
.

38. The defendant representeci Maurice Robinson in a closmg on April 28, 1999.

Th~re was a shortage of closil1g funds because the defendant failed to reduce the ~ount

of the broker's commission by the amount of the broker's credit.
39. There was a shortage of $477.50 in the Robinson closing. The defendant
spent other clients' money to pay all of the ex:penses in the Robinson closing.

4
/

I

•

.::,::

'.:":

40. The defendant represented Barry Dudley'in a closing on July 15, 1999. There
was a'shortage of closing funds because the defendant failed to reduce the amount of the
broker's cOfl?1TIission by the amount of the broker's credit.
41. There was a shortage of$I,237.95 in the Dudley closing. The defendant
spent other clients' money to pay the $1,237.95 needeq to pay all of the expenses in the
Dudley Closing.
42. The defendant represented Blazej Soooenberg and his wife in a closing on
July 15, 1999. The Sonnenbergs paid a $1,QOO;OO earnest money deposit to the realtor;
York Properties, before the closing. The defendant should have deducted the $1,000.00
earnest money deposit from York Properties' commi.~sion at the time of the closing.
Instead~ the defendant overpaid YorkProperties by $1,000.00.

I

43. There was a shortage of$I;OOO.OO in the Sonnenberg closing. The defendant
spent other
clients' money to pay all of t~e expenses in the Sonnenberg closing.
,
.
44. The defendant misappropriated other clients' money when he spent their
money t9 pay the expenses in the' Robinson, Dudley, and Sonnenberg closings.
45. The defendant did not have the permission of his other clients whose funds
were in his trust account to spend their money to pay the clOSing expenses of Robinson, .
Dudley, and Sonnenberg.
46. The defendant deposited personal funds in the amount of$2,715.45 into his
trust account to replace other clients' money that was used to pay the closing expenses of
Robinso~, Dudley, and Sonnenberg.
47. In 1999, the defendant handled closings for the clients listed below. In each
of the closings, the defendant di$bursed l110r~ ploney than he received from the lenders
because he overpaid the broker$ at closing. The clients and the shortages were as
follows:"
.
a.
b.
c.
d.

Poston
Vereen
Sims
Phillips

$750.00
$ 3.54
$177.02
$415.00

I

48. The defendant misappropriated other clients' money that was in his trust
account when he spent their money to pay the closing expenses for Poston, Vereen, Sims
.
and Phillips.
49:. The defendant did not have the permission of his other clients whose funds
were in his trust account to spend their money to pay the closing expenses of Poston,
Vereen, sims .and Phillips.

5
/

I

I

50. The defendant failed to record the d~eds of trust on the date that the loan was
closed and the funds were disbursed in the following client's closings:

Date of Closing
i ~ i:l,~,f"

I

,,\'.:;>< \:

Date deed of trust recorded
e,?\i"

Mary Dunlap

March 24, 1999

May' 26, 2000

Clarence Dunn '

April 7, 1999

August 7,2000

Deborah 1rwin

April 2, 1999

June 1,2000

Norman S. Jones.

October 25,.1999

April 26; 200:1

Terry Snow

May 11, 1999

August 3, 1999

McCassoll Taborn

March 26, 1999

June 8, 2000

51. From November 1998 to June 1999, the defendant did not obtain promptly
final title insurance policies in at least 30 loan closings for Illvestors Title Insurance and
90 loan closings for Chicago Title InsUrance Company, although funds were paid at the
' closings to purchase title insurance.

I.

52. The title insurance 'companies would not issue title policies because of the
defendant's failure to ,record the deed of trust or some other instrument, failure to sel1d a .
lien affidavit; or failure to include a legal description of the encumbered property on a:
deed of trust.
.
53. In late 1998 or early 1999, the defend~t began handling refinances for
Perennial Mortgage Group (hereafter, PMG).
t

54. The defendant charged the borrower in PMG closings an attoJ,11ey's fee. The
defendant charged the borrower referred to him by PMG $100.00 more ill a refmance
.

I

than the borrower who was not referred to him by PMG for a refinance.
55. The defendant took $100.00 from his attorney's fee and paid PMG,$100.aO
for each refinanc~ he completed for a PMG borrower.
'
56. From February to December 1999, the 4efendant paid PMG a total of
$17,800.00 .
. 57. The defendant's misappropriations of client funds were not intentional acts.
Rather, the misappropriations were due to the defendant's incompetence or gross
negligence 'in handling real estate closings and his clients' funds.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following:
'

6

..

I

"

/

.

...

.\:........ :.

5?4
,"

"

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over James G . Hllff Jr., the defep.d~t, aI1d the subject matter.

.

2.

The defendant's conq.uct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By misappropriating all or a portion of client funds which he should have
held in trust for the benefit of his clients: Terry and Millicent Snow, Larry and Beverly
Hartbarger, Hava Silverstein, Ellen and Samuel Ballard, Dick and Kurmaskie, Louis
Marinello, Peggy and Chris Crocker, Gary ~d Deborah Stone, Scott Wallace, Faye B.
Frazier, ,8J1.d Melvin and Mattie Davis, the defendant failed to hold client funds in his
trust ac~ount in violatiqn of Revised Rule 1.IS-I(a) and (c).

I

, (b) By misappropriating all or a portion of client funds which he should have
held in trust for the benefit of his clients, the Riddles, the defendant failed to hold client
funds intrusdn violation of Revised Rule 1.1S-I(a)and (c).
( c) By failing to return promptly money that belonged to the Snows, the
Riddles" a,nd Ballard, the defendant failed to promptly pay or deliver to the client those
funds belonging to the client.to which the client is entitled in the possession of the lawyer
ot held in a trust account by the lawyer in violation of Rule 1.IS-2(h).
(d) By misappropriating other clients' ft:tnds to pay the closing expenses for
Robinson, Dudley, and Sonnenberg, the defendant 'failed to hold client funds in trust in
violatiolJ. of Rule 1.IS-I(a) and (c).
r

,

, ' (e) By depositing his personal funds into his trust account to replace the money
he had taken from other clients to pay the expenses in the Robinson" Dudiey, and
Sonnenberg closings, the defendant commingled personal funds with client funds in
violation of Rule 1.15-1 (e).
'

I

, (f) By misappropriating other clients' funds to pay the closing expenses for
Poston, Vereen, Sims aild Phillips, the defendant failed tn hold client funds In trust in
violatioi;l of Rule 1.IS-I(a) and (c).
, (g) By failing to record promptly the deeds of tru$t relative to his clients'
closings" the defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.
.

(h) By failing to send promptly necessary documents to the title insurance
companies so that the companies could issue title policies in various closings, the

7
/

I

.•
. ..... ',: ...

;;'! I

:,t:.\t;;~~~3i~~\, (;<;.;,01::~:\i:f;;\1.11 i~ .~n;\ :;~"
.'

:;.....

j,

,

"

l

','

....

.

i
defen~ant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a c1i~nt,
in violation of Rule 1.3.

(i) By paying PMG $100.00 from his attorney's fee for each real e~t;:tte closing
he completed, the defendant shared leg\ii.i'·fees with a noh:.iil\ryer in violatiorl6'f"Rule ,.
5.4(a).

I

During the ~econd or disciplinary phase of the hearing, both the plaintiff and the .
defendant offered witnesses and the hearing committee hereby makes the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The defendant stoppyd practicing law hi late. January or early February 2001.
2. ' The defendant and the North Carolina State Bar consented to the appointment
of a tnlstee to the defendant's law practice.

3.. On February 16, 2001, a Wake County Superior Court judge appointed
Attorney James K. Pendergrass (hereafter, Pendergrass) as the trustee to protect the
irtterestsofthe defendant's clients and provide'an accolinting of the defendant's trust
account to the court either annually or at the completion of the disbursement offunds
from thy defendant's trust account.
4. Pendergrass secured over 200 real estate files from the defendant's office and
has begun to review the files to determine if the closing transactions were completed .

I

.5. Acco:r4ing to Pendergrass, he has observed m@yproblems in the defendant's
client's real estate files. Some of the problems are: funds were disbursed prior to
documents being recorded, documents were recorded without titles updated, deeds of
trust were recorde~ prior to deeds, deeds of trust were recorded without deeds being on
record, documents not recorded for months, mail containing lender's docmnents (~ome of
the documents were recorded and some of the documents were not recorded because the
letters were never opened), original documents not returned to lenders, almost no final
title policies obtained for lenders or owners, and hundreds of checks. retaine4 in files and
not given to vendors and clients.

6. Pendergrass also testified that his preliminary audit of the defendant's trust
account indicates that there is a' $ 10,000 to $12,000 shortage in the defendant's trqst
accoUllt.
7. Pendergrass is trying to correct the many problems he ha~ found in the
defendant's clients' real estate files. He expects that it
take at least two years to
complete his work as trustee of the defendant's law practice.

will

/

..

:~:

.. ,'.:

8. The defendant received an attorney's fee in every real estate closing he
handled', despite the numerous prol;llems and deficiencies pointed out to him by James
Du1ey and those problems and deficiencies found by Pendergrass.

9. The defendant has dealt with persoJ.1.al problems of alcoholism and depression.
He has received colinseling for those problems.
10. The defendant is working with the PALSIFRIENDS program to deal with his
alcQholi:sm and depression.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee here~y makes additioJ;1al

I

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors: .
(a) a pattern of misconduct;
(b) mu1tiple offenses;
(c) submission of false evidence, false ~tatements or other deceptive practices
during the disciplinary process (the NSF ch~cks investigation);
(d) vulnerability of the victims/clients; and
(e) substantial experience in the practice of law
2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

absence of a prior disciplinary record;
personal or emotional problems;
p~;ysical or mental disability or impairment; and
remorse.

I

3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating.factors.
Based upon the foregoing aggravatiJ.1.g and mitigating factors and the arguments of
the parties, the hearing COrtmiittee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1. The license of James G. Huff Jr., the defendant, is hereby suspended for five
years. Four years of the five.,.year suspension shall be an active suspension of the
defendant's law license, with the last year. of the five-year suspension stayed upon the
following terms and conditions:' .

9
/

I
:,:'

P! 1', ...,
U L. U

,

...

I

.

a. The defendant shall submit his license ,and membership card to the
, Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no la,ter than 30 days frOIn service of
thi~ order upon the defendant.
b. The suspen~ion will :p.~9ome effective 30, days from· service, qfthis
order upon the defendant and W11i"con.tinue for a ~perIod of nQt less t11A1r~8
consecutive months.

I

c. During the four-year active suspension period, the defendant shall
comply with the following:
i. He shall not violate any state or federal laws.
ii. He shall not vjolate any provisions of the Revised Ru1es of
Professional Conduct or the rules of ethics in effect duri:p.g the period of active.
suspension.
.

.

iii.. He shall satisfy the mandatory continuing legal education
requirements of the North Carolina State Bar during each of the years of the
active suspension.
iv. He shall obtain' ~ mental assessment by a licensed psychiatrist.
:prior to the defendant receiving the !:l.ssessment from the licensed psychiatrist, he'
must submit the psy~hiatrist's name.to the North Carolina State Bar to obtain the
State Bar' El approval of the psychiatrist. The purpose of the mental assessment is
to determi:p.e the defendanfs mental fitness to practice l~w. The defendant shall
sign a waiver that allows his treating psychiatrist t6 release information to the
North Carolin,a State Bar a,bout his prognosis, treatment and diagno~is.
2. The defendant Play seek reinstatetpent of his licen~~ to ,practice law upon
filing a written petition and demonstrating compliance with the following conditions: '

I

a. The defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws
eluring the period of active suspension.
b. The defendant shall not violate any provisions of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct or the rules of ethjcs in effect during the
period of active suspension.
c, The defendant shall satisfy the mandatory continuing legal
educatiol). requirements of the North Carolina State Bar during each year of the
four-year active suspension.
d. The defendant shall complete a course on trust account
management that is offered by a North Carolina State Ba,r approved continuing

10
/

:

.:.:;.: .... ..:

,

.

"

I

legal education provider, if such a course is
suspension period.

off~red

during the four-year active

e. The defendant shaH complete any recommended treatment by
the assessing licensed. psychiatrist and he shall obtain an opinion that he does
not suffer from any mental or emotional problems that would interfere with his
performance of the obligations necessary to pra,ctice law.
,
f. The defendant shall comply with and satisfy all court orders or
, judgJ.11ents entered against him respecting restitution to the victims of his
misconduct.

!

!

g. The defendant shall reimburse all clients whose funds were
unintentionally misappropriated, the amount to be determined and certified to
the North Carolina State Bar by James Pendergrass, trustee of the defendant's
law practice.
.

I

h. The defendant shall pay Pendergrass's trustee fee or reimburse
the North Caro.lina State Bar if the S~ate Bar has paid Pendergrass's trustee fee.

L The defendant shall pay all costs incurred in this disciplinary
. proceeding and taxed against him, including the costs of his deposition and the
deposition of Harry Wmen.

j. The defendant shall comply with all provisions of Rule .0124
· and .0125(b) of the North Carolina State Bar's Discipline and Disability Rules;
k. The defendant shall take and successfully complete a law office
management course that is approved by the North Carolina State. Bar Board of
Continuing Legal Edupation.
3. Upon entry of an order staying this suspension and granting the reinstatement
of the defendant's license to practice law, the order of stayed suspension shall continue in
, force for the balance of the term of the s'll;spension, provided that the defendant complies
with the followi~g conditions:
a. The defendant shall violate no feder~ or state laws.
b. The defendant shall violate no provisions of the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct or the rules of ethics in effect at the time oJ the stayed
s~spension.

c. The defend~t shall not handle client or fiduciary funds, except
those paid as fe~s that are presently owed to the defendant.
d. The defendant shall not handle any real estate matters,

11
/

I

~ ~,

.

i

, including real estate closings during the one-year stayed suspension.
e. The defendant shall satisfy the mall.datory continuing legal
education requirements of the North Carolina state B~ during the one'year
stayed suspension.
i.>',)
-.':'1;,
,,:;:,;.
"

,

f. The defendant shall pay any costs incurred in contlection with
his reinstatement proceeding and assessed against hiJIl.

I

,
g. During the one year stayed suspension, the defendant
shall at his own expense hire a law office management consultant to review
the defendant's files and law office practices to determine that he is complying
with the State Bar's rules of ethics, particularly those rules related to his handling
of client :fut).ds. The State Bar must ~pprove the law office management
consultant before the·defendant hires him or her. The law office management
consultant will make quarterly reports to the State Bar about the defendant's law
practice.
4. If the suspension of the defendant's law license is not stayed, or if the
suspension is stayed and the stay is later lifted, the defendant must prov,e that the
condition~ recited in paragraph 2 above have been complied with prior to being
reinstated.
'
5. The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding, as assessed by the
Secretary of the N.C. State Bar, no later than 30 day~':from the date that this order i$
served upon him.
~f!!::d by the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee membe"" this

the~ daYOf.~

,2001.

.

I

12
/

I
,:::: .....

. ;S~ 20 .

