""

- ...

~-

~--

-

~+----

-".-"~

BEFORE THE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01 DHC9

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

: v.
JAMES ALAN FLYNT, Attorney,
Defendant.

)
).
)

)

CONSENT ORDER

)
)
)

OF DISCIPLINE

I

This matter came on to be considered by the undersigned Hearing Committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter~ 1, Subchapter B, §.0114(h). The parties stipulate and agree to the following
Findings o.fFa~t, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings of Fact Relevant to
Discipline recited in this Con~ent Order and to the discipline imposed. The defendant has
agreed to waive formal hearing in the above-referenced matter. The parties stipulate that
these matters may be resolved by the undersigned Hearing Coli1niittee, and that the defendant
further waives his right to appeal this Consent Ord¥r or challenge, in any way, the sufficiency
of the fmdirigs. The Hearing Committee enters the following:
.
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The North Carolina St.ate Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of North
Carolina and is the proper party to bring this ·proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar pronmlgated thereunder.
.

I".' .

'

2. The Defendant, James Alan Flynt (hereinafter, "Flynt") was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 26, 1994 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of
North Carolina.
3. During all periods relevant herein, Flynt actively engaged in the practice of law in
the Stat¢ of North Carolina and has maintained law offices in the city of Raleigh, Wak~
County, North Carolina, GreenVille, Pitt County, North Carolina and in other venues within
North Carolina.

/

I
".;.

'I '

(OLSON)
4.' On or about February 13, 1998, Kenneth J, Olson (hereinafter, "Olson") retailJ.ed
Flynt to represent him in a partnership dispute invplving a dissolving partnership, Baggage
~ \,; .,\.,
'~(~}1;:"
Delivery Service (hereinafter, BDS). ~,. ,:1.
5. At the time, Flynt practiced law in an office sharing arrangement With Huggard,
Obiol and Blake, P.L.L.C. in Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina.

I

6; Olson transferred $1,$73.00. of the BDS partnership fu,nds to Flynt, which were
depositeq into Flynt's trust account.
7. Flynt deposited the $1,5n.00 in trust to preserve the :fur),ds, as the BDS partners
'
'
disputed ownership of the funds.
8. In or about August 1998, Flynt ceased comrpunicating with OIS011 When Flynt's
.
communications went unanswered by Olson.
9. Flynt did not return the funds to Olson..
10. On May 3, 1999, Olson filed a grievance with The Grievance Committee of the
Tenth Judicial District Bar (Wake County).
11. On June 7, 1999, the.Chair of the Grievance Tenth Judicial District Bar sent a
Letter of Notice (hereafter Olson Letter of Notice) to Flynt pursuant to 27 NCAC IB
§.0112(c), along with a copy of the grievance.

12. Flynt failed to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen (15)d~ys as reqUired
by §.9112(c).

I

13. On July 2, 1999, thetExecutive Director of the Tenth Judicial District Bar sept a
follow-up letter to Flynt requesting a response.
14. The Tenth Judicial District Bar's investigating attorney, Cindy Wittmer, called
FlYIlt twice, leaving messages on FlYIlt's direct dial voice· mail explaining the nature of the
.
call and requesting. that he return the calls.
15. Flynt was in the office when Wittmer called.
16. Flynt f~iled to return Wittmer's calls.
17. Th~ Tenth Judicial District Bar forwarded the grievance to the North Carolipa
State Bar because of the lack of response.
.
18. The State Bar's Letter of Notice, Substance of the Grievance, and a Subpoena fot
Cause Audit were personally served upon Flynt on October 5, 1999, pUr~UaJ:1.t to 27 NCAC ,
IB §.0112 and North Carolina Rule of Civil Procedure 4G)(1)a.

19. Flynt responded in writing in correspondence dated October 13, 1999.
-2/

"

'1-"

(SADIK)
20. On August 4, 1998, Flyntsigned a letter of engagement to provide legal services
to Dr. Sidki Sadik (hereinafter" "Sadik").
41. During the representation, Sadik made repeated, reasonable requests for
information.
22. Flynt failed to adequately respond to Sa,dik's reasonable requests for information
.
concerning his case.
23. On December 29, 1998, Sadik requested FlYnt to return the remaining $100.00 of
a refundable retainer that Flynt was holding in his trust account.

I

24. Flynt Was holding Sadik's $100.00 in trust.
25.'Flynt, through negligence, failed to assign the initial retainer deposit to Sadik on
his computerized accounting software. Subsequent accountings and reports failed to show
any balance being held for Sadik.
26. Flynt failed,to respond to Sadik's request for the return of the funds.
27. On January 19, 1999, Sadik filed a grievance against Flynt with the North
Carolina' State Bar.
28. On March 23, 1999, the North Carolina State Bar mailed the Letter of Notice (the
"Sadik Letter of Notice") and the Substance of Grievance, by certified,mail, postage prepaid
article n~ber Z535716628 to Flynt's address of record with the North Carolina State Bat,
124 St. Mary's Street, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.
29.. On March 23, 1999, spmeone signed the certified mail card acknowledging
-receipt of;ihe doctunents as eviden.ced by the certified mail receipt article number Z 535716
628.

'I','

30. Flynt failed'to r,espond to the Sadik Letter of Notice within fifteen (15) days as
required by §.0112(c). '
'
31 1 A North Carolina State Bar staff attorney mailed to Flynt a follow-up letter on
April 19, 1999, to which Flynt also failed to respond.
(BLUM)
,

.

'

32. In or about May 1996, John P. Blum (hereinafter, "Blum"), in his capacity as
Executor, engaged' Flynt to ren,der legal services on behalf of the Estate of Elaine Depiazzy,
Wake Couitty file number 95-E-2240.
33. Flynt failed to adequately co1nn1unicate with Blum about the Estate.

-3'/

I

"

:'

j' .'

"

/' .

34. In or about March 2000, Blum learned that Flynt had vacated his law office
without communicating the move or providing a forwarding address to Blum'
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the
Committee makes the f o I i o w i n g : ' i :
. Ih~~N'
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. By failing to timely respond to the Tenth Judicial District Bar's Olson Letter of
Notice and by failing to respond promptly to its follow up inquiries, Flynt violated Revised
Rule of Professional Condl,lct 8.1 (b);
.

I

2. By failing to respqnd to the Sadik Letter of Notice within fifteen (15) days as
required by 27 NCAC, Chapter I; SUbchapter B, §.0112(c), Flyntviolated Revised Rule of
Professional Conduct 8.1 (b);
.
3.' By failing to promptJy payor deliver trust :funds to his client, Olson, aft~r being
directed by the client to pay him the funds, Flynt violated Revised Rule ofProfessiona:l
"
Conduct 1.15-2(h);
4. By failing to keep Olson, Sadik, and Blum, reasonably informed about the status '
of their respective matters and by failing to promptly comply with his clients' reasonable
requests for information, Flynt violated Revised Rule of Professional Condl,lct 1.4(a); and
5. By failing to act with diligence and promptness in representing Olson and Sadik,
Flynt violated Revised Rule of Professional.Conduct 1.3;
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF fACT RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
I, The defendal1t's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a) failure to respond
'
b). multiple offenses'

'I

2. The.defendant's misconduct is ~tigated by the following factors:
a) good character
b) no prior discipline
c) absence of dishonest or selfish motive
d) remorse
3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
-B~sed upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conc1usiol1s

of Law, the Additional Findings of Fact Relevant to Discipline, the Committee hereby enters
'
the follo~ing:

-4-

'I'"
,

,

.::;

::".\

!:

~

, .J L:

'A,*

"

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, James Alan Flynt ("Flynt"), is hereby suspended-from the practice of
law in North Carolina for one year, effective 30 days front the date of service of this
ord¢r upon him.
2. The one-year sU,spension is stayed for one year, based upon the following
conditions:

~)

Within 30 days after ~ervice of the disciplinary order upon him, Flynt shall
execute any and all medical and psychiatric authorization releases in favor of the
North Carolina State Bar, to permit Flynt's psychiatrist, selected under the terms
of paragraph b) below, to release Flynt's medical and psychiatric information to a
designated representative ofthe Lawyer Assistance Program (hereafter, LAP) of
the North Carolina State Bar.

b) Within 30 days, after service of the disciplinary order l,lpon him, Flynt ~hall make
an appointment with a board certified psychiatrist who is a member of the North
Carolina Chapter of Addiction Medicine and is acceptable to the North Carolina
State Bar for an evaluation of Flynt's mental or emotional health. This evaluation
shall include a substance abuse assessment of Flynt. 'Within five days of making
the appointme~t with the psychiatrist, Flynt shall notify the North Catolina State
Bar of the name, addres,s? and, telephone number of the psychiatrist he wishes to
use. The North Carolina State Bar shall advise Flynt as quiqkly as possible of its
approval or disapproval of the psychiatrist that Flynt wishes to use. If the
psychiatrist recommends Flynt receive treatment for any melJ,tal or emotional
problem or receive treatment for any substance abuse problem, Flynt shall follow
the prescribed course of treatment for as long as the psychiatrist recommends.
Flynt"s psychiatrist ,shall nqtify the North Carolina State Bar of the date that the
Flynt begins his ttea~ent for any mental, emotional, or substance abuse problems
and shall to mail a designated LAP representative quarterly reports of Flynt's
status. ,At the conclusion of Flynt's treatment, if any, the psychiatrist shall file a
final report with the North Carolina StaTe Bar abollt Flynt's treatmept. The
quarterly and fmal reports shaU specifically include the psychiatrist's opinion
about whether Flynt suffers from any mental, emotional, or substance abuse
problems which will interfere with his performing the obligations necessary to
practice law. In the event that Flynt fails to comply with his psychiatrist's
prescribed course of treatment, his psychiatrist shall notify the.LAP representative
of the non-compliance as soon as is practicable for the psychiatrist.

I-

I"'-

c) Within 30 days after service of the disciplinary order upon him, Flynt shall pay all
back Membership' dues with ,any Client Security Fund assessment and late fees
"
assessed. '

-5/

I
'585

,

.
"

I . ,

, d) Within 90' days after service of the disciplinary order upon him, Flynt shall cure
all deficiencies regarding his Continued Legal EcJucation and pay any late fees
assessed.
e) Within 3D days after servic~'~ithedisciplinaty~oider upon him, FWnt ~hall malce
the following disbursements from his trust account:
i. to Mr. Kenneth J. Olson, the sum of$1,573.DD; and
it to Dr. Sidki Sadik, the Sl.flll of $1 0'0'.0'0'.

I

f) Flynt shall respond to all letters.of notice and' reque~ts for information from the
North Caroliha State Bar by the deadline stated within the conllnunication.
:g) Flynt shall not violate any of th~ Revised Rules of Professional Conduct during
the period of the stay.
. .
h) Flynt shall.not violate any laws of the State ofNor,th Carolina or of the United
States during the period of the stay.
. . i) Flynt shall p~y all costs incurred in this proceeding, N. C. State Par v. Flynt;
D1DHC9, and taxed against him within six months of the date this disciplinary
order i~ served upon him.
.
3. If the suspension of Flynt's law license is activated for arty reason, Flynt shall
complete each of the following as conditions precedent to seeking reinstatement:
a) Flynt mllst demonstrate that he h~!) fully complied with all provisions of27 NC.
Admin. Code Chapt~r 1, Subchapter B, § .D125(b) of the. North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability RWe!).
.

I

.

,

,b) Flynt must demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he is not
suffering from any mental or phYSIcal condition that impairs his professional
jud~ment or ability to engage in the practice of law in a competent manner.
c) Flynt must make the following disbursements from his tru~t account:
. i. to Mr. KennethJ. Olson, the SUlP. of$1,573.0D; and
ii. to Dr. Sidki Sadik, the sum of$lOD.DD.
d) Flynt must pay all cost!) incurred in this proceeding, N. C. State Bar v. Flynt,
D1I?HC9, andtaxed.agains~ him.
'
.

This the

'1,.,- day of----:1\):..::;,...:;.o_J'__
· _ _ _, 20'0' 1.

-6/

.:.,~ ; :

",

:"

r=\.) .:.'.
~l 6

:.

.

.Signed by the Chairman of the Hearing Committee with the consent of the other
Hearing C<;>nllnittee Members.

~a.7.~

. RiClldiGalnmon, Chairrrian
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I

Seen an,d consente~ to:

I

-7/

I

