1422/
BEFORE Tlffi
CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01 DHC 16

WAKE COUNTY

)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
. Plaintiff
)

v.
DARWIN LITTLEJOHN, Attorney,
Defend811t

)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT
FINDINGS OF FACT
AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

This matter was scheduled to be heard on ~e 12th day of October, 2001 before a
hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Elizabeth
Bunting, Chair; Fred H. Moody; Jr., and Lorraine Stephens. Urs R. Gsteiger represents
the clefendant, DaJ:Win Littlejohn. A. Root Edmonson represents the plaintiff. Based
upol) the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby _enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT,
1. The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of North
Catolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar.
2. The defendant, Darwin Littlejolu?- (hereinafter, "Littlejohn") Was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 22, 1987 and was at all times relevant hereto
licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Ru1es of
Professional Conduct of the North Car6linl;l. State Bar.
3. During all times relevant hereto Littlejohn Was actively engaged-in the practice
of law .in Forsyth County, North Carolina, and mai~tained a law office in Winston-Salem.
4 .. During the w~ek of December 15, 1998, a deputy sheriff contacted Jill S.
Sha:fj:i (hereinafter, "Shafti") abput ajudgment aga~nst Shafti and her husband.

/

.~

.....

I

./;

;.':,/;~

,

2

J

,/!·:;:·'{~·:,'~\{1(:".f;':' r:rl!,~j\~!
,

..
lo,

:;_~

J

,

I

5. Prior to December 21, 1998, Shafti met with Littlejo~. Littlejohn agreed to '
attempt to get a judge to stay the execution once he was retained. Littlejohn agreed that
the jUdgment should have been against her husband'~ business rather than against either
Shafti or her husband personally.'
"
6. Shafti paid Littlejohn $250.00 toward his quoted $500.00 fee to file sqmething
immed.iately to keep her from losing her car.
'
7. On January 4, 1999, a deputy sheriff appeared at Shafti's house to take her car
to apply toward the judgment. Although Shafti c'aIled Littlejohn for. immediate
assistance, he was only wjlling to refund her money.
.

I

8. Littlejohn failed to taky prompt action on Shafti's behalf and failed to tell her
he wouldn't be able to promptly assist her in the matter.
9. As a result of Littlejohn's failure to take prompt action on Shafti's behalf, the
deputy took herc~.
10. On Apri113, 1999, Harold Lee Hairston (hereinafter, "Hairston") paid
Littlejohn $1,500.00 for representation ih a domestic case.
1 L Hairston made many telephone calls to Littlejohn's office and left me.ssages
to which Littlejohn did not respond., Hairston made an appointment to see Littlejohn on
April 22~ 1999.
12. On Apri122, 1999, Hairston went to Littlejohn's office, but Littlejohn was
not able, to meet with Hairston.

I

13. Hairston made several more telephone calls to Littlejohn'~ office and left
messages t<;> 'Y,Vhich Littlejohn did not respond. As a result, on April 27, 1999, Hairston
'Wrote to Littlejohn asking for his retainer to be refunded.
" '"

14. Hairston attempted to represent himself at his child support hearing <;>n May ,
11, 19'99. However, after the hearing was underway, Littlejohn appeared and assisted
Hairston.

IS. After the hearing, Hairston asked for the unearned portion of his fee to be
refunded.
16. Littlejohn failed to make a prompt refund.

/

-I
..'

:.

. .

544

·~

,

3

17., Littlejohn later agreed to make a $1,300.00 refund to Hairston with $450.00
to be paid by October 19, 1999 and $850.00 to be paid by December 12, 1999.
18. Littlejohn made the October payment but failed to make'the December
paY1flent on time. Littlejohn eventually reimbursed Hairston the remaining portion of his ,
refund.
19. On March 4, 1998, Janie Ellis (her~inafter, '~Ellis") paid Littlejohn $525.00 to
represent her in pursuing a remedy against automobile sales company concerning a car
.Ellis had purchas~d that continually broke down.

I

20. In January 1999, Ellis asked Littlejohn for a refund of her fee.
21. In May 1999, after Littlej ohn failed to make a refund, Ellis filed a fee dispute
arbitration request against Littlejohn with the State Bar' s fe~ dispute arbitration program.
22. On May 6, 1999, the State Bar sent Littlejohn p.otice of Ellis' fee dispute
request and advised Littlejohn ofhis·obligatfon to respond to the fee disjJute.
23. Littlejohn failed to timely respond to Ellis' fee dispute.
24. On July 6, 1999, a representative of the fee dispute arbitration program, Harry
B. Warren, called Littlejohn's secretary and informed her that Littlejohn needed to
respond to Ellis' fee dispute.
, 25. Littlejohn retUrned Mr. Warren's call and promised that he would send a
written respqnse "post haste."
t

26. Littlejohn did not respond to Ellis' fee dispute until August 26, 1999. By that
date, ~ittlejqhn''had gotten ajudgment for Ellis against Bibeau & Sons Auto Sales.
27. On June 16, 1999, Terence D. Stocks, Sr. (hereinafter, "Stocks")paid
Littlej0hn $750.00 to represent him in a child support and visitation matter.

I

28. Over a two-month period, Littlejohn failed to return some of Stocks'
telephone calls about the matter.
29. On AugUst 9, 1999, after Stocks' problems with his visitation worsened,
Stocks lcontacted Littlejohn's office. Littlejohn told Stocks to come to his office on
August 10, 1999 and there wOtlld be papers ready for Stocks to review.

/

I
:::

;"

'},.

:.

30. When Stocks arrived at Littlejohn's office at 5:30 p.m . on August 10, 1999,
LittlejoIm had no documents prepared. Littlejohn told Stocks that his secretary would.
have the documents ready for Stocks the next day.
31. On August 11, 1999, Stocks c(.mtacted Littlej ohn' s secretary aria· found that
no d~cuments were ready for Stocks.

I

32. On March 29, 1999, C~los Di~on (herei;nafier,"1)ixon") paid LittleJohn
$500.00 as a partial paYl11ent of his fee for representation in a criminal matter.
. 33. Littlejohn told Dixon's girlfriend that he would file a motion for reduction of .
Dixon's bond. At the time, $1,500.00 was owed on Littlejohn's fee.
'
34. On March 31, 1999, the remaining $1,500.00 of Littlejohn's fee was paid.
35. Littlejohn failed to file a bond red1,lction motion for Dixon. As a result,
Dixon discharged Littl~john two months later.
36. Because Littlejohn failed to take action on his behalf, Dixon filed a grievance
against Littlejohn with the 21 51 District Bar's grievance committee.
37. Littlejohn failed to make a written response to the grievance. Littlejohn did
grievance committee that he, was workblg with
Harry Warren to resolve a fee dispute filed by Dixon. The fee dispute was resolved.
advi~e the il1vestigating memb~r of the

38. On June 17, 1999, Sharon Wright (hereinafter, "Wright") paid Littlejohn a
$200.00 partial paym~nt to represent her husband, Ronald Wright, in· a petition to get
Ronald's driver's license reinstated.
I

I

39. Q.n August 16, 1999, Ronald Wright received a letter from the Divi~ion of
Motor Vehicles that showed that Littlejohn had filed nothing on Ronald's behalf.
40. Between August 16 and August 23, 1999, Wright called Littlejohn ten times .
on her husband's behalf to get information about,the matter. Each time, Wright left a
message, but Littlejohn did not retun:} her calls.
41. During that same time period, Wright stopped by Littlejohn's office twice and
.
,
'
left messages for Littlejohn to call her back.
42. On August 24, 1999, Wright sent Littlejohn a certified letter r~questing a
refund of her husband's unearned fee;

/

,.J

.

~

....

: .

,

5

43. On Aug1,lst 25, 1999, Wright left Littlejohn ~other message for Littlejohn to
return her call.
44. Littlejohn never responded to Wright's requests for information concerning
her husband's matter.
.
45. Littlejohn failed to promptly refund Wright's husband's unearned fee.
However, when Littlejohn was able to do so, he refunded the fee.
46. Jon S. Michalec (hereinafter, "Michalec") was charged with a federal criminal
offe.nse.

I

47. Michalec entered a guilty plea with the assistance of an assistant public
defender.
. .
48. On November 25, 1997, Michalec paid Littlejohn $2,000.00 to assist him in
the ~entencing phase of the case because Littlejohn seemed to understand the technology
involved in the computer related crime and Michalec's position on sentencing.
49. In January 1998, Michalec gave Littlejohn thepre-sentencereport in his case,
which recommended that Michruec recejve a 30-month sentence.
50. Over the next four months, Littlejo~ f~iled to "respond to some of Michalec's
calls.
51. In June 1998, Michalec waS sentenced in federal GOurt. Michalec was
. represented it) the sentencing hearing only by the assistant public defender.
52. In or about July11998, after discovering some discrepancies between the
indictment and the criminal judgment, Michalec had his fiance contact Littlejohn.
53. In August 1998, Michalec's fiance paid Littlejohn another $1,000.00 to
attempt to get Michalec's sentence reduced.

I

54. Littlejohn subsequently failed to respond to Michalec's fiance's requests for
information about the matter and failed to respond to her requests for a refund if he
waSl).'t going to be able t6 promptly file something for Michalec.
55. Littlejohn never entered any appearance fot Michalec and never provided
assistance to Michalec's public defenders.

/

I
..: ....

:.:

"

'\'

....

,

I'

,

..

.

56. Littlejohn didn't promptly refund MichEilec's unearned fee despite del11ands .
made by Michalec and his fiance. However, Littlejohn ll1ade a refund when he was able
to do so.
,

~

t

57. Donnie Richardson (hereinafter, "Richardson"J had a child support hearing
scheduled for June 2, 1999 in Guilford County District Court in Greensboro, NC.

I

58. On May 25, 1999, Richardson paid Littlejohn $200.00 toward his $500.00
quoted fee for Littlejohn to represent him at the June 4, 1999 hearing.
59. On June 2, 1999, Richardson went to court in Greensboro and had his case
continued until June 9, 1999.
60. Also on June 2, 1999, Richard~on went to ~ittlejohn's office to advise his
office of the June 9 court date. While there, Richardson paid Littlejohn another $100.00
toward the fee.
.
61. On June 8, 1999, Littlejohn advised Richardson for the first time that he
would not be able to accompany Richardson to court in Greensboro on the followingdElY.
Littlejohn promised to make a refund to Richardson.
62. Littlejohn' failed to make a r.efundofthe unearned retainer to Richardson until
August 11, 1999.
.
63. On March 10, 1999, Barbara Henry (hereinafter, "Henry") paid Littlejohn
$750.00 to !epresent her and her husband in attempting to gain custody of her husband's
two children..

I

64. Littlejohn advis~d Henry that his paralegal would let her know when to come
in and sign the.. custody papers.
65.' After not getting a call from Littlejohn's paralegal, Henry started calling and
leaving messages for Littlejohn.
66. Littlejohn did not return some ofHerrry's calls.
67 .. Henry sent Littlej ohn a letter by fax andcertified mail explaining that she had
been trying to find out what was happening in th~ custody matter and nobody was
returning her calls. In her letter, Henry asked for a refund of the fee.

/

....

7

68. During the third week in May 1999, an employee from Littlejohn's office told'
Henry that Littlejohn was going to prepare an itemized statement and refund the unearned
portion of Henry's fee.
69. Littlejohn didn't take prompt action to assjst Henry and her husband in
gaining custody of her husband's children.
70. Littlejohn failed to make a prompt refund of the unearned portion of Henry's
fee. However, Littlejohn made a refund when he was able to do so.
71. In September 1995, Jenny Burton-Hairston (hereinafter "Burton-Hairston")
retained Littlejohn to represent ~er in a domestic matter.

I

'. 72. Littlejohn obtained.a SOB domestic violence order for B~on-Hairston in
1995, ,hut failed to pursue the remaining issues in the case.
73. Littlejohn did not communicate adequately with Burton-Hairston after the
SOB order was filed.
74. After being assaulted by her estranged husband in June 1998, BurtonHairston found that her. domestic case had been dismissed in March 1997 for lack of
prosecution. Although Littlejohn had received a copy of the order of dismissal, he had
liev~r sent Burton-Hairston a copy.
. 75. After discovering that her case had been dismissed, Burton-Hairston filed a
grieyance against Littlejohn with the 21 sl District Bar's grievance cOll11hittee.
76. Littlejohn failed to respond to the grievance in writing after being given
noti6e
of
his obligation to dd SOi
!
..

.
77. Terry Wi Tullock (hereinafter, "Tullock") retained Littlejohn to represent him
on a'char~e of driving while licens~ revoked pending in Fot~yth County District Court.
78. In May 1999, Tullock paid Littlejohn $430.00 of his $500.00 quoted fee.
79. Littlejohn had Tullock's case continued three times~ On August 6, 1999,
when Tullock's case was on the calendar and called for hearing, Littlejohn failed to
timely appear in court on his behalf.
80. Tullock obtained a continuance until September 3, 1999.

/

I

I

.

:.

:..'

.

"

81. Tullock scheduled an appointment with Littlejohn for August 12, 1999.
Tullock arrived at Littlejohn's office at the appoitlted time, but Littlejohn was.not able to
meet with Tullock.
. 82. Between May and September 1999, Tullockmade approximately 25
telephone calls. to Littlejohn's office seeking information.

.

I

83. Littlejohn didn't promptly return Tullock's calls. As a result, Tullock
discharged Littlejohn and asked for a refund of his fee.
84. Littlejohn failed to make a prompt refund of the unearned portion of
Tullock's fee.
85. Roger Lyons paid Littlejohn $2,000.00 to represent Lyons in a custody'
matte~.

86. Littlejohn failed to return Lyons' calls seeking information aboufhis case.
87. In July 1999, Mary Parker (herein~er, "Parker") retl:1.in.ed Littlejohn to file an
action for her seeking a change of custody of her minQr daughttfr, Alexandra 'Camille
Hensley (hereinafter, "Alexandra."). Alexandra wa13 spending part of her s'ummer
vacation with Parker but was scheduled to return to Tennessee at the end of July.
88. Parker advised Littlejohn that the action would need to be filed prior to the
date that Parker was s\lpposed to return Alexandra to Tennessee.
89. Littlejohn failed to file an action for Parker prior to the end of July 1999 ..

I

90. Parke~ failed to Ireturil Alexandra to her father'S custody in late: July 1999 and '
thereafter w~/)charged with custodial interference in Tennessee.
91. Alexandra's father filed an action in Forsyth County District Court to enforc~
his Tennessee custody order.

92. Although Parker advised Littlejphn of the enforcement action, Littlejohn
failed to file a response to the enforcemel1t actioll, on parker's behalf.
93. As a result ofLittlej ohn' s failure to take action on her behalfin, the custody
matter, Parker filed a gtjevance with the 21 st District Bar's grievance .cotnmittee.
-.
94. Littlejohn failed to timely respond to the grievance after being given notice of
his obligation to do so.

/

I
.... ::

:

9

. 95. On December 21, 1999, Donna Lynn Baker (hereinafter, "Baker") was served
with a restraining order obtained by her minor daughter's father and a motion for
preliminary injunction scheduled to be hel;U'd on December 30,1999.
96. On or about December 27, 1999, Baker retained Littlejohn to represent her in
the' matter.

97. On December 30, 1999, Littlejohn agreed with opposing counsel to a
continuance of the preliminary injunction hearing to January 14,2000 upon certain
cotiditions.

I

98. Opposing counsel prepared a proposed order of continuance that also
cotitained provisions requiring Baker to provide medical records rela~ing to her minor
child ~d reqlJiring the minot child to see a psychiatrist prior to the preliminary injunction
hea:rin~. The proposed order was faxed to Littlejohn on December 30, i999.

99. On January 4, 1999, opposing counsel faxed Littlejohn a letter saying that he
.would get the proposed order signed unless Littlejohn objected.
100. Littlejohn did not send Baker a copy of the proposed order.
101. Littlejohn failed to object to the proposed order.
102. On January 7, 2000, Littlejohn received a copy of the signed order from
opposing counsel.
103. Littlejohn did not send a copy of the signed order to Baker.'
I '

\.

104. Littlejohn advised Baker that his office was attempting to find ~ psychiatrist
who could -evaluate Baker's minor child, but did not advise her that there was any time
limit for getting the evaluation completed. Littlejohn also failed to tell Baker to produce
the ~hild's medical records by the January 14,2000 court date'.

105. On January 13,2000, Littlejohn's office communicated with Baket to advise
her that Littlejohn would not be able to attend the January 14,2000 hearing due to illness.
However, the communication di<i not advise Baker about her Obligations contained in the
order of continuance ..
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
folloWing:
'

/

':'::.

tj 51

'

.

I

!

J!

.... '-:';;,:

- ~~: ,

, ,:(1

10

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over Littlejohn and the subject' matter.
~ ; (~{,~

",

""

\'

2. Littlejohn's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) as follows:

I

I

(a)

By failing to take prompt action to stay execution of the judgment against
Shafti, Littlejohn failed to act with reasonable diligence and promp1l1ess in .
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3-.

(b)

By failing to take prompt action to g~t Stocks' ciocum~nts prepar~d in4is
custody and visitation matter, Littlejohn failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.

(c)

By failing to take prompt action on Michalec's behalfineither the
sentencing or the sentence reduction matters, Littlejohn failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a. client in viola,tion
of Rule 1.3.
.•

(d)

By failing to take prompt action on behalf of Henry and her husband in the'
custody matter, Littlejohn failed to act with reasonable diliget?-ce and
promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.

(e)

By failing to take prompt action to get the other issues:in BunonHairston's domestic case resolved, Littlejohn failed to act with reasonaole
diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.

(f)

"By failing to take prompt action on Parker's behalf seeking a chaI)ge of
custody of her minor daughter, Alexandra, prior to the date Alexandra Was
supppsed to return to Tennessee, Littlejohn failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing a Glient in violation of Rule 1.3..

(g)

By failing to file a response on Parker's behalf to tbe enforcement aGtion
brought by Alexandra's father, Littlejohn failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation ofRllie 13..

(h)

By failing to send Baker a copY-of the order continuing the preliminary .
injunction hearing or to otherwise advise B£Jker of the necessity of
producing her minor child's rr~edical records and having the child
evaluated by a psychiatrist prior to the January 14,2000 hearing,

/

.,

<"~

;,

11

,'

I

Littl~john failed

to a~t with reasonable diligence and promptness in '
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.
(i)

By failing to take prompt action on behalf of Dixon and Ronald Wright,
Littlejohn failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.

G)

By failing t<;> communicate to Shafti that he woUld not be able to take
prompt action to stay execution of the judgment against her, Littl~j()hn.
failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonl;tbly necessary to permit his ,
client to make an informed de9ision regarding the representation in
violation of Rule 1.4(1;».
'

(k)

By failing commU1J.icate with Burton-Hairston beforehet domestic case
was dismissed and by failing to send her a, copy of the order dismisl?ing
her case, Littlejohn failed to explain a lTlatter to the extent reasonably ,
necessary to permit his client to Plake informed decisions regm-ding the
representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b).
"

(1)

By failing to communicate to Baker the necessity of producing h~r minor
child's medical rec9rds and having the child evaluated by a psychiatrist
prior to the January 14,2000, Littlejohn f~iled to explain a lllattet'to the
'extent reasonably necessary to permit his client to make informed
decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b).

(m)

By failing to communicate with Hairston, Stocks, Wright, Michalec;
Henry, Tll110ck and Lyons in response to their requests for information
concerning their matters, Littlejohn failed to keep his clients reasonably
informed abbut the statuI? of matters and promptly comply with reasonable
" requests for information in violatio:n of Rule 1.4(a).
.'

(n)

By failing to make a timely refund of the unel;U'l1ed portion of fees paid by
Hairston, Wright, Michalec, Richard$on, Henry and Tullock, Littlejohn
failed to refund adVance payment of fees that had not been earned in
violation of Rule 1.l6(d).

(0)

By fail41gto timely respond to the State Bar's notice of Ellis' fee dispilt~;
Littlejohn failecl to participate in good faith in nonbinding arbitration of'
Ellis' fee di~P\lte in vioiation of Rule 1.S(f).

(P)

By failing to tell Richardson that he would be unable to represent hitil at
the June 9, 19?9 hearing in Greensboro until the day before the hearing,

I

,

/

·1

,.
12
f

Littlejohn failed to give reasonaple notice to his client ofhis unavailability
in violation of Rule 1.16(d).
(q)

By failing to timely respond to the 21 sl District Bar's grievance
committee's requests:fo'r infonnation . j»JheBurton-Hairston and Parker
matters, Littl~john failed to respond to lawful demand for information
from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1(b).

a

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and further
consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby makes additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following fa~tors: ..
(a)

A pattern of misconduct.

(b)

Multiple offenses.

(c)

Substantial experience in thepractic~ oflaw.

2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

Ab~enc~ of prior disciplinary l'~cord.

(b)

Personal or emotional problems.

(c)

Physical or mental impairment.
t

I

3. T~~ aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
i

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors .andthe argument:;; of
the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license of the, defendant, Darwin Littlejohn; is suspended for two years ..

.2. The two-year suspension is stayed for three years on the following terms and
conditions:
a. tittlejolm shall violate no federal or state laws .

./

554
"

"

13

b. ~ittlejohn shall violate no provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
c. Littlejohn shall respond to any communication relating to a grievance
or fee dispute in a timely fashion.
d. Littlejohn shall handle all client matters promptly, shall respond to
requests for information from clients in a timely fashion, and shall ensure that his
caseload remains of a manageable size.

1

e. Littlejohn shall select a member of the Forsyth County Bar (hereinafter
referred to as the "Supervising Attorney", to be approved by the Office Of
Counsel, to supervise Littlejohn's practice during the three-year stay period.
Littlejohn shall designate a Supervising Attorney and obtain the approval of the
Office of Counsel within fifteen days fr,om the date of this order.
f. Littlejohn shall meet with the Supervising Attorney at least once a
quarter. Littlejohn shall report to the Supervising Attorney the status of his .
current pending client matters. Littlejohn shall cooperate with the Supervising
Attorney. Littlejohn shalI provide any information requested by the Supervising
Attorney that the Supervising Attorney feels is reasonably necessary to ensure that
Littlejohn's caseload is maintamed at a manageable size, that Littlejohn handles
matters promptly, and that Littlejohn responds to requests for information from
clients, the 21 st District Bar, and the North Carolina State Bar in a timely fashion.
The cost, if any, of retaining the Supervising Attorney shall be borne by
Littlejohn.
g. LittlejoI1n shall provide semi-annual repo~s to the Office of Counsel
during the period of the stay, signed by Littlejohn and the Supervising Attorney,
certifying that Littlejohn is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the
above paragraph of this order.. The reports shall be completed and transmitted to
the Office of Counsel by each six-month anniversary of the date of this order.

I'

g. Littlejohn shall enter into acontract with the Lawyer Assistance
Program by November 1,2001. Littlejohn shall comply with the terms of that
contract. As a part of that contract, Littlejohn shall.authorize the Lawyer
Assistance Progr~ t~ report any failure to comply with the .terms of this
paragraph, and the l?pecifics related th~reto, to the Office of Counsel.
h. Littlejohn shall schedule an appointment with Dr. DeWayne Book, or
some other psychiatrist ayceptable to the Lawyer Assistance PrograJ,TI., for a

/

1
.. : ..

:

,

I

14

psychiatric evaluation. Littlejohn shall authorize the psychia,trist to report the
results of the evaluation to the Lawyer Assistance Program. Any treatment
recommendation shall be incorporated into the contract Littlejohn enters into with.
the Lawyer Assistance Program.
Littlejohn~"'J.!~f.'-:'}~~;,);
shall follow
any treatment
.
~\~Jf~t'~;i~ _
recol11111endations made by'ilie psychiatrist ana authorize the LaWyer Assistallce
Program to report any failure to follow the psychi~trist' s treatment plan, and the
specifics related thereto, to the Office of Counsel.

I

i. Littlejohn shall pay the ~osts of this proceec;iing by December 31, 2001.

Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing cOl11.Il1ittee members, t4is
~

.

.f 411 day of Qeteb@f, 2001.

~~(~

Eli .beth Bunti~g

.
Hearmg CommIttee Chrur

~

CONSENTED TO BY:

~~
DafWillLit«ejohn
Defendant .

I

"

.

Urs R. Gsteiger
Attorney for the Defendant

i).!?

-R~ot

£Y-.

Edmonson
Deputy Counsel

/

.,";::

:.'

