.:

NORTH CAROLiNA

BEFORE THE SECRETARY
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
~'f};"'!'
01 BSR 3 ;,!.

WAK,ECOUNTY

I

IN RE REINSTATEMENT OF
TIMMIE R. BARNES

)
)
)
)

ORDER STAYING SUSPENSION

.'

THIS MATTER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State, Bar pursuant
to a Petition for Reinstatement filed by Jimmie R. Barnes on November 15,2001.
Based upon a review of the records ofthe North Carolina State Bar, the Secretary
makes the following:
'
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. A hearing committee offue Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the North
Carolina State Bar entered an order dated June 25,2001 (hereafter "Discipline Order"), hi '
which Barnes' license to practice law in North Carolina was suspended for a period of
five years.

1

2. The effective date of the Order and the length of the minimum active
. suspension were dependent on the outcome of Mr. Barnes' r~lated federal criminal
proceedings.
.
3. Mr. Barnes was sentenced.in the criminal proceeding 011 August 28,2001 and
received a probationary sentence With no active prison time.
4. Under the terms of the Discipline Order, therefore, the effective date of the
,suspension wasSepteniber 27,2001. '
5. Barnes is eligible to apply for a stay of the remaining suspension 60 days after
the effective date of the suspension.
6. The Discipline Order provided that Barnes must meet certain requirements to
obtain a stay of the remaining period of suspension. The Piscipline Order ruso provided
that Barnes must meet other requirements for the stayed suspension to continue in effect
for th~ balance of the suspension.

1'

:1"

"

.," .,'

.':

r."'64.
. "J',

7. After conducting investigations ofBatnes' requirements set out in the
Order and Discipline Rule .0125, counsel for the North Carolina State Bar did
not file' a response objecting to the Petition for stay of the suspension.
Discip~ine

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Secretary makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Petitioner, Jimmie R. Barnes, has satisfied the requirements set out in
piscipIlmill.ule .0125(b) and.the conditions in the Discipline Order for a stay of his
suspension.

I

2. Barnes must continue to comply with all of the conditions set forth in
paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Discip~ine Order for the stayed suspension to remain in effe·ct.
THEREFORE" pur~uant to Discipline Rule .0125, it is hereby ordered:

i. The remaining period of Barnes' suspension of his license to practice law is
stayed as long as he continues ~o meet all ofthe conditions set forth in paragraphs 4 and 5
of the Discipline Order, which is attached hereto and hereby incorporated by reference.

2. Pursuantto Discipline Rule .0125(b)(2)the stay of Barnes' suspension shall be
effective on November 26,2001, which is 60 days from the effective date of the
suspension.
'rhis the 26th day of November, 2001.

L. Thomas Lunsford II, Se""""",,,,_.J

The N.C. State Bar

I

2

I

I
. ',::.,--:

.r::.

?,~.l,~
.~~,yJ.

