WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
·OFTHE
NORTH.~eAAOLINA STATE;BAR .
01 DRC7
)

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

)
)
)

v.

)

CONSENT OlIDER
OF DISCIPLINE

)

DAVID R. DOWELL, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)

TIllS MATTER came on before th.e undersigned hearing cOll1111ittee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred H. Moody, Jr., Chair; Richard T.
Gammon· and Lop:aine Stephel,ls. Carolin Bakewell represented-the State Bar. Alan M.
Schneider represented the defendant, David R. Dowell.
Both parties have .agreed to waive formal hearing in this matter and· stipulate and
agree to the following findings of fact and conclusions of law and to the discipline .
imposed. Based upon the agreement of the parties and the evidence in the record, the
heating com.mittee enters the following:
. FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it 'in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and RegUlations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
~'?!t..)1

.

;','liI1.!'~h

2. The Defend~t, Davi& R. Dowell (hereafter, Dowell), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar in 1991, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to th~
rules, regulations 'and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolin~.
3. Durmg all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein;
,·})gwell W~ en~aged.in t4~.practice.of.1awJn the. $t:;tte .of~rth· 9ar-{)jin~."
.

.

I
. ·566

\

4. Prior to October 1993, Shawn Maciel (hereafter, Maciel), was

convicted by a military court of assisting in the murder of Rhonda Kaspers
(hereafter, Ms. Kaspers).
5. ill October 1993, Dowell Undertook to pursue post-conviction relief for
Maciel. :
6. Dowell reviewed a 3,500 page trial tr~script; prepared and filed a
clemency petition; prepared and filed an appellate briefbefote the United States
Army Court of Military Review~ argued the case on appeal before that Court; and
prepare4,and filed a petition for review before the United States Court of Appeals
'
for the Armed Forces. The petitions were denied.

I

7. Sometime in the spring of 1997, Maciel advised Dowell that Clayton
Kaspers; Ms. Kaspers' widower, had signed an affidavit exonerating Maciel from
any involvement in Ms. Kaspers' death.
.

8.· Dowell agreed to pursue further post c~)llviction relief on Maciel's
behalf based upon Kaspers' affidavit.
9. Despite this assurance, Dowell failed to pursue any further relief on
Maciel's behalf.
10. Dowell failed to communicate effectively with Maciel after August
1997 concerning Maciel's case.
11. Dowell failed to return the unearned portion of the fees paid by
Maciel, in the amount of$I,OOO.

12. :Dowell was suspended from the practice oflaw by the DHC in
September ,1999 for matters unrelated to Maciel's case. His law license has not
'been reinst/ilted.
13. : Dowell now lives in Alabama, is employed in a non-legal po'sition
and ,does not intend to engage in the practice oflaw in North Carolina.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties,
the hearing Committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. AU parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the person of David R. Dowell and the subject
'
matter of thi~ proceeding.

I

~'~ (,,~i'·:~!:~f,.', ':~~~:~: f' ,(:,:', ~p,tt~t.;';':j·" '.
'..

,v;

2. The defendant's conduCt, as set O\lt,~:the Findfugs of Fact, above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28(b)(2)
in that:
a) ;By failing to pursue some :(Q:t;m of post con~!9.upn relief based upon
Kaspets' affidavit,'Dowell neglected a Ie'gal matter entiU1ted to lllm in violation
.0fRule 6(b)O) of the former Rules of Professional Conduct and/or Rule 1.3 of
the Revis~d Rules of Professional Conduct.
.

I

b) By failing to communicate effectively with Maciel regardiIig the status
of Maciel's' post conviction case after August 1997, DQwell failed to
communicate with a client in violation of RUle 6(b)(1) of the former Ru1es of
Professional Conduct and/or Rule 1.4 of the Revised Rules of Professional
Co~duct.

Based upon the foregoing Findings ofFllct and Conclusions of Law and
based upon the consent of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, tlie
hearing committee hereby makes,~dditional:
.
FlNDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a) substantial experience in the practice of law;
b) prior discipline;
c) failure to respond to the substance of grievance.
2. The defen4ant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

I

a) the defendant experienced significant personal and
psychological problems which contributed to the misconduct;
b) pas$age of tUne since the misconduct occurred;
. c) the misconduct occurred at approximately the same time as
misconduct which is th~ subject of a prior disciplin;:ny order in
N.C. State Bar v. Dowell, 99 DRC 16;
d) the misconduct was not motivated by dishonesty or selfishness.
Baseq upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the
arguments of1:hc parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following;

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1:. The defendant, David R. Dowell, is hereby censured for his
misconduct.

2. The defendant shall refund $1,000 to Ron Maciel, the father of Shawn
Maciel, no later than 30 days from service of this order upon the defendant.
3. The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding no later than 30
days from the date of service of this order upon powell.

this the

Signed by the Chair with the consent ,of the hearing committee members,
if day Of~8e8Blt,er, 20OJ.-!-

~~.,t

I

i

Fred H. Moody, Jr., Ch .
Disciplinary Hearing CO,n-ol1""",,'P'IIOL
Seen and consented to:

~fI1. Lk'~

Alan M. Schneider, Defendant's Attorney

~

/'1-&- r;z,

David R. Dowell, Defendant

Carolin :Sa1cewell, Plaintiff'~ Attorney

r::-"i"09
uO

I

