WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
'~;"O'T DHC 8
,;,......

NORTH CAROLIN~

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
).
)

)

MICHAEL T. MILLS, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER
OF
1)ISCIPLINE

.

.

This matter came before it Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing COlnmission
composed of JosephG. Maddrey, Esq., Chair; Kenneth M. Smiti?, Esq.; and Lorraine Stephens,
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B Section .0114 (H) of the Rules' and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. The defendlnlt, Michael T. Mills, was represented
by Joseph B. Cheshire V and Alan M. Schneider. The plaintiff was represented' by C~olin '
Bakewell. Both parties stipUlate and agre~ to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited .
in this COnsent order and to the discipline imposed. Based upon the consent of the parties the
hearing cO]JlIUittee hereby enters the following:

FlNDINGS OF :FACT

I

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is ~ body duly organiz;ed under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granteq it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNortll Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina Stat~ Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant Michael T. Mills (hereafter, Mills), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1982, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law '
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional.
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Mills was engaged. in the practice.
of law in the State of North Carolina.
4. On or about October 23, 1998, Mills filled out and signed an application t6 take the
South Carolina bar examination (hereafter SC bar application).
5. Question number 17 of the SC b~ application requested "a complete record of all

I
.; ..

r

instances [other than minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $1 00 or less was
imposed] in which the applicant has ...... been C)ITested, or taken into custody or accused,
formally or informally, or the violation of a law ....... "
6. In response to question number 17 of the SC bar application, Mills failed to list a
1984 misdemeanor charge of resisting/obstructing a public officer which charge had been
dismissed Md a 1981 misdemeanor Gha,rge of hindering ,and delaying a public officer to which a
"no contest" plea was entered.
7. All 9ther allegations against Mills set forth in the original complaint shall be
dismissed with prejudice by the North Carolina State Bar or have been dismissed with prejudice
by the Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I'

Based lipon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Conimittee enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
,

1. B:y failing to list the charges referenced in paragraph 6 above, Mills engaged in
conduct involving a misrepres~nta.tioh in violation of Rule 8,4(c) bfthe Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
'
Basecl upon the foregoing FINDlNGS OF FACT and CONCLUSIONS OF LAW and
based upon the consent of the parties, the Heating Committee enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The order of discipline entered against Mills in N.C. State Bar v. Mills, 99 DHC 14 is
continued in all respects with the following modification: The 3 year stay provision set forth
therein, which is currently scheduled to expire on February 25, 2003, shall be extended through
and including December 31, 2003.

2. T~e Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing C~'
·ttee.
'

.

., -&--.

ThiSthe~dayo.

dtYp?j.--,

,~..

2

t:,71
v

I

.... :'~';

":<~,

,',

We Consent:

Micha~i Mills, Defendant

~~

~~~1:::!::.::""':"'--"::"

Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

~~

Carolhi Bakewell
Attorney for'Plaintiff

I

3

I
','

,

