t

"

[---

\

, ! ~ 0 '1 {£;
-~ ;~~~~~TH~ -..

(9/.

.0(\'"

WAKE COUNTY

...---

'Ii .

'",_-<,/.~ ~bISCIPLlNARY

N'ORTH CAR'OLINA
~

\'\ ~

.. , ~

~!

,(...' 6:~'
0v-Qj/
2[
\)W

~('

:,.'

)
THE N'ORTH CAR'OLINA STATE BAR, )
PlaintIff'
)
)
)
v.
)
)
PHILLIP R. BATTEN, ATT'ORNEY
Defendant )

,

.

HEARING C'OMMISSI'ON
'OF THE
N'ORTH CAR'OLINA STATE BAR
01 DHC 19

FINDINGS 'OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

This matter was heard on the 30th ,day of November, 2001, before a hearing
committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Chair, Elizabeth'
Bunting, Kenneth M. Smith, arid H. Dale Almond. G. Bryan Collins Jr. represented
defendant, Phillip R. Batten. Douglas J. Brocker and Bobby D. White represented
plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Based upon the pleaq,ipgs and the evidence
introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:

.

" ,

FINDINGS 'OF PACT

'

1. : Plaintiff, the North' Carolina State ~~r (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly or.ganjzed under the laws of North Carolina arid is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority grantl3d it ih Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolin~, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.

I

2.
Defehdant, Phillip R. Batten, (hereafter "Batten"), was admitted to the
(\]orth CaroUna State Bar on August 43, -1991 and is, and was at all times referred to
hereih" an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules qf Professional Condllct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the: State of North Carolina.
'
3.
During the times relevant to this complaint, Batten actively engaged in the
practi'ce of law in the City of North Wilkesboro, Wilkes County, North Carolina;

4. , Batten was properly served with process, and the hearing was held with
due notice to all parties.
.
1

I
I

'.:

.

,

.

5.
Batten was employed by the law firm of Vannoy, Colvard, Triplett &
Vannoy P.L.L.C. (hereafter, "law firm") from approximately September 1, 1998 until
August 12, 1999.
6.

' Batten was a salaried associate throughout his employment with the law

firm.
7.
Pursuant to the terms of his employment with the law firm, Batten wa$
required to pay the law firm all fees paid to him during hi~ employment by all clients for
legal representation.

I

8.
While employed by the law firm, Batten personally receiv~d and acceptec( .
cash fees from clients and did not payor turn over these cash fees to the law firm.
9.
For example', Batt~n agreed to represent Lonnie Britton on charges of
driving while license revoked ("DWLR") and not using a seat belt, Which were pending
in Wilkes County District Court.

1O.
On or before February 4, 1999, Batten personally received and accepted
a fee of $300 in cash from Britton for representation on the DWLR and seat belt
charges.

11.
Additionally, \3atten agreed to represent Jose Angel Perez-Limon.
,
(hereafter, "Mr. Perez") on a charge of Driving while Intoxicated ("DWI'!), Which was'
pending in Wilkes County District Court,
12.
On or before April 8, 1999, Batt~n personally received and accepted a fee
of $500 in cqsh from Mr. Perez at the Wilkes County Courthouse.

I

13.
Batten placed the $500 cash in his briefcase and wrote Mr. Perez a
receipt on a piece of yellow legal paper.
14.
Finally, Batten agreed to represent Joseph Gilbert Mitchell on a charge of
obtaining property by false pretenses, which was pending in' Wilkes County District
Court.

15.
Sometime on or before June 2, 1999, Batten personally reqeived qnd
accepted $150 in cash from Mr. Mitchell toward a fee to represent him on the false
pretenses charge. Batten receiv~d the $150 in cash from Mitchell at the Wilkes COLinty
Courthouse and wrote Mr. Mitchell a receipt on a piece of y~IIow legal paper.
16.
Batten was a salaried associate of the law firm when he personally
received and accepted the cash fees from Mr. Britton, Mr. Perez, and Mr. Mitchell.

2

..

. :.

.'

"

. "~-G
vII .
't"

";1

,

17.
Batten did not provide or turn over to the law firm or any employee or
principal thereof any portion of the cash fees paid to him by Mr. Britton, Mr. Perez, and
Mr. MitchelL
18.
Batten misappropriated the cash fees paid to him by Mr. Britton, Mr.
Perez, and Mr. Mitch~".
19.
After the law firm terminated his employment, Batten agreed to represent
James Everette Crouse on a charge.of discharge of a firearm into an occupied territory
(hereafter, "firearm charge"), which was penoing in Wilkes County District Court.
20.
The firearm charge was set for a hearing in Wilke$ County District Court
on December 15, 1999.
21.

Batten failed to notify Crouse about the December 15, 1999 hearing.

22.

Crouse failed to appear at the December 15,1999 hearing.

23.
Ba,tten represented to the Court that Crouse was unable to attend the
hearing because he was snowbound in Michigan or another state, or words to that
affect.
.
24.
15, 1999.

Crouse was not snowbound in Michigan or any other state on December

25.
Crouse did not attend the December 15, 1999 hearing because Batten
failed to notify him about it.
26.
When he made the representation to-the Court on December-15, 1999,
Batten knew Crouse was not snowbound in Michigan or any other state.
)

27.
Batten knowingly made the false statement of material fact to the Court in
an attempt to -cover-up his failure to notify Crouse about the December 15, 1999
hearing.

I

28.
Based on Batten's knowingly false representation, the Court continued the
matter 'until January 5, 2000.
.
The 'Court directed Batten to have Crouse obtain a written excuse from his
29.
employer regarding the reason for his absence at the December 15, 1999 hearing and
provide it to the Court by the next court date:
30.
Prior to his appearance at the next court date on January 5, 2000, Batten
instructed Crouse ~o compose a letter from his employer, to be submitted to the Court,

3

I
r·o '"'1.
~

stating that Crouse was unable to attend the December 15, 1999 hearing becau.sehe
was snowbound in Michigan.
31.
When he instructed Cro~se to compose. a letter from his employer, to oe
submitted to the Court, stating that Crouse was unab/e'Ho attend the D'~cember15,
1999 hearing because he was snowbound in Michigan, Batten knew that such a
statement and letter would be false.

I

32.
Crouse refused to comp'ose and submit such a letter to the Court because
it was not true. Instead, Crouse submitted at his next court date on January 5, 2000, a
notarized statement that he did not appear at the December 15, 1999 hearing because
aatten failed to notify him of that court date.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the'
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee, and the committ~e has
jurisdiction over Batten and the subject matter.
2. Batten's conduct, as set out in the Findings' of Fact above, constitutes .
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Batten
committed the following viQ/ations of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
(hereafter "Revised Rule"):

I

(a)

by misappropriating fees from clients that he was required to submit
to the law firm, Batten ~ngaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(c);

(b)

by failing to notify Crouse about the December 15, 1999 hearing,
Batten failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status
of the matter in violation of Revised Rule 1.4(a);

(c)

by representing to the Court that Crouse was unable to attend the
hearing because he was snowbound in Michigan or another state,
Batten:
(i) knowingly made a fal$e statement of material fact to a tribunal.in
violation of Revised Rule 3.3(a)(1), and

(ii) engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
mis'representation in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(c).

4

I
",'

b78

"

·

,

,

.

by instructing Crouse to compose ~ letter from his employer, to be
submitted to the Court, stating-that he was unable to attend the
hearing on December 15, 1999 because he was snowbound in
Michigan, Batten:

(d)

(i) counseled a witness to testify falsely or attempted to falsify
evidence in Violation of Revised Rules 3.4(b) and 8.4(a), arid
(ii) engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(c).
,

I'

'

.Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon
the evidence and argum~nts of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the
heari,ng committee hereby makes the additional
FINDING$ OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Batten's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.

dishonest or selfish motive;
pattern of misconduct;
multiple offenses;
,
submission of false evidence during the disciplinary process; and,
r~fusal to acknowredge wrongful conduct.

2. The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by no prior disciplinary offenses.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments
of the parties, the hearing com'l1ittee hereby enters the following

I'

5

I
57,9 '

. -

,

,

, h ril,;';;,f(,<",f)::;'" ';:'::'~:~!'~,~N;):':; :,~.;:~,.

..

'.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant, Phillip R. Batt~n, is hereby suspended from the practice ,of Ic:lwfor
three years beginning 30 days froM service of thisforder upon him. ',"<
,

,

2. Batten shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon him.

I

3. Batten shall pay the costs of this proceeding, including deposition, costs, ,as
assessed by the Secretary within 30 days of service of the costs upon him,.
4. ,Batten shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin, Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 ofthe N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
'
5.
Prior to reinstatement, Batten shall comply with all provisions of 27 N;C;
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the N.C. State Bar Oiscipline&
Disability Rules.
6.
To be eligible for reinstatement at the end of the three-year period, BCltten
also must comply with all the following conditions during th.e entire period of his
suspension:
a) Batten shall not violate any federal or state law;
b) Batten shall 'not violate any provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct or subsequently enacted Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar;

I

c) Batten shall satisfy the mandatory Continuing l.egal EduGc:ltion
requirements of the North Carolina State Bar during each year Of the '.
three-ye.ar suspension; and
d) Batten shall make restitution to the law ,firm 6fVannoy, ColVard,
Triplett & Vannoy, P. L. L. C of the amounts he WaS .found to have
misappropriated from that firm in this proceeding, $950,
Signed by the chair with the consent oUhe other hearing committee members,
this the J,O
day of D.e ~2001.
.
.

6

I>
.:

,,'.

580

