,

L-_
I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ --

I

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.

)
)
)

)

K. C.DOZIER, Attorney,
'.
.
Defendant.

)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

lhl~

matter was heard on December 14, 2001 b~fo:re ~ committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing CQmmission composed of James R. Fox, Chair, Richard T. Gammon, and Betty Ann
Knudsen. the Defendant, K. C. Dozier, was represented by Joseph B. Cheshire, V and Alan
M. Schneider. The plaintiff was represented by Michael D. Zetts, III. Based upon the
pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing cotpIllittee hereby enters the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. 'The North Carolina State' Bat is a body duly organized under the laws of North
Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the aUthority granted it in
Chapter 84. of the General Statutes of North Catolina, and the Rul~s and Regulations of the
North Carolina State B a r . '

I

2. Defendant, K. C. Dozier, (hereafter, Defendant), was admitted to the North
Carolina. State Bar in 1988, and is, and was at aJ,l times -referred to herein, an Attorney at Law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rule~, reg\i.lations, and Rules of
Professioml.l Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

3. During the times relevant to this complaint, the Defendant was actively engaged
in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and was erp.ployed as an assistant district
attorney in iprosecutorial District 19B, including Randolph, Montgomery, and.Moore
Counties, North Carolina.

I
.

601

:...... ',,:'

4. On February 23, 1998, Shirley Andrews (hereafter, Ms. Andrews) was illdicted
for mUrQer. Two co-defendants were chargeq with le~s~r offenses: aiding an,d abetting and
accessory·after-the-fact, respectively.,:,::,:~;
i~~ft.(!;~~;: ':
'
,",;;-.::
, 5. The Defendant was the Assistant District Attorney for the State assigned to
prosecute the case.

I

6. The Court appointed Paul L. Biggs (hereafter, Biggs) to represent Ms. Andrews
.
on a charge offirst-degree murd~r.·
7. On March 16, 1998, Biggs served a Request and Motion for Voluntary Discovery
on. Garland Yates; District Attorney ofProsecutorial District l.9-B.
8. Biggs' discovery requests to the prosecutor included, aplong either things, "any
an4 all prorn,ises oflemiency, negotiated pleas, or promises not to arrest, inciict~ dismiss,
voluntarily dismiss, or not to prosecute, concerning any crim~nal char~es ofany kind and
nature whatsoever made to co-defendants or witnesses for their cooperation or testimony in
the instant case...."
9. In response to the discovery requests, the' Defendant produced a packet ofmaterial
in the district attbrnei s possession, including the statements of the co-defendants given to
law enforcement during the investigation.
10. During the two-week period preceding Ms. Andrews' murder trial, the Defendant
made arrangements with the two attorney~ representing the co-defendants in the case, The
arrangement was to dismiss the charges or to consider dismissing the charges if the codefend;;plts testified truthfully.

I

11. North C~olina General Statute §1SA-l 054(c) requires a prosecutor to provide
defense counsel with writteJ,1 notice fully disclosing the terms of any arrangement with
witnesses of charge reductions or sentence concessions.
'
12. The Defendant failed to provide Biggs with the requisite notice, under North
Carolina, General Statute §15A-1054(c) and in response to Biggs' di&covery requests that the
two co-defendants would testify pursuant to an agreement, arrangement, or understanding
with the State.
13. Ms. Andrews' murder trial commenced on February 1,2000. During the trial'
Biggs asked co-defen4ant Tomika Williams (hereafter, Ms. Williams)whether she had a
"deal" with the State. Ms. Williams state,d that she did not have a deal with the State "that
~he had been, notified of."
14. The Defendant did not tfJke any remedial measures to correct or clarify Ms.
Williams' testimony concerning the existence of an agreement, arrangement, or

-2-

I
.:......

"

understanding with her counsel that if she testified truthfully, the State would consider
dismissing her :chatges.
15. 'Biggs did not pursue that line of questioning any further, and he did not ask codefendant Veatrice Cheek (hereafter, Ms. Cheek) whether she had any agreement;
arrangement, or understanding with State in exchange for her testimony ..
16. The jury returned a verdict of second-degree murder against Ms. Andrews.
17. After the trial, the State filed voluntary dismissals i:Q, favor of both co-defendants,
stating in each written dismissal that the reason for the dismissal was that the defendant had
"testified for State against co-D." Biggs learned of the State's arrangement With the codefendants while reading ~ newspaper a~count of the trial.

I

18. On April 19, 2000, Ms. Andrews' new attorney brought a Motion for Appropriate
Relief, asserting as its basis the Defendant's failure to disclose the agreements he had with
the co-defendants. Ms. Andrews engaged new counsel because Biggs testified at the hearing.
19. JUQge Catherine Eagles, the Superior Court judge presiding over the Motion for
Appropriate Rt:ljef, found that the testimony of M~. Williams and Ms. Cheek was adverse to
Ms~ Mdrews. Judge Eagles further found that while there was substantial evidence against
Ms. Andrews, including her own testimony, that Ms. Andrews sho~ the victim in a reckless
manner, the testimony which provided the basis for a murder conviction, as opposecl to a
manslaughter conviction, Catlle primarily from Ms. Williams alld Ms. Cheek.
20. Judge Catherine Eagles found as fact that a statement by:a prosecutor to a witness
that he will "consider" dismissing the charges if the witn~ss/defendant testifies truthfully in
another case carries with it the implicit'statement that if the witness/defendant does not
testify or does not testify tru~ly, then the prosecutor will not "consider" dismissing the
case.
21. Judge Eagles found that jurors might well have found Ms. Williams and Ms.
Cheek less credible if they had known that Ms. Williams I:Wd Ms. Cheek ~estified for the
, State based, at least ill' part, upon an agreement, arrangement, or understanding that The
Defendant would dismiss, or consider dismissing, the c~ges against them.

I

22. Judge Eagles found that a jury should generally be aware of such an inducement.
23. Judge Eagles found that Ms. Andrews' statutory rights under N.C. Gen. Stat.
§15A-l 054(c), her constitutional right to a fair trial, and her right to be advised of all
information in the possession of the State Which would materially aid in her defense were
violated by the Defendant's failute to inform the defendant of its agreement or understanding
with the co-defendants.
24. Judge Eagles granted Ms Andrews' Motion for Appropriate Relief in an order
signed and dated April 20, 2000.

-3-

I
',,,,', '.:"

609

25. On May 18~ 2000, pursuant to a negotiated plea ru.:rangement, Ms. Andrews,pled
guilty to voluntary manslaughter and received a probationary sentence.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, K. C. Dozier, and of the subject matter.
2. The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, ~onstitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen.,Stat. §84-28(b)(3) as follows: '
.
a. By failing to disclose to Biggs the State's arrangement or urtderstan<;ling with the
two co-defendants that the' State would dismiss or consider dismissing the charges
against them if they testified for the State, the Def<,:mdant engage<;l in conduct.
prej'~lcUcial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
b. By faililig, at trial, to take reasonable remedial measures after one of the codeferidants testified that there was no deal with the State, the Defendant violated
Rule 3,3(a)(4) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
FiNDINGS.oF FACT RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE

1. The committee did not fin<;l any aggravating factors.

I

2. The defendant's misconduct is. mitigated by the following factor: no prior discipline
3. The'mitigating factors outwei~h the aggravating factors.
13ased upon the foregoing mitigating factor, the evidence, and the arguments of the
parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, K. C. Dozier, is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw in North
Carolina for two years, effective 30 days from the <;late of service of this ()rder upon him.'

2. The two year suspension is stayed for two years, based upon the following conditions:

-4-

I
..........

6.1 0

a. The Defendant shall not violate any of the Revised Rules of Professional·
ConduCt during the period of the stay.
'
b. The Defendant shall not violate any laws ofthe State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the period of the stay.
c. The Defendant shall pay all costs incurred in this proceeding, N. c. State Bar v.
Dozier, 01 DRC 13, and taxed against him within 180 days of notice of such
costs.
d. 'Within 30 days of entry of this order, the Defendant shall select a member of the
office of the District Attorney 'Who is willing to serve as a mentor (hereafter,
Mentor) for all felony cases in which Defendant serves as prosecuting attorney
during the stayed suspension. The member of the District ~ttorney' s office
selected by Defendant shall serve as Mentor subject to the approval of the N.C.
State Bar Office of Counsel.' Service of the Mentor in this role shall be voluntary
and ,uncompensated.

I

e. The Defendant shall meet with the Mentor at least once, per month during the
peri6d of the stayed suspension to discuss and review each of the Defendant's
felony cases.
f. The Defendant and the Mentor shall create a form that shall be filed in the court
file qf each, and every felony case pending during the period of the stayed
suspension assigned to the Defendant. In each such case the Defendant shall
indicate on the form whether the State'was under an obligation, pursuant to
applicable law, to disclose any arrangements, explicit or~mplicit~ that the
Defe:pdant has made with ,any person that might testify for the State. Both the
Mentor ~d Defendant shall certify on the fOrql that the State has complied with
all rqles of discovery under applicable law.
I

g. The Mentor shall report to the N.C. Stat~ Bar Office of Counsel 'the Defendant's
failure to substantially cpmply with any of the above conditions.

I

h. The J!efendant shall attend 12 hours ofcontimring legal education (CLE) over the
two year period of stayed suspension in addition to the 12 hours per year
mandated by the State Bar Rules. The additional 12 hour~ shall relate to a
prosecutor's responsibilities in prosecuting criminal cases apd shall ip.clude a
component dealing with discovery obligations. The Defendant shall complete the
additional CLE requirements, no later than 60 days 1;>efore the end of the period of
stay~d suspension and provide written, proof of yompliance to the Office of
CoUlisel of the State Bar witWn 30 days.of completion.
1. If the Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions stated in paragraph 2, then
the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted ,as provided in §.0114(x) of the
-5-

I
........

:

North CarolinaState Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
2. If the stay of the suspension of the Defendant's law license is lifted, the Disciplinary
Hearing Cohlrtlission may enter' an order providing for such conditiop~ as it deems
necess.ary for reinstat~ment ~fthe pefendan:t~s;:license atthe.£~,~?·;of~he two~year,R,~riod
wherem Defendant's lIcense lS actively suspended.
. '.
'

I

3. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofthis matter pursuant
to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules throughout the period Qf the stayed 'suspension.
4. If-the suspension of the Defendant's law license is activated for any reason, the
Defendant shall cOJllplete each of the following as conditions precedent to seeking
reinstat~ment:

a. The. Defendant must pay' all costs incurred in this proceeding, N. C. State Bar v.
Mr. Dozier, 01 DHC 13, and tax~d against him.
b. The Defendant shall attend 12 hours of continuing legal education (CLE) in
adclition to the 12 ho'!ll's per year mandated by the State Bar Rules. Tbe additional
12 hours shall relate to a prosecutor's responsibilities in prbsecutipg <triminal
cases and shall include a com.ponent dealing with discovery obligations. The
Defendant shall provide written proof of compliance to the Office of Counsel of
the State Bar prior to applyhl.g for reinstatement.

This the

I ~ day o~ January, 2002. ~ ~

~ \'i/3\)

0 \

Signed by the Chairrp.an of the Hearing Committee with the cOll!~ent of the o~er
earin~ Committee Members.
"

-6-

I
,:',,"

..

