1 --

!

J----

NORTH CAROLINA

I ?fSCf I S

BEFO~'i-m j

GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98G0325

WAKE COUNTY

INRE:

------

:KEITHA. BISHOP,
A~orney At Law

)
)
)

CENSURE

I

On July 25,2001, the Grievance Cotnmittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the NC State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee fqund probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the niles as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action." .
The rules pro:vide that after a finding of probabl~ cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filkg of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not warranted and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating ot initigl:t,ting factors.
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
.
reprimand, ot a censp.re.

The

A censure is a writteh form of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in cases
in which ail attorney has violated one or more provisionsofth~ Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney's license.

I

The Grievance Committee was Of the .opinion that a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of
the Grievance Co:tn.l11ittee of the North Carolina State bar, itis now my duty to issue this ·censure.
I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On December 16, 1997, you defended a deposition of your client, Jamin Thakkar, taken
by defendant's co~sel, Frank P. Ward, in an action entitled Thakkar v. Northern Telecom, file
number 97·CVS·01380, pending in Durham County Superior Court. At the outset of the
deposition, you stated on the record that all objections, even those as to the form of questions,
were preserved. Opposing counsel would not agree to stipulate that objections to the form of

I
: :

613 -

. ":)

1:<

l

"!,'

{:

question were preserved. Nevertheless, the parties proceeded with the deposition agreeing, at a
minimum, to the "standard stipula~ions" and reserving the issue as to whether objections to the
form of questions were preserved. Thereafter, you frequently interrupted defense counsel's
examination of the plaintiff with improper speaking objections to ,permissible questions ap:d, on
numerous occasions, instructed the plaintiff n.ot to' ap.swer properly ,P9~ed questionS. Defense
cOliPsel attempted to clarify your objections on the record. Each tnrt6';'you refused 'to aii~:tver
defepse counsel's questions on the groUllds that you were n.ot being deposed and defense counsel
should direct all questions to the deponent. Given the frequency of your improper objections,
our deliberateness in not allowing your client, the plaintiff, to respond to quc;:stions even after
pposing coqnsel rephrased the questions, and your repeated refusals to clarify your objections
nthe record when asked to do so by defense counsel, the Grievance Conunittee concluded that
your conduct in the deposition was a deliberate attempt to thwart defep,se counsel's access to
discoverable information..
Discovery matters were ultimately taken before the court, Judge Ronald 1. Stephens,
presiding. The issues addressed at a hearing included the non-responsiveness of your client, the
plaintiff, at the deposition. After reviewing the full recorq., the court fOill1d in its discovery order,
dated February 13, 1998, that "the Plaintiff and the Plaintiffs Counsel have established a pattern
of disregarding due dates and times for responding to discovery and the Plaintiff s incomplete
and untimely responses to discovery requests and orders of the Court, as well as the ,Plaintiff s
refusal to properly answer questions during his deposition[,] haS demonstrated to this Court an
attitude that has created unnecessary and unduly burdensome expenses upon the Defendant[.]"
Taken as a whole, your conduct ip, discovery prior to and during the deposition made it difficult
for defense'coup,sel to examine the plaintiff and to obtain information discoverable under Rule 26
of the NC Rules of Civil Procedure.

I

Based on the foregoing conduct, the Grievance Committee determined that you violated
Rule 3.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct, in'that duting pretrial procedures, you
failed to make reasonably diligent efforts to comply with leg~ly proper discovery requests. The
Grievance'Collll11itte~also fo'up,d that you violated Rule 3.2 of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct ~y fail~~ to make reasop,~ble efforts to expedite litigation ~ons!stent with the ~ter~s!s
of your chent. Filially, the CommIttee concluded that your conduct m discovery was prejUdICIal
'to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d). The Grievance Committee based its
cop,clusions, in part, upon the trial court's fmding, after reviewing the full record, that the
plaintiffs conduct in discovery, including his refusal to answer,de;position questions, created
unnecessary and unduly burd~nsome expenses upon the defendant.
'

,

In deciding to issue a censure, the Grievance Co1l11llittee considered the fact that you had
no prior discipline as a'mitigat~g factor.
'
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recogp,ize the error that you have made, 'and th'at you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to
the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end. that you demean yourself

I
614.

~s a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without

question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attomey issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of'this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

;<.t

day of

A-r J--'
"'-I

,20Ql.

~_ _

I

Calvin E. Murphy, Chair
Grievance Committee

'CEMikah

I

I

