.t 23"5 ~,:.::.~
i:fEFOkE'fi:iE --. ,.

NORTH CAROLINA .

. "(',

'

"

1

GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01G0446

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

~EROY R. CASTLE,
AtTORNEY AT LAW

)
)

CENSURE

IIr--~----------------~~)~--~--------~----------~
On October 17,2001, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina St~te Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against yO\! by Henry M. Bailey, Jr.

Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and PisabUity Rules efthe North 'Carolina ·
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause.
Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause. to believe that a member of the
North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary ~ction."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, 'the Griev~ce C<;>mmittee may
determine that the filing of a complaintand it hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
.
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravatillg or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Ac1.monition, a
'
Reprimand, or a Censure.
A Censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a Reprimanq, issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused significaIlt harm or potential significant harrp. to a cliellt, the administration of .
. justice, the prefession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney's license.

l

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Cemmission is not required in this case and issues this Censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is n<;>w my duty to issue this Censure. I
am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
The Committee found the following facts. You represented Henry Marshall Bailey, Jr. in
crimimil trial proceedings in Durham Courity Superior Court. Mr. Bailey was convicted of
criminal charges ofbrealdng and entering and being a hapitual felon. Mr. Bailey filed a NotiCe
of Appeal of his conviction and sentence. On January 14, 1998, Judge David Q. LaBarre
appointed you to represent Mr. 13 ailey· on appeal.

I
; ' , ' , ' ,i

,

.-'

Approximately two months later, you wrote Judge LaBarre· a letter dated March 18, 1999,
in which you purported to decline to accept the appointment of Mr. aailey's appeal. Judge
LaBarre never responded to your letter, and no further action was taken on your letter. You did
not follow up YOUI' letter to' Judge LaBarre. More significantly, you neVer filed a motion to
withdraw or obtained an order pern1itting your withdrawal from the appellate representation of
~B~~
Mr. Bailey and his family called and wrote you repeatedly regarding the status of his
appeal. You failed to respond to these communications, provide Mr. Bailey with the status of his
appeal, or inform him that you had not pursued the appeal. Additionally, after receiving these
communications, you also did not take any 'act~on to determine whethenhe court had appointed
new appellate counsel to represent Mr. Bailey on appeal.

I

You failed to perfect Mr. Bailey's appeal of his conviction and sep.tenc~. Because you
did not file a formal 11).otion with the court to withdraw or obtain an order allowing your
withdrawal, ne other ~ounsel was appointed to pursue Mr. Bailey's appeal. As a result, Mr.
Bailey has lost his riIWt to a direct appeal of-his convictions.
Mr.. Bailey eventually filed a grievance with the State Bar regarding your appellate
representation. You received a letter of notice on June 2, 2001, were required to respond within
15 days, but ~ailed to do so. You were sent a follow-up letter, were required to respond by July
'6,2001, but again failed to respond. You did not respond to Mr. Bailey's grievance until after
you were served with a subpoena to appear on July 26, 2001. Additionally, after you filed your
initial response, you (l.gain failed to respond to follow-up correspondence from the State Bar
regarding your appell~te.representation of Mr. Bailey.
The Committee'concluded that your above,;,describedconduct violated several Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct. First, your failure to perfect Mr. Bailey's appeal violated Rule
1.3. Second, your failure to respond to Mr. Bailey or provide him with infonnation regarding the
status of his appeal violated Rules l,4(a) & (b). Third, your failure to respond promptly to the
letter of notice and fi¥iher communications from the State Bar violated Rule 8.1 (b).
In deciding tt) issue a Censure, the C()mmittee considered the follo~g aggravating and
mitigating factorS. In aggravation, the Committee considered the following factors. First, your
conduct involved numerous violations of the Rules ·of Professional Conduct. Second, Mr. Bailey
had lost his right to a direct appeal of his conviction and sentence as a result of your violations.
Third, you have prior discipline;, inclUding past violations for failure to respond to the State Bar.

I

In mitigation, the Committee considere4 the fact that you had made an effort, although
ineffective, to attempt to decline the appellate representation, and may have misunderstood the
requirements for formally withdrawing from the representation. The Committee reiterates,
however, that you niay withdraw from appointed appellate criminal representation only by filing
a formal motion anet .obtaining an order from the ~o'4rt permitting your withdrawal.
You are hereby Censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the RUles
of Professional Con4uct. The Grievance Cominittee trusts that you will ponder this Censure,
recognize the error ~hat you have made, and that you will never again ,allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This Censure should serve

I
,'.',

61··

',;

as a strong r~minder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility
to the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean
your~elf as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon
without question.
,

In accordance with the policy a~Qpted Octobe~A?'~ 1981 by the Coup,~il of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the adminis'thltive and inyesti:g&tive costs t() anY:!i,;'
attorney iSf?ued a Censure by the Grievanc~ Committee, the costs of this action in the 'amount of
$50.00 are h~reby taxed to you.

I

Done and ordered, this

'?'Z>

day

of---30()...e-kl-I--~.!-'.....,--_,,2001. .

Calvin E. Murphy
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I
:' :',':i

,

.

