/2CoG

I
i
k--~__

NORTH CAROLINA

GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
002 iGRO 14

WAKECOUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

,

WILLIAM L. DURHAM,
ATTORNEY AT LA,W

REPRIMAND

I

On July 25,2001, the Grievance ComIIiitteeofthe North Carolina State Bar
met and considered. the grievance filed against you by Shirley Price.
Pursuant to ~ection .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considerip.g the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grieva:Q.ce Comm~ttee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
.
The rules provide that after a finding of probable ~ause, the Grievance
Committee may determine that the filing of.a complaint and a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may
issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or
potential injury cau!3ed, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance
Committee may isst}e an Admonition, a Repriman,d, or a Censure to the Respondent
attorney.
A Reprimand is a written fo~m of discipline more serious than an Admonition
issued in cases in w1;lich an attorney has violated O1;le or niore provisions of the Rules
of Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct
does not require a Censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not requited in
this case and issues :this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee
of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am
certain that you w~ understand fully the spirit in which this duty is perforllled.
You represented complainant, Shirley Price, in a custody and child support
action. At a hearing on August 15, 1996, the Honorable Roland. Hayes granted Ms.
Price primary custody of her minor child and ordered the child's father, Mr. Price, to
pay child support. Judge Hayes directed you to prepare and submit a written order.
You did not pl1epare alid SUbmit a written, order on behalf of your client. Ultimately,

I
.. '

G19

,

"
,

"1

attorney Susan Gray submitted a proposed order to Judge Hayes, which order was
finally filed with the ,Clerk of Court in November 2000.
'
Regardless of any fee disp"llte that may have been occurring between you and
Ms. Price, you were directed by the court to prepare a written order. You should have
done so to protect your client's interests before terminating the attorney-clien:t
relationship. Your termination of the attorne~kelient relatio~~]:?ip prior to 9bt,~il1ing
entry of the final custody and child support order materially adversely affectea Ms.
Price's claims in that Ms. Pdce never received any child support payments from Mr.
Price due to the fact that a formal written chUd support order was n.ot filed with the
'Ierk; of Court or the North Carolina Child Support Office ulltil four years after the
rIng.
The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules
and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.' By failing to prepare and submit a written.
order to Judge Hayes, you failed to act with reasonable diligence andpromptne$s in
'
representing yo.ur client in violation of Rule 6(b)(3) of the Rules of professional
Conduct. By terminating the attorney-client relationship with Ms. Price without first
preparing andsub~itting a written order to Judge Hayes, you withdrew from
employment hefore you had taken reasonable steps to avoid foreseeable prej1,1.dice to
the rights of your clic:mt in violation of Rule 2.8(a)(2) of the Rule~ of Professional
. Conduct. By terminating the attorney-client relationship with Ms. Price without first
seeking the permission of the tribunal, you yiolated Rule 2.8(a)(1) of the :aules ·of
Professional Conduct.
In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee considered the following
aggravating factors: On May 23, 1991, the Grievance Committee issue.d to you a
Public Reprimand for n~glect of an estate and, on April 14, 1994, the Grievance
Committee issued to you a Censure for failing to perfect an appeal.
You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Ear d~e to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Coml,D.ittee trusts that you will he~d this
Reprimand, that it will be ~emembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you,and
. I t you will never again allo:, yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical ..
ndards of the legal professlOn.
.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative
costs to any attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, thecost~ of
this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby t~e<l to you.
Done and ordered, this / q.

Calvin E. Murphy
Chair, Grievance Committee

I
. : ' . ' , . ,j

- .'

