"- - .' "

-

".;.1

0'?
.;\ Lb 0' . " ~
~
BEFORE THE'

CAROLINA

,

M.LAVIGNE,
AT LAW

1

GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE.:aAR
00G0754

ARE C,OUNTY

rIlE MATTER OF

·1

)
)
)
)
)

>--,

REPRlMANP

On July 25, 2001, tlw Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
and con~idered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .Ol13(a) pfth¢ Discipline and Disa,bility Rules oIthe North
State B!lr, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
....V.,.."'''', the Grievance Comll).ittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the r1.des as j'r.easonable cause to .believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of mis.conduct justifying disciplinary action."

l'-'a..........L.LI.Q.

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance
Committee Play determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required, aJ,ld the G:devance Committee may
issue variolls levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or
potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance
Committee may issue an Admonition, a Reprimand, or a Censure to the respondent
Y
.
d•
..
fi
f eli·' • l'
.
th
Ad . 't'
'
A._ Reprllnan IS a Wrltten orm 0 - SCIP lne more serIOUS an an monl Ion
issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions oftha Rules
of Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does not reqUire a Censure.

al'e

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in .
this case a:tld issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the GrievanceCoglmittee
of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand- and I am
certain that you will underst3:nd fully the spirit in which this duty is performed..
In 1997, you were in a partnership with Dee W. Bray, Jr. During that year, you
allowed a non-lawyer employee to assume primary responsibility for t~e two trust.
accounts utilized by your law office. The Committee found that you failed to exe;rClse

I

: "1

uate supervision over your non-attorney employee's operation of your trust
As a result of your inadequate supervision, several violations of the Rules and
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct occurred. The Rules were in effect
July 23, 1997. The original Revised Rules were in effect from July 24, 1997 until
3,2000.

11- ... 6 ...............

.

First, you did not maintain all client funds in your trust account in violation of
10.2(a) and original revised 1.15-1(a). Second, you failed to promptly disburse
to third persons as directed by your clients in violation of Rule !O.l(e) and
d Rule 1.15-2(h). Third, you failed to reconcile the trust accounts at least
VTO'rnTin violation dfRule 10.2(d) and original Revised Rule 1.15-2(g) .. Fourth, you
~a.LJLvU. to maintain the minimum records required for trust accounts in violation of
10.2(a)-(c) and original Revised Rule 1.15-2(b)-(d). finally, the ab.ove violations
h"1',,, ...,.. an because you failed to ensure that yoUr firm had in effect measures giving
VQ.~)V.u.Q.UJLI:> assurance that your non-lawyer;s conduct would be compatible with your
r>r(lIe:SSlIDIllll obligations in violation of Rule. 3.3 and Revised Rule 5.3.
In deciding to is,sue this Reprimand, the Committee considered" several
and mitig~ting factors. ln aggravation, you had substl;lntial experience in
practice of law. You also had been warned by -the Committee twice in the past
years. In mitigation, the Committee considered the following mitigating factors.
First, the Committee found that the above violations were ~nintentional. Second, you
took -corrective ~ctions. to ensure that no client suffered actual harm. Third, you no
longer practice law in the State of North Carolina. Fourth, you ha.a no prior
discipline. The Committee cautions you that more severe discipline likely woulcl have
been imposed if all these mitigating factors had not been present.
"''''f~......vating

."r

I.V....... " ' ' ' '

i

You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional miscond~ct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
Reprimand, that it wij.l be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15,1981 by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxill,g of the administ:rative and investigative
costs to any attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of
tIlls action in the amQunt of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

I u.

Done and ordered, this

day of

Jr.k,

~~~
~~
~.MurphY

2001.
... ---- .. .-

. .

Chairman, Grievance Committe

I
.' . '. . .;

