NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE.COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
, ,OOG1364
., .

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MAtTER OF

DOUGLAS T. SIMONS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

OhOctbbet 17,2001, the Grievance Committee or the North C~o1ina State. Bar met alid
considered the griev~ce filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State.
Bar, the Grievance Committee cQ~ducted a preliminary hearing. After .considering the infonn~tioil, ,
available to it, including your ,response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found propable
cause. Pro1;;able cause is defined 'in the rules as "reasonable Cause to believe that a melilber of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cl::luse, the Grievance Committee .may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee maY issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
miscondl.1ct, the actual or potential injutycaused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee. may issue an admonition, areprimand, or a censure to the responden,t.attorneYJ,
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an adinonition issued incases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and ha.s
caused harm ot potential harm to a client, the ~dministration of justice~ the profession, or it member of,
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censt!!e.
..
,
The Grievance Committee WaS of the opinion that a censure is not required in this caSe and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolinl:\, State Bar,
it is now mY duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the &pitit in
which this duty is performed.
You represented the plaintiffs in a medical m~.lpractice Case captioned Williams v.
Richmond Memorial Hospital. On May 22, 2000 you ~ppeared in Richmond County Superior
Court for a hearing regarding the hospital's summary judgment motion. At the hearing, you
presented the court with the affidavit of Dr. Robert Cantu, verified on May 2,2000. The
affidavit purported to have been sworn to and subscribec;l by Dr. Cantu before a notary in yot!! .

.

:~

~-6Ifice. the affidavit indicated that Dr. Cantu believed that there was negligence on the part of

one of the physicians in the case.
buring the arguments on the motion, a question regarding the authenticity of the affidavit
arose. You advised the court that Dr. Cahtu personally appeared in your office on May 2 and
signed the affidavit in the presence of the notary. This statement was faIse and therefore violated
Ru1e 3.3 of the Revised Rules of ProfessioI).al CondUCt.
By necessity, judge~ rely upon attorneys to be honest ~n all of their dealings with the·
court. Without that trust, our system of justice would not function. Your conduct in thi!? matter
not only betrayed the trust which the court placed in yO'll, but did a disserVice to the legal
profession las a whole, by sending a message to your clients that lawsuits are won by
prevarication and tricks rather than by evidence and the law:.

I>

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that yoU will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bat regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
:bolie and ordered, this

'J ()

day of

~(

()

,2001.

Calvin E. Murphy
Chair, Grievance Coliunittee

I

1
"

!

