.

'i ~~

:'~""

,', .'

........
.

""'J."""
T':

".

'- ~

.

::~.

•

..'

,I
'. }'-'""t

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NO~TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
9800862, 98G1722
. &., 00G0813

. NORTH CAROLINA
·WAKECOUNTY

!

IN THE MATTER OF

I

CLAWSON L. WILLIAMS, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

. On July' 25, 2001, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances, filed against you by Josephine P. Tincher and the NC State B~.
Pursuant to sectioil.0113(a) of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance CommitteQ conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
availaple to it, inclqding your response to the letter of notice, the Gnevance Committee found
probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the rules 8$ "reasonable «ause to believe that a member
of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a cOl11plaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Oommission
are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of disvipline depending
upon the misconduct, the actu~ or potential injury vaused, and any aggravating or mitigating
factorS, The Grievance Committee m~y issue an Admonition, a Reprimand, '01,' a Censure to.the
.
Respondent attorney.'

I

A Reprimand is a written form of discipline mor~ serious than an Admonition issued in
cases in which an attorn~y has violated ~)lle ()r more provisions o~ the RiUes of Professional Conduct
and has caused harm or potential h~ to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a,"
member of the public, but the misconduct does not req~re a Censure.
The Grievance C()mmittee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this c~~ and "
issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance ?ommittee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I amcertam that you wlll under,stand ;fully the.
spirit in which this duty is performed.
During the period 1994 " 1997, you served as closing a~orney. and ~~ttlement agent for .
numerous real estate sale transactions involving the exchange of tImeshare uruts for lots located ne~
Pinehurst North, Carolina. In these transactions, time-share units owned by the :prop~rty buyers. . .
w~re trad~d as "deposits" on the purchase of land from various developl1,lent COin~ames. ,On7 of, '
these transactions. was between a buyer, Josephine P. Tinc~er,. and a seller, 'Sandhills Marketmg. On
ed
October 25, 1996, Sandhills Marketing sold two lots to Ms. !ln~h~r. You ser: as settlement
agent in closing the land sale transactions resulting in Ms. Tmdier s OWllQrship of the lots. A.

I
..

company named D & E M~rketing initi~lly purchased the lots from Alexander Pellicio for $5,000
each. D & E Marketing then conveyed the lots to Sandhills Marketing for nominal, if any,
consideration. Sandhills Marketing then immediately re-conveyed the lots to Ms. Tincher for
$29,900 each. Ms. Tincher obtained a bank loan to cover the purchase price of the lots. In the
Tincher transaction, Sandhills ,Marketing allowed Ms. Tincher to "trade-in" her two timeshare units
for $5,980 each, credited against the $29,900 purchase price, of the lots, plus $2,800 each paid to
Ms. Tincher at <110sing. On the settlement statement that you prepared, the timeshare credits are
reflected as a "deposit or earnest money." The $2,800 refund for each timeshare was ref,lected as a
"refund-servic6s renclered."
When she signed ,the sale pontract, Ms. Tincher executed a limited power of attorney
authorizing you to "purchase and acquire for [the buyer] and in [the buyer's] name that certain lot or
parcel of land [identified by lot number]" and further authorizing you "to sign and execute in [the
buyer's] name such not~s, deeds of trust, mortgages or other docum~nts necessary to ,obtain and
,close a loan for;[the buyer] to finance th~ purchase of said 19t." Ms. Tincher also executed a second
limited power of attorney authorizing you to "sell and convey and execute and sign such documents
as may be necesSary to sell and convey [the buyer's] interval interest ~n [a designated time share
unit]" and to "p~y any 'QIlpaid balance o~tlie purchase price of said interval ownership or any
delinquent due~ or assessments owed by [the buyer] for said interval ownership." Ms. Tincher
believed that her time-share units were to be transferred by deed to Sandhills Marketing, pursuant to
a limited power of attorney executed in yout favor by Ms. Tincher. You never transferred Ms.
Tincher's timeshare unit. Ms. Tincher has continued to be charged timeshare dues and maintenance
fees. You did not tell Ms. Tincher that you had not been retained to transfer her time-share unit or
otherwise inform her why you 'could not transfer her timeshare unit.
The Grievance Committee obtained documents from numerouS closings handled by you for
various development companies, including; 24 closings for Seven Lakes Development Corporation.
and Beacon Ridge Investment Company; 40 closings for REC Marketing; and approximately 20
'closing;s for S~dhills Marketing. Many of these transactions Were similar to the Tincher
transaction outlined above in that they involved powers of attorney authorizing you to act as
Attorney In Fact for the buyer in signing loan documents andlor executing legal documents
necessary to transfer timeshare mpts from the bllyer to the development Company.
In connection with the closing transactions, you typically received closing packages from the
banks. In most icases, all loan applications and sale contracts were executed before you received the
packages. Most often, the bank would forward loan documents t9 the buyers for execution anq then
would send the executed loan documents to you as part of the closing package. In some instances,
you executed the lpan documents pursuant to a limited power of attorney granted to you by the
buyer. The linrlted power ofattorney waS obtained from the buyer and sent to you as part of the
loan-closing package. The documents' from transactions examined by the State Bar show that at
least 32 buyer~, including Ms. Tincher, executed a power of attorney in your favor. You performed
legal services to facilitate numerous land sale tr8l1sactions for the development companies in that
'
you examined ptle, recorded <leeds and disbursed money.

I

I

You contend that you only represented the sellers in these transactions. However~ based on
your response and a review the documents from various transactions, the Grievance Comniittee
,determined that you undertook the representation of multiple parties to the transaction: the buyers,
the sellers, 8114 the lenders in the land, sale transactions. While it is trUe that the sellers paid your

of

I
'.

{"")3

GO'

:"' ~ ..:-:

I

I

fees in accordance with their contract~ with the buyers, the buyers nevertheless agreed to retain you~
at the suggestion of the sellers, to perform their loan closings and disburse funds. In those instances'
where you received a power of attorney to execute loan documents to close a loan or transfer '
timeshares, you served as attorney in fact for buyers in addition to closing attorney and settlement
agent for the transaction.
~:~~£l~::·
-'~~-<1f.::"
Where it is, the custom for a lawyer to represent a party, bufthe' lawyer does not'lintend to
represent the party in a particUlar transaction, the lawyer'must give tin:lely notice to the party, so that
the party may secure separate representation. CPR 100. It is, the custom that the buyer selects the
closing attorney. But it is not generally assumed that the buyer's lawyer will also represent the
seller. Therefore, if the closing lawyer does not intend to prepare the de'¢d or perform other legal
services for the seller, the lawyer need not give notice to the seller. RPC 210. On the other hand,
where the buyer allows the seller to select an attorney in consideration of the seller paying
attorney's fees (as in this case), the lawyer must advise the buyer in a timely manner if he does not
intend to represent the buyer. If the lawyer does not give such notice, the lawyer will be deemed to '
represent all customary ,parties. CPR 100.
In a common representation when the closing lawyer regularly repr~sents a seller who is in
the business of real estate development, the lawyer's financial interest in retaining tbe seller's
business ~ay preseut special problems. Rul~ 5.l (a) of the Rules of Professioual Conduct provides
that "A lawyer shall not represent a client if the representation ,of that client will be or is likely to be
directly adverse to another client, unless (1) the lawyer reasonably believes the representation will
not adversely affectthe interest of the other client; and (2) each client consents aft~r full disclosure
which Shall include explanation of the implications of the common representation and the
advantages and ris~s involved." RPC 210 (adopted April 4, 1997) clarifies that, "a lawyer may
reasonably believe that the common representation of multiple parties to a residential real estate
closing will not be adverse, to the interests of anyone client if the parties have already agreed to the
basic terms of the transaction and the lawyer's role is limited to rendering an opinion on title,
memorializing the transaction, and disbursing the proceeds. Before reaching this conclusion"
however, the lawyer must determine whether there is any obstacle to the lqyal representation of both
parties." Where a lawy~r h~ a long:-standing professional relationship with a seller and. a financial'
interest in continuing to represent the seller, the lawyer must carefully and thoughtfully evaluate
whether he or she will be able to act impartially in closiug the transaction. The lawyer mayproc~ed
with the comtnon representation only if the lawyer,reasonably believes that his or her loyalty to the
seller will not interfere with the lawyer's responsibilities to the buyer. Even then, th~ lawyer must
make full disclosure of the advantages and risks of common representation and obtain the cOIls~nt of
both parties before· proceeding with the representation.
If yO'ij did not intend to represent all of the parties to these real estate sale transactions, you
had a responsibility to so notify the.party whom you did not intend to represeJ,lt. You did not advis~
Ms. Tincher or any other buyer that you did no~ intend to represel;lt them in the transaction. In most,
if not all, of the transactions, the buyers were not present for closing. Many of the buyers live~ . '
outside of North Carolina and were not present for the closings. You knew tbat the sellerl1ad
arranged for payment of your fee and had selected you as the' closing attorney, at the option of tlle
buyer to retain someone else. Rarely did the buyers retain someone else. Finally, many of the' .
buyers signed a power of attorney appointing you as attorney in fact to execute loan documents, apd
convey timeshare units. You must have known that the buyers considered you their attorney for,

I
. . . .:<y.

'634

purposes of completing the closings. Further, the parties who signed powers of attorney had a
reasonable expectation that you would act as their attorney in fact.
You admit that you did not communicate with the buyers, much less make disclosures to
them concerning thy advantages and risks of common representation with the development
companies. Therefore, you did not adequately disclose to the buyers the advaD.tages and risks of
common representation, and you did not obtain the consent of both parties before p;roceedjng with
the representation. Based on these facts, the Grievance Committee concluded that you, violated
Ru1e 5.1(a) of the Ru1es of Professional Conduct. .
The Grievance Committee also found that you served as closmg attorney and escrow agent
in the sale of a lot that you originally owned to Victor Harley. You sold your lot to REC Marketing
Company for $7,500.00. Before the closing, R;EC Marketing contracted to sell the lot to Victor
'
Harley for $24,900.00. On September9, 1996, you prepared and recorded the deeds, examined title
and disbursed fund~ for the transaction between yourself and REC Marketing and for the transaction
between REC Marketing 'and Mr. Harley. You also certified title to the property to Mr. Hatley and
the lender. However, you did not disclose to Mr. Harley that you w~re the original landoWner of the
property and that you had a personal interest in the land sale transaction. You received payment for
your interest in the lot upon your disbursement of Mr. Harley's loan. You therefore violated Rule
5.1 (b) by representing Mr. Harley in a ¢atter in which your, interests were either actually or
potentially adverse to your client's, without first making adequate disclosures.

I

I

Once you undertook to represent a buyer who executed a power of attorney to transfer a
timeshare, you had an obligation to diligently complete the legal work necessary to carry out the
representation or to ,co:mtnunicate with your client concerning why you could not do so. To the
extent that you wery not retained by the sellers to complete the transfers ot were not qualified or
licensed to handle those transfers in other states, you nevertheless had an obligation to check the
status of the timesh~e transfers and to communicate with your clients, the buyers, as to what steps
, ought to be taken to. legally transfyr theit timeshare units. The Grievance Committee determined'
that, at least with respect to Ms. Tincher, you failed to ensure that the thneshares were transferred,
as contemplated by ithe partie~' contract, in violation of Rule 6(b)(3) of the Ru1es ofPtofessional
Conduct ("a lawyer shall act with reasonable diligence l:Uld promptness in representing the client.")
and that you failed to keep the clients reasonably informed about the status of the matters in
, violation of Ru1e 6(b)(2).

I

.In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee con$idered the following aggravating and
mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered that your conduct involved multiple
ru1e violations, the vulnerabilitY of the victims ,and your substantial experience in the practice of
law. In mitigation, the COinmittee' considered the fact that you have no prior discipline, you fully
and freely made disclosure to the committee and demonstrated a cooperative attitude toward
proceedings, and there wa$ a delay in the disciplinary process not attributable to you.
You are her~by Reppmand~d by the N~$ Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. the drievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand; that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, anci that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adheret;lce to the high ethical s,tandards of the leg~ prqfession.

I
I •••••••: . : , '

..'

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by 'the CoUncil of the North
the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00
are hereby taxed to you.
Carolin~ State Bar regarding

,Done and ()rdered, this

Calvin E. Murphy
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

I

I
~"

..

','
"

..

'

