5'5-~
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
,

,

,

COUNTy OF FORSYTH

.-

.'-~

. ,. ....

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION'
,00 CvS 6676

KATHY A. ANCHO,
Plaintiff,
,

bruCAN

v.,

ORDER

FAMILY LIFE

,ASSURANCE COMPANY OF
COLUMBUS, DOUGLAS HOOD,
And MARGARET HOOD,
Defendants,
This matter Came on for hearing before the undersigned judge presiding at the
March 26, 2001, tepn of court on a Show Cause Order entered by the lIon. Jlldsort D.
DeRamus, Senior Resident. Superior Col,lrt Judge, on M~eh 9, 2001. After a brief
hearing concerning scheduling issues on March 26, the matter Was held open until March
29~ at Which tUne a :full hearing was held. Present were B. Ervin Brown, counsel for the
plaintiff; H. Lee Davis, counsel for defendan,t American Family Life Assurance
Company; a,nd Stephen G. Teague, counsel for defendants 'Douglas and Margaret Hood.
No parties were present. The court gave each attorney an opportunity to present evidence
and to be heard. Based on the evidence of record in the court file and the evidence
present~d, the Court finds and'conc1uq,es a£! follows:

I

1.
this case a.-nd its relevant participants were properly ordered into mediation
pursuant to NCGS 7A- 38.1 and the Rules Implementing Statewide Mediated S~ttlement
corrferences ~ Sup~rior Court Civil Acti?ns ("MSC Rules") by O.rder dated November
15,2000, which order was properly served on counsel for all partIes.
'
2.
Rule 2 of the MSC Rmes provides that if the parties agree on a mediator, "[t]he
plaintiff's attorney shall file With the court aNotice' of Selection of MediatQ'r by'
,
Agreement within 21 days of the 'court's order." Mr. Teague agreed that Mr. Brown and
Mr. Davis could select the mediator. Mr. Brown and Mr. Davis agreed that Thorps
Craven shou).d'serve mediator and Mr. Brown agreed to file the Notice of Selection of
Mediator by agreement with the Court, Mr. Brown did not file ,this fo~m with the Court.

as

3. ' NCGS '7A-38.1(h) spec~cally provides tMt "Upon failure of the parties to'
designate a mediator within the tUne'established by the rules of the Supreme Court, a
mediator shall be appointed by the senior resident superior court judge." No form
having been filed within 21 days, the tUne allowed by the Rules,. the Court thereafter on
December 11,2000, appointed,"Tad W. Lowdermilk as the medIator to conduct the

I
:

.....,':

mediated settlement conference~ The Court timely cau,sed copies of the appointment to
be served upon ail counsel herein.
.
4.
Thereafter Mr. Brown and Mr. Davis discussed Mr. Lowdermilk',s appointment.
They agreed: that they would rather have Melvin F. Wright, Jr., serve as mediator. Mr..
Brown agreyd to seek court approval of the substitution of Mr. Wright for Mr.
Lowdermi1k~ Mr. Davis received an email saying that Mr. Brown had clone so, but in fact
Mr'-Brown did not do so. ~o such papers were filed and court approval for 'the
substitution was never obtained. Mr. Brown did notify Mr. Lowdermilk that the parties
had agreed on a different mediator.
5.
At no time thereafter did Mr. Brown notify the Court that the parties had selected
a different mediator, nor did Mr. Brown ask the COl,lrt to relieve the appointed mediator
ofl$ appomtment.

I

6.
The p~ies scheduled a mediated settlement conference with Mr. Wright for
February 9, fOOl.
'
7.
A few days beforehand, it was brought to the ll,ttention of all parties that
substitution of Mr. Wright for Mr. Lowder:niilk had not been ob~ainecl from the Court.
When all parties, counsel, and Mr. Wright arrived at the mediated settlement conference,
the situation: waS discussed. ' All parties, coUIise~ and the mediator agreed to go forward
since the conference involved numero~ parties and lawyers and some were from out of
to~ . Mr. Wnght was fully advised and aware that he had not been substituted for Mr.
Lowdermilk, In the court ordered mediation.
8.
The parties proceeded, With a mediated settlement conference. As a result the
plaintiff sett~ed with one defendant, American Famlly Life Assurance Company. No
settlement was reached with defendants Hood. Mr. Wright thereafter filed a Report of
Mediator form reporting that the conference had been held.
9.
On February 21,2001, Mr. Teague sent a letter to the Senior Resid<;lnt Superior
Court Judge indicating that the parties had agreed to Use Mr. Wright as mediator and that
they had done so. Mr. Teague in !;'lffect asked that the parties be excused from conducting
a second mediation with Mr. Lowdermilk. Mr. Davis and Mr. Brown were shown as
receiving copies of this letter. Neither Mr. Davis nor Mr. arown communicated with the
·Court.

I

10~
No party offered to payor paid Mr. Lowdermilk the admi.ttistrative fee required
by Rule 7 of the MSC Rules when the parties seek a late substitution ofa selected
mediator in place of an appointed mediator..

11.
On February 26,2001, Mr. Lowdermilk: wrote the Senior Resident Superior Court
Judge adVisfug him of the status of this matter and asking for guidance.

2

I
:,'

'. ,.> '\'

1~.

The MSC program has been in effect in this judicial district for several years and
all counsel regul~ly appear in Forsyth County Sup~rior Court. The MSC Rules clea,rly
and specific~y require plaintiff s counsel to 'advise the court when the parties select and
'."
agree upon a particular mediator. Rule 2.A. pro¥ldes:
'~\\¢1¢:' ' .
• ') \.

~~ 1

. . Selection of certified mediator by agreemel1t of parties. The parties may
select a mediator certified pursuant to these Rwe$ by agreement within 21 days
th~ court's order. The plaintiffs attorney shall file with the court a Notice of
Selection of Mediator by Agreement within 21 days of the court'~ order, however,
~y party may file the notice.
. .'
.

or

I

13.
The MSC Rules clearly ~d specj:fic~y require parties who fail to timely advise .
the Court that a mediator ha$ been selected who thereafter wish to use a selected mediator
rather than the appointed mediator to seek arid obtain court approval of the subStitUtioll of
the selected mediator for the appointed mediator an<i then to pay the appointed mediator
the administrative fee. R~e 7.C. provides: .
Change of appointed mediator. Pursuant to Rule 2.A., the parties have
twenty-one (21) days' to select a mediator. Parties who fail to select a mediator
, within that time frame and then desire a substitution after t4e court has appointed
a mediator, shall o1:>t$ court approval for the substitution, If the court approves
the substitution, the parties shall pay the comi's original appointee the $125 one
time, per case administrative fee provided for in Rule 7.B.
14.
Failure,to comply with these duties J.1,1akes work for the Court and court stafi'and
trulkes work for the appointed medi~tor. It hasthe potential to cause delays in court
proceedings. It shows disrespect for court orders. It interferes with appropriate court
superVision of the mediated settlement ·co~erence process, w$ch is court-ordere4.

I

15.
The Order $ignec;i by the Senior Resident 'Superior Court Judge appointing Mr.
Lowdermilk imposed a numper of duties on· Mr. Lowdermilk as mediator. See Rule 6.
For example, the mediator must schedUle the mediated settlement conferen~e ~4 must
conduct it before the deadline imposed by the Court order. T1:le mediator must .also report
the resuits to the court The court-appo.inted me4ia,tor remain$ under these dutle.s U]1less
and until he is ~elieved of those duties by the Senior Residel1t Superior Court Judge.
When a lawyer fails to comply with the Rules,.l1e is bein~ in~onsiderate and tude to the .
court-appointed mediator and making. work for ~he medlator for ~o good purpose. In this
case, for example, as a result ofMr, Brown's failure to comply wlth :he Rule~, Mr.
.
Lowdermilk hael to write a letter to the Senior Resident Judge for w.udanc~. .
16.
Mediatiol1 PUrs~t to the statute offers some ~ubstanti~protecti?ns.t? the parties'
and the mediator. Negotiations are not' admissible, and the mediator has JudlC~
irmnunity. Had the parties implied to Mr. Wright t~at .h~ ~d bee~ proper~y de:;ngnatec;i,.
this would have implied to Mr. Wright that he had JUdlcW. :unmumty ~orhis .~cts,~hen m
fact he did hot. However, in this c,ase Mr. Wright was:fully and accurately wormed-of
the status of the matter before the mediated settlement co~erence took'pla~e. ~o

3
,:",;

I

...

.....

,:",,'

:'::,

(!~2
u
(~

attorney or party misled Mr. Wright as of the dated he conducted a mediated settlement
conference.
17. , Parties to a lawsuit may voluntarily participate in any alternative to litigation at
any time if they all consent. That appears to be what illlppened here on February 9. The
me4iated settlement 90nfereIice that occurred on that day. did not occur pursuant to statute
and rules and was not a court-ordered mediated settlem~nt conference. But as all parties
agreed to' it, there w~ certajuly nothing wrong with it happeJ?ing.
18.
B. Ervin Brown, co'unsel for the plaintiff, failed to notify the CoUrt that the parties
had selected a mediator within 21 days of the date this case waS ordered to mediation.
Such failure violated the requirements of Rule 2 of the MSC Rules. '

I

19.
B. ErVin Brown, counsel for the plaintiff, failed to seek substitution of a selected
mediator for an appointed mediator from the Court as allowed by the Rules when he had
agreed with other coUnsel that he would do so. He failed to notify the Court that th~
parties had agreed upon another mediator in a timely fashion and cijsregarded the Court's
Order appointing Mr. Lowdermilk as mediator. He did not pay or'offer to pay the
adminiStrative fee to Mr. Lowdermilk required by Rule 7.C. S\lch failures violated the
requirements of the Rules.
20.
Mr. Brown asserts that he asked his office staff to take ,care of what he deemed to
" be the clerical tasks of filling out the needed forms and filing them with th~ Court.
However, he admits that this was his ,ultimate respopsibility and acknowledges that he
made mistakes in meeting his responsibilities in t~ case.
21.
~. Brown by his actions and, inactions set forth herein violated RRPC 1.3 an.d
further violat~d his professiona1:obligations to his client and to the Court. He further
neglected to insure t1;1at he had carried through oli promises made to opposing counsel on
which they were reasonably relying. By his failure to comply with the Rules, he exposed
his client to the possibility of sanctions. His actions and inactions further resulted in
accusations ~ainst the defendant and defense counsel.
22.
Mr. Brown has on at least one other occasion failed to comply with his
obligations under the MSC Rules. See Sands. v. RJ. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 90 CvS
2603; Forsyth Count' Superior Co1lrt.

I

Whil~ Mr. Wright ,had no obligation to file a report with the Court about the
results of the mediation as the mediation was not court-ordered, Mr. Wright did file such
a report. It is now of record and isa certification by Mr. W~ght,.who is a certified
mediator; that he conducted the mediated settlement conference pursuant to the Rilles and
statutes, governing court-ordered mediation. Under' all the, circumstances, the Court will
not require a second mediated settle~eIit conference to be conducted.

43.

24.' 'Stephen Teague and H. Lee Davis reasonably relied on Mr. Brown to notify the
Court that the'parties had selected a mediator Within 21 days of the date this cas~ Was

I
:.~

'

..

:.'.-

.
.
·1~1i'.(r.-;'~:- :.,')'.Y ;'~I;'"

;;,

;",,~;

';i; ,:'

ordered to mediation., They thereafter reaso~bly relied on Mr. Brown to oQtain courtapproval of the substitution of Mr. Wright for Mr. Lowderrilllk. At no time did Mr.
Teague arMr. Davis mislead the Court, either directly or indirectly or by their 'silence,
about th~ status of the mediated settlement conference.
.
.

.

-

-

"f¥t~f~"
..

I

.l ",

~_4'}'

~;;.t4~'j>:l"
','ttt'

~

-.~\ "t..
,I,

-

•

25.
Stephel'l: Teague has not v:\olated any of the Rules governing Mediated Settlement
Conferences or any of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in copnection with his
actions in this case and as. to himthe Show Cause Order should be di$miss~d and
expunged.
26.
H. Lee Davis has not violated any of the Rules governing Mediated Settlement
Conferences qr any of the Revised Rules ofProfe$sional Conduct in connection with his
actions in this case,and as to him the Show Cause Order should be dismissed and
expunged.
27.
The plaintiff does not appear to be responsible for Mr. Brown's failures in this
case other than vicariously and she did not hel,'selfviolate the Rules. In the Court's
discretion the Court will hot impose any sanctions on t,he plaintiff and will dismiss'the
Show Cause Order as to the plaintiff.
28.
Neither defendat,lt took any action in violation of the Rules ~d 'the Court will
dismiss the Show Cause Order as to each defendant.

on

In the Court's discretion based the evidence and the law, a.fter cOnSider~tion of
lesser and inore serious, sanctions, and in its inherent authority and duty to supervise
attorneys and enforce its own Rwes, it is therefore 'ORDERED that:
1.

I

2.
3.

4.
5.
6.

The Show Cause, Order against B. Lee Davis is DISMISSED and .
EXPUNGED.
,
The Show C~use Order against Stephen Teague ,is DIS11ISSED and
EXPUNGED.
'
'The Show Cause Order against the plaintiff and each defendant is
DISMISSED.
B. Ervin Brown is REPRIMANDED' for 'his violation his professional
obligations to his clie~t ~d to the Court and for his violation of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct in connection with his actions in this case, '
B. Ervin Brown 'SHALL within ten d~ys 'ofthe date ofthis Or4er pa,y to Ta4
W. Lowdermilk the sum of$125 as the administrative fee required under the'
terms ofR~e 7. He SHALL mail a copy of this Order to Mr. Lowdermilk..
B. Ervin Brown SHAri within ten days of the date ofthis Order read and.
study the statute and Rules governing Mediated Settlement, Conferences in
Superior CoUrt. He SHALL obtain a copy oftJ1e current Rules frotnthe
Dispute Resolution Commission. He SHALL withiri ten clays of the date of
this Or4er Write letters of apology to the Senior Resident Superior Cotirt .
Judge, to H. Lee Davis,Jo Stephen Teague, and to Tad yv. Lowdermllk.

""

I
,:.' "

,'.'

..

",)"
(,

Ct.4

7.

8. .

9.

10.
11.
12.

B. Ervin Brown SHALL within ten days. ofthe date ofthis Order prep~e and
implem~nt a written procedure for use within his office to insure that the
Rules concerning selection and substitution of mediators are complied with
and that he is taking personal responsibility for this complian~e.
B. Ervin Brown SHALL file an.aflidavit showing compliance with this Order .
within fifteen days of the date of this Order. He SHALL attach copies of the
letters of apology required by this Ordet,.a copy ofthe Rules he has reviewed
andst~died, aIid a copy of the writte11 procedure required by Paragraph 6.
B. Ervin Brown is wained,.that further violations of the Rules governing
Mediated Settlement Conferences and the .Revised Rilles of Professional
. Conduct can result. in suspension ofhis privilege·to practice law in th~ .
Superior Court.
..
1'ad W. Lowqermilk is relieved of the appointme:p.t to serve as mediator in this
case.
The parties are relieved oftherr obligation to participate in a court-ordered
mediated settlement conference.
the Clerk shall mail a copy of this Order to all counsel of record.

I

rw

5~
This _
_ day of~.~~::--_..,--_-,-~--' 2001.

Superior Court Judge Presiding

I

\

6

I
..... :

·'';

..

, -·'r

3.

4.

I
5:

6.

7.

8.

9.

I

10.

B. Ervin Brown SHALL within ten days oftheda,te of this Order pay to
Jennifer Labosky th~ sum of$125 as the administrative'fee required by Rl.\le
7. He SHALL furth~r within ten.days of the date of this Order pay to Jenpifer
Labosky the sum of $500 t6 comgensate her for her time in attending ,the '
hearings during the week ofMarc!i'2'6 and as a sanctioh. He SHALL ,further
Within ten days'ofthe date ofthis Order pay to Jennifer Labosky the slJIIlof
$125 to compe~ate her for her tiIneon January 29.
B. Ervin Brown SHALL within ten days of the date of this Order read and
study the statute and Rules governin.g Mediated Settlement Conferences in
Superior Court. He SHALL obtain a copy of the current Rules from the
Dispute Resolution Commission. He SHALL within ten days of the date of
this Order write letters of apology to the Senior Resident Superior Court Judge
and to Jennifer Labosky. He SHALL mail a copy of this Order to Jon
HarkaVY.
B. Ervin Brown SHALL within ten days of the date of this Order prepare and
implement a written procedure for use within his office to insure that the
Rules conceining selection and substitutiol1 of mediators are complied with
and that he is taking personal responsibility for this compliance.
B. Ervin Brown SHALL file an.affidavit showing compliance with this Order
within fifteen days of the date of this Order, He SHALL attach cqpies of the
letters of apology required by this Order, 'a copy of the Rules he has reviewed
and studied, and a copy of the written procedUre required by Paragraph 6.
B. Ervin BroWI;1 is warned that further violations of the Rules governip.g
Mediated Settl~Illent Conferences and the Revised Rules ofProfe~~ional
Conduct can result ill suspension ofhis privilege to practice law in the
,
Superior Court.
Jennifer Labosky is re,lieved of the appointment to serve as l11ediator-in this
cas~.
,
'The parties ar.~ relieved of their obligati~n to participate in a mediated
settlement conference.
The Clerk shall m,a.il a copy of this Order to all counsel 'Of record and to
Jennifer Labosky.

J}~
..

h-f/t

This _V..::--'_ day of---1..!4fa.Jf1.J/U.A-'I!--....:..:...-=-----....,---~' 2001.

Superior Court Judge Pres·'

7

I
;:

.

I

I

I

C~ 7

'

