STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA
-.'

~

COUNTY OF FORSYTH

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
00 CvS 2603

, MICHAEL SANDS,
Plaintiff,
ORDER

v.

I

RJ. REYNOLDS TOBACCO'CO.,
Defendants,
,
This matter came on for hearing before the undersjgned judge presiding at the
March 26,2001, term of court on a Show Cause Ord~r entered by the Hon. Judson D:
D~Ramus, Senior Resident Superior Court Judge, on March 9, 2001. When the matter
was called for hearing close to the end oft4e morning session on March 26, the Court
held a brief hearing concerning scheduling issues and then held the matter open W1tU
March 29, at which time a :fi.lll hearing was held. Present wer~ B. Erxif\ Brown, counsel
for the plaintiffand Jennifer Labosky, the court-appointed mediator. \V.R. Loftis, counsel
for the defendant, was present, as a witness. The Court called Ms. Laboskyto 'testify and.
, th~n gave Mr. Brown an opportunity to present evid~nce and to be heard. Ba~ed0n the
evidence of record in the court file and the evidence presented, the Court finds and
concludes as follows:
....-~.
.
1.
This c~e and its rel~vant participa,nts were properly ordered into mediation
pursuant to NCGS 7A- 38.1 and the Rules Implementing Statewide Mediated Settlement
Conferences in Superior Court Civil Actions (''MSC Rules") by Order dated July 14,
2000, which order was properly served on counsel for all p~ies.
'

I

2.
Rule 2 of the, MSG Rules provides that if the patties agree on a mediator, ~'[t]he
plaintiff's attorney shan file with the coUrt a Notice of Selection of Mediator by .
Agreement within 21 days of the court's order." Mr. Loftis and. Mr, 13roWJ:? selected Jon
Flarkavyto serve as mediator and Mr. Brown agree<:i to file th~,Notice ofSelectiol1 of '
.Mediator by agreement with th~. Mr. Brown did not ~e tWs furt!l wi~ the Court•.
3.
NCGS 7A-38.1(h) specificaUy,provides that "Upon failure ofthe paJ~t1es to
e
'designate a mediator within th~ time ¢st~biis~ed by the r.ule~ of t~e Sup;;m. ~ourt, a. ,
mediator shall be appointed by the sepiot resIdent supenor ~9urt Judge. N~ form havmg
been filed within 21 days, the time allowed ,by the Rules,' the Court t~ereaft~ron August
15,2000 appoip.ted Dudley Humphrey as ~e mediat9r t~ conduct the tp.edlated settlement
conference'. The Court timely caused ~oples of the apPOlntn;eIlt to be. served ,upon all
counsel herein. Mr. Humphrey informed the court of a pOSSIble conflict and as~ed tJ;at
another mediator be appointed. The Court appointed J~nnifer La?osky as mediator
e 1Il
lieu of Mr. Humphrey on August 22,2000. The Court s Order drrectedthat th.

1

I

cenference be cetnpleted by Nevember 10,2000. The Ceurt timely caused cepies of the
appeintment to. be served upen all ceunsel herein.
4.
Thereafter Mr. Brown and Mr. Leftis discussed Ms. Labesky's appeintment. Mr.
Brewn agreed to. seek ceurt appreval efllie substitutien efMr., Harkavy fer Ms. Labesky
but Mr. Brewn did net de so.. No. ,such papers were filed and ceurt appreval fer the
substitutien was never ebtained. Mr. Brewn did net then netify Ms. Labesky that the
parties had agreed en a different tnediater.
S.
Upen 1Jletien'efthe defendant, the deadline fer cempletien efthe cenference was
extended until Nevember 20, 2000.
'

6.
At seme point Ms. Labesky cemmunicated with,ceunsel after her appeintment
and scheduled a mediated settlement cenference fer Nevember 10, 2000. At no. time did
Mr. Brewn indic~te that the parties weuld be using anether mediater. Upen request ef
Mr. Loftis, Ms. Labosky rescheduled the mediated settlement cenference fer January 29,
20.01. At no. time until January 20,2001, did Mr. Brewn tell Ms. Labesky that the parties
wanted to. use another mediater.

7:

I

On January 20, 2001, Mr. Brewn wrete to. Ms. Labosky and stated as fellews:
Due to. an apparent everlapin themails.ceunselferbethpartiestethis
litigatien had already designated Jehn [sic] HarkaVy efthe Greensboro bar to.
mediate ¢is ~ase prier to. your being designated by the ceurt. We apeleg~ fer
the mixup and leek ferward to. werking with yeu the 'next time areund~
Please be so. kind as to. send a letter to. the Fersyth Ceunty trial
adtnittistr~terindicating this change. Ifyeu have any questie~ please feel free to.
give me a call.
'

Mr. Brewn did net effer to. pay e~ pay the a~rative fee required by Rule 7.
,8.
Upen,receipt' efthis letter, Ms. Labesky checked with ceurt staff and learned that
there was no. erderin the file relieving her efher duties as mediater. She'did net cartcel
er reschedple the mediated settlement cenference and so. infermed ceunsel.

I

9.
At this point Mr. Brewn asked that the mediatien be centinued until a later date.
Ms. Labesky deI)ied this request. 'Nfr. Brown qr semeene in his effice later infermed Ms.
Labesky that Mr.. ,Brewn had to. be in Superier CeUrt in Rewan Ceunty en January 29 and
that he expected to. be first fer trial that week'. Ms. ,Labosky spek~ with ,Mr. Brown's
asseciate, Mr. Gi1?bs, who teld Ms. ):..abosky that he weuld attend the mediated settlement
cenference on January 29,2001.
"
10.
On January 29,2001, Mr. Brewn called Mr. Loftis and teld himjhe mediatien
was cancelled. At the date, time, and place scheduled, January 29,2001 at 2 p.m. at Mr.
Leftis' effice, counsel fer the defendant appe.ared. With the mediater's permission, the
.

I:

.

2

I
('

defendant was available on ten-minute standby. Neither plaintiff nor plaintitfs counsel
appeared.
11.
Mr. Brown was in Rowan, County ~};lp'~rior Court on J@'l,lar)! 29, 200'1, in
connection with a jury trial., At some point "before 2 p.lll:., MrJiJarc)wn l;lSked the;presiding
judge, the Hon. W. Erwin Spainhour, to call Mr. Loftis' o:6lce. Juqge Spainho-qr diq so.
Ms. Labosky had not arrived and Judge Spainhour told Mr. Loftis that Mr. Brown was in
Rowan County Superior Court. 1
'

I

12.
Ms. Labosky thereafter filed a Report of Mediator ~d ~so wrote the Senior
Resident Superior Court Judge about the status of the mediated settlement conference.
13.
On 'March 9, ZOOl , Jon Harkavy filed a report of Mediator with the Court
indicating that he had conducted a mediated settlement cqnferenc~ with the "parties of this
cas~ on that date pursuant to Court Order.
.
14.
The MSC program has been in effect in this judicial djstrict for several years and
counsel for the plaintiff regularly app~ars in Forsyth County Supenor Court. Mr. Brown
is deemed to be aware of the requirements ofNCGS 7A-38.1, the MSC Ru1es~ and the
local rul~S of this judicial district further implementing this statute and rules. The MSC
Ru1es clearly and specifically require plaintiff's courtsel to .advise the court when the
parties select an4 agree upon a particu1ar mediator. Rule 2.A. provides:
, Selection of certified mediator by agreement, of parties. The parties may
select a mediator certified pursuant to these Rules by agreement withln 21 days of
the court's order. The plaiPti;ff's attorney shall file with the court a Notic,e of
Selection of Mediator by Agreement wIthin 21 days of the court's order, however,
any party ~y file the notice.
'

I

15.
The MSC Rules clearly and specifically require parties who fail to ,timely advise '
the Court that a mediator has been selected. who thereafter wish to, use a selected mediator
rather than ,the appointed mediator to seek and o~taih court approval of the substitution of
, the selected meciiator fOf the appointed mediator and then to pay the appoip.ted mediator
the adrninjstrative fee. Ru1e 7.C. provides:
Change ,of appointed mediator. Pursuant tq Ru1e 2.A., the parties have '
twen.ty-one (21) days to select a mediator., Parties who fall to select'a mediator
, within that time ftame I:ll1d then desire a substitution after the court 'has appointed
a mediator~ sPall obtain court approval for the substitution. If the court approves
the substitution, the parties shall pay the court's original appointee the $125 one
time, pel:' case administrative fee provided for ill Rule 7.B.
'
------~~~--~,-----

,

the hearing, Mr. Brown filed an affidavit in,this matter concerning Juc;lge Spainhour's involvement.
:ay accepting the evidence that Judge Spainhour called Mr. Loftis, the Court does not accept Mr. BroWn's
'statement in his ~ffi.da:vlt concerning the testimony of Mr. Loftis and Ms; Laboskyon this point. The Court
recalls their testiinony differently ami do~s not believe its findings are inconsi~tent with the testimony of
Mr. Loftis,and Ms. Labosky. '
'
1 After

3

16.
Failure to comply with these duties makes work for the Court and court staff and
makes work for the appointed mediator. It has the potential to cause delays in court
proceedings. It shows disrespect fot court orders. It interferes with appropriate court
supervision of the ~ediated settlement conference process, which is court-ordered.
I

,17.
Mediation in this case was court-ordered. As allowed by statute, this means that
the Court required the parties to participate. Because the court, requires parties to
participate, the!Court and the public have a substap.tial interest in insuring that the
mediator involved in the mediation is comp~tent arid well trained. tue Ru1es therefore
set forth a detailed process whereby the Dispute Resolution Commission certifies
mediators. The Ru1es further require that only after certification may a person be
appointed to s~rve as a mediator. Court approval remains' required when the parties
select a mediator, to be sure that the person conducting the court-ordered MSC which the
parties are requireq. to attend i$ competent and well-trained and to be sure that the
mediator will follow the requirements of the statute and Ru1es.

I

18.
Mediation is not to delay trial. When attorneys fail to comply with the MSC
Rules, delays are often the result. Then the mediation process becomes a hindrance to
:final resolution, whether by settlement or by trial, instead of a process that facilitates
resolution of a case. In this case the court ordered that the mediation oCC"Qr before
November 20,2000, but it did not occur before tm:tt date.
19.
The Order signed by the Sepior Resident Superior Court Judge appointing Ms.
Labosky imposed a number of duties on Ms. Labosky as mediator. See Rule 6. For
example, the mediator must schedu1e the mediated settlement conference and must
conduct it before the deadline imposed by the Court order. The mediator must also report
the results to the court. The co:urt-appointed mediator remainS under these duties unless
and until she i~ reliyved of~hose duties by the Senior Resident Superior Court Judge. A
lawyer may nQt unilaterally ,cancel a mediated settlement conference s~hedu1ed by 'a
mediator. See Ru1e 7.E. When a lawyer fails to comply with the Rules, he is being
inconsiderate andnide to the court-appointed mediator and makitlg wQrk for the mediator
for no good purpose. In this case, for e~ple, as a resu1t of Mr. Brown's failUre to
comply with the Ru1es, M~. Labosky spent time scheduling mediated settlement
conferences, reading correspop.dence from Mr. BroWl'l, investigating the 'status of this
matter, conferring with the Court sta£t: and writing a letter: to the Senior Resident Judge
for gui~ance. . '

I

20.
Mediation p:ursuant to the statute offers some substantial protections to the parties
and the mediator. Negotiation.s are not admissible, and the mediator,hasj~dicial
immunity. It ls inappropriate to imply to a selected mediator that he has been approved
to conduct a ~ourt:-required mediation ifhe has not; to do so wou1d imply to the mediator
that he had judicial immunity for his acts, wh~n ill fact he did not.
21.
Partie~ to' a'lawsuit may volunt~y particip~te in any alternative to,litig~tion at
, any time if they all consent. That ap~ears to be what happened here on March 9. The,

'4

I
J

mediated settlement ·conference that occurred on that day did not occur pursuant to statute
and rules and was p-ot a court..,ordered mediated settlement conference. In this particular .
case there is no specwc evidence concerning whether the'mediator was aware that the
mediation he was conducting was not pursuant) i9,,<~jatute and nile bUJ rather was pursuant .
to agreement. The fact that Mr. Harkavy filed fR~port ofMediato·r\\>'ould indica:tethat .
Mr. Harkavy thought he was conducting the mediation pursuanti~"'court order. .Be~~~se
of the lack of.sp~i:fic evidence on this point, the Court will not make any nndings of any
violations in this regard.
.
.
. .

-I'. 22.

B; Ervin Brown, counsel for the plaintiff, faned to notifY the Court that th~ parties
selected a mediator within.21 days of the date this case wasordet~d to mediation.
Such failure violated the requirements of Rule 2 of the MSC Rules.

~d

23.
B. Ervin Brown, counsel for the plaintiff, failed to seek substitution of a seiected
mediator for an appointed mediator .from the Court as allowed by the Rules when he had
agreed with other counse~ that he would do so. He failed to notifY the Court that the· .
parties had agreed upon another :mediator in a timely fashion and disregardecJ the CoUrt;s
Order appointing Ms. Labosky as mediator. He did not payor offer to pay the
adminiStrative fee to Ms. Labosky required by Rule 7.C. Such failures violated the
requirements of the Rules.
.
.
24,
By his letter of J~uary 20, 2001, Mr. Brown attempt~d to shift his r.esponsibility .
. for seeking court approval of the substitution of mediator to MS. Labosky. This was
inappropriate, r:ude, inconsiderate, 1Plprofessionaland shows an attempt by Mr. Brown to
avoid a duty that clearly lay on his own shoulders. By his actions d:uri1lg the two-week
period leading up to Janlli!!Y 29, Mr. Brown showed to the mediator an unwarranted
c~ua1ness about compliance with Court Orders and Supreme Court Ru1es and reasonably
appeared to the mediator to be dissembling in order to avoid the mediated settlement
confer~i1ce. He further purported to cancel a mediated s~ttlement conferenc~ when he
.had no authority to do so. . .

I

:4.5.
Mr. Brown asserts that he asked his office staff to take care of what he deemed to
be the clerical tasks offilling out the needed forms and filing thein with the Court:.
Ho·wever, he admits that this was his ultimate responsibility and ackncrwledges that he .
·made mistakes in meeting his responsibilities in this case..
26.
Mr. Brown was in Superior Court on JrulUary 29. While ordi:naJ.'ily a court
..
appearance in Superior Court would certainly' take precedenc~. over a m~diated settlement
conferelic~, art attorney who is aware that a mediator is attempting to schedule a
m~diatiori should ·make every effort to ~orm that mediator of~ court s~hedule in
advance so that such a con:l:lict can be avoided. If a mediation is s~heduled on a date and
time an attorney has to be in court, the attorney should immediately inform the mediator
of the. conflict, preferably in writing. Here, Mr. Brown informedthe med~tor of this
conflict only a few days before the scheduled conference, under ci1;c~tances. tlult
reasonably caused the mediator to question this conflict. Moreover, Mr; Gibbs told Mr.
Labosky he would attend the conference. Mr. Gibbs' name is on the pleadings· in this

5

I
:

""

.:

case and Mr. Brown has offered no reason why his associate could not attend the
conference as required by Rule 4.A.1.c. A lawyer should show courtesy and respect for
others involved in court proceedings and Mr. Brown's dilatory conduct herein. evidences
the opposite. Eyen during the court proceedings in connection with this matter Mr.
. Brown by his attitude, tone of voice, and questions to Ms. Labosky showed nothing but
disdafu for Ms. Labosky such that the Court had to intervene and instruct Mr. Brown to
he polite. Ms. L~bosky has done nothing inappropriate.
27.
Mr. BroWn by his 'ldions and inactions set forth herein violated RRPC 1.:1, RRPC
3.2, and RRPC 4.4 and further violated his professional duties to his client and to the
Court. His pro¢rastination and dilatory conduct exposed his client to the possibility of
sanctions for violating the Rules. As a result ofhis mistakes and failures, he has
inconvenienced .Ms. Lab?sky and caused extra work for Judge Spainhour and Mr. Loftis ..

I

28.. Mr. BroWn has on at least one other occasion failed to comply with his
obligations under the MSC Rules. See Ancho v. AFLAC, 00 CvS 6676, Forsyth County
Superior Court.
29.
While Mr. Harkavy had no obligation to file a report with the Court about the
results of the mediation he conducted in March, as the mediation was not court-ordered,
Mr. Harkavy did file such a report. It is now of record and is a certification by Mr~
Harkavy that he..conducted the mediated settlement conference pursuant to the Ru1es and
statutes governing court-ordered mediation. Because of this and in the light of all the
facts and circumstances about this case, the Court will not require a second mediated
settlement conference to be conducted PUJ:suant to court order.
30.
Ms. Labosky was present in court for three and a halfhours on March 26 and
again for an hour on March 29 to. participate in these proceediligs. She was a necessary
witness and her attendance and t~stimoliy was helpful to the Court in understanding the
events at issue •. She spent time schedu1ing the mediated settlement conference in this
case and is·entitled to an administrative fee. She had to appear for the conference on
January 29 and shou1d be paid for her time on that date.
.

.

31 .. The plaintiff does not appear to be responsible for Mr. Brown's failures in this case
other than vicariously.. In the Court's discretion the Court will not impose any ·sanctions
on the plaintiff l;U1d will dismiss the Show Cause Order as to the plaintiff.

I

In the Court's discretion based on the evidence and the law, after consideration of
lesser &rid more, serious sa.nctions, and in it~ inherent power and duty to supervise
.attorneys and enforce
its own Ru1es, it is.therefore
ORDERED that:
,
.
1.

2.

The:Show Cause Order against the· plaintiff is DISMISSED.
B. Ervin Brown is REPRIMANDED for hiS violation of the Rules goveri1ing
Mediated Settlement Conferences arid the Revised Ru1es of Professional
Conduct in conne~tion with his actio~ in, this case..

6

I
~

fL' - "l> .

~~~

.

3.

B. Ervin Brown SHALL within ten days ofthe date ofthis Order pay to
Jennifer Labosky the sum of$125 as the a,dministrative'fee required by Rtile '
7. He SHALL ':tUrther within ten,.days of the d,ate ofthis Order pay to.Jennif~r,
Labosky the sw¥J:!of$500 to COPlpensate her for hel; t4n,ein attending the
heanngs during the week of Marcn' 26 and as a sanction. He SHALL 1.Urfuer
Within ten days' of the date of this Order pa,y to Jennifer Labosky the sUm of
$125 to compensate her for her time on January 29.
B. Ervin Brown SHALL within ten days of the date of this Order read t\l)d
study the statute a,nd Rules governing Mediated Settlement Conferences ill
Superior Court. He' SHAL~ obtain a copy of the current Rules frdm;the
Dispute Resolution Commission. He SHALL within ten d~y~ of the date of
this Order write letters of apol()gy to the Senior Resident Superior Court Judge .
and to Jennifer Labosky. He SHALL mail a copy oftrus Order to Jon ".
Harkavy.
B. Ervin, Brown SHALL within ten days of the date of this Order prep~e and
implement a written procedure for use within his office to in$ure that the ,
Rules concernmg selection and substitution ofmediato.rs are complied with
and that he is taking personal responsibility for this compliance. '
B. Ervin Brown SHALL file an affidavit showing compliance with this Oider
within fifteen 'days' of the date of this Order~ He, SHALL attach cqpies of the
letters of apology required by this Order, a copy of the Rules he has reviewed
and studied, and a copy of the written procedure required by Paragraph 6.
B. Ervin Brown is warned that further violations of the RUles governing
Mediated Settl~ment Conferences and the Revised Rules dfProf~s~iona1
Conduct can result in suspension ofhis privilege to practice lawm the
Superior Court.
, .
Jennifer Labosky is re.lieved,ofthe appointment to serve as mediator in this
case.
The parties are relieved of their obliga:ti~n to part.icipate in a mediated '
settlement conference.
The Clerk shall mail a copy of this Order to aU counsel'ofrecord and to
Jennifer Labosky.
.... ~'';.;IC.,JV.;t

•

4.

I
5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

I

10.

t4'f,,':.

"_

'.

j)~

5#1

This --'-_ day of--l.L4f4tAYUA.'F-_~-=-----------";""--:" 200:1.
'.,'

'Superior CoUrt Judge Pres'

7

I
"

:. ",:'

nCO

'.v .:J. .).

:

