'.
,>

'1

:....J'

"1

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO": 08 M
_

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY
IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER OF
SURRENDER OF THE LAW LICENSE
OF

I
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

ANTHONY G. YOUNG, Attorney

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of
Wake County upon the tender of surrender of his law license by Anthony G. Young.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, Anthony G. Young (hereinafter "Young"), the Court makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Young was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in August 1995 and
is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
2.
During all of the periods relevant hereto, Young was engaged in the
practice of law in Charlotte, North Carolina.
3.
Young is aware thai there is presently pending an investigation regarding
allegations that he has been guilty of misconduct by conspiring to engage in mortgage
fraud and participating in said fraud by actions taken in the course of closing real estate
transactions and by distributing funds differently than as stated on the HUD-l Settlement
Statements.
4.
A Bill of Indictment was filed against Young in the United States District
Court for the Western District of North Carolina, Docket No.3 :07CROOI73-W, alleging
conspiracy to commit mortgage fraud in violation of 18 US.C. § 371, mail fraud and
aiding and abetting in violation of 18 U .S.C. §§ 1341 and 2, bank fraud and aiding and
abetting in violation of 18 US.C. §§ 1344 and 2, conspiracy to engage in money
laundering in violation of 18 U.S.c. § 1956(h), and money laundering and aiding and
abetting in violation of 18 U.S.c. §§ 1957(a) and 2.
5.
Young has entered into a plea agreement in which he agreed to enter a
plea of guilty to enter a plea of guilty to conspiracy to commit mortgage fraud in
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371 and mail fraud and aiding and abetting in violation of 18
U.S.C. §§ i341, and surrender his license to practice law.

.L.

6.
Young desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in North Carolina.
Young's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result
7.
of coercion or duress. Young is fully aware of the implication of submitting his
resignation.
8.
Young acknowledges that the material facts upon which the investigation
is predicated are true.
9.
Young has submitted his resignation because he knows that if disciplinary
charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could not
successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
By conspiring to engage in mortgage fraud and participating in said fraud
by actions taken in the course of closing real estate transactions and by distributing funds
differently than as stated on the HUD-1 Settlement Statements, Young engaged in
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer
in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Young's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
2.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(l) and (2).
3.
The Courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary
action against attorneys practicing therein.
4.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person of Anthony G. Young and of
the subject matter of this proceeding.
5.

Young has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
l.
Carolina.

Anthony G. Young is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North

2.

Young shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter

1, Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State

l

Bar and shall surrender his license and pennanent membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124. Young shall
have thirty (30) days from the date of the entry of this order to complete the requirements
of § .0124.
3.
Young shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
expiration of at least five (5) years from the date of this order.
4.
Young's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125.
5.

The costs of this action are taxed against Young.

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY
IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER OF
SURRENDER OF THE LAW LICENSE
OF

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF mSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO.: 08 M

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF
LAW LlCENSE

ANTHONY G. YOUNG, Attorney

Anthony G. Young, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.
3. I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations
that I have been guilty of misconduct by conspiring to engage in mortgage fraud and
participating in said fraud by actions taken in the course of closing real estate sales and
by distributing funds differently than as stated on the HUD-l Settlement Statement. A
Bill ofIndictment was filed against me in the United States District Court for the Western
District of North Carolina, Docket No. 3:07CROOI73-W, alleging conspiracy to commit
mortgage fraud in violation of 18 U.S.c. § 371, mail fraud and aiding and abetting in
violation of 18 U.S.c. §§ 1341 and 2, bank fraud and aiding and abetting in violation of
18 U.S.c. §§ 1344 and 2, conspiracy to engage in money laundering in violation of 18
U.S.C. § 1956(h), and money lmmdering and aiding and abetting in violation of 18
U.S.C. §§ 1957(a) and 2.
4. I have entered into a plea agreement in which I agreed to enter a plea of guilty to
conspiracy to commit mortgage fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371 and mail fraud and
aiding and abetting in violation of 18 U.S.c. §§ 1341, and surrender my license to
practice law.
5. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.
6. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend
against them.
/

'£::----

This the ~ day of February, 2008.

~k

H/k~c-,

1,
bul/J
Notary Public of the County of &{yn/
State of N th Carolina, certif . hat Anthony G. Young personally appeared before me
this day, was sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of his own
personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.
This the ~ day of February, 2008.

N ota-.....-n . .:Kl<L..?
My Commission Expires: ~.......-~~---t!_IIV--fI'tIlRllG
VftIon COUI'ItY
NottttCOfOIIna
_~

Jon 16.2012

