.1;'

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
,
DISCiPLINARY HEARING COMMISSiON '.
'OFTHE

WAKE COUNTY

.

NORTHCAROLINASTATEBAR .
t::';",!;,i
00 DHC '~f" .'

)'

TaE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
. Plaintiff

I

)

)
FINDINGS OF FACT,
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
)
ORDER OF DISCWLINE

v.
BARRY NAKELL, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)

This. matter came on to be heard before a hearing committee of the Oisciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred H. Moody, Jr., Chair; Joseph G. Maddrey; and Robert BI~~.
James G. Exum, Jr. represented the Defendant, Barry Nakell. A. RoOt Edmonson represented the
North Carolina State Bar. Based upon the pleadings and the stipulations,contained in the p;retrial order, the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
...

1. The pl$tiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in '
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes. of North Carolina, ~d the Rules and Regulations of the North "
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2..The defendant, Barry Nakell (hereinafter, ''Nakell''), was admitted to the North
CaroliiJa State B~ on March 1; 1979 and is, and waS at all times refert~d to herein, an Attorney
at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations~ and Ru1es of
Professio:QalConduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

I

3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Nakell actively engaged in the practice of .
law in the Sta~e, of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city ·of Chapel Hill~ Orange
County, North Carolina.
.

\

4. ,Nakell was properly,s,erved with process in this matter and is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Di~cipUi1ary Hearing Commission. '
, I

.

5. On July 22, 1999, Nakell entered the Encore Bookstore in Albemarle, NC with a
pewspaper folded under his arm.
:: :.t:~': :'/"~

·II
.\'tJ.

'~f
.if'
,n

I

.

r

6. Nakell concealed a copy of the book, A Civil Action, under his newspaper and
intentionally left the bookstore without paying for the book. '
7. Nakell was subsequently charged with the misdemeanor crime of larceny for taking
the book.
i
8. On November 22, 1999, Nakell entered a plea ofguilty and was convicted of
misdemeanor larceny in Stanly County District Court.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:
'

I""

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All partie$ are pz:operlY'before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over Nakell and the subject matter.

..

,

• ,2. Nakell's ~onduct, as set out above, cOl)stitutes grounds for disciplh).e pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) as follows:
'
I

'

By intentionally concealing and taking away a copy of the book, A Civil Action,
from the Encore Bookstore, Nakell committed a criminal act that reflects adversely
on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule- 8.4(b) and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit ot misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c).
- Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Conclusions of Law, the stipulations
contained in the pre-trial order and the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing committee
hereby m.ake's the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

\

1. On January 6, 1991, Nakell intentionally removed a hook valued at $11.95 from the
premi~es of Archive Records in Carrboro without paying for the book. On January 17, 1991
Nakell entered a plea of guilty to misdemeanor larceny in Orange County District Court and
receiv~d a PJC. By order of the Disciplinary Heaiing Commission in 91 DHC 11, Nakell
received a one-year s1.Jspension of his license for this offense stayed for four years on certain,
conditions. Na;kell complied with the conditions until the period of tlte suspension and stay
terminated.

2. On October 1, 1996, Nakell concealed $6.00 worth of deli food-in his ja~ket at A
Southern Season in Chapel Hill. On January 16, 1997, Nakell entered a plea of guilty to the
offense of shoplifting in Orange County District Court and received a PJC. Citing Nakell's
dismjssal a~ a tenured professor at UNC School of Law as a penalty or sanction already imposed,
Nakell received a Censure from the Grievance Committee of the North Catolina State;Bar for
this offense.

67J

1

3. Nakell has suffered for many years from Dysthemic Disorder,. a psychiatric condition
that represents a low.,.grade chroni<?f~epression that llnRfPrsNakell's ability to deall:}ppropriat¢ly'.
with stressful situations. Nakell's'sI1bplifting inci4,~hjs'\vere a direct r~~lllt ofth~dysthemia.
.
Although Nakell received psychiatric treatment aft~¥'both of his prior"offenses, thetreatm¥hts he
previously received didn ~t improve NakeU's ability to understand the link between the str~ss' in
his life and his impulsive, .inappropriate behavior or the signals that stress had built up and
required an appropriate response to diffuse the stress.

I

4. Nakell began treatment with Dr. Nathan R. Strahl in the fall of2000. Dr. Strahl has
been successful hi getting N~ell to understand his illness and to recognize and deal·
'
appropriately with stress. Dr. Strahl's prognosis is that Nakell has learned how to appropriately •
respond to stress and it is very unlikely that he will ever shoplift .again.

5. In addition to his treatment with Dr. Strahl, Nakell has been involved in grOllP therapy.
with the Lawyers Assistance Program since October 2001. Nakell's participation in that therl:}py
has been beneficial to Nakell and to those in the group.
'0.
6. Others have noticed positive changes in Nakell since he began treatment with Dr..
Strahl that they ha4 not noticed when he previously received treatment. Lun,sford I..ong, the
councilor from Nakell's district, observed that Nakell's demeanor has had a positive change and
his concentrl;l.tion and affect have improved.
' .
7. Nakell has voluntariJy refrained from entering stores alone sinc~ his last incident..
8..Nakell'smisconduct was not related to his law practice.
9. Nakell has a long history of representing poor and disadvantaged Q1ients in pursuit of
cases that resulted in positive social change. He was instrumental, for example, 'in founding
North Carolina Prisoner Legal Services and in helping to found North State Legal Services.
Nakell has assisted. many clients unable to afford legal representation on a pro-bono basis in
ways that have brought credit to the legal profession. '

I

10. Nakell voluntarily ceaSed taking on new client maftersafter the July 1999 incident '
.
except fot a few pro~bono matters and one contingency fee matter.
1L

\

N~ell's

misconduct is· aggravated by the following factors:

(a)

Prior disciplinary offenses;

(b)

Criminal conduct;

(c),

A pattern.of misconduct;

(d)

Substantial experience-in the practice oflaw.

I
..

~·\l.l·i
IV

t''!

'

...

12. Nakell's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
'-

,,'

(a)

Persollal or emotional problems;

(b)

Timely good faith 'efforts to rectify the consequences of his misconduct by
seeking tr~atment from Dr. Strahl and cooperating 'with, the Lawyers
Assistance Program;

(c)

Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;

(d)

Good character and reputation, including support from the councilor and
the Senior Resident Superior Court Judge from his district;

(e)

Physical or mental disability or impairment that led to hl:s misconduct;

(f)

Interim ~ehabi1itation; and

(g)

Remorse.

I

13ASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Reg~ding Discipline and the arguments
of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1. The licep.se of the defendant, Barry Nakell, is suspended for four years.

2.

The four-year suspension is stayed for five years on the following tenns and
conditions: '
a. Nakell shall violat~ no federal or state laws (other than minor traffic offenses).
b. Nakell'shall violate no provisions of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
'
"

\

I

c. Nakell shall con~ue treatment with Dr. Nathan R. Strahl, or some other
psychiatrist acceptable to the Nort4 Carolina State Bar, during the. entire period the stay is
in effect: Nakell shall follow all treatment recolll1i1endations made by the psychiatrist
and shall direct the psychiatrist to report any failure to follow the psychiatrist's treatment
plan,' and the specifics related thereto, to the Office of Counsel. Even if the psychiatrist
concludes in the future that Nakell needs treatment less often, Nakell mp.st continue to
see the psychiatrist at least quarterly.
d. Nakell shall provide semi-annual reports to the Office of Counsel during the
period of the stay, signed by Nakell and the psychiatrist, certifying that Nakell is in
compliance with the terms and conditions of the above paragraph of this order. The

I

...
'"
reports shall be completed and tr~smitted to the Office ofCoun$el by each six-month
anniversary of the date of this order.
.
,.

e. Nakell shall enter int~ ~'.fR.p~act with ~e ~.~~er Assistance Program by June

"

1,2002. Nakell shall comply WIth the terms ofthaii~6ntract. A$ a part10fthat contract,
Nakell shall direct the Lawyer Assistance Program to' report any failure to comply with
the terms of this paragrap~, and the specifics related thereto, to the Office ofCOunsel.
f. NakelI-shall pay the costs·ofthis proceeding by June 1, 2002.

I
the

Signed by the chair with the consen~ of the other hearing cOll1lllittee member$, this
J2. day of March, 2 0 0 2 . .
. ' ,

Fred H. Moody, Jr., Chair
Hearing Committee

I
\

