NORTH CAROLINA

, BEFOIillTHE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE '
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01G1135

WA.KE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

WILLIAM L. PARKS
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPIUMAND

On April 17, 2002, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Barmet and
considered the grievance filed against you by the'North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disahility Rules of the North Caroli11,a
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a prelimi11,ary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Cominitfee
found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a
member of the :North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifyi11g disciplinary ,action."
The rules provide that after'a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are 11,ot required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending .
upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating otmitiga.ting .
factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admonition, a Reprimand, or a Censure to the
Respondent attorney.

I

A Reprimand is a written form of discipline more s~rious than an Admonition issued in
Cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a
.
member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.
The Grievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a Censure is not req'!lired in this case and
~ssues,this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully the
.spit1t in which this duty is perfon.ued.
On September 25,2001, you appeared in a Durham County District Court courtroom that .
was hearing traffic cases. You were carrying a magazine that had a picture of a UNC football player
on the cover. You learned that that football player hadju~t been in the courtroom, and had pled
guilty to a traffic offense. You determined that the football player would have been eligible for a
City code violation rather than the speeding charge he pled guilty to. Although the football player
had left'the courtroom, and you had no authority to represent him, you approached the assistant
district attorney who was in charge of negotiating traffic offenses. You presented that assistant
\

I

•

district attorney with a motion for appropriate relief on behalf of the football player. You advised
the assistant di~trict attorney that the footbal~ player would have been elig~ble for the city code
offense, and asked the assistant district attorney to allow the motion for appropriate relief and
consent to the football pl,ayer pleading guilty to the city code violation rather than the traffic offense.
When the assistant district attorney asked you whether the football player was still·present, you
advised the assistant district attorney that the football player was nervous about being ~ court, and
that you had told: him to go home. You represented yourself as being the football player's attorney.
The assistant district attorney agreed to the disposition you sought on behalf of the football player.
Later that afternoon, you went to UNC's football practice to try to get the football player to sign a
waiver of appear;mce fonn that you could put in the court's file, An assistant on the UNC football
staff advised you that your conduct could jeopardize the UNC football player's eligibility. You
Were asked ·to undo what you had done on the football player's behalf. You subsequently had to file
a second motion for appropriate reliefin the football player's case, asking that the original charge
the football player had pled to be r e i n s t a t e d . ·
.

'I

Your misrepresentation to the assistant district attorney that you were the attorney for the
football player w\1en you had not been approached or employed by the football player violated Rule
8.4(c), Your attempt to assist the football player actually put him in jeopardy of losing his
eligibility.
You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The.Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adhelience to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the. costs of this action in the amount of $50.00
are hereby taxed to you.
.
Done and ordered, this

~day of_--/fo.!.~=-...:!~_' 2002.

I

y
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

