.'.~

"

,

NORTH CAROLINA

22050

,

i ,

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMM'ITTEE
'OF THE
..
'1"'"

WAKE COUNTY

-

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01G0887

I

IN THE MATTER OF
JAMES S. FARlUN
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)

)

,

REPRIMAND

)
')

On Ja,nuary 16, 2002, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar metl:llld
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State B~r.
'
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules' of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
info:rmation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice; the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
.
disciplinary .action."
•

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
,
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
COmnllssion are not required, and the Grievance COll111littee may issue various levels of
discipline' depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused,and any ,
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue, al). admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administr&tion of jqstice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that acenstlre is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairIl1an of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
'
After October' 2000 when the State Bar Council adopted 2000 Formal Ethics
Opinion 6, you aired a television advertisement referred to as the "screen door;' or
"stonewall" ad.

I
iO<;J
"

The action in the ad· takes place at the front door of a home of a person who has a
claim against an insurance company: Two· insurance adjusters are addressing the
claimant, who is standing just inside the front door, but who is not visible. The adjusters,
who are doing all of the talking, make various excuses regarding why the insurance
company will not pay most of the damages suffetedby the claimant. At that point, the
claimant's arm is seen, extending a business card to the adjusters. They take the card and
examine it.
linmediately, the senior adjuster, who has been doing most of the talking,
dechrresl "Oh! You got a lawyer - James Scott Farrin." A gong goes off when your
nam~ is announced and the adjuster~ make faces indicating fear and distaste. The senior
adjuster then declares ''No one said we couldn't settle this one."

I

The stonewall or screen door ad suffers from the same defect~ as the strategy
session ad which was the subject of2000 FEO 6. The ad plainly implies that the
insurance adjusters will switch from a strategy of delay and denial, to a strategy of
settlement, merely upon hearing the name of the advertising lawyer.
The message is thus misleading, as insurance cases are resolved based upon the
facts, such as the nature and amount of damages and existence of defenses and
aggravating and mitigating factors. The identity or reputation of the claimant's lawyer is
at best a :rhinor consideration and is never the sole or a major factor in determining how a
claim is resolved.
Your conduct in promUlgating an advertisement which is inherently misleaciing
violated Rule 7.1 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the,North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Connnittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be benefiCial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In;accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the. taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 ,are hereby taxed to you.
.

I

D~ne .and ordered, this~~y of ~kt:/~ ,2002.

C.-4_:)
Calviii E. Murphy
Chair, Grievance Committee

I
710

