..

,

NORTH CAROLINA

I

DOUGLAS R. HUX,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

"

," "

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
, :·:.:101G1033

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

.

,"

~:,

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 17, 2002, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed' against you by M.R.G.
Pursuant to ~ection .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Catolina State
Bar, the Grievance COmmittee conducted a prelimipary hearing. After consic:iering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance 'Committee foqnd probable ,
cause. Probable cause i~ defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North,'
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action,."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Discipl~nary Hearing Commission are not
required, ,and the, Grievance Committee m~y issue v~rious levels of discipljne depending upon the
mi$conduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases 'in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, ora member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
'
The 'Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is/not required in this case and '
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State,
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the
spirit in which this duty is performed.
You undertook to represent Ms. MRG on May 18,2001, shortly before she was ch~ged
with embezzlement by the United States attorney. Your client or her family paid you a fee of
$25,000. In late May 2001 you told a reporter that your client had a ganibling problem, that she
was "not a normal, well adjusted person" and that she "had thrown away her family and
community reputation." The comments, which were made without your client's consent, were
printed in the local news media on May 31, 2001.

I
·711

...
On JUlle 1, 2001, your client discharged you and demanded a return of the unearned
portion ofthe fee. You offe!ed to refund only $5,000 of the fee, although you had worked on the
case for less than two weeks as of the time of your discharge and dealt primarily with the issue of
your client's pre-trial release. The Grievance Corm:nittee concluded that you retained a clearly
excessive fee in this matter, in vioiation of Rule 1.5 of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
The Committee also found that your remarks to the news media, which were
embarrassing and potentially damaging to your client, violated Rule 1.6(a) of the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct.
The Grievance Committee desires to remind you that there is a distinction between the
duty of confidentiality imposed by Rule 1.6(a) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and the
attorney-client privileg~, which is {l separate matter governed by the Rules of Evidence. Pursuant
to the Rules of Professional Conduct, attorneys may not disclose any potentially damaging and
embarrassing information learned in the course of the professional relationship, unless the client
consents or certain other extraordinary situations occur. The fact that other members of the
public may also have access to the information from other sources can be 'relevant for purposes
of determining if the evidentiary privilege has been waived, but does not negate the attorney's
duty. to keep the information confidential pursuant to Rule 1.6(a).

I

You ar~ hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. 1;he Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopt.ed October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issue~ a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered; this

_ _, 2002.
day Of--tT!£--=£::..-b

I

I
.

:
.

