105

NORTH CAROLINA

Ql

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
. 01G1017 & 01GI018

WAKE COUNTY

'<, '.'

IN THE MAtTER OF

路1

ELISABETH W. WOOD,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 17,2002, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conduc~ed a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable "
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North'
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determirie
that the filing of a complaint und a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing路Commission are hot
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending uPQn the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition iS$ued in 路cases. in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in these case~. and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar;
it is now my dutY to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
.
In March 2001, Mr. A.K., who is a former client, filed a formal request for fee arbitration'
with the North Carolina State Bar. By letter dated April 17, 2001, the State ear notified you of
Mr. A.K.' s request. When you did not respond within 15 days,. a follow up letter was sent to you
on June 15, 200 1. You still did not respond and a grievance file was established against you on
Sept. 7,2001 and was assigned file number 01G1018. The letter ofnotice regarding the
.
grievance was served on you by certified mail on Sept. 21, 2001. YOll did not respond to the
letter of notice or to a follow up letter sent to you on Oct. 22, 2001.

~(

13

In April20.D1, Mr. G.S., who is a fonner client, filed a formal request for fee arbitration

~ with the North Carolina State Bar. By letter dated May 7, 2001, the State Bar notified you of Mr.

G. S.' requyst. When you did not respond within 15 days, a follow up letter was sent to you on
June 15, 200 1. You still did not respond and a grievance file was established on Sept. 7, 2001
and was assigned file 01 G1017. The letter of notice regarding the grievance was served on yqu
. by certified mail on Sept. 21, 2001: You did not respond to the ietter of notice or a follow up
letter sent to you on Oct. 22, 2001. .
Your conduct in failing to participate in good faith in the two requests for fee arbitration
.
filed by your fonner clients, Mr. G.S. and Mr. A.K., constituted violations of Rule 1.15 of the
Revised Rule;:; of Professional Conduct. Your failure to respond to the State Bar's letters of
notice regarding the grievances which arose out of these matters constituted violations of Rule
8.1 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that y()u will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
路of$50.00 are pereby taxed to you.
Dorte and ordered, this

,6- day of & b..

I

