------------------_._---_

.. _.-

.')

· ...
,
.
-----------------------,
BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01G1419

NORTH CAROLINA.
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER Of
.MICHAEL A. JOHNSON JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

I

17,

On April
2002, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolilla State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) ofthe DiscipliI,le and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considerillg the infonnation
available to it, incltIding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cauSe is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member ofthe North
Carolina State Bar js guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules pfovide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Com.rnittee may
detennine that the :fIling ofa complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and thy Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or pptential.injury caused, and any aggr~vating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is!i a written fonn of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in \Yhich
an attorney has viol1ted one or more provisio~s of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caus~d
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession.or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.

I

I

The Grievan¢e Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in thi~ case and issues this cenSure to you. As chainnan ofthe Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State B~, it is now Il1Y duty to issue this censure. I
certain that you will
understand fully the ~pirit in which this duty is p~rfonned.

am

On or about August 14,2001 you w~re sworn in as an Assistant District Attorney in Davidson
County. Pursuant to NC Gen. Stat. § 7A-63 you were not pennitted to continue in the private practice
of law after being.sworn as an Assistant District Attorney. Nevertheless, you continued in the private
practice of law after :t:eceiving your oath of office and as late as October 2001 signed a motion asking to
be substituted as counsel in the case of Foil and Associates Financial Services and Anne Ballard. You
also admit to filing a divorce action for a relative after being sworn in as an Assistant District Attorney.

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation oIthe Rules of .
Prof't:(ssionalConduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize-the
·error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourselfto depart from ~dherence tpthe
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve ~s a strong reminder and .
inducement for you to weigh carefully i~ the future your responsibility to the pUblic,; Your clients, Your
. fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yours~lf as a respected member ofthe legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the CounGil of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing ofthe adm,inistrative·and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Coinmittee, the costs ofthis action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done

and'Ordered~ this 36~a,YOf~~~~'-,f~_:, 2002.
alvin E. Murphy, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

..,,~

....

'..,.-"

