L-~\l~.~

.-~-------~-----

GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01G0657

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE. MATTER OF
.

I.

KIRK E. ELEY,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On: October 17,2001, the Grievance Co~ittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
I

Putsuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
. available t6 it, including your response tpthe letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable ca:use is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is. guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
I

Th~ rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, apd the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduc~, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance :Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused har~ or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, :but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

Th~

Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
Aft~r Octob,er 2000 when the State Bar Council adopted 2000 Formal Ethics Opinion 6,

you aired at television advertisement referred to as the "screen door" or "stonewall" ad.
The, actioJl in the ad takes place at the front door of a home of a person who has a claim
against an insurance company. Two insurance adjusters are addressing the claimant, Who is
standing just inside the front door, but who is not visible. The adjusters, who are doing all of the
talking, make various excuses regarding why the insurance company will not pay most of the
damages stiffered by the claimant. At that point, the claimant's arm is seen, extending a business
card to the adjusters. They take the card and examine it.

I

;'

.,'

Immediately, the sen,ior adjuster, who has been doing most of the talking, declares: "Oh!
You got a lawyer - K. Edward Eley." A gong goes offwh~n your name is announced and the
adjust~rs make faces indicatins fear and distaste. The senior adjuster then declares "No one said
we couldn't settle this one."
The sto~ewall or screen door ad suffers from the ,srupe <defects as the strategy session ad
which was the subject of2000 FEO 6. The ad plainly implies that the insurance adjusters will
switch from a strategy of delay and denial, to a strategy of ~ettlement, merely upon he!;lring the
.
name ofthe advertising lawyer.

I

The message is thus misleading, as insurance Cases are resolved based upon the facts?
such as the nature and amount of damages and existence of defense() and aggravating and
mitigating factors. The identity or reputation of the claimant's lawyer is at best a minor
consideration and is never the 'sole or a major factor in determining how a claim is resolved.
Your conduCt in promulgating an advertisement which is inherently misleading violated ..
Rule 7.1 of the Revised Rules of Professiopal C o n d u c t . '
Y o~ are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina' State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it Will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards qf the legal profe~sion.
In accord~ce with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina.
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00are herebyt4Xed
to you.
.
Done and ordered, this

I

.92-)

day of

pid.<.>

•

,2001.

Calvin E. Murphy
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

,

7

;;;-r

