..

~------------~------------------------~-----------------------------

.

ILP2L{1

i
,I

~------ ----.---~ - __....J

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01G0130

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATT~R OF
NATHANAEL K. PENDLEY
ATTORNEY A:TLAW
I

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On Octo;ber 17,2001, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Brian Combs.
PUrsuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Comtnittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee
found probable 6ause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe' that a
member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
,
I

The rule$ provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detentiine that ~e filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are not required; and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline dep~nding
upon the miscorlduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating
factors. The Gri,evance Committee may issue an 'Admonition, a Reprimand, or Censure to the
Respondent attorney.

a

A Reprirpand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued in
cases ~n which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a
member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required. in this case and
issues this Repriinand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully the
spirit in which this duty is performed.
On April 11, 2001, you received a Letter of Notice and Substance of the Grievance which
contained allegations of client neglect and failure to communicate adequately with your former
client, Mr. Brian· Combs. Y oil faikd to respond to the Letter of Notice within 15 days of its receipt,
as mandated by 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, SUbchapter B, Rule .0112(c)., On May 9,2001,
the State Bar mailed to you a follow up letter reminding you of your duty to respond to the Letter of
Notice. This letter also requested that you respond in some fashion by May 21,2001. The date
should have bee~ May 31, 2001, The incorrect dute appears as a typographical error. This follow

I

I

up letter was mailed to the same address at which you received the Letter of Notice, which i~ also
your address of record with the North Carolina State Bar. Because you again failed to respond to
the Letter of NotIce, the State Bar mailed to the same address another follow up letter on June~, .
2001. When you failed to respond to the follow up letter, the Chairman of the Grievance
Committee issued a subpoena for you to appear at the offices of the State Bar to respond. to th~
Letter of Notice. The postal service made three separate attempts'lto deliver the subpoena via
certified mail to your address of record., The postal service returned the subpoena unserved and
marked unclaimed. Following the return of the subpoena, the Chairman of the Grievance
Committee issued another subpoena, which was served upon you on October 10, 2001 by a sheriffs
deputy. You then appeared and responded to the grievance at the time and place indicated on the .
subpoena.
Your failure to respond to the Letter of Notice in a timely manner violated Rule 8.l(b) of the .
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Rule 8.1 (b) states In pertinent part~ a lawyer shall not
"knowingly fail to respond to a lawful demand or information from an admissions or disciplinary
authority .... " Further, N.C.G.S. § 84-28(b)(3) defines the fail~e to answer a formal inquiry of the
North Carolina State Bar as misconduct for which discipline is appropriate.
You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar dqe to your professional
misconduct. The Orievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will nev~r again allow yourself to
depEUi from adherence to th.e high ethiCal standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council·ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs oftl;1is action ill the amount of$50.00
are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

I

:3::'2

day of

Calvin E. Murphy
Chair, Grievance Committ~e

I
•

I

