--------------- -~.
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
E NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01 DHC 5

'WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.
DOUGLAS P. CONNOR,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

I

This matter came on to be considered by a duly appointed Hearing COn1mittee of
"the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Elizabeth Bunting, Chair; Fred H.
Moody, Jr. and Lorraine Stephens pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title
27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §.0114(h). The parties stipulate and agree to the folloWing
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings of Fact Relevant to
Discipline recited inJWs Gonsent Order and to the disciplin~ imposed. The Defendant
has agreed to waive foi:rti:a1'h,earing in the above-referenced matter: The parties stipulate
that these matters may be ;esoh~e-a"by the undersigned Hearing Committee, and that the
Defendant further waives his right to app'eal this Consent Order. The Hearing Committee
therefore enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws
North C~~lina and is the proper party to b~ng this proceeding under the authori
granted It m Chapter 84 of the North Carolma General Statutes and the Rules at:
Regulations of the North Carolina State ~ar.

2. The Defendant, Douglas P. Connor (hereafter, Connor), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1964, alid is, and was at all times relevant hereto licensed to
practice'law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. During all periods referred to herej):l, COl:1llor was actively engaged in the
.
practice oflaw and maintained a law office.in MOUlliOlive, North Carolina.
4. On November 6, 1992 another attorney filed Articles of Incorporation,
fonning Harold W. Hall, Inc. (hereafter, HWHI).

I

73'1

.

5. Sandra Hall and Harold Hall, who were then husband an4 wife, . were the ·sole
members of the initial board of directors of HWHI. Sandra Hall served as sepfetruytreasurer and Harol4 Hall served as president.
"
-

,

"t

;.'

6. At the time ofHWHI's incorporation, Harol4 Hall and Sandfa Hall
contemplated that each would receive a 50% interest in the corporation. Nevertheless,
the stocks were, not issued at the time of the incorporation ofHWHI.

I

7. In 1996, Connor advised Harold Hall and Sandra Hall about tax probl~l11s. they.
were experiencing as a result of the operation of their various. businesses, handled a '
reorgani?:ation of H;WHI, incorporated three spin off corporations for them and. drafted a .
management contract for HWHI and two other corporations owned by the :H:all~.
'
8. 'On
or abput July 6, .1998, the H~ns ,separated.
,
.
'

9. On or about July 6, 1998, Connor prepared a separation agreement fot Sandra
Hall and her husband, Harold Hall.
10. Sandra Hall did not have sepqrate counsel when Connor ptepareg the.
separation agreement for the parties.
11. On or about July 7, 1998, at the direction of Harold 'Hall, Connot prepared
stock certificates, giving 5 shares to Sandra HaIr, 200 shares to Harold Hall and 5 shares
to their daughter, Kristy Renee Hall. Cotinor backdated all the stock certificates to
January, 1993.

I

12. On or about July 7, 1998, at the direction of Harold Hall, Connqr alsq
prepared minutes ofHWHI, entitled "First Meeting of Incorporators ~d Stockhblder$ of
Harold W. Hall, Incorporated." The minutes Indicated that a.meeting was held and the
following shares were given: Harold W. Hall, 200, Sandra Rall, 5, and Kristy Renee .
Hall, 5. The minutes did not reflect the date on Which they were drafted ot adopted but
did disclose they were adopted "nunc, pro tunc to January 15, 1993."
13. ,Sandra Hall was not present at any meeting where such a share allocatio:t:l was,
discussed, nor did she consent to such a share allocation
14. Connor knew that it was not the Halls' original intent to allocate only 5
shares ofHWHI stock to Sandra Hall and Connor also knew that Sandra Hall had not
agreed to change the share allocation ..
15. The issuance ofHWHI stock aiiddrafting of the minutes of the first
stockholder meeting of HWHI were matters that were substantially related to legal
matters which COlmor had previously handled for Sandra Hall and Harqld Halijointly,

-2-

I

.1)9

----------------------------------------------

- -

16. The interests of Sandra Hall and Harold Hall were adverse to one another
regarding the issuance ofHWHI stock and the drafting ofthestocl410lder meeting
minutes.
17. Sandra Hall did not consent to Connor's representation of Harold Hall in
preparlng the HWHI minutes and issuing HWHI stock.
18. Between July 6, 1998 and Sept. 4, 1998 the Halls attempted, unsuccessfully,
to resolve their domestic differen<;es amicably.
, 19. By letter d~ted September 4, 1998, Connor advised Sandra Hall that Harold
Hall had engaged him to handle such domestic relations matters as separation, divorce,
child custody, :child, support, and equitable distribution.

I

20. Sandra Hall did not consent to Connor's representation of Harold Hall in the
domestic relatio~s matters. ,
'21. thereafter, Ms. Hall retained separate counsel and flIed suit for equitable
distribution, child custody and child support. Connor withdrew as domestic cOUl1sel for
Mr. Hall, Who also retained separate counsel.

'".,

22. The stock which Connor issued to Mr. Hall in 1998 and which, was back
dated tb 1993 Was never signed by the eorporate secretary.
I

23. Pursuant, to the order of equitable distribution entered in the Halls' domestic
case 011 Jan. 27, 1999, Ms. Hall was awarded ownership of all stock in HWHI.
'24. In July 1999, after the equitable distribution order was entered, Connor
entered an appearance as counsel for Mr. Hall in a dispute which had arisen between the
parties concerning the implementation of the equitable distribution order.
25. Ms. Hall and her attorney consented to Conn,or's participation as co-counsel
in the July 1999 proceeding.

I

26. In August 1999, Connor filed a complaint for divorce for Harold Hall against
Sandra Hall.
The action for divorce filed. by Connor was substantially related to the
separ~tion agreement which Connor had previously drafted for the Halls jointly.
27.

28. Although he did not obtain Ms. Hall's consent prior to filing the complaint
for divorce on behalf of Mr. Hall, Connor mistakenly believed that she had waived the
conflict of interest created by his appearance because she had consented to his
appearance in the July 1999litigation concerning the implementation of the equitable
distribution order and because the divorce action Was uncontested. Connor also

-3-

I

mistakenly relied on the factthat Ms. Hall's attomey did not obj~ctto his participatioll in
.
. the divorce action.
Based upon the consent of the parties and th~Joregoing Findings ofFact, the
Committee make~ the following:'
;, ,.., .
,
.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. By representing Harold Hall against Sandra Hall in matters in which th¢it
intere$ts were adverse and which Were substantially related to matters concerning which
Connor had represented Sandra Hall and Harold Hall jointly without first obtail1ing .
Sandra Hall's consent, Connor engage4 in a conflict of interest in violation of Rule S.l(d)
ofthe Superseded Rules of Professional Conduct and/or Rule 1.9(a) of the Revised Rules
,qf Profess~onal.COliduct.
2. By preparing stock certificates indicating that Sandra Hall held bply 5 of 21 0.
shares in HWHI when he knew that the Halls originally was contemplated that she would
take a 50.% interest and when he knew that Sandra Hall had not agreed to alter the
distribution, COMor epgage<i in a conflict of interest in violation of Rule 1.9(a) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
'
3. By preparing corporate minutes in 1998 that stated that a stockholders meeting'
had been held on Nov. 6; 1993 at which it was agreed that only 5 0'f21o. shares ofHWHT
w~uld be issued to Sandra Hall and which implied that all of the shareholders Were
present when he knew that no such meeting was ever held, Connor engaged in 90nq.uct .
involving a misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Revised Rules
Professional Conduct.

or

Based upon the consent ofthe parties, the Committee herepy enters the following:

I

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
1. Connor's misconduct is aggrav~ted by the following factors:
a. substqntiaI' experience in the practice, of law
2. Connor's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.
b.
c.
d.

good character or reputation
' no prior discipline
Ms. Hall was not financially harmed by Connor's misconduct.
The conflict of interest created by Connor's appearance in the divorce"
case in August 1999 was caused at least in part by his mistaken belief '
that Ms. Hall had previously consented to his involvement in all
aspects of the Halls' domestic action.

, 3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

-4-

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions
of Law, ,and Additional Findings of Fact Relevant to Discipline, the Committee hereby
enters the following:
ORDBR OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, Douglas P. Cortnor, shall be suspended from. the practice of
law in North Carolina for one year, effective 30 days from the date of service
of this order upon him.
'

I

2. The one-year s~spension is stayed for one year, based upon the following
conditions:
a.
Connor shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by th~ deadline stated
within the communication.
b.
Connor shall not violate any of the Revised Rules ofProfessiortal
Conduct during the period of the stay.
c.
Connor shall not violate any laws of the State or North Carolina
or of the United States during the period of the stay.
3. COlmor shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 90 days after service of
the disciplinary order upon him.

:.

JVcM- day ofC-7/-if'-",=
/}U,tuJ<....(==~______ , 2002.

T4I~ the "

71'

-

Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the consent of the other Hearing
Committee members.
.
.

~·e~

E~ing.' Chair' .. ~¥DIscIplmary Heanng,ConmutVe

-5-

I

Seen and consented to:

I

Carolin Bakewell, CoUnsel
North Carolina State Bar

I

-6-

I

