, .~

j

\.

" :

ISCIPLJNARY HEARING COMMiSSION
NORTH CAROLJNA STATE BAR
02DHC7

I

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

THE NORTH CAROLJNA STATE BAR,
.
Plaintiff
vs.

M>1NE M. LAMM, ATTORNEY
D~fendant

CONSENT ORDER
MODIFYJNG ORDER
OF PISCIPLINE

)

THIS MATTER, coming before a hearing committee composed of Elizabeth
Bunting, Chair, W. Steven Allen, Sr., and H. Dale Almond~ on the Plaintiffs motion to
amend the Order of Discipline entered herein and it appearing that both parties consent to
the motion. and to the terms of the proposed order herein, the Hearing Committee
therefore enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The Defendant, Anne M. Lmvm was admitted to the North Carolina State Bat
in 1969 and is, and was' at all. tiines relevant hereto, art Attorney at Law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional
Conduct ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of Nortli Carolina.

I

'2. On April 22, 1999, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered a Consent
Order (the "April Order") whereby Defendant was suspended from the practice of law fo!
two years with the suspension stayed for two years on a. number of conditions.'
Conditions· enumerated in the Order required, inter alia, that Defendant rp.eet regularly
with a supervising attorney and respond to all letters of notic;e, subpoenas, and reasonable
requests for infonnation from any district grievance committee and. the N9rth Catolina
State Bar.
3. Defendant signed the April Order on Aprl122, 1999 and it was served upon her'
attorneY of record on April 29, 1999.
4. Thereafter, the Defendant violated the terms and conditions of the April Order
by failing to respond to a request for information from the District Bar Grievance
Committee within the time frame stated in the communication and by failing to meet with
the supervising attorney at least monthly.

1

I

5. On September 15, 2000 the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered a
second Consent Order ("the September Order") suspending Defendant from the practice
of law for two years and incorp.orating the remaining tenns and conditions of the April
Order.
, 6. The September Order was signed by the Defendant and served upon her 011
September 15, 2000.
7. On or about November 1, 2000 Jane Pratt of the North Carolina State Bar
Client Assistance Program contacted Defendant via certified mail and asked Defendant to
return 'the client file to her former client, Susanne S. Ford.

I

8. Defendant received Pratt's letter, but did not respond to Ford or Pratt.
. 9. In December 2000~ State Bar Counsel also wrote to Defendant asking her to
return the file to Ford. The Sheriff served cOUlJ.sel's letter upon Defendant on February
27,2002.
10. At no time did Defendant respond to the lawful. demands from Ford, the State
Bar Client Assistance Program, or the Office of Counsel, nor did she return the client file
.
to Ford'.
11. . 011 or about December 13, 2000, Defendant was charged with driving while
subject to an impairing substance (DWI).
12.

On January 5, 2001, the Office of Counsel sent a Letter of Notice to

Defend~t via certified mail regarding the DWI. Defendant received the Letter of Notice

on or about January 20, 2001.
13. Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice.
14. On.or about February 12, 2002, the Office of Counsel mailed a second letter
reminding Defendant of her duty to respond to the State Bar. Defendant received the
letter ofremip.deron or about February 15, 2002.

I

15. Defendant failed to respond to tpe follow-up to the Letter of Notice.
. Based op the foregoing findings· of fact and the consent of the parties, the ~earing
cortmrittee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The hearing committee has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this motion
aild over the person of the Defendant.

2

I
.

' .' '."

.t:' ,

.>

. "',,' ,

2. The Defendant viol~ted the tenns of the September Order by failing to respond
to a request from Defendant's client, Susanne S. Ford, for the return of Ford'~ file to
Ford.
•

,t

~,"

3. The Defendant violated the tenns of the S~~t~mber Order by failing to respond
to requests. from the Client Assistance Program and the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar asking Defendant to return Ford's file to Ford.

I

4. The Defendant violated the tenns of the September Order by failing to resp'ond
to the Letter of Notice from the Office of Counsel regarding the charge ofbriving While
Impaired (DWl).
.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
WHEREFORE, based on the foregoing fmdings and the cons~nt of the parties, the
hearing committee hereby ORDERS that the September 15, 2000 ,Consent Order of
discipline is AMENDED to provide as follows: .
1. The Defendant, Anne M. Lamm, remains suspended from the practice of law
for a period of two years beginning September 15,2000.
2. Before filing a petition for reinstatement at the conclusion of the suspension,
Defendant Anne M. Lamm must meet the following conditions:

a.

The Defendant shall comply with the tenns and conditions of 27 N.Co .
Admin. Code Subchapter B § .0124 yoncenting the wind down of
Defendant's practice;

b.

The Defendant shall submit the name of a treating psychiatrist who is
certified as a member of the American Society ~f Addiction Medicine,
("the Doctor") to the North Carolina State Bar for approval. Upon
approval, Defendant shall remain in this Doctor's care for 12
consecutive months in:nnediately prior to filing a petition for
reinstatement. Defendant shall have the Doctor submit a signed report
.to the Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar indicating that
Defendan,t has complied with the tenns of treatment as prescribed by
the Doctor, and,. that in the opinion of the Doctor, the Defendant is not
suffering from any physiological or psychological condition that
would· impair Defendant's ability to practice law. The repo:rt shall be
filed no less than three months prior to the date Defendant petitions for
reinstatement;

c.

The Defendant shall totally abstain from the consumption of any
narcotic or mood altering substances of any typ~, includin.g Without·
limitation, alcoholic beverages, illicit or illegal drugs, or legally

I

3

I

..........-.,

"', ;;;.....,

.-:7S3
.'

.

prescribed medications for legitimate ailments at variance from the,
prescription, for the 12 consecutive months immediately prior to
seeking reinstatement.
the Defendant may use prescription
medications during the suspension only in strict conformance with the
pre$cription of a physician and under the sJlpervision of the Doctor;
d.

'(',

e,

The Defendant's abstinence from alcohol and drugs shall be evidenced
by enrollment, at Defe;ndant's expense, in a drug and alcohol screening
program (the "Program") utilizing urine screenirig and saliva and/or
Breathalyzer testing. The Defendant shall use a screening agency such
as the National Confedera#on of Professional Services (757-873-3330)
or a similar program approved by the North Carolina State Bar that
meets the monitoring standards required by this Order. The Defendant
shall remain enrolled in the Program for the 12 consecutive months
prior to seeking reinstatement. The Program must be one that requires
Defendant to make a call each weekday to determine if testing is
l1ecessary. Frequency of the t~sting for alcohol and drug use shall be
determined solely by the North Carolina State Bar in consultation with
employees of the Program and shall not be made known to Defendant.
The number of random tests required by the Defendant' shall not
exceed thirty-six (36) for the 12 months of Defendant's enrollment.
Deferidant's failure to make a daily call to the Program shall be
counted as a positive screening result for alcohol and/or drugs unless
the failure is justified in writing and approved by the North Carolina'
State Bar Office of Counsel. Failure to report for the required testing
will be counted as a positive scr:eening result for alcohol and/or. drugs.
Any positive test for alcohol or failure to call or'report to the Program
fot a screen as required will be considered a violation of Paragraph C
above;
The Defendant' shall advise her Doctor and any other treating
physician of the contents of this Order and her history of addictive
disease. Plior to using any mood altering prescription medication,
Defendant shall have her Doctor, or any other treating physician,
contact the office of State Bar Counsel in writing and describe the
amount of such medication, the' duration of the course, of treatment,
and provide tp Counsel's office the reason such mood altering
medication is needed and why the lack of any non-mood altering
medication is appropriate therapy. After such report is provided to the
Office, of Counsel, Defendant may use such medication as prescribed
not withstanding Paragraph C above. However, use of the medication
other than as prescribed is not permitted under this Order and shall
constitute a violation of Paragraph C above; ,
.

f.

I

I

,

During the period of suspension, the Defendant shall not violate any
state or federal law, and shall not violate the North Carolina Revised
4

I

1St!

.;,

",

i·,
"

Rules of Professional Conduct or the Rules ~d Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar;

I

g.

The Defendant shall execute a rel~ase that permits the Office"' of
Counsel ofthe North Carolina State Bl:jI to obtaIn Defendant's medical
and counseling records from all medical pr9viders, psychiatrists~ and
counselors relating to Defendant's treatment and prognosis~

h.

The Defendant shall make
reasonable efforts to return the client fil~
of Susanne M. Ford to Ms. Ford;

1.

The Defendant shall pay all the costs of this action and all prior
discipljnary actions brought against her by the State Bar;

J.

Terms and conditions of this "or~er replace the terms and conditions of
.the Consent Order dated April 22, .1999 and the Consent Order dated
September 15,2000.

all

Signed by the hearing committee chair with the consent of the other hearing
committee members. -rhi.o ~ S-\-h cl. ~'f 0
u..\'(\ ~OO ~

f

-:r

Eli beth Bunting, Chaili·
Disciplinary Hearin~ Co:ri:unittee .

I

Seen and agreed to:

c::::iL
Arine M. Lamm .
Defendant

5

I

..

'~.

"

