['6103
-- --

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02DHCS

NORTH CAROLINA

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PLAINTIFF

v.
!

CAROLE A. HICKS, ATTORNEY,
DEFENDANT

---~------~-

)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIQNS OF LAW,
AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)
)
)

I

This matter was heard on the 14th day of June, 2002 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Elizabeth Bunting, Chair; F. Lane Williamson;
and Marguerite P. Watts. The defendant, Carole A. Hicks, was represented by Lillian D.
Michaels. The plaintiff was represented by David R. Johnson. Based upon the pleadings and the
evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:

Findings of Facts
L The Plaintiff, the North Caroliria State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it
in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
North Cfu-6iina
.,,"
2. The Defendant. Carole A. Hicks (hereinafter Defendant), Was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on 21 March 1992; and is, and was at all times referred to herein, except as
otherwise set forth herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws oftlie State of North Carolina.

I
.~ .~.

3., The defendant was properly served with pro.eess and the hearing was held with due
notice to all parties.
'"
r.l,,'L'

.

4. During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
actively engaged in the practice of law in the City of Statesville, Iredell County, North Carolina.
5., During all of the periods referred to 'herein, Defendant was a sole practitioner and had

no employees or other staff. Defendant prepared her own documents and maintained her own
records.

I

I

,t,l

,

,,."

."

f

•• ,

6. Ono.r abo.ut 5 January 1999, Janice D. Hess (hereinafter Hess) retained Defendant to. ..
represent her in defending an actio.n fo.r abso.lute divo.rce that had been filed by her husband;
Ho.mer Hess. At the time Defendant was retained, an Answer to. the husband's Complaint was
. ;'~'
..
due o.n o.r befo.re 1 February '1999.
7. At the time o.f engaging Defendant, Hess had beco.me aware o.fa problem with the
ability to. enfo.rce a separatio.n agreement with her husband prepared earlier by ano.ther atto.rney
and so. info.rmed Defendant.
.

I

8. The separatio.n agreement in dispute had, amo.ng o.ther items, a pro.visio.n under which
the husband Wo.uld make a mo.nthly payment to. Hess fo.r life as part o.fthepro.perty settlement a~
, well as o.ther provisio.ns fo.r the distributio.n o.f the marital property.
9. The signatures o.f Hess and her husbapd o.n the separatio.n agreement had no.t be~Ii
ackno.wledged befo.re a No.tary Public as required by statute. By statute, the separatio.n agreement
was, therefo.re, null and Vo.id. The husband had ho.nored the agreement fo.r a matter of mo.nths
following.its executio.n, but had stopped making the monthly payments at the time the Complaint
for divorce had been filed.
'
10. At that time, Hess understood that the separation agreement was more favorable to
her than equitable distribution would likely be. Hess wanted bef~ndant to. pro.tect her interests in
the distribution of the l11arital property in defending the action for divo.rce. Hess did no.t6bject to.
the granting o.f divorce.
1 L The Complaint filed and verified by Hess' husband alleged in part: "The parties
entered into a separation [sic] which by its terms [sic] not to be incorporated into. their divorce
decree."
"

.1

12. Defendant agr~ed she would prepare an appropriate Answer to. the divo.rce actio.n fo.r
review and verification by Hess by 13 January 1999. An appointment fo.r Hess to meet with
Defendant at Defendant's law office was scheduled for the morning of 13 January 1999 .

13. Hess info.rmed Defendant o.n 13 January 1999 that she Wo.uld be unable to keep het
scheduled appointment that day.
14. Hess and the Defendant then agreed to meet on the mo.rning o.f 14 January 1999.
15. When Hess arrived at Defendant's office on l4 January 1999, Defendant did not have
an Answer prepared. Defendant asked Hess to sign a sheet of paper that had Hess' type<;l name
and a signature line. Defendant told Hess that it was all right for her to. sign the paper bearing her
typed name and signature line and that Defendant Wo.uld pro.tect Hess' interests.
16. Defendant prepared an Answer with a Counterclaim asking for equitable distribution
dated 18 January 1999 and signed it as atto.rney for Hess. The Answer denied that the parties had
entered into. a valid separation agreement. By denying the validity of the separatio.n agreement, '
the Answer effectively precluded enforcement o.f it. Further, the Answer did not ask for alimony
or Po.st-separatio.n SUPPo.rt and, as a result, waived any potential claim for alimo.ny o.r post-

1
"

"

v

separation support. The Answer also requested that it "be used as an affidavit in support of all
orders issuing therefrom." The AnSwer was filed with the court on 25 January 1999.
~ 7. A Verification to the Answer with Hess' signature and a jurat of a Notary Public to
the Veri;tication was attached to the Answer as filed with the court. The Verification attached to
the Answer was the document signed by Hess on 14 January 1999. The Verification recites that
Hess had read the contents of the' Answer and that they were true, except those matters alleged
upon'information and belief, which matters Hess believed to be true. The jurat of the Notary
Public indicates that Hess had signed the Verification under oath before the Notary Public on 18
January ;1999.
I

1'8. Hess was not in Defendant's office at any time on 18 January 1999.

I

19. Hess did not read the Answer before it was filed in court.
20. Hess did not sign the Verification to the Answer on 18 January 1999.
21. Hess did not sign the Verification before the Notary Public who executed the jurat on
18 January 1999.
22. Hess did not sign the Verification under oath before a Notary Public or other official
qualified to administer oaths at any time.
2~.

The Notary Public who executed the jurat to the Verification signed by Hess to the
Answer was not an employee of the Defendant and worked in a separate office from the
Defendant.
24. The court entered a judgment of absolute divorce on 8 February 1999 but held open
the quest~on of equitable distribution.
25. Hess discharged Defendant sometime between 11 March 1999 and 24 May 1999 and
retained another attorney to represellt her concerning distribution of the marital property after the
divorce ju,dgment was entered. A post-judgment motion to set aside the divorce judgment and
amend the Answer and Counterclaim was filed in which the authenticity of Hess' Verifica.tion of
the Answ~r was an issue. A hearing on the motion was held on 8 December 1999 in Iredell
County District Court and Defendant testified at that hearing. By the time of the hearing on 8
December 1999, the former husband of Hess had remarried.

I
'.

26. At the hearing on 8 December 1999, Defendant knOWingly and falsely testified under
oath that she had reviewed the Answer and Counterclaim with Hess on 18 January 1999 in
Defendant's office.
27.: At the hearing on 8 December 1999, Defendant knowingly and falsely testified under
oath that Hess had .signed the Verification to the Answer in her presence on 18 January 1999 in
Defendant's office.
28. At the hearing on 8 December 1999, Defendant testified under oath that she had
instructed and allowed the Notary Public, to notarize Hess' signature on the Verification to the
,

I

,. .~

"J '

~ ~

, .",~

Answer and Counterclaim on 18 January 1999 without Hess being present before the NotarY
PlJ.blic to swear to or affirm the verification under o a t h . '
.
29. By letter dated 21 September 2000, in response to in inquiry from the Cllair ofthe
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, Defendant falsely represented to the
North Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee that Hicks had been present in her office on 18
January 1999 and had signed the Verification on that day when she knew that Hess had not
appeared at her office that day and signed the Verification on that day.

I

B~sed

upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the following:
Conclusions of Law

1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction oVer Carole A. Hicks and the subject matter.
2. The defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds,
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
.
(a) By preparing a verification to an, Answer and Counterclaim that indicated that Hess
had read the contents of the answer and signed the verification before a notary public on IS
January 1999 when Hess had not in fact read the answer or signed the verification on that date,
the Defendant has engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit ,or misrepre$erttatio:p. in .
violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

(b) By instructing and allowing a notary public to attest falsely in a jurat that Hess had,
personally appeared before the notary and executed the Verification to the Answer under oath on
18 January 1999 when the notary public did not personally see Hess sign the Verification or
a,dminister any oath to Hess, the Defendant has falsified evidence in violation of Rule 3.4(b) of
the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fra,lid,
d(;)Qeit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of :professional
Conduct; engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4(d) ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; committed a criminal act that reflects
adversely on the lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness asa lawyer in other respects in '
violation of Rule 8.4(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; and viol~ted the Rules of
Professional Conduct through the acts of another in violation of Rule S.4(a) ofthe Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct.
'
(c) By filing an Answer in a court proceeding with a verification by l;t client knowing that
the verification was not made in the presence of a notary or under oath, although it so recites, the,
Defendant has knowingly made a false statement of material fact to a tribunal in violation of
Rule 3.3(a,)(1) of the Revised Ru.1es of Professional Conduct; engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit-or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Revi$ed Rules of'
Professional Conduct; and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; committed a criminal act
that reflects adversely on the lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other.
respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
.

I

(d) By falsely testifying under oath in a court proceeding that she met with Hess in
Defendant's office on 18 January 1999 and that Hess had signed the verification to the Answer
and Counterclaim after reviewing it, Defendant knowingly made a false statement of material
fact to a tribunal and offered evidehce that the Defendant knew to be false in violation of Rule
3.3(a)(1) and (4) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of
Professional conduct; committed a criminal act that reflects. adversely on the lawyer's honesty,
trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) of the ReVIsed
Rules of'Professional Conduct; and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice i~ violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised,Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

(e) By falsely representing to the North Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee that
Hess had:;been present in her office and.signed the Verification to the Answer on 18 January
1999 when she knew that Hess had not appeared at her offic.e that day, the Defendant knowingly
made a false statement of material fact in connection with a North Carolina State Bar
Disciplin~ Matter in violation of Rule 8.1(a) of the Revised Ru1es of Professional Conduct;
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4( c) of 'the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; and engaged in conduct that is prejudicial
to the administration of justice in violation of Rule. 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
B~sed

upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
1. There are no aggravating factors related to defendant's misconduct. '
2. 'The defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a) Absence of selfish motivation; and

I

(b) No prior disciplinary record.
3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravati.ng factors.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of the
parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
Order of Discipline
1. T!1e Defendant is hereby reprimanded.

I
,

:,'

.

\ ~

)

,,'

2. The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assess~d by the Secretary.

I

I

.

.,

""

,"

-

I

....... :,...

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
LINARY HEARING COMMISSION

NORTH CAROLINA

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PLAINTIFF

v.
CAROLE A. HICKS, ATTORNEY;
DEFENDANT

)
)
)
)

)

I
REPRIMAND

)
)
)
)

Following a hearing on 14 June 2002, a hearing committee ofthe Disciplinary Hearing
Commission issued an Order of Discipline imposirig a Reprimand against you based on,Your
conduct as found in the above captioned matter.
A Reprimand is a fonnal, written fonn of discipline issued in cases in which the attorney
has violated one ormore provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused harni or
potential hann to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public,
but the hearing committee has detennined that the misconduct does not require more serious
discipline.
.
As Chair ofthe hearing committee that heard this matter, it is my duty to issue this
Reprimand to you. I trust that you will fully understand the spirit in which this duty is perfonned.

In ~arly January 1999, Ms. Janice Hess engaged your services to represent her in
defending a complaint for divorce filed by her husband, Homer Hess, in December, 1998 and to
assist her ih enforcing a separation agreement between them or otherwise protecting her interests
in the mari,tal estate. At your initial conference on January 5, 1999, Ms. Hess infonned you that
she did not object to the divorce, but primarily wanted to make sure her interests were protected.
She also infonned you that she had learned of a problem with the enforceability ofthe separation '
agreement,! that under the tenns of the agreement she was to receive monthly payments from her
husband for life, and that her husband had complied with the tenns for several months but was
no longer complying. She provided you with a copy of the separation agreement. The complaint
for divorce'alleged that there was a separation agreement.

I

You and Ms. Hess agreed to meet again and go over an Answer. The meeting Was
scheduled for January 13, but Ms. Hess had to cancel. Ms. Hess testified, and the Hearing
Committee believes, that she met with you on the morning of January 14 at which time you
asked her to sign a blank form that was later attached to the Answer you filed on her behalf and
that you had not yet prepared the Answer.

I

, ",1'

i~,

(

The Answer that you prepared and filed with the Court was dated January 1'8, the
Monday Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday. The jurat of the notary public on the verification to the
Answer signed by Ms. Bess recites that it was "sworn to and subscribed before me [the notary
public) on January 18. You have admitted that Ms. Hess 4ig,not .actually app~ar before the not~y.
who executed the jurat and was not under oath at the time she signed the verification. Y oualso
admitted directing the notary to execute the jurat on your word that the client had· signed it that
day.
.

I

The .Answer you prepared on behalf of Ms. Hess denied the validity of the separation'
agreement. The judge then granted the divorce on February 8, 1999, but did hold open the issue
of equitable distribution.
At some point between your second meeting with Ms. Hess and M~y 24, the attorrieyclient relationship was terminated and Ms. Hess hired another attorney. That attorney filed a
motion in the divorce action to set the divorce juq.gment aside and allow Ms. Hess leave to
amend her Answer and Counterclaim. The issue in the post-judgment motion was whether the.
verification to the ansWer was correct and whether Ms. Hess had understood the ramifications of
the Answer filed on her behalf. Ms. Hess contended in that motion, as she still does today, that
YOll could not have met with her on January 18 as recited in the verification notary jurat because
she was in the Myrtle Beach, South Carolina vicinity at the time ofthe suppoSed meeting. '
You were called to testify under oath at the hearing on the post-judgment motion. Even '
though you mew that Ms. Hess testi'fied that she was in Myrtle Beach, you testified that .she was
in your office on January 18, the same day as the notary jurat. Your testimony was false and you
,knew it to be false. Further, this testimony directly contradicted the testimony ofy-our foriner
client.
Later, when the Chair of the Grievance Committee asked YOll for an explanation ofyqur .
conduct at the post-judgment motion hearing, you repeated your statement that Ms. Hess was in
your office on January 18 to the Grievanc'e Committee.
.
'..

I

Perhaps the most troubling aspect of your conduct is your continued insistence that Ms.
Hess was in your office on January 18 even when confronted with third party business records
and witness testimony that she was in MYrtle Beach at the time you claim she was in your office..
Had you at any point said that you may have been mistaken or attempted to correct the record,
perhaps nothing further would have come ofthis matter. By continuing to falsely claim that she
was in your office on that date, you have compounded a minor incident into circumstances where
the Bar was compelled to begin disciplinary action. You damaged both the legal profession and
your own reputation for honesty.
The Hearing Committee believed that your conduct was mitigated by your lack of any
prio~ discipline and a belief that you had no selfish motive for your testimony. The Heanng

"

Committee also believed this to be out of character and an aberration. As a result, the HearIng
Committee believed that more serious discipline was not warranted. The Hearing COJ.U111ittee was
mindful that others have received suspensions and disbarments for false testimony in court; but'
concluded that the aggravating circumstances of those cases were not present here. The Hearing
Committee felt you would learn from this experience and were not likely to repeat your mistak~s.
The Hearing Committee reminds you that attorneys cannot continue t6 re111~in selfregulating if members of the Bar do not conduct themselves with honesty and integrity at all

times, especially before the courts aJid the Bar'itself. The Hearing Coinmittee trusts that you will
take this Reprimand to Iie~, benefit from it, and never again violate the Rules ofProfessiohal
Conduct.
Signed by the

Ch~ir' ~ith cons~nt pf all committee member~, this the ~ay of

+b-b,b~t7~-" 2002.'

--+-q&-Hl-j

I

I
;','

._-_ ...

.
_:

,

,"

I

