WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION

NORTH CAROLINA

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.
MARSHALL A. MASON ill, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT
)'
CQNCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)
)

THIS, MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on Friday, June 28, 2002
before a duly appointed Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair; F. Lane Williamson and'H. Dale Almond.
James B. Maxwell represented the Defendant, Marshall A. Mason UI. Carolin Bakewell
appeared for the N.C. State Bar. '
Based upon the pleadings herein, the preheating order atld the eVidence presented
at trial, the Hearing Committee enters the following: -

I

FINDINGS OF FACT.
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body du~y org~zed
under the laws,ofNorth Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
'promulgated therelinder.
2. The Defendant, Marshall A. Mason III (Mason), was admitted to' the
North Carolina State Bar in 1978, and is, and was at all times referred to herein,\
an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules ofProfe~sional Conduct ofth,eNorth Caro1ina St;lte Bar
and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all of the periods relevant hereto, Mason was engaged in the
practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina. .

I

4. On or about June 15 - 22, 2000, :Mason grabbed Heidi Adams and
restrained her by holding her shoulders while he touched her breasts without her
consent and against her will and for the purpose of arousing or gratifying his
sexua~ desires.
5. Ms. Adams.was a current client of Mason's as of June 15 - 22,2000
and ataB times relyvant hereto.
! 6. On or about Feb. 5 - 7,2001, Mason met with, Rachel Riggs, and
grabbed her buttocks and attempted to kiss her, without her consent and. against
her will and for the purpose -of arousing or gratifying.his sexual desires.

I

-7. Ms. Riggs was a current client of Mason's as offeb. 5 -7, 2001 and at
all times relevant hereto.
'8. On or about June 28,2001, Mason offered to forgive legal fees owed to
him by Ms. Riggs in exchange for sexual intercourse.
9. On or about Nov. 28, 2001, Mason was convicted of misdemeanor
false imprisonment, two counts of misdemeanor simple assault, and one cop.nt of
misdemeanor solicitation of prostitution in Durham County District Court.

'10. Mason was sentenced to 60 days injail, which sentence was
suspended for 24 months on various conditions. He was ordered to pay $2,000
and court costs.

i 1. The offenses of which Masori Was convicted are serious criminal
violatio~s which reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a
lawyer. '
Based em the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The offenses of which Mason was convicted are criminal offenses
-showing professional unfitness in violation ofNiC. Gen. Stat. Section 8428(b)(1), and which reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as
a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) of the Revised Rules of \
Professional Conduct.
.

,

2" By grabbing Ms .. Riggs' buttocks and attempting to kiss her against her
will, Mason engaged in sexual relations with a client in violation of Rule 1.18 of
the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

t

,

I

3. By grabbing Ms. Adams around the sho\1lders and touching her breasts
against her will, Mason engaged in sexual relations with a client in violation of
Rule 1.18 of the Revis~d Rules of Professional Conduct.
"'I'"

I

.

4. By offering to forgive legal fees owed by M§.~Riggs in exchange for
sexual intercourse, Mason demanded sexual relations with a client incid~nt to
professional representation in violation of Rule 1.18(c) of the Revised Rllles of
Professional Conduct and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) and engaged in a conflict ofinterest in vio'tation
of Rule 1.7 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
.
Based upon the further evidence at trial, the hearing committee also makes
.
the following
FINDlNGS OF FACT RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
.
1: A numoer of individuals, including a superior court judge, the Durham
County Sheriff, the chief district court judge of the 14th Judicial District and
lawyers from several counties testified live or via ,letter on Mason's behalf.
Mason's character witnesses stated that, in their opinion, Mason is a good
attorney who effectively handles a large caseload of criminal. matters.
2. ill September 2001, after the criminal charges were filed against him,
but before the hearing on the criminal assault charges, Mason sought professional
counseling. He has continued to receive counseling since that time and has
complied with all of the treatment recommendations of his psychologist.

I

3. Mason has a histrionic personality disorder~ a condition which is
characterized by over-flirtatiousness and poor judgment and impulse control.
Mason's personality disorder contributed to his misconduct toward Ms. Adams
and Ms. Riggs.
4. Ms. Adams continues to suffer psychological and/or emotional
difficulties as the result of Mason's misconduct toward her.
5. Ms. Adams and Ms. Riggs, who were 18 and 20, respectively, at the
time of Mason's misconduct toward them, were not sophisticated in legal matters
and lacked the contacts and resources to select other counsel.

I

6. 'Mason's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. Mason engaged in a pattern of misconduct.
b. Mason committed multiple violations ofthe Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
c. Mason has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
d. Mason was motivated by a selfish motive.
e. The victims of Mason's misconduct were particularly
vulnerable.
f. By suggesting that he would forgive legal fees owed by Ms.
Riggs in exchange for sex, Mason solicited criminal conduct by
a client.

I

7. Mason's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. Absence of a prior disciplinary record.
b. Mason had personal or emotional problems.
c. Mason has a histrionic personality disorder, which amounts to
a mental disability or impairment.
d. Mason enjoys a good character and reputation with members of
the Durham County Bar and individuals who work within the
legal system.
e. Mason was cooperative with the disciplinary proceeding to the
best of his ability.
£ Mason has sought interim rehabilitation by consulting a
psychologist and following his recommendations regarding
treatment of his personality disorder.
BaSed upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
Hearing Committee enters the following:
, ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

1" The law license of the Defendant, Marshall A. Mason III, is hereby
SUSPENDED for three years, effective 30 days from service of the' written order
upon him.
2. Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the
Secretary ,of the N.C. State Bar rio later than 30 days after service of this order ~
upon Defendant.
.

I

3. Defendant sh~ll comply with all applicable provisions of the N.C .
. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, including, but Ilot limited to, the wind
down pmvisions set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Tit. 1, Cl}apter B, Section
.0124.
",:,'
4. The Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 60 days ~fter
service of the ~rder upon him.

I

S. Six months after the effeGtive date ofthe suspension QfDefendant's law
license, or any time thereafter, Defendant may seek a stay of the remaining term of
suspension, upon filing a written petition with the N.C. State Bar and demonstrating that
he has complied with the following conditions:
~. The Defendant has obtained a psychiatric evaluation from a board certified

psychiatrist approved by the North Carolin~ State Bar for the purpose of determining if
the Defendant suffers from any condition or disorder that causes him to engage in '
predatory sexual behavior. The Defendant shall produce a copy of the written evaluation
ofthe psychiatrist to the Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar no later than the date
on which he files his petition for stay or reinstatement.
b. The Def~ndant has complied with all treatment plans and reco1lllllendation of
the psychiatrist, if any, continuing through the stayed suspension and shall execute a
written release at or before he petitions for stay of the remaining suspension period, to
permit the N.C. State Bar to contact his psychiatrist to detenhipe ifhe is complying with
the treatment plan.

I

c. Defendant has followed all tre.atment plans recommended by pro John
Gorman, PhD or successor counselor approved by the N.C. Stl:j.te Bar. Dr. Gorman, or his
successor shall provide a written report to the N.C. State Bar regarding Defendant's
,
progress each Oct. 1, Jan. 1, April 1 and July 1 throughout the term·ofthe stayed
suspension or until he is discharged from treatment. Dr. Gonnan or his successor shaH '
agree to notify the N.C. State Bar Counsel immediately if Defendant fails to comply with
the trea,tment plan.
-d. Defendant shall be responsible for all costs associated with obtaining a
psychiatric evaluation and the cost of any treatment from the psychiatrist\and Dr. Gorman
or his successor.
'
e. Defendant has violated no provisions of the Revised Rules ofProfes~ional
Conduct, nor the laws of any state or of the United States during the 6 month active
suspenSIOn.
f. If Heidi Adru:ns desires to obtain professional counseling for any emotional
trauma caused by Defendant's misconduct, Defendant has paid for such professional
cOWlseling, that may be incurred during the period of his active suspension oflicense.

6.. If Defendant seeks a stay of his law license he will comply with all terms of
para~aphs 5(a)-(f) through the balance ofthe stayed suspension period.
7. If the Defendant does not seek a ~tay of the suspension of his law license, or if
the stay is revoked for any reason, the Defendant shall comply with the following
conditions prior to seeking reinstatement at the end of the period of active period of
susp¢nsion, Defendant shall comply with the provisions of paragraphs 1-4 and 5(a)-(b)
and ~f).
This

the~y of July, 2002.

I

Signed by the Chair with the consent of all Committee members.
",

~.-

A17(!LL,
~retb,
Charr

Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I

I

