"

'

5053

"

BEFORE THE
,
LINARY HE.ARING COMMISSION

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

I

v.
MICHAEL H. McGEE, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

'FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

On June 21,2002, this matter came on to be heard before a hearing committee. of
the Disciplinary Bearing Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair; Joseph
G. Maddrey; and Marguerite P. Watts. A. Root Edmonson represented the North
Carolina State Bar and the Defendant appeared pro se. Based upon the stipulated facts
and the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing c01111TIittee finds the following facts
to be supported by qlear, cogent a.nd convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The North Carolina State Bar, the plaintiff, is a body duly organized under the .
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring disCiplinary proceedings under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and'the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. The defendant, Michael H. McGee (hereafter, Mr. McGee), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 14, 1971 ~d is, and was at a:11 times referred to
herein, an attorne;:y at law licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subJect to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar, Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of North
Carolina.
3. I)uring all times relevant hereto, Mr. McGee was actively engaged in the;:
, practice of law and maintained' a practice in Charlotte, Meckle;:nburg County, North
Carolina.
.
4. In February 1998, Mr. McGee represented Julie Cline (hereafter, Ms. Cline),
the mother of John St~ley· Wernek, in a petition for termination of the parental rights
(hereafter, petiti~n),ofthe child's !ather, John Gerard Wernek.
5. After a hearing, the court dismissed Ms. Cline's petition by an order dated
December 11, 1998.
'

I
"

.

..

6. On March 29, 1999, AttotneyTerri L. Young (hereafter, Ms. Yotmg),.filed a
Motion for Relief from Judgment (Rule 60) and for ReconsiderationlRehearing (hereafter,
motion) on Ms. Cline's behalf~
7. Ms. Young alleged in her motion that Ms. Cline should be granted a new trial
because ofvariou$ shortcomings in Mr. McGee's representation of Ms. Cline.
·8. A hearing was held on the motion and the motion was dismissed by an order
d.ated September 9, 1999.
9. On September 29, 1999, Ms. Young appealed the dismissal of the motion to
the North Carolina Court of Appeals.

I

10. Thereafter, the parties in the petition action filed briefs with the North
Carolina Court of Appeals. Ms. Young's briefwas not filed in accordance with the rules
of the North Carolina Court of Appeals. The court permitted Ms. Young to re-file her
brief in the proper format.
11. In her brief, Ms. Young focused primarily on various shortcomings in Mr.
McGee's representation of Ms. Cline.
12. On July 24, 2000, Mr. McGee filed a "Motion to Permit Michael H. McGee
to Enter as Amicus Curiae Outside Normal Entry Time and Briefing Schedule" (hereafter,
Amicus Curiae Motion) with the North Carolina Court of Appeals.
13. In his Statement of Interest of Proposed Amicus Curiae on the first page of
his Amicus Curiae Motion, Mr. McGee stated that he represented the minor child, John
Stahley Wemek, at the trial of the case that was the sUQject of the appeal. Mr. McGee
didn't state that he had represented Ms. Cline at trial.
: 14. Mr. McGee stated in his Amicus Curiae Motion: "Ms. Young has attacked
my abilities, and impugned my reputation as a lawyer, throughout this proceeding, and
continlles to do so before this Court."

I

15. On pages four and five of Mr. McGee's Amicus Curiae Motion, he stated:
Therefore I fear that the fierceness with which Ms. Young attacks
me maybe a reflection of unresolved anger at some physical 01" sexual
abuse she may have suffered as a child in a situation similar to the one at
I bar, or oflinresolved anger at some adult situation such as being raped. If
any orie of these is a factor, then Ms. Young should seek professional
,therapy rather than using this Court and a case involving a defenseless
child as a vehicle for spewing her free.,.floating anger. Confused and
,unfocused lawyering is a rather natural result of approaching a case from
personal anger as opposed to professional advocacy.

I

1

16. At the time that Mr. McGee made the above statement, he had no actual
knowledge that Ms. Young had ever been raped or sexually abused at any tiJ11e in her life.

I

71;;..

17. On August 8, 2000, the North Carolina CotITt of Appeals entered an Order
denying Mr. McGee's Amicus Curiae Motion and forwarded a copy of the Amicus
"Curiae Motion to the North Carolina State Bar for ''whatever inquiry or action it deems
appropriate. "
18. On October 3,2000, the North Carolina Court of Appeals dismissed Ms.
YOll11g's appeal as being untimely filed.

I

19. On September 11, 2000, Mr. McGee filed a lawsuit, caption(';)d Michael H.
McGee v. Janet Reno et aI., in the United States District Court for the Weste11.1 District of
North Carolina. The Honorable Graham Mullen was the judge who handled the case.
Mr. McGee later filed an amended complaint in the action which, among other things,
resulted in the dismissal of-all class allegations, and limited the case to the personal
causes of action alleged by Mr. McGee. In his complaint and all).ended complaint, Mr.
McGee challenged the record keeping practices of several federal, state a:nd local entities,
including the Internal Revenue Service, the Federal Bure~.u of Investigation, the Central
Intelligence Agency, the Administrative Office of the United States Court, the CharlotteMecklynburg Police Department, the Mecklenburg County Sheriff and the North Carolina
State Bar. According to documents of record, Mr. McGee filed his complaint "for the
purpose of eradicating each and every government record relating to him, where such
record can or has the potential to cause actual or reputational harm to him, where the
recprd is not needed for Ii legitimate governmental purpose that is pennitted Or not
prohibited by the US Constitution or by federal laws, or state constitution or laws, that are
in conformity with the US COl?-stitution."
20. Many ofthe defendants filed motions to dismiss Mr. McGee's lawsuit.
21. On or about January 3,2001, Mr. McGee filed with the court a Memorandum
in Opposition to Defendants' Motions to Dismiss (hereafter, Memorandum).

I

22. Mr. McGee attached as Exhibit A to his Memorandum "copies of spoof
pages" from the "Inmate Lookup" web site of the Mecldenbutg County Sheriff. Mr.
MtGee created a fictitious criminal record for the Honorable Graham C. Mt:t.!len, Chief
District Judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of North
Carolina (hereafter, Judge Mullen). In this criminal record that Mr. McGee created and
attached to his Memorandum, Judge Mullen has been purportedly charged. with
"conspiracy-child pornography-felony" and "1st Deg Anal Rape-Felony.;'
23. Mr. McGee knew when he created this "criminal record~' of Judge Mullen at1d
attached it to his Memorandum that was filed in federal district court that the material
contained in the "spoof pages" was not true.
24. In his Memorandum, Mr. McGee stated that his Exhibit A was now a
permanent, part of a court dOC1li11ent. On page 10 of his Memorandum, Mr. McGee
stated:
.

I
...

,

..

"

Now that these doc\.ll:).1ents are a part of the record in this case, any
person can come look at the court file, and copy only the pages that they
want, and publish them in any newspaper or on any web site, with or
without any explanatory comment, for any purpose they want to
accomplish. No one is under any obligation to say that these are spoof
pages and that the Chief District Judge did not do these things and Was not
ever arrested for these things. Isn't freedom wonderful! And as long as
they only publish the pages, and don't comment on whether they are true
or not, they can't be sued for libel, due to the absolute privilege that
attaches to court filings.

25. Mr. McGee further stated on page 11 of his Memorandum:

I

There will Come a point where the Chief District Judge will not be
able to go even one day without a small snake of fear slithering through his
thoughts, where he "feels the bum." And this feeling will happen even
though as a federal judge he has lifetime job security, and even though
since none of this happened it's clear that no one can ever prove any
misconduct.
26. Mr. McGee's Exhibit A attached to his Memorandum was not pertinent to
any issues argued in McGee's Memorandum.

27. On January 5,2001, Judge Mullen sent a letter to the North Carolina State
Bar for consideration by the Grievance Cortnnittee. Judge Mullen subsequently
sanctioned Mr. McGee for his conduct/but left the issue of whether his conduct deserved
professional discipline to the North Carolina State Bar.
28. On June 20, 1999, Linda D. Wiley (hereafter Ms. Wiley), with whom Mr.
McGee had a p~rsonal relationship, initiated a criminal misdemeanor charge against Mr.
McGee. She alleged that he had made harassing phone calls to her between May 30,
1999 and June 19, 1999.
29. The matter was scheduled for trial on September 14, 1999.

I

30. On or about August 19, 1999, after the initiation. of the court proceeding but
before the trial date, Mr. McGee drafted an agreement that had a signature line for Ms.
Wm~y and delivered the draft document to Ms. Wiley. The draft agreement WaS never
made into a fina~ document and was never signed. 31. The draft agreement, among other things, provided that Ms. Wiley would
"take such actions as may be necessary to drop the pending charges, including but not
limited to declining to. appear in.court on arty day that the matter be called for trial." In
exc4ange, the draft agreement called for Mr. McGee and his wife to agree, among other
things, not to file suit against Ms. Wiley for malicious prosecution or alienation of
affection.

I

32. Soon after Mr. McGee delivered the draft document to Ms. Wiley, a subpoena
was issued by the District Attorney's office requiring ¥s. Wiley to appear jn court and
testify when the case was called for trial on September 14, 1999. Mr. McGee's
agreement didh't attempt to discour~ge Ms. Wiley from obeying a subpoena. .
'. ·:;t·:.\~

..

33. At some time after August 19, 1999, and prior to the trial oftne case,
Assistant District Attorney Roberta Tepper voluntarily dismis~eci the charges.

I

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over Mr. McGee and the subject l11atter.
2. Mr. McGee's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By stating in his Amicus Curiae Motion that Ms. Young:s
advocacy in the representation of her' client "may be a re:t1ection of
unresolved anger at some physical or sexual abuse she may have
suffered as a child" or "unresolved anger at some adult situation
such as being raped," Mr. McGee alluded t<;> a matter that he could
not have reasonably believed was' relevant to Ms. Cline's appeal or
was supported by any evidence in viola,tion of Revised Rule 3.4(e)
and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice
in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(b)

By filing an Amicus Curiae Motion that undertnined the efforts of
Ms. Cline's new counsel, Ms. Young, in the prosecution of Ms.
Cline's appeal, Mr. McGee allowed his personal interests to
conflict with the interests of his former client, Ms. 'Cline, in
violation of Revised Rules 1.7(b).

(c)

By knowingly placing false, impertinent and defatllatory
information about Judge Mullen in Exhibit A to bi$ Memorandum,
Mr. McGee engaged in undignified or discourteous conduct that
was degrading to a tribunal in violation of Revised Rule
3.S(a)(4)(ii); used means that had no substantial purpose other than
to embarrass or burden a third person, Judge Mullen, in violation
of Revised Rule 4.4; and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(d).

(d)

Mr. McGee's conduct didn't violate any of the other Revised Rules
alleged in the Complaint.

I

.,

"

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Conclusions of Law, and the
evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby makes the following:
FINDlNGS OF FACT REGARDlNG DISCIPLINE
. 1. Mr. McGee's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

(a)
(b)

mu1tiple offenses; and
Mr. McGee's refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his
conduct.

4. Mr. McGee's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

absence of a prior disciplinary record;

(b)

absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

(c)

personal or emotional problems; and

,

(d)

I

a cooperative attitude toward the proceedings

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and the
arguments of counsel, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.. The appropriate discipline in this matter is for the defendant, Michael H.
McGee, to be reprimanded. A reprimand will accompany this order.
. 2. Mr. McGee shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
within six (6) months of the date this disciplinary order is served upon him.
. ~~ed by the chait with the consent of the other hearing committee :members, this
the .J.raay of .Ju.1

y ' 2002.

I

'

tephen E. Culbreth,' Chair
Hearing Committee

I
;,

".
I
,1.''.,,<''

',:'/'

-,

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.
MICHAEL H. McGEE, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On June 21 ,2002, ~ hearing committee ofthe Disciplinary Hearip.g Commission
composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair; Joseph G. Maddrey; and Marguerite P. Watts
considered the allegations made in the Complaint filed against you on February 5, 2002
in the above referenced di~ciplinaryproceeding. The hearing committee's Findin,gs of
Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order of Discipline is being entered contemporaneously
with this reprimand.
The hearing committee fouud that you had violated some of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct, and ordered that you be reprimanded. This document constitutes
that reprimand.

I

A reprimand is a written fonn of disciplhle more·serious than anadmQ:p.ition
issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct
does not require a censure.
By stating'in your Amicus Curiae Motion ·in the Court of Appeals that another
lawyer's advocacy in the representation of her client "may be a reflection of u:hresolved
anger at some physical or sexual abuse she may have suffered as a child" or "'QIlresolved
anger at sOJ;lle adult situation such as being raped," you alluded to a matter that you could
not have reasonably believed was relevantto the appeal or was supported by any
evidence in violation of Revised Rule 3 A( e) and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d).
.

By knowingly placing false, impertinent and defamatory infonnation about Judge
Mull~n in Exhibit A to your Memorandum filed in his court, you eng~ged in undignified .
or discourteous conduct that was degrading to a tribunal in violation of Revised Rule
3.5(a)(4)(ii); used means that had no substantial purpose other than to embarrass or

. I

.. '\

\

117

burden a third person, Judge Mullen, in violation of Revised Rule 4.4; and engaged in
condu¢t prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Revised Rule S.4(d).
, The hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission hereby
reprimands you for your professional misconduct. The hearing committee hopes that you
will heed this reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to
you, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high
ethical'standards of the legal profession.
:

,Issued this the

I

~~

L? day of Jec lr.

,2002.

~cc~
tephen E. Culbreth, Charr
Hearing Committee

.

I

I

