,

NORTH CAROLINA

I

THEOPHILUS O. STOKES
ATTORNEY AT LAW

,

.

~

-

BEFORETBE
GRrnVANCECONlliflTTEE
OFTRE "
NOR'IJl; CAROLINA, STATEBAR
,
01G0400
-,

W A.KE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

:

)
)
)
)
)

REPRllv.fAND

On July 17, 2002, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Duke L. Nelson.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rilles ofthe North Catolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminmy hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Co:n:rmittee
found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a
member of the North ~arolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplfuary action." , '
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Co~ttee may
determine that the filing of a complaint ap.d a hearing before the Disciplinary'Hearing Commission
are 110t required; and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of disciplim~ depending ,
upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating
factors. The Grievance Committee may issll;e an Admonition, a ReprimaJ;ld,. or a Censure to the'
Respondent a~orney.

I

A Reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused harm -or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice" the profession,ora'
member (!)f the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.
Tht;: Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case and
, issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully'the
spirit in which this duty is performed.
You agreed to represent Duke Nelson in a wrongful termination claim against his former
employer, Dow Coming. You filed suit against Dow Corning in December 1996 on the wrongful '
discharge claim. In response, you received a notice from Dow that they had filed bankruptcy in May'
1995, which affected the stay of any actions against the comPanY. In February 1997~ the Superior
Court issued an order closing the file on Mr. Nelson's claim because ofDo'w Coming's pending
bankruptcy.

I

The Committee found that, after Mr. Nelson's action was dismissed, you failed to take any
action to protect his legal rights or pursue his claim for numerous years. You did not, for example,
monitor the status of the Dow Corning bahkruptcy or ensure that a proper claim was filed in the
banlauptcy proceeding oil behalf of Mr. Nelson. You also did not pursue an appeal of the dismissal
order.
Mr. Nelson eventually filed a grievance with the North Carolina State Bar. Y ~u were served
with a letter ofl}.otice regarding the grievance on approximately May 21,2001, required to respond
within 15 days, but failed to do so. Additionally, you we;re sent a follow-up letter requesting
additional information regarding the status of Mr. Nelson's claim against Dow Corning. You
received this letter on August 27, 2001, were requested to respond no later than the end of
September, but again {ailed to do, so. Although you eventually responded to both of these inquiries,
it was only after additional correspondence and further requests were made.
-

I

.

-

I

The Conimittee found that your conduct violated several Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct. First, the Committee concluded that you failed to act with'reasonable diligence and
promptness in pursuing Mr. Nelson's wrongful tel1Ilination claim after the dismissal order in
Fe;bruary 1997 in violation of Revised Rule L3. Second; the Conimittee concluded that yoU failed
to respond promptly to reasonable requests for information in a disciplinary matter in violation of
Revised Rule 8.1 (b).

In deciding to issue this Reprimand, the Committee considered several aggravating factors.
First, you had prior disciplinary history for similar violations. Second, you recently had been
warned about failing to promptly respond to a State Bar grievance matter,
You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the lega~ profession.

In 'accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administJ::ative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount of$50.00
are hereby taxed'to you.
.
C~6lina

Do~e and ordered, this

2

J day of

I',

'.
' :,

2002.

1

