WAKE COUNTY

I

BEFORE THE
LINARY HEARING COMMISSION
:";':OFTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01 DHC 21

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

)
)
)
)

)

~

ROBERT L. PETERSEN, ATTORNEY
Defendant

FINDINGS OF FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)
)
)
)
"

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard by a duly assjgned hearing .
committee ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the North Carolina State Bar .
composed of Rich'lId T., Gammon, Chair; Carlyn :poole and Betty Ann Knudsen.
Car0lin Bakewell.appeared for the North Carolina State Bar. The Defen4ant, Robert L..
Petersen, did not app~ar and was not represented by counsel. Based upon the evidenc~
introduced at trial and the arguments of counsel, the Hearing Committee makes the
following:
'
'
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The P~aintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly Qrganized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations 01 the Nonh 'Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant, Robert L. Petersen (hereafter, Petersen), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar in 1972, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules,regulations and Rules of Professional Conduyt of the North Carolina State ,
Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. Between June 1, 1995 and Feb. 3, 1999 Peters~n was employed as
s,enior in-house attorney in AT&T's government markets division.

~

I

~O,1'
.

"

4. In 1997 a group of AT&T employees, referred to as the Tiger Teain
were directed to conduct an internal review of the "flexibiller" billing system
then used inAT&T's governnient markets division.
5. In late 1997, the Tiger Team produced an 80-page report, known as the
Tige;r Team Report, which discussed various problems with the flexibiller system.
6. In December 1997, Petersen was given a copy of the Tiger Team
RepQrt by his sllpervisor, Nathaniel Friends, and was directed to employ outside
counsel to review the report from a legal standpoint.
I
7. ill late 1997 or early 1998, the attorney whom Petersen retained to
review the Tiger Team Report submitted a legal memorandum (known as the
Thompson Memorandum) discussing various legal issues and problems arising
from AT&T's use ofllie flexibiller system.

I

8. Petersen received copies of the Thompson Memorandum and the Tiger
TeaIT,t Report in the course and scope of his duties as in-house counsel for AT&T.
Petersen was aware that both documents contained confidences of AT&T, that
AT&T did not wish the information disclosed, and that disclosure of the
documents could be damaging to the company.
I

9. In July 1998, about six months after the Thompson Memorandum was
received, Petersen became i!:hpatient with AT&T's progress in addressing the
problems with the flexibiller system. He anonymously sent a portiOli 'ofthe'Tiger
Team, Report to the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA).
10. In August 1998 Petersen became impatient with DCAA's
investigation process and anonymously sent a portion of the Tiger Team Report to
a Ge~eral Kelley with the U.S. Army and to Mike Armstrong, Chief Executive
Officer of AT&T.

.... 11':

11. Petersen did not attempt to discuss his concerns about the Tiger Team
Report and the Thompson Memo with AT&T's security ur..it;' audit d~partment~ or
the president of the government markets division or AT&T's Chief Executive
Officer, Mike Annstrong, before disclosing portions ofthe Tiger Team Report to
the DCAA in July 1998.

I

, 12. By at least August 1998, AT&T began taking steps to deal with the
conceJ;11S raised by the Tiger Team Report and the Thompson Memorandum.
13. Petersen. was aware that AT&T had stopped using the flexibiller
system no latet: than November 1998.

I
'":.'

,

14. Petersen did not disclose copies of the Tiger Team Report or the
Thompson Memorandum to aI?-Y other individuals outside AT&T between Aug. 3,
1998 and Feb. 3, 1999.

15. On Feb. 3, 1999, Petersen resigned from his job at AT&T. At the
time of his resignation, he signed an agreement which required him, among other
things, not to disclose AT&T's confidences and to return all documents .,
containing contidemtial information to AT&T.
16. Petersen and AT&T officials later disagreed whether Petersen was
asked to resign because of poor job performance or whether he wa~ fired because
AT&T had discovered that Petersen disclosed company confidences to the Army
and DCAA in the summer of 1998. It is not necessary to resolve that issue in the
context, of this disciplinary proceeding.

17. On Oct. 5, 1999, approximately eight months after-he left AT&T,
Petersen wrote letter to Armstrong and requested his assistange in finding new
employment. Petersen attached copies of portions of the Thompson Memo and
the Tiger Team Report to his letter and stated that he was entitled to tiisclose the
documents because he claimed they had been delivered to him in July 1999 along
with other personal property from his office.

a

18. Also on Oct. 5, 1999, Petersen left a voice message on the telephone
of Dan Stark, another high-ranking AT&T official. fu the mes~age, Pete~sen
advised Stark that he had asked for Armstrong's help in finding a new job and
complained that he had been mistreated by AT&T in various respects.

I

19. On Oct. IS, 1999, Petersen left another voice message on Stark's
telephone, indicating that he had disclosed portions of the Tiger Team Report to
his parents, his in-laws and various friends because he had not received a prompt
response to his demand for assistance. He also advised that he would reVeal
portions of the report t9 the media and others if AT&T did not respond to the
demands set out in his Oct. 5, 1999 letter to Armstrong.
20. On Oct. 17, 1999, Petersen left a third message on Stark's phone.
This time he indicated that he was being considered for ajob at Newport News
Shipbuilding Company and would make no further disclosures of Al'&T
documents if Armstrong gave him a positive job recommendation.
21. On Oct. 20, 1999, Petersen left a fourth voice mail message for Stark.
fu this message, he stated that, because AT&T had not responded to Ills earlier
press "and
messages, he would be meeting with the Department ofDefense,
probably Justice, next week." ,

the

22. fu December 1999, AT&T filed an,injUllction proceeding in federal
court, seeking to bar Petersen from revealing furthe:r confidential infonnation.
.
,

I

.....~ . .

\'
.

\"

,

t

.

23. On Jan. 11,2000, the parties entered into a consent order ofinjuhction
in the federal suit. fu the consent order Petersen agreed to refum all documents
relating to AT&T to his fonner client arid not to disclose any additional
.
confidential information or documents.
24. fu January 2000, after he had agreed to sign the consent order but
before it was signed and fiied, Petersen made additional disclosures of AT&T
confidences to various friends and relatives.

25. On Jan. 13, 2000, Petersen revealed confidences of AT &1 in a call to
the Department of Defense "hotline."

I

26. fu April and May 2000, Peters.en revealed AT&T confidences to the
Department of Defense and the DCAA and made further com.rrlunications to
AT &T in which he threatened to make disclosUres to a senator, the media and the
S~curities and Exchange Commission.
27. fu November 2000, Petersen signed a consent order before the Texas
State Bar, whereby he admitted that he had revealed confidences of AT&T in .
violation of Texas' Rules of Pro fessiomi. I Conduct. The Texas consent order
imposed a reprimand.
28. fu January 2001, Petersen attended a show cause hearing in the
injunction proceeding. During the hearing, Petersen falsely stated that he
had not divulged any documents containing AT&T confidences after. the Jan. 11,
2000 .consent order had been entered.
feder~l

29. On Jan. 9,2001, the federal cotlrt entered an order holding Petersen in
contempt for disclosing AT&T confidences in violation of the Jan. 11, 2000
consent injunction.
. 30. After Petersen was held in contempt, he continued to disclose AT&T
confidences and to threaten AT&T officials with further disclosure::: up to and
through April 2002.

I

31. fu May 2002, after formal disciplinary proceedings had been filed
against him before the Virginia and North Carolina State Bars, Petersen left a
handWritten note in Friends' mailbox in which he stated, among other things, that
"because of you, I can no longer afford such a nice place. Just want you to fully
understand - either my situation is going to change soon or your situation is going
to change soon."
. 32. Following receipt of this note, Friends was forced to retain counsel
and obtain an injunction from the Fairfax County courts, enjoining Petersen from
contacting him or any ot~er AT&T employee...

I

({fO

,-

"

3'3. On July 26,,2002, the Virginia State Bar disciplinary hearing was
held. The Virginia State Bar entered an order disbarrin,g Petersen on or about
Aug. 9,2002.
',
,
',' '.
34. On Feb. 4, 2002, Petersen was properly served with the N.C. State
Bar's Summons' and Complaint herein.

I

35. On Feb. 12,2002, Petersen filed an Answer herein.
36. Thereafter, the State Bar served interrogatories and request~ for
production <;>f documents upon Petersen. Petersen objected to some of the State
Bar's discovery requests and the State Bar agreed to modify the scope of its
discovery. During a hearing held by telephone conference call on April 10, 2002,
Petersen agreed to respond to the discovery requests,' as modified. However,
Petersen failed to respond to the discovery requests.
37. On May 6,,2002, the Chair of the Disciplinary H~aring Committee
entered an order directing Petersen to respond to, di~covery questions propounded
by the N.C. State Bar, no later than May 16, 2002.
38. Petersen failed,to comply with the Chair' sdiscovery order and., on
June 14,2002, an order was entered, striking his Answer and entering his default,
pursuant to N.C. Civ. Pro. Rule 37(b).
39. In light of the entry of default, all of the allega~ion~jn th~ State Bar's
complaint have peen deemed admitted.

I

40. It is not necessary for the hearing committee to determine whether
copies of the Tiger TeaIl1 Report and Thompson Memo were atp.ong the
documents delivered by AT&T to Petersen in July 1999. Petersen first obtained
possession of the documents and became privy to the information contailied-in
them, while he was still in-house counsel for AT&T. AT&T never consented to
the disclosure of the documents and ,Petersen's obligation to keep .AT~T
confidences continued after his employment with.AT&T ceased.
41. Although Petersen has contended that his disclosure of AT&T
confidences was necessary to prevent commission of a "crime" by his clIent and
was therefore permitted pursuant to Rule 1.6(c)(4), his conduct and in particular,
his messages and letters to AT&T officials establish that his r~al purpose was to
optain "redress" and revenge for perceived wrongs done to him by AT&T.
Based upon the following Findings of Fact, the hearing committee hereby
enters the following:

I
:: ': . ',:-:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission or the N.C. State Bar has
jurisdiction over the subject of this action an4 over the person of the Defendant,
Robert L. Petersen, Jr.
2. By revealing confidential information of AT&T to third parties
without AT&T's consent, Petersen disclosed confidential client information in
viol~tion of Rule 1.6(c )(1) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3. By threatening to reveal confidential information of his former client,
AT&T, to third parties for the purpose of pressuring AT&T to assist him in
findipg employment apd by violating the federal court order, Petersen engaged ip:
cond~ct prejudicial to the administration of justice, in violation of Revised Rule :
8 A(d) and used client confidences for his advantage without AT&T's consent, in
violation ofRule1.6(c)(3).

I

Based upon the evidence herein, the Hearing Committee also makes the
follo)Ving

.ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
1. The hearing committee finds the follOWing aggravating factors are
present:
a. dishonest Of selfish motive;
b. multiple violations of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct;
c. a pattern of misconduct;
d. bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by
iptentionally failing to comply with the rules or order~ of the
disciplinary agency;
e. refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct;
f. substantial experience in the practice oflaw;

I

2. The heating committee found the following mitigating factor:
a. absence of prior disciplinary record.
<

. 3. The aggravating factors substantially outweigh the mitigating factor.

I

t!..

\ •

.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and
Findings Relevant to Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters ,the
following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defend~t, Robert L. Petersen" Jr. is hereby DISBARRED from
the practice oflaw in North Carolina.
.
2. Robert L. Petersen Jr., shall pay the costs of this proceeding.

Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the consent of.the other'
hearing' committee members.

·th

This the ~ day 9f Septemb~r, 2002.

I

I
::.:.

:-:

