\ NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRrEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORT}I CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

02G0139

I

IN'RE:

JOHN HALSTEAD, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 16, 2002, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina StaieBar met and
considered the grievance'filed ag~st you by Mr. Ricky McPherson.
pursuant to section .Ol13(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Ru1es of the North Carolina'
, ,State ~ar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response, to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reaso:Q.able cause to
b~lieve that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYipg
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a findip.g of probable cause, the Grievance' Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Connnission are not required., and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potenti~l injury caused, and '!l1y
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an A,dmonition, a'
Reprimand, or a CensUre to the Respondent attorney.
A Reprimand is a written form of discipline mo:re serious than an Admonition issued in
cases in which an attorIley has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, t4e
profession, or a member of the public, but the miscon~ct doe~ not require a Cen~ure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a CensUre is not required in ihis case,
, and issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North'
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand arid I am certain that ,you will
understand fully' the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You were appointed as counsel to represent Mr. McPherson.on an appeal of his judgment
in Pasquotanlc County file number 96 CRS 513 8 on 16 October 2000. You did not file an ,appeal
on behalf of Mr. McPherson in a timely manner. As a result" the Court of Appeals ordered an
inquiry into whether you should be discharged as attorney for Mr. McPherson on his appeal on '

.;.

,

.:. '

.,

f

0',

18 February 2002, more than a year after your appointment. The Superior Court then had to
conduct the inquiry at which you were discharged on 28 March 2002.
You advised the Committee and the Court that you did not believe that there were
adequate grounds for an appeal and you believed· any appeal would be considered frivolous. You
also advised the Committee that you believed the more appropriate tes~ ofM!. McPherson's
judgment wi;mld be by a motion for appropriate relief that would challenge your representation of
him originally on grolJl1ds of ineffective assistance of counsel. However, you did not ask the
court to relieve you of your appointment and you allowed the case to simply linger for more than
a year. While the courts have not precluded Mr. McPherson's challenge, he has remained .
lncarceratedwhile you failed to act.

I

The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules ~d
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. By failing to ·file the appeal on a timely basis, you failed
to diligently handle a matter entrusted to you in violation of Ru1e 1.3. By not informing your
client of the 1)tatus of the appeal or your concerns, you failed to adequately con;ununicate with
your client in violation ofRu1e 1.4. By failing to move to withdrayv from representation of your
client on a timely basis when you had doubts about continued representation, you failed to
withdraw as ~ounsel in an appropriate manner. By failing to handle the appeal in an appropriate
and timely manner and requiring the intervention of the courts to determine if you should be
removed as counse, you prejudiced your clients rights during the course of representation and
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) and (g).
In deCiding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee considered the following mitigating
factors: the absence of any prior discipline and your cooperation with both the court and.the
Committee after this matter carne to .light. .
.
You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. J'he Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered 1?y you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I-

. In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
•
Done and ordered, this

;2)

N_--!..-__~, 2D02.

day of _ _ _

-=::;::::::::::===---=~-

Calvin E. Murphy
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

