----

+=a-s?c\.

,

-

!

---

.-~--~-~------

-----------

, BEFORETHE
GRffiVANCECOMlliflTTEE'
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
(j2G0834

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

Ann R. Goodman

Attorney At Law

REPRIMAND

I

On October 16,2002, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by Jennifer E. Carter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your respohse to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee fOUnd probable cause. Probable cause is defined in 'the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary actien."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine thatthe filing of a cOJ11plaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depenc;ling upon the misconduct, the actual oJ; potential "inj\lry caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
'
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorne.y.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has paused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

~~.

"

"

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairmah of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am' certain that you will _
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
:.

In.May 2001, you agreed to act as mediator in the separation of complainant, Jennifer E.
Carter, and her husband, William E. Carter. You indicated that both Ms. Carter and Mr. Carter
agreed to the "cornmon representation" during the process of preparing the separation agreement.

I
".

......

< .

;.- ,

After you prepared the separation agreement for Mr. and Mrs. Carter, you began to
represellt .and advocate for Mr. Carter in disputes related to separation issues'.. For example, in a
letter dated July 24,2001 to Ms. Carter; you stated that you advIsed Mr. ~arter that he did not
have to pay one-half of the month's ,:Q1on:gage payment. You also tom. Ms. Carter that Mr.. Carter
could break a window to get into thy marital home ifMs, Carter dig not allow him to retrieve Iris .
personal property from the hOll1e. ;
,I. ,

I

You advocated for Mr; Cart~r in an allegation that Mrs. Carter forged ·his name.on checks
frolil his credit card account. In a letter dated October 18,2001 to an assistant district attorney,
you referred to Mr. Carter as your client
.
.
, in that controversy.
The Grievance Committee believes that J'ou had a conflict of i1).terest in your common
representation of the p'lliies in the m~diation, and later z:epresentingand advocating for Mr.
Carter in issues involving tIie separation agreement. The Grievance. Committee found that your
conduct violated Rule 1. 7(a) and Rule 1.9(a) of the Revis~d Rules ofProfessiQnal Conduct.
. You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your profef)sional .
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it Will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will 'never again allow yours~n'
to depart from adJ;lerence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

fu accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 19.81 by the Council ofth¢ North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

~ ·day Of-/.cJ~·£O:ftJ~.~_---.:~sd~~-:-

Done and ordered, this the

I

Calvin E. Murph ,Chair
Grievance Committee

.

CEMInkt

, .

I
"

.

",

·«'3.7 .

~

'.

