WAKE 'COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

)
)
)
)

)

v.
DEANNE L. MAXWELL, ATTORNEY
Defendant

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1

)
)

y
)

'~t~~:\

}HIS ~TTER cam~ ~o ?e~eard and :vas heard ?n;Friday, Nov. 22, 2?02 before
-"-" a Heahng COmmIttee of the DIscIplmary Hearmg COmmISSIOn composed of Richard T.
Gammon, Chair; M. Ann Reed and Lorraine Stephens. Carolin Bakewell appeared on
behalf of the North Carolina State Bar. The Defendant, Deanne L. Maxwell, did not
appear and was not represented by counsel. Based upon the pleadings in the file and the
evidenqe presented at the hearip.g, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina aild is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolin~, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated. thereunder.

I.

2. The Defendant, Deanne L. Maxwell (Maxwell), was admitted to the
, North Carolina State Bar in August 1989, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules, regulations and Ru1es of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar and;the laws of the State of North Carolina.
~.

Prior to approximately 1998,Maxwell Was engaged in the practice of
law in Onslow County. Thereafier"she moved to Watauga County and, as of the
date oftpe hearing herein, was a resid~nt of Knoxville; Tenn.

.·.1
,

.... :

4. Maxwell was pers<;>nally served with the State Bar's ~ummons and
compl:iint on Sept. 11, 2002. : Pprsuant to the State Bar's rules, her answer was
therefore due no later than Oct. 2, 2002.
5. Maxw~ll failed to ;file an answer or other responsive pl~adit1gs.
'.
I

.

6. The Secretary of the N.C. State Bar entered Maxwell's default on Nov.
1,2002.
.
. i

I

. 7. Maxwell was properly notified of the time and place of the
disciplinary hearitig herein. :
1

•

8. Prior to April 199;7, Maxwell undertook to represe]1t Bobby L.· Hucks
c
(H1.J ks) and Alex Spruill (Sp:ruill) regarding a civil a.ction'captioned Monk v .. '
Hucks that had been filed against them in Onslow County Superior Court by
Rufus and Estella Monk (the Monks).
.
9. On or aoout Nov. 13, 1997, Maxwell flIed an anSWer on behalf of
Hucks and Spruill.
10. Oil, or about May'29, 1998, Phil Toelkes (Toelkes), the Trial Court:
Administrator for Onslow County, notified Maxwell that a calendaring ,·col).ference .
. would be held on June 29, 1998 to set a trial date for Monk v. Hucks.
11. Maxwell did not respond to Toelkes, nor did she participate in the
June 29, 1998 calendaring co:qf~rence.

,
. 12. On Aug. 28, 199?, a second pretrial conference w~s held regarding
i
.
Monk v. Hucks.

I

13., Maxwell failed to: attend the Aug. 28, 1998 pretrial conference
despite the fact that she was duly notified of the conference,
14. On or about Aug. 31, 1998, Toelkes mailed written notice to Maxwell
that Monk v. Hucks h~d been $et for trial on Oct. 12, 1998.
15. Maxwell did not appear for trial regarding Monk v. Hucks, nor did
she submit a proper request fot a continuance or, altem~tively,' motion to, ,
withdraw as counsel for the defendants. .

a

. 16. At the hearing on .Oct. 12, 1998, ajudgment in the amount of$49,00Q
waS entered against Hucks anel; Spruill.
.
17. Maxwell failed to 90mmunicate adequately with Hucks or Spruill
after April 1998, failed to notify them of the June 29, and Aug. 28 pretrial '

-.'

....., '\...

I

,.

.

1
1

. I

"

·conferences and the Oct. 12, '1998 trial d~te and failed to· notifY them that
judgment had been ,entered agains,t them.
"

18. in September, 2001, Hucks filed a complaint against Maxwell wi~
the North Catolina State Bar.
19. On April 9, ~002, Maxwell was personally served with the State Bar's
substartce of grievance and l~tter of notice regarding Huck$' grievance by the
Watauga County Sheriff's Department.
!

.20. Maxwell did not respond to the letter of notice and substance of
grievarice.
i

I

21. On May 3, 2002; counsel for the North Carolina State Bar 'Wrote to
Maxwell, reminding her that she had failed to resPQnd to Hucks' grievance.

22. Maxwell did not resPQnd to the State Bar's May 3,2002 follow up
letter.
,

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee hereby
enters the following
CONCLUSlONS OF LAW
~.

The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over this cause
andovetthe
person of the defendant,
Deanne L. M~well.
,
1

2. By failing to communicate with her clients after April 1998, and by
failing to notifY,them of the pretrial conferences, the Oct. 12, 1998 trial and entry
of judgment against them, Maxwell failed to cQnrtnunicate with clients in
violation of Rule 1.4.

or

i

By failing to appear at the pretrial conferences and the trial the case
of Monk v. Hucks, or, alternatively, seeking to withdraw properiy, Maxwell
,neglected a client matter in violation of Revised Rule 1.3.

I

4. By failing to respond to the State Bar's letter of notice and its May 3,
2002 follow up letter, Maxwell failed to answer a request for information from a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1(b).
,

'

. Based on the evidence presented by the ~tate Bar, the hearing co:nnnjttee
also enters the following:

I
-:,'.

,.

'"

.

:'
:

"

,

.'

l'
!

ADPITIONAL FINDtNOS OF FACT RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
1. Maxwell's violatip:p.s of the Revised RUles of'Professional Conduct are
that she h~s no prior discipline.

miti~ated ,by the fact

2~ Maxwell's misconduct is aggr~vated by the following factors:

a. Signi:fic~t fina:p.cial harm to her clients;

I

t

b. Multiple violations of the Revised Rt4es ofProfessiomll
Conduct. ;
c. I'ntentional failure to cOll1ply with th~ rules and ord~rs of a '
disciplinary agency.
3. 'f1.1e aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
,

;Based upon the foreg9ing Findings ofF~ct and Conclusions of Law, the
hearing Committee enters the following
,
dRDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The law license ofth~ D~fendant, Deanne L. Maxwell, is hereby
suspend~d for three years, effective 30 days from s~rvice ofllie order upon
Maxwell.
2. Prior to seeking reinstatement of her law license, Maxwell shall comply ,
with the following conditions:

I

a. Provide the Secretary of the North Catoli:p.~ State Bat with a
written opinion from a psychiatrist approved by the Secretary, stating that
Maxwell does not suffer from any physical or mental condition th~t would impair
her judgment, competence or perfonnance 'as an attorney.
b. Provide a written waiver pennitting the Counsel and her staffto
communicate with her evaluatin~ psychiatrist regarding the evaluation and results
thereof. '
c. Provide written evidence that she has made restitution to
Bobby Hucks and Alex Spruil~ in the amount of$49,OOO.
d. Pay all bf,lc~ dues, late fees an4 penalties owed to the North
Carolina State Bar.

I
'\

,'

\'

e. Provide written proof that she has completed 12 hours of
cpntinuing legal education for each of the three years of active suspension of her
law license. Of the 12 houts required each year, Maxwell shall complete at least
two hours of courses on the subject of ethics.
f. Demons1rate that she has not violated any provisions of state or
feder~llaw or of the Revise4 Ru1es of Professional Conduct during the suspension

of her law license.

i

3. Maxwell shall pay the costs ofthls proceeding within 30 days of
,servic,e on her of the ~tten; statement of the GQsts by the Secretary of the N.C.
State Bar.

I

4. Maxwell sh~ll comply with all of the wind doWn provisions of Rule
.0124 :ofthe State Bar Discipline & Disability P~ocedures.

; Signed by the Chair of the Hearing CQl111lrittee with the, consent of the
other hearhig committee me¢bers .
. th .")hd .
•This ecX
__
, dayof

Richar ,T. Gammon, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I

