ZZLf&5
----------

BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02DHC 15

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
ERIC R.. INHABER, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
CONSENT
)
FINDINGS OF FACT,
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
)
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)

I

This matter was sched~led. for hearing on January 3, 2003 before a hearing
committee composed of Elizabeth Bunting; Chair, M. Ann Reed, and Marguerite P.
Watts. A. Root Edmonson represents the plaintiff,:the North Carolina State Bar and
bavid B. Freedman represents the defendant, Eric R. Inhaber. Based upon the pleadings
and the consent of the parties as evidenced by their signatures affixed hereto, the hearing
committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1,. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority ,
granted it in Chapter 84 of the Gener~l Statutes of North Carol~na, and the Rules and
Regulaticms of the North Carolina State Bar'promulgated there under.

2. The defendant, Eric R. Inhaber (hereinafter, "Inhaber"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on Septemb~r 8, 1995 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, all Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, '
regulatiol1.s, and Rules of Professional Conduct·ofthe·North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.

I

3.· During the times relevant to this complaint, Inhaber actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a,law office in the city of
Winston ~alem, Forsyth County, North Carolina.
4 .. During the last quarter of 1999 through the first half of 2000, Inhaber's law
practice consisted primarily of representing clients charged with traffic offenses. Inhaber
generated a high volume of clients by sending targeted direct mail solicitation letters to
people chat~ed with traffic offenses.

I
.. ,"

5. Between l~te 1999 and mid 2000, lawyers who represented clients' charged
with traffic ca~es in Forsyth County could negotiate dismissals or'pleas with an ~ssistruit
district attorney in an administrative court conducted in Courtroom IE.

.

,

.
.·wh
, ~~;,,"l!.~:.1
6. Due to the vohune of cases handled in Cou.rtroom IB, the assistanfdistrict
attorneys in that courtroom, and the Court, had to rely on the lawyers representing the
offenders to be truthful, particularly concerning theircIlent's prior driving record.
7. On October 6, 1999, Inhaber deliberately misrepresented to the assistant
district attorney and to the Court that his client had "some record" when he knew that his
.
,
client had recently been convicted of Driving While I!llpaired.
.

.

.

8. As a result of that misrepresentation, and others, the district attorney ~dvisecl
his assistants that they could no longer negotiate with Inhaber in admiriistrative court for a
period of time.
.
9. In January 2000, after the restriction on assistant district attol11eys negotiating
pleas with 1nhaber was lifted, Inhaber again began to negotiate pleas in the ac4lrinistrative'
.

oo~

10. Inhaber negotiated pleas in a number of his clients' traffic cases on January
11,2000, January 27,2000, February 1,2000 and February 22, :WOO.. HoweV'e~, Inhabet
didn't pEW the C.osts and fines for those cases until March 21,2000. As a result of
Inhaber's delay in paying the fines and costs, sO!lle of his clients were reported to the
North Carolina Department of Motor Vehic'les (hereinafter, "DMV") for having failed to
pay their fines and costs..
'
.
.
.

i 1. An investigator from the North Carolina State Bar, Reginald Shaw.

I

(hereinafter, "Shaw"), interviewed 1nhaber on June 22,2000. During questioning by
Shaw concerning whether Inhaber had failed to pay his clients' fines and cost~ promptly,
1nh.aber f~sely stated that the March 21, 2000 check was written to pay costs and fmes for
Cases he had negotiated pleas in on that date.
.
12. On July 7, 199~, Inhaber was c~ted for driving his 1998 BMW on Reynolda
Road ~t 56 mph ina 35 mph zone. Inhaber was also cited for failing to have the addfess'
changed on his driver's license.

13. O,tl June 14, 2000, Inhaber appeared in trafflc court representing himsel~ on . .
his speeding and license address violations. .
: 14. the assistant districta'ttorney in traffic court, Yin Linga (hereinafter, "Ms.
Linga), agreed to reduce Inhaber's 56/35 speeding charge to speeding 44/35.

'8"/·

15. Inhaber falsely repfe~ented to District Court Judge William Graham
(hereinafter, "Judge Graham") that he had a clean traffic record over the previous six
years.
16. During the six years prior to June 14, 2000, Inh~ber had been charged with
speeding eight times al1.d had been charged with bth~r violations on at least seven
'occa$ions. None of his previous charges had resulted in a conviction that caused points to
be as'sessed against Inhaber purs~ant 'to NCGS §20-16.
, 17. When trying to determine how Inhaber's address change violation should be
handjed, Ms: Linga asked Inhab~r to show her, his driver's license. Ms. Linga's request
was I)1ade in the presence qf Judge ·Graham.

I

18. Inh~berasked if he could produce his driver's lic~nse on the following day
since :he had "left it in his office." In doing so, Inhaber falsely impli~d to Ms. Linga and
Judge, Graham that his driver's license bore his correct address.
19. Judge Graham asked Inhaber to go to his office and retrieve his driver's
license.
20. After leaving the colU'troom on June 14,2000, Inhaberdrove to a DMV
licensing office, reported his address Change, and got a new driver's license with a correct
address .
,

I

. 21. Inhaber then returned to Judge Graham's courtroom and gave him the new
driver's license without informing Judge Graham that he had just obtained it.
22. On June 4, 2000, while being escorted from a nightclub, Club Lava, Inhaber
was found'to be in possession of two controlled substances. One was a Schedule I
controUed substance, M~thylenedioxymethamphetamine, commonly called "Ecstasy."
The other was a Schedule III controlled substance, Ketamine.
23. On Augu~t 15, 2000,. Inhaber was charged with a felony for possession of
Ecstasy and a misdem~ahor fQr possession of ~etamine.
'

I

24. In November 2000, ~aber entered. Forsyth County's Drug Court Treatment
Program that deferred prosecution ofInhaber's drug charges conditioned upon Inhaber's
compliElllce with the program's requirements.
, ~5. On 231 occ~sions between January 1999 anp June 2000, Inhaber transferred
fees from his trust account to his operating ac~ount electronically.
.
26. By transferring fees electronically, Inhaberwas lll1~ble to indicate the client
balance :against which the transfer was drawn.

I
",

0.

:".

":

,
i

27. On February 8, 2000, Vincent Marino (hereinafter, "Marino") retained
Inhaber to represent him on a traffic ticket in Davie County. Marino paid Inhaber
$390.00 which'included Inhaber's fee and Marino's costs and fine. Marino also'sent
Inhaber a waiver of appearance.
'" .
"<f~.\~ t

."l~}f .

28. Inhaber failed to appear in court in bavie County at the setting for Marino's,
case in March 2000.
29. As a,result ofInhaber's failure to appear for Marino, DMV sent Marino a
letter on June 16, 2000 advi~ing him that his license would pe indefil1itely suspended if ,
the matter were not taken care of by Au~st 1:5,2000.
30. On December 23, 1999, Reggie 1. Gentle, Jr. (hereinafter, "Gerttle') retained
Inhaber to represent him on a traffic ticket.
31. On December 29, 1999, Gentle. purchE\.sed a $450.00 money order for
Inhaber's fee and Gentle's costs and fine. Gentle delivered the money order to Inhaber
with a waiver of appearance. .
32. Irihaber failed to dispose of Gentle's traffic ticket ap.d failed to pay his costs
and fine.
33. On March 9, 2000, DMV sent Gentle a letter advising him that his license
would be indefinitely suspended if the matter was not resolyed,
34. Gentle retained another lawyer to handle his traffic ticket. '
35. Gentle had to pay DMV $25.00 to keep his license from being suspended as a
result of Inhaber' s failure to appear on his behalf.
36. On December 23, 1999, NikishE\. Nicole Albea (hereinafter, "Albea") recei:ved '
a traffic ticket in High Point, NC.
37. In January 2000, in response to a direct mail solicitation Inhaber sent to her,
Albea retained Inhaber to represent her on her traffic ticket. Albea sent Inhaber a waiver
of appearance and a money order for the $175.00 he required as payment of his fee and
Albea's costs and fine.
38: On Apri126, 2000, Inhaber negotiated a plea agreement for Albea,but failed. '
to pay Albea's costs and fine ..

39.

Albea called lnhaber's office numerous times over the next severall110ntbs to
find out what happened with her two citations.

I
",

. )......

"

,

40~ Inhaber never returned Albea's calls or otherwise communicated· with Albea
concerning her citations.
41. As a result of lQhaber' s failure to pay her costs and fine, DMV suspended
Albea's driver's license.
42. In August 2000, Albea received a letter from the Guilford County Schools
advising her that she could not returri to duty as a school bus driver in the fall since her
driver? s license had been suspended.
. BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
• L All parties are properly ·before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over Inhaber and the subject matter.
2. Inhaber's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline purSuant
to N:C. Gen. Stat. ~ 84-28(a) & (b)(2) as follows:
By deliberately misrepresenting his client's traffic record to the
Court on October 6, 1999, Inhaber made a false statement of
material fact or law to a tribunal in violatioll of Rule 3.3(a)(1); and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, decei~ or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).
.

(b)

(c)

By waiting until March 21, 2000 to pay the costs and fines of
clients whose cases he had n~gotiated on January 11,2000,
February 1,2000 and February 22,2000, Inhaber failed to act with
reasonable diligence $d promptness in representing his clients· in
violation of Rule 1j; failed to promptly pay funds he had received
from his clients .to third parties, as directed by his clients, in
violation ofpre-May 4,2000 Rule I.I5-2(h); engaged in conduct
prejudicial t6 the administration of justice; and prejudiced or
damaged his clients during the course of the professional
relationship in violation of Rule 8.4(g).
By falsely representing to Shaw that his March 21,2000 check in
payment of his clients' fines and costs was for clients' whose c'!Ses
had been negotiated on that date, Inhaber knowingly made a false
statement of material fact in connection with a disciplinary matter
in violation of Rule 8.1(a); and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit ~r misrepresentation in· violation of Rule
8.4(c).

:...:~" ..":

I

(d)

,.
By falsely representing to Judge Graham that he had a clean
driving record over the previous six years, Inhaber made a faIse
statement ofmateriaI
fact to a tribunal in,violation
, .,'i".~•."
. - of Rule ' .....
.. ,;',
3.3(a)(1); en,gaged In conduct involving Oishonest, fraud, deceiior
misrepresen1ation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and engaged ill
conduct prejudicial to. the administr~tion ofJustice. violation of
R\lle .8A(d).

,

in

,I

I

(e)

By faIs~ly implying to Judge Graham and Ms. Linga th~t he had a
driver's license with a correct address, Inhab~r made a false
stateIJ.1ent. of materiaJ fact to ~. tribunal in violation <;>f Rule
3.3.(a)(1); engaged in conduct involving di$honest, :Q:a,utl, qeceit or
misrepr~sentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); arid engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in viol~tion of
Rule .8.4(d).

(f)

By possessing Schedule I and Schedule III contr()lled substances in
a public place, Inhaber committed criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness. or fitness as a lawyer ih
other respects in violation of Rule 8A(b) ..

(g)

By making electronic transfers of lawyer's fees from his trust
account to his office account, Inhaber failed to indicate on the
instrument the client balance against which theins~ent was
drawn in violation of amended Revised Rule 1. 15-2(h} [for
conduct occurring after ·May 4, 2000] 01' Revised Rule 1.15-2(f)
[f<;>r conduct occurring prior to May 4, 2000.}

(h)

By failing to appear in court for Marino· and failing to pay Marino's
fine and costs, Inhaber failed to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in representing his client in violation of Rule 1.3; and
failed to promptly pay funds he had received from his client to a
third party, as directed by his client, in violation of pre-May 4,
2000 Rule 1.15-2(h).

(i)

By failing to dispose of Gentle's tra~fic ticket and failing to pay
Gentle's costs and. fine, Inhaber failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in r~presentiIig his client in violation of
Rule 1.3; 8lld failed to promptly pay funds h~ h~d received from
his client to a third party, as directed by his client, in violation C?f
pre-May 4,2000 Rule 1.15-2(h).

0)'

By failillg to pay Albea's costs and fme with the funds he had
received for that purpose, Inhaber failed to act with reasonable

I
,"

..: .. ":

J

diligence and promptness in representing his client in violation of
Rule 1.3; '111,4 failed to promptly pay funds he had received from
his client to a third party, as directed by his client, in violation of
pre-May 4,2000 Rule 1.15-2(h).
(k)

; (1)

By failing to cOminunjcate with Albea ~er Albea called to
detenhine the outcome of her traffic matters, Inhab~r failed to keep
a client reasonably informed ahout the status of a matter and .
promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in
violation ofR-ule 1.4(a).
.

'. Bycausi~g Albea to lose herjob as a school b1,ls driver, Inhaber
prejudiced or damage4 his cliep,t during the course of the
professional relationship in violation of Rule 8.4(g) .

I

. BASED UPON the foregoing Findings ofFCj.ct and Conclusions of Law, and with
the cQusent of the p;u1:ies, the hearing committee hereby mak~s the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING nISCIPLINE
,1. lnhaber voluntarily sought treatment for "a lot of m90d swings" in
Febl1lllry 2000, but didn't f9110w up on his treatment. In the spring of2000, .
Inh~1;>~r again sought treatment, and was referred for therapy. In. the summer of
2000, Inhaber began treatment with Dr. David B. Jarrett, a psychiatrist, and has
continued to see Dr. Jarrett at le~t every two weeks since then.
2. Inhaber suffers from bipolar II disorder occurring in the context of an
underlying personality disorder. The prognosis for Inha,her is good given his
. compliance With his treatmeut plan.
3. In September 2000, Inhaber attended the Pavilion rehabilitation.
program for four weeks to address his Bubstance abuse PNblem, and subsequently
followed up in ap. eight-week intensive outpatient program through Novant
Health..
.

I

~. Inhaber has been scre~ned regularly for drug use since August 2000 and

.has not failed to take a screen when asked and.has not failed a drug screen.
.
~.

.

In November 2000, Inhaber entered the Forsyth County Drug
Treatment Court Program relating to his drug offenses: :rnnaber completed a
period of intensive probation and attended ANNA meetings three to four times .a
week. Judge Lisa Men~fee reward,ed Inhaber by placing him on her "A" list. .
After successfully completing the Drug Court Treatment Program, the charges
against Inhaber Were dismissed.
.

I

6. On October 14,2000, Inhaber voluntarily entered Into a contract \mth
the Lawyers Assistance Program (LAP) and has continued to cooperEi.te with LAP' "
since that time.
.
,
.

--

"',"

,,~,,:.', '.,
,~.

-

."
t,~, '
:-"'J\'i'
"

7. Inhaber's misconduct is aggravated by the f6'lIowing factors:

I

(a)

Criminal conduct;

(b)

A pattern .of misconduct;

(c)

Initially submitting false statements dt1l'ing the investigation
conducted by the State Bar.

8. Inhaber's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

I

('l-)

Absence of a prior disciplip.ary record;

(b)

Personal or emotional problems;

(c)

'Timely good faith efforts to rectifY thecons,equences of his
misconduct by seeking treatment from Dr., Jarrett aI).d cooperating
with the Lawyers Assistance Program;

(c)

Full and free disclos~re to the hearing committ~e in his Answer;

(d)

Physical or mental disability or impairment that led to his
misco:J1duct;

(e)

Interim rehabilitation; and

(f)

Remorse.

9. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors" ,
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and the
consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license of the defendant, Eric R. Inhaber, is suspel1ded for three years.
2. The three-ye;:rr suspension is stayed for three years on the follOwing termsa.nd
conditions:

I
~"

"'; :.

,

a. Inhftber shan violate no federal or state laws (other than minor traffic
offenses).
b.
Conduct.

Inhab~r

shall violate no provision$ of the Revised Rules of Professional.

c. Inhaber shall continue treatment with Dr. David B. Jarrett, or some
, other psychiat1i~t ac.ceptable to the. North Carolina State Bar, duting the entire
period the stay is in eff~ct. Inhaber shall follow all treatment recommendations
: made by the psychiatrist and shall direct the psychiatrist to report any failure to
• follow the psychiatrist's tJ;eatment plan, and the specifics related thereto, to the
, Office of Counsel. EVen if the psychiatrist conCludes in the future that Inhaber
: needs treatment less often, Inhaber must c;ontinue to see the psychiatrist at least
qlJarterly.
I

I

d. .Inhaber shall provide quarterly reports to the Office of Counsel during
,the period of the stay, signed by Inhaber arid the psychiatrist, certifying that
IInhaber is in compliance with the te.rms and conditions of the above paragraph of
this order. The reports shall be completed and transmitted to the Office of
,Counsel by each thre.e-mol:lth anniversary of the date of this order.
e. Inhaber .shiUl comply with the terms of the contract he entered into with
LAP on October 14,2000. As a part of that contract, Inhabe.r shall direct LAP to
,repqrt any failure to comply with the terms of this paragraph, and the specifics
;related thereto, to the Office of Counsel. Inhaber shall forthwith execute any
,release necessary to allow LAP to make such a report.
f. Inhaber 'shall pay the costs of this proceeding by February 1, 2003.
Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing comhlittee members, this
the 3:!!:::- day of January,. 2003.

I

The foregoing order is consented to' by:

p,-----~u~~}I

-L-..f----J!..fl.
Edmonson
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

A~ot

____

Defendant

,.
David B. Freedman
Counsel for the Defendant

I

"I

I

~.'

.~

.. ,

... -

.--

:...-.::'. ':

,

,

,

,

•

