i=---~--~------,

5~3\
WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

I

THE'NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
)
)

)

DAVIDB. SMITH,
Defendant

)
)
)

This matter was heard- on the 6th day of Decerhber, 2002, before aHearing
Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Richard T. Gamtn0n, '
Chair, F. L~e Williamson, and H. Dale Almond. AI~ ~-t Schneider, D~vid B ..
freedman, and, Dudley A. Witt appeared as couns~l for defendant, David B. -Smith.
Douglas J. Brocker represent~d plaintiff, the North Carolina StateB~. Based l,lpon the
pleadings, and the evidence introduced. at the hearing, the HearingCQmmjttee hereby
enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The North Caro~ina State Bar (hereafter" '~State Bru::") is it body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the_authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and the
Rules & Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereqilder.
2. Defendant, David B. Smith (hereafter "Smith"), w~s admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1973, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attome'y at
la'Y licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to tlie rule$~ regulations, and Rules 'of'
Professional CondJ,lct of the Nonh Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

in

. .3. DtPing.all of the p-eriods referred to herein, Smith Was actively engaged the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina an4.maintained a law office i;n the City of
Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.
.

4. Smith was properly served with process in this proceeding, anel' the hearing'
Was held with due notice to all parties.

1

..
\

5.' Smith and W. Steven Allen (hereafter, "Allen"), were aPPoInted On February
18, 1998 to represent Russell William Tucker ("Tucker") on post-conviction proceedings
arising,from Tucker's first-degree.murder conviction and death sentence entered by the
Forsyt~ County Superior Court in February 1996.
6. Smith and Allen filed a motion for appropriate relief (MAR) on
behalf of Tucker with the Forsyth County Superior Court On October 6, 1998. Smith and
Allen subsequently amended the MAR. on January 13,2'0'0'0.
I

•

:7. Presiding Superior Court Juqge Larry G. Ford sUinplarily denied the MAR on
May 11, 2'0'00 without an eviq.entiary hearing.

I

8. After reviewing the North Carolina appellate rules, Smith concludeathat,
pursuant to N.C. App. Rule 21(f), a petition for writ of certiorari had to be filed with the
North Carolina Supreme COurt within 6'0 days of entry of the order denying the MAR.
9. Smith knew that Alien incorrectly beljeved that the 6G-day deadline
did not apply but did nothing to advise him of the corre'ct interpretation of Rule 21(f).
,

,

In. Preparation of the writ of certiorari would nbt have required extensive
research. or other efforts because the legal and factual basis would have been similar to
those set forth in the MAR.
11. During his representation of Tucker, Smith reviewed the trial evidence and
traveled to North Carolina Central Prison to meet with Tucker on death row.
12. After reviewing the trial evidence an,d meeting with Tucker, Smith came to a
p~rsohal 'beliefthat Tucker deserved to die and should be executed for his crimes.
1:3. Thereafter, Smith passively sa1?otaged Tucker's post-conviction relief and
remedies.
14. Specifically, Smith intentionally and knowingly failed to file a writ of
certiorari:for Tucker with the North Carolina Supreme Court within the 6'0 days required
by Rule 21(f).

15. Smith also did not withdraw from the representation or advise Allen of his
personal beliefs about Tucker before the deadline expired for filing !l writ of certiorari.
16. Even after the 6'0 day deadline expired, Smith failed to take effective steps to
file the writ of certiorari, to alert Allen to the problem, or to withdraw from his
representation ofTllcker, prior to at least October 16,2'0'0'0.
11; Smith's failure to file Tucker's petition or take other appropriate action was

2

I

dlJe at least in part to his desire to passively sabotage his client's post conviction
proceeding, based upon Smith's dislike of Tucker and his belief that Tucker deserved the·
death penalty.
.

18. On October 19,2000, more than 90 days aftet,thed~adline expired for filing.
the writ of certiorari, the Secretary of the North Carolina Department of Corrections
issued an order setting an execution date for Tucker for December 7,2000, upon .
notification from the Attorney General that Tucker had not filed a Petition for writ of
Certiorari.

I

19. The execution date was set because Smith and Ailen failed to file a writ of
certiorari or otherwise pursue Tucker'S post-cohviction remedies.
20. After receiving the October 19, 2000 Order setting Tucker's execution date,
Smith and Al1~p. prepared a Motion for Reconsideration and Vacation of Order
Summarily Denying Motio~ for Appropriate Relief and First Amendment to Motion fot .
Appropriate Relief in State v. Tucker and filed it on October 24,2000.
'
21. After filing the above Motion, Smith met witli attorneys at the Death Penalty
Resource Center (hereafter, "DPRC"). While at the DPRC on October 24, 2000, Smith
executed an affidavit concerning
actions in representing Russell Tucker ("Tucker
affidavit").

his

22, Smith read the Tucker affidavit ahd had an. opportunity to correct any errors or
make any revisions before executing it. .
.
.
23. Smith was legally competent at the time' he executeci the Tucker affidavit.

24. At the time Smith 'executed the Tucker affidavit, he knew it would be
submitted to the Forsyth County Superior Court in connection with Tucker's underlying
criminal case.

I

25. All of tlie statements contained in the swom Tucker affidavit that Smith
'executed were true.
26. On October 25, 2000, Smith and Allen filed additional motions in State
v. Tucker, including a: (a) Supplemental Motion for Reconsideration and Vacation of .
Order Summarily Denying Motion for Appropriate Relief and First Amendment to
Motion for Appropriate Relief, (b) Motion to Stay Execlltion of Death Sentence,and (3) .
Motion for Substitution of New Counsel in Motion for Appropriate Relief.
.
27. The Tucker Affidavit that Smith executed was attached to the Supplemental'
Motion for Reconsideration and Vacatiop of Order Summarily Depying Motion for
Appropriate Relief and First Amendment to Motion for Appropriate Reiief, which was·
filed in State v. Tucker on October 25,2000.
.
.
.

3

I
. ".:

~

,

','.

:

'.

28. After a hearing on November 1; 20bO, the Honorable Larry G. Ford denied the
above-mentioned motions.
29. On November 2, Smith sent a letter to the State Bar enclosing the affidavit
he had executed in State v. Tucker and self-reporting his conduct in that matter.
30. After Judge Ford's rulings, Smith and Allen filed additional
documents with the North Ca,rolina.Sup:reme Court inState.v. Tucker.
31. The North Carolina Supreme Court entered an Order on November 8,2000 in
State v. tucker allowing a Motion to Have Petition for Writ of Certiorari Deemed Timely
Filed. .

I

32. The North Carolina Supreme Court subsequently entered an Order on
November .28, 2000 in State v. Tuckerwhich allowed the Motion to Stay Execution, the
Motion to Withdraw and the Motion to Substitute Counsel, vacated the November 1,
2000 Orders of Judge Ford, and remmlded the case to him for appointment of new
counsel and further proceeding!? on the Motion for Appropriate Relief.
Biased upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the Committee has
jurisdictibn over defendant, David B. Smith, and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2. Smith's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that by intentionally failing to
file a timely petition for writ of certiorari with the North Carolina Supreme Court or
otherwise. perf-ect an appeal ofthe.denialofTucker's motion for appropriate relief, Smith:
a. failed to abide by his client's objectives of representation in violation
of Revised Rule L2(a), .

I

b. failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing
Tucker in violation of Revised Rule 1.3,
c. engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in
violation of Revised Rule 8.4(d), and
d. intentionally prejudiced or damaged his dient ·during the course of the
professional relationship in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(g).

4

I

Based upon the :foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the Hearing
Committee hereby makes additional:
.
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. Smith's misconduct is aggravated by the following 'factors:

I

a. prior disciplinary offense resulting in an admonition,
b. substantial experience in the practice oflaw,
c. significant negative impact of Smith's conduct on the legal COinmuryty
atld on the criminal justice system.
2. Smith's misconduct is mitigated by the fol1owing factors:
a. absence of selfish or dishonest motive,
b. personal or emotional problems during the time period in which the
violations ·occurred,
c. efforts to rectify the consequences of his misconduct;
d. full'and free disclosure to the He~g Committee and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings,
e. good character and reputation, as demonstr~ted by substantial
testimony and other evidence
f. remorse,
g. interim rehabilitation, and
h. mental disability or impairment. Smith suffered from severe clinical
depression during the time period in which the violations occurred and
was diagnosed with and sought treatment for this condition at that time
and prior to the initiation of the State Bar's investigation ofthis matter..
<

I

3. the mitigating factor~ significantly outweigh the aggravating factors,
Based l1pon the foregoing Findings o:fFact, Conclusions of Law, Aggravating and "
Mitigating Factors, and the evide~we and arguments ofth~ partjes, the Hearing
Committee hereby enters the following:

5

I

903.

ORDER OF DISCIPLIN:E
1. The license of the defendai1t, David 13. Smith, is hereby suspended for three
years from the date this Ord~r of Discipline is served upon him. The period of
suspension is stayed for three years upon the following conditions:
a. Smith shall execute a recoVery contract with the LAP Program and
satisfactorily participate in the Lawyer's Assistance Program ("LAP") throughout
'the period of his stayed suspension, including but not limited to, the following
~conditions:

I

(i) within thirty days of entry of this Order, obtain an
independent,comprehensive evaluation by a doctor and other medical
personnel as recommended by the LAP Program and sign waivers for all
his present physicians, psychologist, and other treating professionals to
release inforIl}atioIi to LAP and the evaluating physician;
(ii) enter into a LAP recovery contract based upon the
recommendations of the evaluating physician 'and the LAP;
(iii) satisfactorily perform all the ,conditions of his LAP re~overy
contract which may include, by way of illustration and not limitation,
remaining abstinent from alcohol or other mind altering drugs, alcohol or
drug screening, psychotherapeutic counseling,inpatient or outpatient
treatmeIlt, attendant at 12-step support group meetings, attendance at LAP
support group meetings, taIPng appropriate medication, and
communicating regularly with his designated monitor or mentor;
(iv) participate in all recommended treatment and remain in
treatment throughout the period of his stayed suspension unless both LAP
his treating professionals agree to terminate such treatment. Smith
shall obtain the approval of LAP before changing or modifying the
frequency or necessity of psychological treatment, such as counseling or
medication, even if recommended by his treating professionals;
.

and

I

(v) be responsible for all costs associated With obtaining an
evaluation, treatment, and otherwise complying with his LAP recovery
contract;
(vi) agree to any changes in his LAP recovery contract to address
any significant changes in his medical condition during the period of his
stayed suspension;

6

I
.

..
.".
'.

.,'

I

..

~.

(vii) sign appropriate waivers for all his treating professionals to
release infonnation concerning his treatment and condition to ~AP, and ·
for LAP to release infonnation to such treating professionals; and
(viii) sign appropriate waivers to permit LAP to make quarterly" .
reports to the State Bar's Office of Counsel and to report any failure of '
Smith to comply with this Order and his LAP recov~ry contract. Smith is '
responsible to ensure that quarterly report~ are sent to th~ State Bm- Office ,
of Counsel on January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 during each year
of the stay;
b. Smith shall not violate any state or federallaw~ during the perioq. of
his stayed suspension;
.
c. Smith shall not violate aIlyprovisions of the Rules of Professional ,
Conduct during the period of his stayed suspension;
,
d. Smith shall pay all costs incurred in this proceeding, a~ assessed by the
S~cretary, within 30 days of service of the notice of co~ts upon him; and

I
,I
I

e. Smith shall not be involved directly or indirectly with a ca:se that
involves the issue of the death penalty either pre".trial, trial, appellate' or post
conviction during th~ period of his stayed suspensiop.

I

I

2.
If, upon a motion by the State Bar, a Rearing Committee ofthe DRC findS
that Smith has violated any of the conditions in Section 1(a)-:(e) of this Order; the
suspension of Smith's license shall be activated. If the, suspension is 'activated, prior to
seeking reinstatement of his license, Smith.must:

I
I

I

a. comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter 1,3. § .012S{b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & DisabilityRules; and
b. satisfy all the conditions set forth in section 1. a. - e. above prior to
seekipg reinstatement. Smith also must execute and attach to his petitioh for
rein,statement a release permitting LAP and any treating medical personnel to
discu§s with the StateBar Office of Counsel his participation in and completioh'
of the"LAP recovery contract and any corresponding evaluation and treatment. '

. sted by th17. with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this

the_.lf:.d;'YOf~2003.

..

7

I

.

...

.

