-------------------,
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORETHE .

GRiEvmCE COMM;ITTEE:
OPTHE

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKECOUN'tY

0200898

I

INRE:

JOEL S. JENKlNS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPR,WANl)'

On 23 January 2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Alfred Morris.
.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Comnlittee ccindllcted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probal?ie cause. Probable cause is defined in the niles as "rea,sonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State 13~ is guilty of miscondllct justifying
di$ciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Comniittee may
detenninethat 'the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
C01l111lission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue varioU$ levels of
discip~e depending upon the mjsconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggI1lvating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admonition, a .
Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent attorney.
.
. .

,

<',

.

A Reprimand is. written form of discipline more serious than an A4monition i,suedin
ca$es in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Ru1es of Professional
Conduct and hl:\S caused hann or potenti~l hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the mi.sconduct does not require a Censure.

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in' this case
and issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman ofthe Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my dllty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in whl.ch this duty is performed.
.~

Ort or about May 30, 1996, your fil1l) closed a real estate' transaction between Southwood
Associates, Inc. and Alfred and Sandra Morris. SQuthland Associates was a standing client of
your firm. However, your finn ,repJ;esepted both.parties in the closing transaction. Your finn
prepared the closing documents, including the deed to Mr. and Mrs. Morris on behalf of

'.

-

I
I','

Southland Associates and~e loan assumption and title insurance documents on behalf of the
Morrises. At the t4ne, Southwood Associates owned two adjacent parcels, one with the house
that the Morris' were occupying and the other was a pasture. The deed prepared by your office
and recorded at the Register of Deeds shows two parcels in the "Parcel Identifier" field and
recites "2 Tracts Rockfish Townslrip" in the "Brief Description for the illdex" field. The deed
references an Exhibit A for a more particular description, but no Exhibit A was rec9r(1e~ at the
time.
On July 12, 1996, your then partner, Kenneth Barfield, recorded a correction deed to
include an Exhibit A. The Exhibit A that was recorded gave the legal description for the adjacent
pasture and did not include the description for the parcel with the house. .

I

At the time ,of the closing, both Southland Associates and the Morrises cleariy ~derstood
tl,iat the Morrisses were buying the hous·e . However, the contract between them only referred to
the property address.
At Some pomt in 1999, a-dispute dev.:eloped between Southwood Associates. and the
•. Morrises over whether the origlnal transaction should have included the pastureland. At that
point, you discovered that the exhibit to the deed your office had prepared in 1996 to the Mc;>ms'
described the pasture and not the house. You wrote to $e Morris' and infOniled them that the
original deed was in error. You advised them that the deed needed to be re-recorded with a new
description for the tract with the house on it only. You also advised them that Southwood
Associates was the record owner of the tract:with the house. You did not infonn them that you
represented Southw:ood Associ~tes in that letter or that the request was on its behalf. You also
did not tell them to ,consult with other legal counsel. The letter, and subsequent follow-ups, all
implied that you were acting solely to clarify their interests in the property and were
disinterested.
The Morris' did not comply with your request. ill fact, they infonned you that they would
not comply and that they were taking the position that Southland Associates had intended to
cc;>nvey both tracts tp them. You then unilaterally prepared and recorded as~ond purported
correction deed on September 15, 1999. This deed recites that it is to "correct" the original deed.
The description on thi&. deed covers the tract with the house only.

..
...

Finally, on or about December 14, 1999, your finn conducted ~ closing of a sale ofthe
pastureland tract frqm Southland Associates to Kelvin and Tina Bramble and prepared a general
warranty deed from Southland Associates to the Brambles among other documents.
The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules and
Revised Ru1es ofPr,ofessional'C()nduct. By unilaterally preparing and recording a purported
correction deed in 1999 in furtherance of Southland Associates' position that they still owned the
pasture mowing that the Morrises disputed this position left you in a position Where you were
representing a client (Southland Associates) whose position was materially adverse to the
position of a fonner:client (the Morrises) in a Substantially related matter to the subject of the
former representati9n (the proper closing ofthe sale of real ptoperty). This is a violation of Rule
1.9(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Further, by your firm certifying title of the
disputed tract to the~Brambles on the basis of you filing ofthe second "correction" deed in 1999,

I

'I

you undertook to r~pr~ent two parties in the.same tr3Il.saction when your responsibilities to the
Brambles could foreseeably be materially limited by your responsibilities to Southland .
Associates or your own personal interests in defending your correction deed. This was a vioiation
of Rule 1. 7(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Finally, by sending the ~etters to the
Morrises in which you failed to disclose that you were representing Southland Associates in their ,.
efforts to claim ownership of the disputed tract and stated or implied that YO1:/. were, merely trying
to correct an error made by your office, you were giving advice to an wrrepresented party whose
interests were in conflict with your client$' and implied that you were disinterest~. This was ip
violation of Rule 4.3(a) and (b) of the Revised Rules ofPtofessional Concilict.
.
In de~i~g t.o i~sue a Reprimand, the Committee considered· the folloWing mitigating
factor: J;!.O pnor dISCIplinary record.
.

.1"

You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The GrievanceConimittee tnIsts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it'will be
remembered by you, that it will be ·bene:fici~l to you, and that you will never again allow yo~elf
to depart froID.adherence to the high ethical.standards of the legal profession.'
,c_

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of tIle North

Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action iIlthe amount .
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
DOlle and ordered,

tbi~ ~ day of

tr:btwj

.2003.

SJ:u~ron B. Alexander
Chair, Grievance COlllIilittee

I

':

'

I
........

'

. '.

'~

