f

1l13~(p

1- _ _ _ _ _ _

WAKECOUN'ty

b~DRA L. WHITTED,

ATTORNEY AT LAW

~ _ _ _ ~ _ _ ._~

__

13EFORETHE
GRIEVANCE GOMlv.fITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02G0234

NORTH CAROLlNA

IN RE:

<_

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

1

On 23 J~uary 2003, tl1e Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met -and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar with respect to your failure to respond
to a fee dispute 1,"esolution petition filed by your client Franklin Jones.
Pursuarttto section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, -the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in. the rules as ''reasonable cause to
believe that a m~mber of the North Carolina State B~ is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
i

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievanc¥Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not requited, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mjtigating factors. The Grievance COrrimittee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent attorney.

'1-;~

A Reprin1.and is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued in
cases in which ari attorney has vIolated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has 'caused hann or potential hann to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession; or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case
and issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State B~, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that yoU will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.

Mr. Jones'filed a petition for fee dispute resolution with the North Carolina State Bar in
October 2001. The Bar issued a Notification of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution by certified
mail on 2 November 2001. You received this letter on 16 November 2001. You did not respond

1

• t

to iLA follow-up letter was sent by the Baron 17 December 2001. You. received this letter on 11
January 2002. You did not respond. The Bar called you on 17 January 2002. You returned the
call on 22 January 2002 and promised a response "by Friday." You did not respond as promi~ecJ.
On 15 February 2002, the Bar again called your office and left am~ssage.You again did not
respond. Bec~use of your non-response, a grievance file was opened by the Bar.

I

The Bar issued a letter of notice to you by certified mail on 1 April 2002. You did not
accept receipt of this letter. The letter was resent and you, accepted it on 28 May i002; Youdid
not ,respond. The Bar thenissued a subpoena for your Clppear~ce at the Bar office" which was
serv~d on you 25 July 2002. You did appear at the Bar offices on 28 Au.gust 2002 as directed by
the SUbpoena.
The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated two specific Revised .
Ru1es of Professional Conduct.

Rule 1.5(1) of the Revjsed Rules of Professional Conductrequires attorneys to particpate
. il1 good' faith in the fee dispute resolution. process. YoUt failure to r,espond to the Bar's iett~rs and
~
t~lephone messages violated that rule. Rule 8.1(b) of the Revised Ru1es of Professional Conduct
requires attorneys to respond to the inquiries of the Bar with respect to their conduct. 'Your '
failure to respond to the letter of notice neces$itating the issuance of a subpoena to get any
response from you violates that rule.

':'.

,

::

! '

In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Com:qrittee considered the following aggravClting
and mitigating' factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered a previous admonition related
to the failure to keep your client informed. In mitigation, the C.ommittee considered:that you did

..

, respond to the subpoena,and cooperated wjth the J3ar to resolve Mr. Jones' .fe~ dispute and
grievance.

I

You are hereby Reprimanded by'the North Carolina State Bar due, to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never agClin allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

....
'j

n: '
,',

h'

Ii

i'

to·

~

!:

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the COlPlcil of the North

"

'"0

Carolina State Bat regarding the taxing of the administrative ahd investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

G

day of

'f€..brUOf/ .2003.

'.~

;;.

,

:

,1.

, !:

~'

"

;.
:}'"
"

Sharon B. Alexander
Chair, Grievance Co:nupittee

I
,

..

