01

. : NORTH CAROLINA
0:-

BEFORE THE

-" ..,

GRlliVANCECO~TEE

\

W~COUNtY

I

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STAT.E BAR
02G0071 & 02G0072

IN THE MATTER OF

)

)

~

JACQUELINE C. MORRIS-GOODSON, )
ATTORNEY AT LAW
)

REPRIMAND

)

On January 23, 2003, the Grievance Comnrittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered th~ grievanceS filed against you by the North Carolina State' Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Griev~ce Committee con"ducted a.preliminary hearing. After considering the information.
available to' it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievimce Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as irreasonable cauSe to believe that a p}ember of the North ..
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committe~ may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, .and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline dep¢ndip.gupon the
misconduct, the actual or P9tential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney..

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admol1ition issued in c.aSes i:n
which an. attorney has violated one· or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and ha$
caused harm or potenti~l harm to a 'cliep.t, the administration of justice, the profession? ·or a menlber of
the public, but the misconduct
does not require a censure.
.
"

••~~

'

"

,

,"I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion th~t a censure is not required in this case and .
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina $tateBar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will.understand fully the spirit i:n
which this duty is performed.
Two of your fonner clients, John Futch and Erica Walker, filed fee disputepetitiQnswith
the North Catolina.State Bar. Rule 1.5 requires attorneys to participate in the fee dlspute
resolution program once clients have filed a petition. In both of these instances you were
contacted by the Bar but, despite several notices, you failed to respond. As a result, the fee
dispute files were closed and grievances were opened against yo1,l based. on your fallure to
respond. The Committee belIeves your actions in failing to respond are a. violation ofRuie
1.5(f)(2) and Rule 8.1 (b) of the Revised Rules of professional Conduct.

" ·f

::', '0::

,

'.

.

/,

,',

Y 04 are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
, l1).isponduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
: r.emem1;>ered by you, that it will be beneficial to YOti, and that you will never again allow yourself to
dep~, frOPl adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession..

In a~cordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina'
.
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
~~

,

Don~ and ordered, this I~
i

~~

day

of.flt...o7

.2003.

.k(~. CH

I

Shk011B:Alexander
Chair; Grievance Committee

I
.... :
-"vp

