S~TE OF

NORTH CAROLINA

COUNTY OF

BEtoRE: 'tHE

GRI~CE COMMITTr;:E

WAKE

OF THE

NORTH CAROLINA S~TE BAR
88G 0296' (In)

I

IN THE MATTER OF
,

)
)
)
)
)

.

LARRY W. Bc:MMAN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

PUBLIC CENSURE

At its rE;lgular quarterly meeting on Octobet 26, 1988, the Grievanqe
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar conducted a preliminary hearing
under Section 13 of Article IX of the Rules and Regulations o£the North '
Cat;"olina State Bar regaroing the grievance filed against you by ,Danny Huqter.'
The conunittee considereCi all of the, eviqence betore' it" ,lnclud~ng your written
response to the Letter of Notice. Pursuant to Section 13(10) of the rules,
the coromi ttee found probable cause. Probable cause is Ciefinedunder' the 'rel,es
as,l!a finding by the Grievance Co1lUlrlttee that there is reasonable caUSE;l to '
. believe that a member of The North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct
justifying discip;Linary action." The rules also provide that if, after a '
finding of probable cause, the Committee determines that a complaint and a
heariQg are not warr~ted, it:may order a Public Censure upOn the 'acceptance
of the Censure by the attorney. That determination has been ~de by the
Committee and the Committee issues this Public Censure.to you.

I

As Chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar it
is now my duty to issue this Public Censure to you, and I ~ certain that you
undeJ;stand ,fully the spirit in which this duty is performed. I am sure that ,",
you will un<;1erstand the censure, and appreciate its significance. Thefact
that a Public Censure is not the most serious discipline that ~y be imposed
by the North Carolina State Bar should not be taken by'you to indicate that
any member of the committee felt that your conduct was -excusable or less than
a serious and substantial violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
In June 1987 you were appointed to represent Danny G. Hunter on a charge
of felony' larceny'. Mr. Hunter was convicted in Surty County Superiot;" Court in
July 1987, and you were appointed to represent him on appeal. Despite your'
appointment anCi despite Mr~ Hunter's desire for an appeal, you failed to
perfect the appeal without consulting Hunter, permitting him to obtain other
counselor attempting to withdraw as Mr. Hqnter's attorney.
'

.

,

Your failure to file 'an appeal on,·~Mr. Hunter's behalf constituted a
violation of Rule 6(B)(3) and Rule 7.1(A)(3).
The committee is confident that this Public Censure will be, heeded by
you, that it will be re~embered by yo~, and will be beneficial to you. The
committee is confident that you will never again allow yourself to depart from
strict ·adherence to the highest standards of the profession. Instead of being
a burden, this Public Censure should serve as a profitaPle and everpresent
reminder to weigh carefully your responsibilities to your clients, to the ,

I
',:'.',",:

:

,

"

"

I

~

1, .

public # to your fellow attorneys, and to the courts.
Pursuant to Section 23 of the rules, it is ordered that a certified copy
of this. PUblic Censure be forwarded to the Superior Court of Guilford County
fOr entry'upon the judgment docket and to the Supreme Court of North Carolina
for entry in its minutes. This Public Censure will also be maintained as a
permanent record in the judgment book of the North Carolina Stat~ Bar~
Pursuant to policy adopted by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar on
the taxing of costs incases where discipline is entered by the Grievance
Conunittee, you are hereby taxed $50.00 as the administrative costs in this
action.
This the

I~ day of ~

1988.

I

#504

I~
",

"

"

I

