----

STATE 'OF NORTH CAROLINA

---- -

-

~--

-

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
87GR '0605

COUNTY OF WAKE

)
)
)

IN THE MATTER OF

)

RICHARD M. ,KOCH,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

PUBLIC CENSURE

)
)
)

I

At'its regular q\larterly meeting on July 14, 1988, the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar conducted a preliminary hearing
under 'Section 13 of the Discipline and Disbarment Rules of ,the North Carolina
S~ate Bar rega:rding the grievance filed against you by C. Edward Fallecker.
The Cofumitt~e considered all of the evidence before it; including your written
statement to the Committee. Pursuant to Section 13(10) of the Discipline and
Disbarment Rules, the C01il~ittee found probable cause. Probable cause is
defined under the Discipline and Disbarment Rules as: "a finding by the
Grievance Commi~tee that there is reasonable cause to believe that a member of
the North C~rolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary
action." The rules al$o provide that if, after a finding of probable cause,
the Committee determines that a complaint and a hearing are not warranted, the
Committe'e may issue a public censure upon the acceptance of the same by the
attorney. That determination has been made by the, Committee and the Committee
issues this Public Censure to you.
As Chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue tnis Public Censure and I am certaih that you
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed, that you will
understand the censure, and appreciate its significance. The' fact that a
public censure is not the most serious discipline that may be imposed by the
North Carolina State Bar should not be taken by you to indicate that any
member of the Committee feels that your conduct was excusable or less than a
serious alid substantial violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You were retained to represent the Sears Consumer Financial Corporation
(SCFC) in two foreclosure proceedings agcdnst W:Uliam R. Jenkins and Sibyl B.
Berg. In both cases, you led SCFC to 'believe you had filed foreclosure
actions again'st Jenkins and Berg in court.

,

SCFe instructed you to for,eclose on the mortgage of Mr. Jenkins. You
claim that you prepared the necessary paperwork; however, you refrained from
filing the papers because you thought Mr. Jenkins would become current on the
delinquent .;toan. You advised SCFC that you were proceeding with the
for~closure on Mr. Jenkins's property when you knew you were not pursuing the
action. You ~nformed the Grievance Committee that ~he information you gave
SCFC would have led them to believe that the foreclosure was imminent.

I
,,:"'"

....

'

.
You exhibited similar conduct in handling the ~ore~lo~ureof tQe Berg
mortgage. Ms. B~rg filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy action and her past due
mortgage payments were to be paid through the Chapter 13 plan. Fu,·ture '
'mortgage payments were to be paid outside of the plan.

I

When M~. Berg ~ecame de'linquent in her mortgage payments to SCE-C" you
were requested to seek relief from the. au~omatic ~tay of the bankruptcy
court. You prepared a motiol} requesting relief from the automa~ic stay of tQ~
bankruptcy court and you sent a copy of it to SCFC for its review and
approval. You never filed the motion for relief from the automatic stay.
Again, you erroneou~ly advised your client, SCFC, that you were proceeding
with the action as SCfC requested. SaFC informed Ms. Berg·th~t you were
tryi~g to foreclose on her property and she informed her .attorney.
Ms. Berg's
~ttorney then filed a motion for sanctions against SClfe for violation of the
automatic stay of the bankruptcy court.
'AlSo, your actions resulted in Ms. Berg's misconception that her attorney
had misappropriated the mortgage payments· that she was sending SCF'e and SCFe
waS transmitting to you. Later, this situation was rectified and Ms', Berg'
learned that her attorney .knew nothing about the mortgage payments and had not'
received them from you.
As a tes~lt of your misrepresentation to SCFC, SCFC incurred expense~ for
its defense at the hearing before the bankruptcy court on Ms. Ber:g's-motion
for entry of an order of sanctions and contempt against SCFC.
Your conduct rel~tive to the handling of the foreclosure act:tons a,gainst
Mr. Jenkil1s and Ms. Berg was in violation of Rule 1.2(C). This rule provides
that i't is professional misconduct for a lawyer to engage :i,n conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation. Statements that you mad'e 1;:0
SeFC regarding the Jenkins. and Berg matters were intended to misleadSCFC as
to the actions yo~ were taking in the cases.
I

I

Yoqr cond~ct in this matte+ has. ruptu+ed the verY foundation of t4,e
attorney-client relationship, i.e. the trust that a client .places in his
attorney to receive competent, honest, and truthful representation~ How can a
lawyer properly represent his client when he is not telling his client the
truth about the status of his case? How can the client make informed
decisions regarding the representation when the lawyer fails to prO,vide th~'
client with accurate and ~ruthful information about the caSe?
Rule 7.1(A)(1) requires that a lawyer must seek the lawful objectives of
his client through reasonably available means permitted by law and the Rules
of Professional Conduct. SCFC requested that you initiate foreclosure actions
against Jenkins and Berg. The course of action which they asked you to' take
was reasonable and lawful. You made a unilateral .decision not to proceed with
the foreclosure actions and that decision was contrary to the reqqestmade py .
your client.
You decided that you Would give both Mr. jenkin~ and Ms. Berg an
opportunity'to.become current on their delinquent loans. You improperly
.
disregarded the request of your client and attempt~d to supplant your wishes
as to the course of action that your client should take. Your conduct went_
I

',:"

,", '"

-

far, ,beyond that' of an, attorney trying to persuade his client to take a certain
course of action based upon the lawyer's knowledge of the law.
Your client had a valid and lawful position which should have been
pursued by you. Your client relied upon you to represent its interest as you
were advised to do. If you were unable to carry out the wishes of your
client, you should have withdrawn from representation. A lawyer is his
client's ~gent.A lawyer advocates hi~ client's position. The course of
action th~t your client wanted to take was a decision of your client and you
could not deter from that CO\lrse of action even if, in your professional
judgment, you desired to achieve some settlement of the matter.
Your conduct was unprofessional. It violated not only the letter of the
Code of 'Professional Responsibility but also its spirit. Your conduct was ~Ot
the conduct expected of a member of the legal profession and an officer of the
court. It brought discredit upon you, the profession; and the courts. It
damaged both your reputation and the profession's. It placed your privilege
to serve ~he public as a lawyer in serious jeopardy.
I

I

The Committee is confident that this Public Censure will be heeded by
you, that it will be remembered by you, and will be beneficial to you. The
Committee is confident that you will never again allow yourself to depart from
strict adherence to the highest standards of the profession. Instead of being
a burden, .this Public Censure should serve as a profitable and everpresent
reminder -do weigh carefully your responsibilities to your clients, to the
public, to your fellow attorneys, and to the courts.
Pursuant to Section 23 of the Discipline and Disbarment Rules, it is
ordered th~t a certified copy of this Public Censure be 'forwarded to the
Superior COurt of Meck~enburg County for entry upon the judgment docket and ~o
the Suprem~ Court of North Carolina for entry in its minutes. This Public
Censure will also be m~intained as a permanent record in th¢ judgment book of
the North Carolina State Bar. Pursuant to policy adopted by the Council of
the North Carolin~ State Bar on the taxing of costs in cases where discipline
is entered by the Grievance Committee, you are hereby taxed $50.00 as the
administrative costs in this action.
~

This the

)0

,

. day

of

~~

., 1988.

I

Chairman

I
,',;',,.

. .' ..

