STATE OF NORTH CARoLINA

BEFORE

COUNTY OF WAKE

I

IN

THE MATTER

~

GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE

OF '!'HE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE
88G Q47~ (IIi)·

OF

BAR

.

)

)

ROBERT S. PAYNE (
A'l"roRNEY AT' LAW

)
)
)

, ~IC CE:NsuRE

At ~ts regular quarterly'meetingon October 26; 1988, the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina state Bar conducted a preliminary hearing,
qnde~Section 13 of Article IX of the Rules and Regulation~ of Ithe ~orth'
Carolina state Bar regar4ing the grievance filed against you by the North
Carolina state Bar. The committee consider~d all ofChe evidence before it,
including your written response to the Letter of Notice. Pursuant to Section
l~(lO)' of the rules, tile Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is
defined under the rules as "a finding by the Grievance 'Committee that there is
reasonable cause to believe that a member of The North Carplipa state Bar ~¢
guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action." The rules also provide
that if, after a finding of probable cause, the Committee determines that a
cQmpla!nt and a hearing are not warranted, it may order a Public Censure upon
the accept~ce of the Censure by the attopley. That determinatioQ has been,
made by the Committee and the Committee issues this Publiq Censur~ to you.

I

As Chairman of the G~ievance Committee of the North Carolina state Bar it'
is now my duty to i$sue this Public Censure to you, and I am certain that you
understand .fully the spirit in which this duty is perfo~ed. I qm sure that·
you will' understand the censur~, and appreciate its signific~ce. ,The fact,
that a Public Censure is not the most serious discipline that 'may be impo$ed'
by the North Carolina State Bar should p.ot be taken by you to indicate ·that
any member of the coIllmit:.tee fel.t that your conduct W?ls excusable ot' less thqn,
a serious and substantial violation of the Rules of professiQnal CondUct.

While employed by Central Carolina Legal Services Inc. in Greensboro, yOu
represented Teresa Milton and~bra williams in connection with twoseparat$'
civil matt~rs~ In each case, you filed suit, but failed to ~rfect service of
process prior to the running, ,of, the statutes of ~~mitation~ You did not
inform Ms. Milton or Ms. Williams that the limitations period had exp~red and
instead, led Ms. Milton and Ms. Williams to believe that their cases were
proceeding no~lly.
Your conduct regarding Ms. Milton and Ms. williams constituted neglect of
a legal matter entrusted to you in violation of Rule 6(B)(3), and your
'
representatiqnsthat the cases were proceeding normally constituted
dishQnesty, fraud and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(C) and false
statements about your services in violation of Rule 2.1(~). ..
In deciding not to refer this matter to the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission for the imposition of more severe diSCipline, the Committee took

I
.

;" ,""

"

,)

<,'

'-

in~o consideration the fact, that, you notified Central Carolina Legal Services,
Inc. and the North Carolina State Bar of your misconduct.

The Committee is confident that this Public Censure will be heeded by
you, that it will be remembered by you, and will be beneficial to you. The
Committee is confident that you will never again allow yourself to depart from
strict adherence to the highest ,standards of the profession. Instead of being
a burden, this Public Cen,sure should serve as a profitable qnd everpresent
reminder to weigh carefully your responsibilities to your clients, to the
public, to your fellow attorneys, and to the courts. '
PUrsuant to Section 23 of the rules, it is ordered that a certified copy
of this PUblic Censure be forwarded to the Superior Court of Guilford County
for entry '4pon the judgment docket and to the ~upreme, Court of North Carolina
for--entry in its minutes. "'This 'PUblic Censure will also be maintained as a
permanent r,ecord in the judgment book of the North Carolina State Sar.
Pursuant to policy adopted by the Council of the North Carolina state Bar on
the taxing of costs in cases where discipline is entered by the Grievance
Committee, you are bereby taxed $50.00 as the administrative costs in this
action.
This tJ:le

~ day

#497

"

I

of

~

" 1988.

I

