ILR
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
'OFTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G03200v)

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF

ROBERT W. ADAMS
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPR,IMAND

On July 25, 1996, ~he Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed a~ainst you by Denise R. Queen.
Pursuant to section .Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolm~'
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the '
information available to it, including· your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause~ Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North C~olina State
is guilty of misconduct justifying
'
disciplinary action."

aat

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
.
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary He~g
Commission are not required an.d the Grievance Committe~ may issue vario"Qs levels' of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating Or mitigating factors. The Grievance C011111iittee may issue an admonition,
reprimand, or censUre to the respondent attorney.
A reprimancJ. is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases
in which·an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional' Conduct
and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

and

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion th~t a censure is not .required in this case.
issues this reprimand to you. As chairma,l1 of the Grievance Committee of the Nortl) Carolin;:!,
State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I ~ certain that you will understand
fully the spirit in which this duty is perfOrmed.

You were ~erved with the letter of notice in the grievance filed by Denise R. Queen on
April 18, 1996. You did not respond to the grievl;U1ce 'within, 15 d~ys receiving it. The State
:aar office sent you a subpoena to appear and produce documents by certified mail. Accordihg
to the post office's records, you did not pick up the State Bar's certified letter.

of

I

COUhsel for the State Bar telephoned your office on June 12, 1996. Counsel left two
messages with your secretary and asked that you return the calls. You did not return counsel's
telephone calls.
The State Bar issued a subpoena to appear and produce docum~nts which would have
required yqu to attend the Grievance Committee meeting in Pinepurst, North Carolina. You
finally resp,onded to the grievance by letter dated June ~l, 1996.
Your failure to respond promptly to this grievance violates Rule 1.1 (b) and Rule 1.2(d) of
the Rules of Professional Conduct. As a licensed attorney in this state, you have an obligation to
follow the rules and procedures of the North Carolina State Bar With respect to its grievance
investigations.

I

!

You ate hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart frpm adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
.

Done";'d ordered, this

e

day of

¥96,

~K~
I

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I
.

:

..

