NORTH CAROLlNA

BEFORE :THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTE~
OF 'J:'HE
NORTH CAROLINA STbTE BAR
95G0606(II)

WAKE; COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
EDWARD R. BAIN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

I
On October ;1..9, 1995, the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar met a:q.d considered the grievance filed against
you py Mr., Edward Wade.
Pursua:q.t to section .0~13(a) of the Discipline and.
Disability Rules of the North'Carolina State Bar, the Grievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing.~fter con$idering the
information .available to it, including your response to the
letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found'probable cause.
P:robable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina Sta,te Bar :Ls guilty
of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that a:j:ter a fipding of probabie cause,
the Grievance Committee may determine that the filing of a
complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue
various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the '
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating OJ:'
mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue ap
admonition, reprima:q.d, or ce:q.sure to the respondent attorney.

I

A ~eprimand .is a ,'writtep form of discipline mOre seriou,s
than an admonition issued ip cases in which an attorney has .
violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm O:r potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or,a member of the
puplic, b'\lt the misconduc't does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is
not required in this case and issues this reprimand to Y0l.;l. As
ch~irmap of the Grievance Committee of, the North Carolina State.
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand and I am c~rtain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is.
performed.
.
You r~presented Mr. Edward Wade on beha~f of the town df
Erwin in an action against various town officials. You were
successful, in that action and Judge F. Gordon Battle ordered that
the defendants in the action pay $5,040.00 plus interest from
June 28, 1993. Judge Battle further ordered that "upbnthe
payment of this judgment, the Clerk shail disbqrse Five Hundred
Dol-lars ($500) of such funds to Edward Wade to' inq,emnify'him for
his services in connection with the prosecution of this callse."

I
.

',-

The defendants paid the money to the office of the clerk of
superior court in Harnett County ih satisfaction of the judgment.
The clerk sent the money to you and you disbursed a check in the
amount of $5,229.26 to the town of Erwin. You kept $500.00 in
your trust account, this money being due to Mr. Wade as ordered
by the court.
Mr. Wade has requested that you disburse the $500.00" to him.
However, you have not disbursed that money to Mr. Wade because"
you believe that Mr. Wade should pay the balance of your
attor~ey's fee for your legal services.
The Grievance Committee finds that your failure to disburse
$500.00 to Mr. Wade as ordered by a superior court judge violates
Rule 10.2(~)of the Rules of Professional Conduct. That rule
.requires a lawyer to promptly payor deliver to the client or to
third persons as directed by the client the funds, securities, or
properties belonging to the client to which the client is
entitled in the possession of the lawyer.

I

Furthermore, your conduct violates Rule 1.2(d) of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. Rule 1.2(d) requires that a laWyer
shall not engage in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice. ¥"our failure to pay the $500.00 to Mr. -Wade violates
the court's order. As an officer of the court, you have an
obligation to comply with orders of the court.
The Grievance Committee believes that you have other
recourses to pursue with respect to receiving payment of your
attorney's :fee. However, you should not hold "hostage" the
$500.00 tha:t the court has ordered you pay to Mr. Wade.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar
due to your' professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee
trusts that' you wi11 heed this reprimand, that it will be
-remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and ,that
you will ne~er again allow yourself to depart fro~ adherence to
the high et"hical 'standards of the legal profession,.
In accQrdance with -the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by
the Council of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing
of the admimistrative and investigative costs to any attorney .
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee; the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

"~

day of

~~/

, 1995.

Ann~e~

Chairman, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

<481-197>

i"

I

