BEFORE THE
.aRrEVANCE COMMITTEE'
OFTH;E
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98G020 1(IV)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
MICHAEL DEMAYO,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

'On January 13, 1999, the,Grievance Committee of the North Carolina. State Bat met and'
considered the grievance filed against you by-Julie Simpson.
Pursuant ~o section .Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina Stat~
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Mer considering the information
available to it, including yout response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplin,ary action."
The rules provide that after a find~g of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Conlmittee may issue an admonitipn, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the achninistration of justice, the profess~on, or a member of
the public, but the misc~nduct does not require a censure.
'

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not reqUited in this case and
issues this reprunand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, ~d I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
I

Between at least 1994 and 1997, YOll have represented many pl~ntiffs in personal injury
actions. Put~Uaht to your representation of these clients, you and your staff routinely prepared
settlement packages which contained information concerning your clients' injuries and medical
treatment stemming from the accident in question. It was your practice to direct your staff to
redact from the medical records and documents in the settlement packages information
concerning pre-accident medical 'treatment and representation by previous attorneys. Your staff
performed the redactions by whiting out or covering up the information and then recopying the

I

docUinents in such a way that the information was not visible and it was not ~pparent that
redactions had been made. Your settlement packages omitted medical and other infonriatien
whichwaS relevant and material to the nature and the extent ofy-our clients' injuries and damage. '
Your communications to the insurance companies in such claims failed to disclose thatmateriaJ.
information in,the settlement packages had been redacted. By failing to disclose to the
insurance companies that material had been redacted from the information which you subniitted '
in your settlement packages, you engaged in conduct involving a misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 1.2(c) of the former Rules ofProfe:?sional Conduct.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Catolina State Bar due to your professional
,
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimantl, that it will be
remembered by you, that it
be beneficial to you, and that you will neveragaj!l a110w yoUrself to
depart from .adherenc,e to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
.

will

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by ·the Council of the North Catolib~
State Bar regarding the taxing oithe administrative and investigative costs tQally attorney issued ~ .
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the ~ouiit of$50.00 are·hereby t¢'ecl.
to you.

Done aIld ordered, this

30

day of

t:t.r..,f>~' 1999.
\

~~.
Chair, Grievance Committee

I
"

~
·-t.;
. (
.

"

...

,.;

"

