NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF,THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99<1125,8

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Jodi A. Ernest
Attorney- AtLaw

)
)
)
)
)

REPRlMAND

I

On April13, 2000 the Grievance Committee ofth6 North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the gri~vances filed against you by Sheila Richardson.
Pursuant to Section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance COlrunitteeconducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information ayailable to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee f6und probable cause. Probable caUSe is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Catolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct ju,stifying
disciplmary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ~e not requii'ed, an~ the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, oria censure to the respondent ;:tttorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attoI:I1ey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Co;nduet and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or:a member of the public, but the. misconduct does not requii'e a censure.
The Grievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State .Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, .and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit ~ which this duty is performed.
"

.

In Dec~mber 1998, you agreed to represent Sheila Richardson in the defense of a divorce
action filed against her by her husband, Charles Richardson, on November 9, 1998. You
prepared an an$wer to the divorce complaint on Ms. Richardson's behalf and you filed it oil
December 29, 1999 in Rockingham County District Court. ln the answer that you drafted, you

I
r

,

,

admitted the allegations of Mr. Richardson's complaint. you also further alleged that "[t]here
remain pending issues as to child custody, child support, child visitation, and equitable'
'
distribution of the marital assets aq,d these issues need to be left open pending further orders of
the Cqurt." 'Your answer contained no counterclaim for equitable distribution or spousal
'
support.

I

You faxed the l:!l1swer on becember 29, 1998 to Mr. Richardson's attorney, Janeic~ Tindal. On
January 5, Ms. Tindal faxed a proposed copy of the divorce judgment by summary judgm~nt to
you. The proposed divorce judgment included the statement th~t "[a]fly viable issues of child
custody, child support, child visitation and equitable distribution remain open,"
On January 7, Ms. Tindal filed a new motion, Motion for Judgmentop the Pleadings. Ms~ Tindal
wrote you on January 7 and told you about the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and she
told you of the new comi date. Ms. Tindal indicated in her letter that "[lIl]y plans ,have
, change4.'"
.
, The January 7lettet from'Ms. Tindal was faxed to you. The Jan,uary 7 letter l:!l1d the Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings were also mailed to you.
Furthermore; on J~uary 8 you instructed Heather Spain, an employee in your office, to call Ms.
Tindal and tell her that the judgment faxed on January 5 was acceptable and that the, new court
date was acceptabl~ to you, Ms. Tindal told Ms. Spain that thejudgment woul4 be different.
Ms. Tindal asked Ms. Sp~ to relay that message to you. The judgment, which you approved,
that was faxed to you on January 5 did not protect your client's right to equitable distribution in
that "no viable" issue remained because equitable distribution had not been pled j.n Ii proper
counterclaim or complaint.

I

After Ms. Tindal advised you that she, had filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings, you
took lio further action .respecting the pleadings you filed on behalf of Ms, Richardson. You. did
not contact Ms. Tindal to discUss her Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. Furthermor~, you
did not file a motion to amend yoUr answer to add a c01Jl1terclaim for equitable, distribution,
.
. In
addit~on, you did p.ot file an independent action for equitabledistributjOil to :protect or preserve
your client's rights.
. '.
.

Ms. Richardson's divorce was heard in court on Feb~ 15, 1999. YOli did not appear' fu coUrt .
on Ms. Richardson's behalf. District Court Judge Fred Wilkins entered an order of divorce that
found that there were ilo pending issues relative to equitable distribution.
As a result of your drafting t4e answer witho'Q.t a proper c01,U1tetclaim for equitabl~ distribution in .
Ms. Ricnardson;s case, she lo~t her right to seek equitable distribution. The Grievance
Cominittee found that YOtu' drafting of the answer for M~. Richardson showed a lack of
knowiedge and competence in the domestic law area and thus you violated Ruie 1. 1(a) and (b)of
the Revised Rilles of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee believes that
N.C.GS.§50-11(e)requires that one specifically apply for equitable distribution prior to a
judgment of absolute divorce or the statutory right to equitable distribution is destroyed. The
Grievance Committee also found that a reading of the general statute and North Carolina case

I

~.

,

,

i:

----------------,..----.,.-------------------------

-

law would have informed you of the pleading requirements of the equitable distribution l?tatute
and the appellate decisions which have interpreted those requirements.
In ~ddition, the Grievance Committee found that your failure to appear incotu1: on February 15,
1999 to represent Ms. Richardson in the divorce action violated Ru1e 1.3 of the Reyised Rules of
Professional: Conduct.
The Grievance Committee was concerned about the confusion regarding who actually
~epresented Ms. Richardson in her domestic matters. You began representing Ms. Richardson in
her divorce action. In February of 1999, it appears that Attorney Angela Foster, an attorney in
your old law, firm, began assisting Ms. Richardson in.her equitable distribution case and in a
motion'to vacate the divof(~e order. You left your old law finn and began practicing in another
firm on JQlylS, 1999. You did not file a motion to Withdraw from Ms. Ri~hardson's case priOl:
to leaving your old law firm or prior to Ms. Foster assuming some responsibility for portions of
Ms. Richardson's case.
.

I

To add to the confusion regarding your and Ms. Foster's involvement in Ms. Richardson's case,
on August 30, 1999, a Motion To Set Child Support By Guidelines was heard in district court.
Ms. Richardson was passed back to you so that you would represent her in ,the chlld support
hearing. Th« Grievance Committee found that it was. not unreasonable for Ms. Richardson to be
unclear about the extent of your and Ms. Foster's representation in her domestic m~tters in light
of the aforententioned circumstances. If you no 10Q,ger represented Ms. Richardson, you shou1d
have moved to withdraw from her case and had an order entered by the court allowing you to
withdraw. Y~ur failure to withdraw from Ms. Richardson'-s'case violated Rule 1.16(c) of the
Revised Ru1es of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby repriman<;led by tlie North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance COnnilittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart fron: adherence to the high ethical standards of the' legal profession.
In accordance With the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of.the administrative and investigative costs to any
action in the amount
attorney issu~d a· reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of
of $50.00 are.herebytaxed to you.

I

this

D'one and ordered, this the 2..2.. day of_---C..I2l
. . . .-,-,U~~7f----" 2000 .

.~

.~UA./4f12:~
s K. Dorsett III Charr Grievance Committee

I

