::.

I"

I
NORTH CAROLINA :

I

Angela C, FDster
AttDrney. At Law '

,:

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE'COMMITTEB
OF THE
NORTH CAROLlNA STATE 13M
99G1271

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

!

)
)
)
)
)

'

, REPRIMAND

On April13~ 2000 the GrlevaI1.ce CDmmittee Dfthe NDrth CarDlina State Bat met apd
cDnsidered the grievance~ filed agamst YDU by Sheila RichardsDn.
Pursuant to' SectiDn .0113(a) Dfthe Discipline and Dfsability Ru1e~ of the NDrth CarDlina ,
State Bar, the Grievance CDmntittee cDnducted a preliminary hearing. Aftet cDnsidering the
infDrmatiDn available to' it, including YDurrespDnse to' the letter Df notice, the Grievance
CDn:unittee fDund proba1;>le cause. P.rOba1;>le cau,se is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to'
believe that a member Dfthe NDrth Carolina State Bar is guilty Df~syDnductjustifying
disciplin~ action.'""

I

The rules provide' that after a finding of probable cause, the Griev~ce Committee may'
deteniline that the, filing of a cDmplaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
CDmmission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various level~ Df
discipline depending upDn the misconduct, the actual Dr pDtential injury caused, and any ,
aggravating Dr mitigating factDrs. The Grievance CDmmittee may issue an acInlDnition, a
reprimand, Dr a censure to' the .respDndent attDrney.
,?
"

A reprimand is a written form Df discipline mDre seriDus th~ an admonition issued in
cases in which an attD.rneY has viDlated Dne Dr mDre provisions Dfthe Rules ofPrDfessional
CDnduct and has catlsed harm Dr pDtential harm to' a client, the admini~tration Df justice, the
prDfession, or a member Df the public, but the misconduct dDes not require a censure. ,

"

,
I'

"

"

k

The GrievaliceCommittee was Dfthe Dpinion that aceosureis not required in this case
and,issues thisrepl'imand to' yDU. As chairman of the Grievance CDmmittee of the Nprth
Carolina State Bar, it is nDW my 4uty to' issue this reprimand, and I am certain th,at you Will '
understand fully the spirit ~ which this duty is perfDrmed.

",

""
}

"

In March 1999, yDll agreed t() represent Sheila Richardson, the Complainant, in an
equitable distribution case, Ms. Ric4ardson paid $500~00 per yout fee agreement.

I
"

, !

The order for divorce was entered by District Court Judge Fred Wilkins on February 15,
1999. Judge Wilkins' order of divorce i~dic~ted that there were no pending. issues to be heard by
the court. In effect, Judge Wilkins' order held that Ms. Richardson could not pursue equitable
distribution.
On March 2, 1999, you wrote Ms. Richardson and advised her that her ex-husba:nd's
pension "does fall within the category of eqttitable distribution?'. Youreferred Ms. Richardson to
paragraph 3 <;>fthe fin8J. divorce decree that had bee~ originally proposed by Attorney Janeice
Tindal, the attorney for Complainant's ex-husband, Charles Richardson. In your March 2 letter
to Ms. Richardson, you quoted paragraph 3 of the proposed final divorce decree which stated that
"any viable issues of child custody, child. support, child visitation and equitable distribution
remains [sic] open". Again, you advised M~. Richardson that Mr. Richardson's 'pension would
be covered in paragraph 3 of the proposed final divorce decree, without ascertaining whether any
viable issue of equi"4lble distribution had in fact been pled on Ms. Richardson's behalf. Later,
. you learIied that the proposed final divorce decree was not actually entered by Judge Wilkins on
February 15~ 1999. You alsoleamed that Ms. Richardson's claims for equitable distribution had
not been preserVed and could not be pursued pursuant to the February 15, 1999 divorce
judgment.
The advice yop. gave Ms. Richardson in your letter of March 2, 1999 misled her about her
equitable distribution rights and showed yO"QI lack of competence a:nd 'preparation in ha:ndling her
domestic matter, in v.iolation of Rule 1. 1(a) and (b) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct. The Grievance Committee believed that you should have known that Ms. Richardson's
equitable distribution rights had not been preserved in the proposed divorce order by the mere
assertion that ,"any viabie issues" remained open. If you had reviewed the answer file.d on Ms.
Richardson's behalfby an attorney in your lavy- finn, you would have ~certaih.ed that no claim
for equitable distribution had 1?een properly pled prior to the entry ofthe divorce decree. North
Carolina General Statute § 50-11 (e) and North Carolina case law clearly provide that a claim for
equitable distribution must be specifically pleaded prior to divorce, or the right to equitable
.
distribution i s l o s t . ·
On March 19, 1999, you filed a inotion to vacate the divorce order (hereafter, motion to
vacate) entered on February 15, 1999 in Ms. Richardson's case. The motion to vacate was
calendared for hearing for May 3, 1999. You did not appear in court to atguethe motion or to
seek a continu.ance of the hearing. Although you indicated that you asked ·another attorney to
appear on your behalf, it appears that attorney did not appear in court relative to your motion to
vacate. The court denied your motion to vacate by an order dated March 5, 1999. Your failure
to pursue diligently the motion to vacate filed on March 19, 1999 violated Rule 1.3 of the
Revised Rules' of Professional Conduct. Rule 1.3 requires that a lawyer act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing a client.
I

The Qrievance Committee was also concerned about the confusion regarding who
actually represented Ms. Richardson in her domestic matters. Attorney Jodi Ernest began
representing Ms. Richardson in her divorce action in December of 1998. Ms. Ernest filed an
answer to the 4ivorce. complaint filed by Ms. Tindal,Mr. Richardson's attorney. You began
assisting Ms. Richardson in her equitable djstribution case and in a motion to vacate the divorce

I

order h1 February and March of 1999. Ms. Ernest continued to practice in the law finn wi:th you~.
but.she was not handling Ms. Richardson's equitable distribution case.

I

In Augu~t 1999, Ms. Tindal filed a motion co~cerning child support. You indicated ~a.t
you did ~ot represent Ms. Richardson on the child support 'matter, but Ms. Ernest did. By the .
time the.child S1.Jpport hearing was held, Ms. Ernest had left the D' Amelio, McKinrtey, and
Erp.est law firm. The Grievance Committee understands your position is .that Ms. Ernest was ,still
the attorney ofre90rd for some portion of Ms. Richw-dson's case. However, Ms. Richardson was
confused about who represented her in her various domestic issqes. Although you believed, that
you only represented Ms. Richardson in the equitable distribution matter, your letter of March
31, 1999 toMs. Richardson speaks. of drafting and filing. a Motion to Increase Child Support.
The Grievance Committee fOl.lnd that it was not unreasonable'for Ms. Richardson to be unclear .
about the extent of ypur and Ms. Ernest's representatipns in her domestic case... Your conduct in
this regard was in violation of Rule S.4Cd) ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North CarolinaState Bar fot your'professionl;l1
misconduct. The. Grievance Coinmittee trusts that you win heed this reprimand, ·that it will be .
remembered by you, that it will be benefic~al to you, and that you will never again ~low yoUrself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the le~al profession.
. In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regardiIlg the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to .any .
attorney issued a repriman.d by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50;00 are· hereby taxed to you.
.
Done and ordered, this the ,.22. day of_..;..;~,,-,.
~.7F--.---...,.-" 2006.

I

K. porsett III Chair
Grievance Committee

. .TKO/tee

"

I
:

..'

