BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99G0124

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

)
)
).
)
)

IN THE MATTER OF
C. L.,GWAL1NEY.,,,,

ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

I

On October 20, 1999, the Grievance Comrtlittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against y01,J by Denise T. Gallion.
i

Purstiatit to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Proba,ble cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar 'is' guilty of misconduct justifYing disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a rmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misco]J.d1,Jct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a cens,ure to the respondent attorney.
A repIjmand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney'has violated one or more provisionS of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has, .
caused harm qr potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
In September of 1997, you agreed to represent Denise T. Gallion in actions involving child
custody and support, divorce, ~dequitable distribution of marital property. Ms. Gallion paid your
attorney's fee pf$1,250.00.

I
:

.. '

'Ms. Gallion ha~ difficulty communicating with you, beginning in S'~pterilber of 1998. :Ms. .
Gallion l~ft numerous mes1;lages on your answering machine, but you did not return tho$e telephon<;i
calls:. Ms." Gallion requested the return of her entire fIle, btityou did not return it to 'her; . '
You admitted that Ms. Gallion's allegations were essentially tru,e. You stated that you changed'
jobs and began working for a legal services organization~ You indicated that yOlJ, were trying to reach
your former clients and discuss either settling therr cases or withdrawing and retur:nil1g tPeir :files.
Counsel for the State Bar contacted you by letter dated June 2, 1999 and asked 'that you provide
additional information regarding Ms. Gallion's grievance. You did nQt respond, to b~ counsel's l¢tter.
,
,

I

"

The Grievance Committee found that you violated Rules 1.3 and l.4(a) f;Uld '(b). You neglected.
Ms. G.~lion's'case and fai1~d to communicate with her about it. You also failed to respond to the State
Bar's further. inquky about this grievance in violation of Rule 8.1(b).
You are hereby repPman¢led by the North Catolina State Bar ,due to your profession~
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you willlieed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that'it will be beneficial to you, ~d that you will never aga4t allow yoW'~elf to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the' policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a .
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in ~e amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
~~

"

"bone and ,ordered, this .

8"

.dayof,

~~

, 1999.

I
.

I

I

