-------------------------------------------

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99GI047

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
MASON!>. THOMAS
ATTORNEY' AT-LAW

)
)
)
)
)

1

REPRIMAND

Oli Jailuary 20,2000 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered th~ grievances filed against you by David R. Jolivet.
.

.

Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the;Grievance Committee cOl1ducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievctn.ce
Committee foUnd probable cause. Probable cause is defjned in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that
- a :member of the- North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary actioJJ."
.
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause; the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commissi()n are 110t required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depC;:lnding upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or. mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I:
!

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which,'an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potep.tial hann to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or, tit member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a c~nsure.

/

"

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issu.es this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the GrievanceCoimnittee of the North
Carolina State13ar: it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is perfonned.

,.,.:.
"

:~.

Y()u fonned a partnership to provide legal services to_ prisoners' with the Complainant,
bavid R. Jolivet, an inmate in federal prison in Florence, Colorado. Mr. Jolivet is not a lawyer.
You admitted that Mr. Jolivet drafted the various documents and you reWrote them. You also

1

I

forwarded letters to "federal inm~te clients" and you filed "certain documents in court". Atsomd.
point, you and Mr. Jolivet dissolved your partn~rship.
.
Your partnership with Mr. Jolivet to provide legal services violated Rule路 5A(b) of-the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of th~ North Carolina State Bar. Yon $haring legal fees
with a non-lawyer in violation of Rule 5.4(a) of the Revi~ed R.ules ofProf~$sional Conduct.

I

Ip addition, wh~n you assisted Mr. Jolivet in the preparation ofIegal documents for federal
Inmates in Colorado, you violated Rule 5.5(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
..... ,you路arehereby reprimanded by the North Carolina 路Stat~ Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it 'will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allqw yourself
to depart from adherence to the 路high ~thical st!ll1dards of the legal profession.
.
In accOIdance with the .policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the. C01,1l1cil of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprim~d by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done ~d ordered, this the

I>'

day of

~
~

,2000.

s K. Dorsett III, Chair
Grievance Committee

I

JKD/tec

.

I

.. ,

!

'

