-~---

NORTH CAROLINA

WILLIAM C. SHUMWAY,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

---

-

-----

----~--

------

---

~

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLiNA STATE BAR
99GllOO

WAKE COUNTY

iN THE MATTER OF

----

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On January 20,2000, the Grievance Con:1mittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and.
considered t1;le grievance filed against you by Mr. ERM.
PurSuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Ru1es of the North Carolina
State Bat, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the ru1es as "reasonable caUse to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a fmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine th~t the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ~e not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an ac4nonition, a
'
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a Written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which ari attorney has VIolated one or more prOVisions of the Ru1es,ofProfessional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration 'Of justice, the
profession, or: a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Conlmittee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee bfthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fqlIy the spirit in which this duty is performed.
~d

Ort Aug. 23, 1999, Mr. ERM filed a grievance against you with the North Carolina State
Bar. The N.C. State Bar sent you a letter ofnbtice on Sel't. 2, 1999, notifying you of Mr.
ERM's grievance and directing you to respond within 15 days of receipt of the letter of notice.

I

.

,.
The letter of notice was sent by certified mail and was received by an employee i~ your' office o~
Sept. 7, 1999. Consequently, yoUr response was due on Sept. 22~ 1999..
011 Sept. 30, 1999 the N.C. State Bar sent you a follow up letter, reminding Y~lU that your
response to Mr. ERM's grievance had not been received. The Sept. 30, 1999 follow up letter
asked you to r~spond by Oct. 11, 1999.
",

I

When you still did not respond, the N.C. State Bar issued a sllbpoena to you,
commanding you to appear and respond to Mr. ERM's grievance in person at the Bar's office on :
Nov. 10, 1999. While you 4id appear in response to the subpoena~ you offered no expJanatiPll
for your failure to respond to the letter of notice in a timely fashion other than your belief th~t
Mr. ERM was "trying to shake you down" and your desire to discuss the matter in person With
.Bar Counsel. However; prior to your appearance at the Bar on Nov. 10, 1999, you apparently'
made no c0nt~ct with Bar Counsel nor did you attempt to explain ,the :situation.
Although the Grievance Committee det~rmine4 that there was no merit to Mr. ERM's
grievance, it did conclude that you violated Rille 1. 1(b) of the Revised Rilles of Professional
Conduct by failing to respond in a thnely fashion to the letter of notice sent tf:> you by the N.C.
State Bar in this matter. Your conduct was aggravated by the fact that you have been discipline4
twice previously for failing to respond to N.C. State Bar letters ofnotiqe. .
.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
ntisconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you willlleed this reprimand, that it will be ' .
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never' again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina: State Bat regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a teprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of thi$ action in the amOlilii
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

I

/5

day of

~

~SK.J}orsett, III

,2000.

.
Chair, Grievance Committee

Isd

I

