J ZIG~
___ __
_

,

~

Co

WAK~

THE

RE; THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02 DHC 19

~ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, ~
Plaintiff

v.

)
) CONSENT ORDER OF DISABILITY

I

)

)
, CHARLES E. HESTER JR.,
)
Defendant· )

This matter came before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Cotnmi~sion composed of Carlyn G. Poole, chair, M. Ann Reed, and Betty J\nn
Kn~dsEm, pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1 Subchapter B.§ .0114 and
.0118(t) (hereafter, "Bar Rules"). Defendant, Charles E. Hester, Jr., represented
himself pro se: Douglas J. Brocker and Car-olin D. Bakewell represented plaintiff.
All parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order transferring defendant to disability inactive status.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the
?
followirig:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring
this progeeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2, Defendant, Charles E. Hester, Jr. (hereafter "Hester"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on March 24, 1984 and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina,
subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

1

I

.,
"

3. During the times relevanUo this compiaint, H~ster ~ctivelyengag'ed in ;
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
the city of Selma, Johnston County, North Carolina.
4. The plaintiff's complaint in
disciplinary violations.

I

this.matter·~;~'serted that Hester engaged in'.
.

5. Hester f~iled to answer or otherwise respond to the disciplinary
complaint. Accordingly, default was entered against him, ano a 'hearing was
scheduled for January 17; 2003 to determine the, appropriate disCipline to be
imposed for the violations established by default.
.6. Just prior to the January 17, 2003 'hearing, Hester sUbrriitted an
affidavit ass'erting that he was disabled within the meaning of Bar Rule '
,0103(19)..

7. 'Based on this assertion and pursuant to Bar Rule .0118(c)(1), on
January 17, 2003, Hesterwas transferred to disability inactive status pending the
.
conclusion of a final dIsability hearing.
8. Pursuant to the interim disability order, Hester was evall,lated by a
psychiatrist deSignated by the Lawyers Assistance Program, Dr. Philip L.
Hillsman,
9. Dr. Hillsman has diagnosed Hesterwith Bipolar Disorder,.Attention.
Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. unspecified rteurocognitive probl$ms. Alcohol
Dependence, and Polysubstance Abuse.

I

10. Dr. Hillsman found that Hester is dIsabled within the meaning of the
Bar Rule .0103(19) in that he suffers from mental and physical cOnditions that ,
significantly,;impair his professional jUdgment, performance, and. cornpetenceas'
an attorney.
11. Dr. Hillsman concluded that Hester's prognosis for overcoming his,
disability ~as guarded.
.
12. Dr. Hillsman also concluded that it would take 2 years. at ~ minitnufll.
before Hester could practice law in a competent manner again.'
,
13. Dr. Hillsman also outlined various steps he believed Hester would
have.to take to attempt to overcome his disability.
14. Hester was properly served with process and has waived hi.s right toa
formal hearing on the qisability issue.
15. Hester is competent to consent to this order.

2

I

,

I"

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact,
the hearing committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before' the hearing committee, and the
committee has jurisdiction over Hester and the subject matter of this proceeding.
. 2. Hester suffers from physical and mental condi~ions that significantly
impair his professional judgment, performance, and competence within the
meanjng of Bar Rule .0103(19) .

I

. 3. Hester should be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to
North Carolina General Statute 84-28(g) and Bar Rule .0118(c)(1).
·4. The disciplinary charges pending against Hester, as set out in the
Bar's complaint, should be abated until such time as Hester is transferred to
active status.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
based upon the .consent of the parties, the hearing committee enters the
following:
.ORDER TRANSFERRING TO. DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS
1. Charles E. Hester, Jr. is hereby transferred to disability inactive status
pursuant North Carolina G.eneral Statute 84-28(g) and 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1
Subchapter B § .0118(c)(3). The order is effective immediately upon entry.
Hester:shall remain on disability inactive status unless reinstated by the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1
Subchc;lpter B § .0125(c).

2. The disciplil1ary proceeding is stayed so long as Hester remains on
disability inactive status. If the Commission retlJrn~ Hester to active status, the
disciplinary proceeding will be rescheduled.

I

3. Hester shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secret~ry within 6 months of service of notice of the costs, including. the cost of
Dr. Hillsman's evaluation and report.

4,. Hester's payment of costs, including the cost of Dr. Hillsman's
evaluation and report, shall be a condition precedent to his reinstatement from
disability inactive status.

3

I

Cff7

Signed by the undersignE;ld hearing committee chair with the Gonsent of
the other hearin9 committee members.
'
This the

24-

day of

MML

2003.'(""

Carly. Poole, Chair '
Heari 9 Committee

I

'~A,]?'~

Carolin D. Bakewell'
Attorney for Plaintiff

a es E. Hester,
Pro se Defendant

,

,

4

I
I

,

,

"

, '

