BEFORBTHE
SCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION'
~
OF THE
;;: NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
."
02DHC 16

I

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

The North Carolina State Bar,
Plaintiff

v.
Paul E. Hemphill, Attorney,
Defendant

i

Consent Otderof biscipline

--~~~--------------)

--

This matter was considered by a hearing committee of thePiscjplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Carlyn G. Poole, Chair; M. Ann Reed, and
Betty Ann Knudsen pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,.
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §.Ol14(h). The plaintiff was represented by Pavid R.
Johnson. The Defendant was represented by Linwood O. Foust. Both parties
stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this.
consent order ~md to the discipline imposed. Based upon the consent of the parties,
.
the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact
T~e Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized undet

the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNbrth Carolina,
and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
1.
The Defendant. Paul E. Hemphill (hereafter Defendant), was admitted.
to the North Carolina State Bar in August 1975, and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, except as otherwise set forth herein, an attorney at law licensed
to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State 0f ' '
North Carolina.

I

,

.

.L. •

I 'g-ff1J ,

--

2.' During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein,
Defendant was actively engaged in the practice of law in the City ·of Charlotte,
Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
3.
On or about 4 December 1989, Mary Youmans (hereafter
"~Voumarts") engaged Defendant to represent her in an action for divorce and
claims for alimony and equitable distribution. Youmans paid Defendant a fee of
$500 in advance plus court filing fees of $45.
On 5 December 1989, Defendant filed a Complaint on behalf of
4.
Youmans for alimony pendente lite and equitable distribution in Mecklenburg
County District Court file number 89 CVD 16363.

I

5.
On or about 11 April 1990, a consent order was entered in the case
requiring Youmans' husband to make certain payments to Youmans fot the
mortgage and utilities related to Youmans' residence pending, final judgment in the
alimony and equitable distribution action .

. ' 6.'

Following entry offhe order, Youmarts'husband did not comply with
the order. Although enforcement proceedings against Y oumal1s' husband were not
-expressly part of the initi,al employment agreement with Defendant, Defendant did
agree to assist Youmans in enforcement of the order and eventually filed and
appeared :at hearings on as many as six separate motions for contempt against
Youmans:' husband on her behalf over the course of representation. However, on
numerou~ occasions over the course of representation Defend~t did not respond to
Youmans',' calls and letters expressing her concern about enforcenient of these
orders in a timely manner, did not timely prepare or file motions or pleadings with
the court on her behalf; did not request hearings in a timely manner; and failed to
inform Youmans about changes in cO"!lrt dates'. Youmans did not pay Defendant
any additipnal fees for filing the contempt motions or representation at the hearings
on these motions.
'

I

7. : On 23 January 1991, Defendant filed a Complaint for divorce on
behalf of Y ouliians in Mecklenburg County District Court file number 91 CVn
1217. On 11 March 1991 a judgment of divorce between the Y oumaPs was entered
in the marier.
8. lOver the course of representation, Youmans repeatedly requested
Defendant to conclude the alimony and equitable distribution matter filed in· 1989,
Defendant 'failed to timely respond to Youmans or take action before the court to
conclude the matter until directed by the court in May 1996 after Youmans had
contacted the judge in the matter. A final judgment in the alimony arid equitable

I

distribution action was entered on 11 July 1996. The Defendant wa~ awarded
$1,000 in attorneys' fees payable by Youmans now former husband in that
judgment.
9.
Upon entry of the final judgment in the alimony and eq"ijitable
distribution action, the matters for which Defendanthad initially been retained
were completed.

I

10. During the course of representation on the domestic matter~ Youmans
had severe financial problems. As a result, Youmans asked Defendant to file a,
Ch,~pter 13 bankruptcy proceeding on her behalf. On or about 4 November 1994,'
Defendant filed the petition in the Western District of North Carolina, file ~umber
94-31399. Defendant remained Youmans attorneyofrecotd in the Chapter 13
proceeding until her discharge from bankruptcy in December 1995.
11. On 19 March 1998,. Youmans filed a request for fee arbitration With
the 26 Judicial District Bar with regard to the fee paid for representation on the:
domestic matter at the initial meeting in December 1989 at wnich the Defendant
was employed by Youmans.
th

th

12. The 26 Judicial District Bar conducted a fee arbitration hearing in
November 1998. The Defendant participated in the proceeding. The fee arbitration'
panel awarded Youmans a refund of$295 of the fee previously paid. The decision
was communicated to Defendant and Youmans on or about 23 December 1998.

I

13. Defendant did not pay the award from the fee arbitration he'Uing to:
Youmans until December 1999 after Youmans had made several inquiries to the
Bar on which Defendant was copied and an attorney had contacted Defendant on
behalf of Youmans by letter dated 8 October 1999.
.
14. On 19 March 1998, Youmans also filed a grievance against the.
th
th
Defendant with the 26 Judicial District Bar. The 26 Judiciai District Bar deferred
investigation of the grievance until the conclusion of the fee arbitration proceedi1ig~
15. On.g January 1999, the Chairman pftheGrievance Committee ofthe .
26 Judicial District Bar notified Defendant that an investigation Youmans'
grievance had been initiated. The Defendant waS ~irected to provide a written .
response to Youmans allegations within 15 days. The Defendant did not respond. '
th

16. On 19 April 1999, an'investigating attorney for the Grievance
Committee Sent Defendant a follow-up letter asking for a response by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The US Postal Service returned the letter as
"unclaimed. "

1V
I,~~·
V

\ ,~~'

17.: On or about 15 November 1999, the investigating attorney for the
Grievance Committee sent another letter to Defendant asking for a response. This
letter was. sent by fax, regular mail, and certified mail to two different addresses
believed tp be maintained by the Defendant.
I

18. On 1 December 1999, the Defendant accepted delivery of one of the
15 November 1999 certified letters. Defendant did not respond to the investigating
attorney or the 26th Judicial District Bar in any manper.
.
I

19. : Defendant has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing
findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and entry of the order of
discipline with the advice of counsel. Defendant understands that the terms of this
consent order of discipline are subject to the approval of the hearing committee.
Upon acceptance of this consent order of disciplipe by the hearing committee,
Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
consent o~der of discipline.
.

I

Bas~d upon the

consent of the parties and the foregoingstipulated Findings.
of Fact, the hearing committee enters the following:
Conclusions Of Law

1.
All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. : The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact
above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2)
as follows;
a. By failing to promptly prepare and file court pleadings and
. -otherwise present YQu,lJ1ans' conte~pt and alimony and equitable
distribution case in court on a timelY' basis, Defendant failed to act
with reasonable diligence and promptness in violation of Rule
6(b)(3) of the Superceded Rules ofP:rofessional Conduct and Rule
1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

b. By failing to respond to Youmans' inquiries concerning the status
of her cases and by failing to notify her concerning scheduled court
dates, Defendant failed to keep his client reasonably informed
about the status of her case or promptly comply with his client's
requests for infonnation in violation of Rule 6(b)(l) of the

I

Superceded Rules ofProfessiQnal Conduct and Rule IA(a) of the '
Revised Rllles of Professional Conduct.

I

c. By failing to pay Youmans the award of the fee arbitration
..
th
'committee of the 26 Judicial District Bar for nearly one year after
its entry, Defendant failed to participate in good faith with the fee'
dispute resolution process of the North Carolina State Bat in .
violation of Rule 1.5(f)(2) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
.
,
.
d. By failing to respond to the multiple communications from the
Grievance Committee of the 26th Jl.ldieial District Bar concyrIllng
the grievance filed by Youmans, the Defendant failed to. respond to'
the lawful inquiries of a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule
8.I(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.'
..
Upon the consent of the parties, the hearing cOlllinitteyalso enters the
following:
Findings Of Fact Regardblg Discipline,
1.
On 17 July 1997, the Defendant received an Admonition from the
Grievance Committee for neglect ofa client's case~ failure to adequately
communicate with the client, and failqre to respond to the inquiries Of the bat in .
violation of Rules 6(b)(3), 6(b)(I), and I.I(b) of the [now superceded] Rules of
Professional Conduct.

I

2.
On 16 April 1998, the Defendant received a Reprimand from the
Grievance Committee in two separate grievances involving negh~~ct of a client and
failure to adequately communicate with the client in both instances 'iUd failure to
respond to tbe bar in one grievance in violation of Rules 6(b)(1), (2), and (3) 'and
1.1 (b) of the [now superceded] 'Rules of Professional' Conduct. '
3.
On 15 October 1998, the Defendant received a Censure from the ..
Grievance Committee for failing to respond to the bar for more than four months
after receiving notice of a grievance until a subpoen~ was. isslled toconipel a
response in violation of Rules 8.I(b) and 8A(d) of the Revised' Rules of'
Professional Conduct.
4.
The prior discipline issued by the Grievance Committee was for
conduct .similar to the conduct involved in the instant proceeding.

-------,.-----,.---:-"'""-----------.,---------------- - - - - -

5.

The prior discipline issued by the Grievance Committee involved
~onduct that occurred during the same time period as the conduct in.volved in the
instant proceeding.

6..
The Defendant has personal stresses that have made it difficult for
him to attend to his professional obligations and respond to the Bar in a prompt
manner. Defendant has sOllght the assistance of the Lawyers Assistance Program to
help him, overcome these stresses and is fully coo:Qer!tting and complying with the
program.,

I

7. : befendant received no additional attorneys' fees from Ms. Youmans
for his work on her behalf and had to forego or refund substantial portions of those
amounts Youmans had paid or agreed to pay.
Based on tp.e Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the
additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee makes the
following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline
1.

The Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. prior disciplinary offenses similar in nature to those involved in the
instant proceeding;
h. a pattern of misconduct;
c. a failure to respond; and
d. multiple offenses.

2.

The befendanf s misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
b. voluntary participation in the Lawyers Assistance Program; and
c. personal problems.

3.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.
The Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant 'potential harm to future clients and the ability of the profession to deal
with attorney misconduct.
5.
The Defendant;s continlled failure to respond to his client and the Bar
after receiv:ing prior discipline indicates an indifference to discipline of less than asuspension and clearly shows that the protection of the public and the protection

I

r..-rJ ('/ Vv
_

requires the imposition of discipline with the potential for an activesuspensioll of
Defendant's license to practice.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the
findings of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of .
the parties, the hearing committee enters the following:
.

I

Order Of Discipline

.,

1.
The DefendaI1t~ Paul Hemphill, is hereby suspended frOlll.' the practice
of law for one year, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.
2. .The one-year suspension is stayed for a period of two years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with
t~e following conditio:t;1s:
a. Defendant will, within 30 days of the effective date of this Order
of Discipline, continue to satisfact9rily particiFate, in the Lawyers '
Assistance Program as long as recommended by the Program
'
during the stay of the suspension;
>

I

. b. By consent to this order, Defendant consents to', authorizes, an<:!'
directs the Lawyer Assistance Program to provide an immediate
report to the North Carolina State Bar if, at any time during the
stay period, Defendant fails to comply with the presctibedcours~
of treatment of the program. Further, by consent to this order,
Defendant consents to, authorizes, and directs th~ Lawyer "
Assistance Program to provide a final report to the North Carolina.
State Bar if, at any time during the stay period, Defendant .
completes the prescribed course of treatment and is released from
care. A copy of this order will be provided to the Lawyer
Assistance Program by Plaintiff upon execution;
c. During the period of the stay, Defendant win pay all Membership,
dues and Client Security Fund assessments and will comply with
all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis;
d. During the period of the stay, Defendant will keep his address of
record with the North Carolina State Bar current, will accept all
certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar; and will respond
to all letters of notice and requests for il1fonnation from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;

,

.

e. Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect during the period of the stay;
f. Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina
'or of the United States during the period of the stay; and

g. Defendant will pay all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within 30 days after service of this disciplinary order on
him.
,
3.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated
for any reason, Defendant will compiy with each of the following conditions
precedent ito reinstatement.
I

I

a. Defendant will have submitted his license and membership card to
the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days'
from the effective date of the o!der activating his suspension;
b. Defendant will have complied with all ptovisions of27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter 13, §.0124 of the N.C. State.
Bar DisGipline & Disability Rules ~n a timely basis;
1

c. Defendant will have complied with all Continuing Legal Education
requirements a~ if still in practice during the suspension on a
timely basis;
.

: d. Defendant will not have violated any of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct;
e. Defendant will not have violated any laws of the State of North
Carolina or of the United States;
f. Defendant will have paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed
by the Secretary; and

I

/

I

, JfJ67.

'.

.

g. Defendant will show that he is not then suffering from any
disability that would impair his ability to practice law ..

.

Signed by the undersigned hearing committee chair with the consent ·of the
other hearing committ~e members.

This the

Jk day of I}pci I

2003.

I

I

Agreed to and consented by:

I

David R. Johns n
Attorney for Plaintiff, N.C.

St~te

Bar

\

,

.f1k
"'
.

.

,

