\ 'C:O \ zq
t'

BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROLINA

GRffiVANCECO~ITTEE

OF 'tHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR.
02GlO:39

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

. AMANDA B. STROUD,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

.REPRIMAND

....

On April 17, 2003, the Griev:;mce Committee of the North Carolina S'tate Bar met and considered'
.
the grievance filed against you by Tyrone taft.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bat, the'Grievance Committee conducted apre1iminary hearing. After considering the information.
avail~ble to it, includipg your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee foun,cl probable
cause~ Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North, .
Carolipa State Bar is guilty of miscond~ct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance COtnniittee ·may deternline .
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not " .
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the '
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The,
Grievance Committee may iSsue ~ admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondentatiorney.

I

:~ ,

:~.

"

h

:~

"

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in caSes .hi
which an attorney has violated one or mote provisions oithe Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession, or arhember of
.the public, but the misconduct does nQt require a censure.

i -

,

,.

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As .chainilan of the Grievance Committee of the NorthCarolitla State;'Bat~
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
.

Prior ~o January 2001, you ulidertook to represent Tyrone Taft regarding a child support
matter. At a hearing on Jan. 8, 2001, the judge found that Taft was entitled to a credit of $1 ,(}OO
toward an arrearage of child support that Taft owed. You failed to draft ail appropriate order,
despite nutnerous inquiries from Taft.

"

.

~

.

..<

,."
.

'~

,"

In September 2002, Taft flIed a complaint against you with the North Carolina State Bar.
You were served with notice ofthe complaint on Sept. 26,2002 andwere asked to respond
within 15 days. A follow up letter was sent to you on Nov. 1,2002. When no :;mswer was
,

I

! 010

,'.

'"

forthcoming from you, the State Bar issued a subpoena to you, directing you to appear at the
State Bar in person to respond to Taft;s complaint. Although you Were personally served with
the subpoena you failed to appear as ordered on Ian. 31,2003. Your conduct in failing to
respond to the State Bar's letter of notice in it timely fashion and failing to appear·~ commanded
by the Bar's subpoena violated Rule 8.1 (b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Your misconduct is aggravated by the fact that you were admonished by the Grievance
Cortunittee in 1995 for neglecting a client's matter and for failing to respond in a timely fashion
'
to a State Bar's inquiry about th~t matter.

In deciding to issue a reprimand to you rather than more substantial discipline, the
Grievance Committee recognized that you were experiencing substantial personal and emotional
difficulties during the period in question. While those circumstances mitigate, they cannot
excuse your violation of the Rules. The legal profession cannot remain self-regulating if
attorneys do not respond in a timely fashion to legitimate inquiries from the State Bar.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. the Grievance Cominittee trusts that you
heed this reprimand, that it will be
rememb~red by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to,
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

will

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you. '
Done and ordered, this

t9q ,day of

~'l

,2003.

Sharon B. Alexander
Chair, Grievance Committee

I
•

I
.".;

.. '

..

I
!

