NORTH CAROLlNA

BEFORE THE
GRffiVANCECONlliflTTEE
OF THE
NORTHCAROLlNAStATEBAR
02G1246

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MAiTER OF
ALFREDA M. WILLIAMSON,
ATTORNEY 'AT LAW

)
).
)
)
)

CENSURE

I

. On April 17; 2003, the Gti~v.ance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
filed against you by Bruce Aldennan.
considered the grievance
.
,

Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
.Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the infonnation
available to it,' including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina StatC?iBar is guilty ofmiscon~uctjustifying disciplinary action."
the rules proVide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing befote the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of disciplille depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may. issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
"

A cenS1,l!e ts a written fonn of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued incases in which
an attorney haS violated one or mbre provisions oithe Rules of Professional Conduct and haS caused
significant hanh or potential sigruficant harm'to a client, the administration ofjustlce, the profession or
a member of the ,public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license..

I

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Co~ission
is not required in this case and issues this censlite to you. As' chairman bfthe Grievance Corinnittee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is' now my duty to issue tIlls censure. I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in whi~h this duty is perfomied.
Prior to September 2001, you undertook to handle a medical malpractice claim for Bruce A.
against a South' Carolina hospital and others. You filed suit on, Sept. 28, 2001 and on March 11, 2002,
the complaipt was dismissed pursuant to the defendants' motions to dismiss.
.
Although yoti gave a timelY notice of appeal as to the March 11 order, you did nothing to perfect
the appeal. You did not order a transcppt, nor did you prepare a proposed record on appeal or,
alternatively, se~k more time in which to do so. Your failure' to prepare the appeal on a timely basis
constituted negl~ct, in violation of Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I
.:

(0/7

:

f

,);

.'

:.:

..

'

.

.

.

..

,

,

Of equal concern to the Grievance Committee, however, was the bizarre procedural twisf you
gave the case after the defendant,s filed a motion to dismiss the appeal in June 2002. On ,July 15, 2002, .
shortly before the motion to dismiss was to be heard, you filed a document designated as a voluntmy
dismissal of the appeal, but which also purported to dismiss theundedyinglawsuit "based on excusable
neglect."
When the judge denied your motion and diSinisse~ the appear on july 19, 2002, you told B.A. ~
that the case could be revived by :filing a notice of appeal frol11 tbe July 19 order or" alternatively, filing'
a motion for reconsideration based on excusable neglect. Neither ofthese suggestions were workable
and no re~sonable attorney familiar with the Rules of Appellate Procedur~ could have believed that
either strategy would revive B.A. 's underlying claims against the hospital and others. Your handling of
the case after the underlying complaint was dismissed in March 2002 revealed a distm:biilg lack of
preparation and ignorance of the Rules of Appellate Procedure and thus violated Rl,de 1.1 of the
Revised Rules of Professional Condqct.
'
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your v.iol,ation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence ,to the,
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow -attorneys and the courts; to the end that you demean yourself as a: respected memher'ofthe legal.
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without q'(lestion.
.
.,'"

In accQrdance with the policy adopted October, 15; 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina ,'.'
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
Censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby faxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

Ji?£L day of

~f\' I

,.'

,

2003.

,.

:;'

I
Sharon B. Alexander, harr
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar
.,

I

I
:'"

/O(~,

