.

.

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE CO:MJM1.T'tEE
OF THE
NORTHCAROLlNASTATEBAR
03GI070

NORTH CAROLlNA
WAKECOUN'tY

IN THE MATTER OF
TOLLY ALBERTKENNONll,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRWAND

I

On April 17, 2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina state Bar met and considered
the grievance flIed against you by r.b.S.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After.considering the information
available to it, Including your response to the letter of notice, the 'Grievance Committee found prQbable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct jUstifying disciplinary action."

"

~:

,
~.

t

:{

."

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injmy caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
.A reprlnland is a written .fom of discipline more serious· than an admonition issued in cases in' .

which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofProfessional Conduct aild has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Gri~vance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bat,
it is now my duty to issue this reprhnand, and I am certain that you will1inderstand fully the spirit in
Which this duty is performed.

I
;"

.

,

In October 2001, you undertook to represent F.D.S. regarding a child support dispute in
which he was inyolvedwith his ex-wife, Jackie S. On Oct. 10,2001, you wrote a letter to Ms. S.,
advising her of your representation and suggestmg a re$olution of the parties' dispute. During
your representatiop. ofF.D.S. you obtained information about his finances and other confidential
information.
In February 2002, after the child support case was concluded, FiD.S. married Tammy B.
FiD.S. and B. separated in July 2002.
.

I

In August 2002, you undertook to tepresent B. in a domestic action agamst F.D.S. In;a,
complaint filed on Sept. 11, 2002, you sought a divorce from bed and board, custodyan,d child
support and alimony on B. 's behalf F.D.S. did not consent to your represe:Q.~ti(m ofB.

I

Your conduct in this regard constituted a conflict of interest in violation otRule 1.9 of th~
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Specifically, B.'s interests in the domestic <?8$e were . ,
adverse to those of your fonner client, F.D.S., and you obtained confjde:Q.tial infQnnatio~ about
F.D.S. during the 2001 domestic case. Finally, the domestic case action which you undertook in
August 2002 for B. against F.D.S. wa,s substantially related to the domestic caSe which you
handled for F.D.S, in October 2001 against his first wife as both cases involved questions
relating to F.D.S. 's ~tlpport obligations.
, The Griev~ce Committee was particularly distutbed that, in your response to F.D.S. 's
complaint, you denied having represented F.D.S. in the October 2001 support' case. YoUr
response was directly'contradicted by yOUl:' own Oct. 10, 2001 letter to Jackie S., in which you
exptessly advis~dher'that you were acting as F.b.S.'s attorney in the parties' custody disp~te.
You also wrote a letter to F.D.S., on the same day, in which you also confirmed that you had
undertaken the case. The Commi~ee wishes to remind you that'the Rules. of Professional
Conduct require att01l1eys to provide £411, fah" and accUfate responses to complaints filed with the
State Bar. Should YQU ever receive any letters of notice from the State Bar in the futute, the .
CoIllD)ittee expects you to provide a candid response and wainS you that any deviation from the '
strict standard of truthfulness may well result in the imposition of much more substantial
discipline.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to yourprofessional
misconduct. the Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it Will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you" and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart :from adherence to the high ethical standards of the .legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar.regarding the taxing of the ~strative and investigative costs to anyattorneyisslied a
reprimand by the Grievance. Committee, the costs of this action, i,I;t.,1:he amount of$50.~_o.. ~e h~reby taxed
fu~

,
','

'r
.'

. I,"
;

,,-

.'

,"

,
.1

n·

Done

~d ordered, this _a_'t1..,--- day.of_J...:.Ati.ld-f;..,.",'t&...;,.\_"_~. 2003.

t

¥:
,,"

I

.

,'.

.

'

