1021\
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01G0055

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

INRE:

)
)
)
)

SCOTT E., JARVIS, Respondent

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER
TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

I

This matter is before the undersigned Chairperson of the North Carolina State Bar's
Grievance Conimittee pursuant to 27 NCAC IB §.0118(g). Douglas 1. Brocker represents the
North CaroHna State Bar. Respondent, Scott E. Jarvis ("Jarvis"), represents himself. Based
upon the reports of evaluating and treating psychologist and medical personnel and with the
consent of Jarvis and deputy counsel, the undersigned makes the following:
~5
e
FINDINGS OF FACT
_ I

,

...r.::

(})

1. The North Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of North "r,,," ~;
Carolina and is the proper party to consent to this order under the authority granted it in Chgpter
84 of the G((neral Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North ...? ~~
Carolina St~te Bar promulgated there under.
~
::J

r.:

2. Jarvis was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on April 22; 1982 and is ali
Attorney at Law licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and.
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. Until approximately March 2000; Jarvis actively engaged in the practice of law in the
. State of North Carolina, and maintained'a law office in the city of Asheville, Buncombe County,
North Carolina.
4. 0)1 February 7, 1998, Jarvis Was involved in a serious'motor vehicle accident, in
which anoth~r driver hit Jarvis at a high rate of speed.
5. As a result of the accident, Jarvis suffered and continues to suffer from various mental,
psychological, and physical problems or disorders.
6. Jarvis has undergone neuropsycholog~cal testing and has been diagnosed and
continues to ~uffer from cognitive disorder, post-concussion-syndrome, mild traumatic brain
injury, and an array of other affective symptoms.
.
.

1

::.:

/O;;}

I

7. Jarvis also suffers from numerous physi~al problems, at least partially as a result of the
motor vehicle accident. These problems include chronic n~ck and shoulder pain and resulting
debilitating migraine headaches.
.
8. Jarvis also has and continues to suffer from severe·and acute ,depression.
2. Jarvis applied and ultimately was deemed eligible ~ of M1ll'ch 31; 2000 for disability
payments by the Social Security Administration as a result of his physical, psychological, and
emotional problems and symptoms.
3. Dr, Steven Stockdale, a licensed clinical psychologist evaluating Jarvis for the Social
Security Administration concluded that Jarvis would not be able to' maintain a job in the regular '
workforce because of these cOl1ditions. Dr. Stockdale also concluded ,that Jarvis needed ongoing
continuing treatment for his physical, psychological, and cognjtive problems and symptoms'. '
",'

4. Jarvis also has been evaluated by the following two other psychologists On the
following dates: Dr. Mark R. Hill on Apri123, 1998, and Dr. Robert A. Kooken on June 6,27,'
2000. Dr. Hill's and Dr. Kooken's evaluations of Jarvis were consistent with Dt.,gtockdale's
conclusions.
5. JarvisalsQ has been evaluated and treated by Dr. John H. Bissel, M.D. Dr.J3is~el
diagnosed Jarvis with a closed head injury and post-Col1cussion syndrome. Dr. Bissel also
diagnosed and is treating Jarvis for various physical conditions, including chronic back, neck and'
shoulder pain and the accompanying symptoms.
'
6. Jarvis' physical, psychological, and cognitive problems and symptoms significantly·
impair his professional judgment, performance, and'competency as ap.attorney.

I

7. Jarvis'above-mentioned cQnditions make it unlikely that he wil~ ever be able to retuilt
to the practIce of law.
'
8. Jarvis consents to being transferred to a disability Inactive status.
9. Jarvis has sufficient capacity to understand the consequences 6f consenti11g to this
order.
10. In June 2000, Attorney William O. Br~l, HI was appointed by the Buncombe
County Superior Court to act as trustee to wind down Jarvis' law practice. Jarvis previously 'had
relocated to Colorado for medical and financial reasons.

2

..

,

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following;
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
,

1. 'The proper parties have consented to Jarvis being transferred to disability inactive
status, pursuant to 27 NCAC 1B §..ol18(g).
,

2. Jarvis is disabled within the meaning of 27 NCAC 1B §.0103(19).

I

THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
ORDER
1.' Jarvis is transferred to disability in~ctive status.
2.' Jarvis shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina until he is no longer disabled
and has.b~enreturned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to
the procedures set out in 27 NCAC 1B §.0125(c).

.~

3. Prior to beilJ.g reinstated, Jarvis must pay all membership dues and come into
compliange with his continuing legal education requirements that were delinquent as of the day
of the entry of this order.
4. Jarvis shall reimburse the North Carolina State Bar and William O. Brazil, III for all
costs assQciated with the wind down of his practice that are imposed in the order releasing Brazil
as trustee' of Jarvis' law practice.

I
Calvin E. Murphy, air
Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar

3

I
:.'-

CONSENTED TO:

~~~z
.
. DouglasJ; r~
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

I

Subscribed and swom before me
1.5 ~ . day oft;)·~+
~ 2001.
this

>.

Subscribed and sworn before me
this 20<14 dayof~~~2001.

,

I

.'

\71hUL

e t4Il~.

Notary Public' .
Myc~M.·~·~·~~~~--~~

.

My comm:ission expires!

AMY M. '=:ER=B:-----r

~p.g lott

NOTARY PUBLIC
STATE OF COLORADO
. My CommIssion ExpIres 08131/~002

I

4

I
I

,~'

