NORTH CAROLINA'--

BEFORETm:
GR1EVANCE COMMITTEE.
OF THE
. NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0226GR006

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
LEON ORR,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRl1v.tAND·

I

On r\priI17, 2003, the Grievance Committee of the Nort~ Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievancp filed against you by Willodean Ashford.
I

Pursuant to section ,0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Gri~vance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to ~t, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance CoIDD?ittee found probable
cause. Prob~ble cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina Sta~e Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Gri'evance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
:qlisconduct, lthe actu,al or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Cpmmittee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn. of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in caSes in
which an att~rney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm :or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public,.b¥t the misconduct does not require a censure.
. The Grlevanc.e.Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this <?ase and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bat,
it is now my ~uty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this dtfty is performed.
In February 2002, Willodean Ashford filed a complaint against you with the Mecklenburg
County Bar. You were notified of the grievance on Feb. 20, 2002 and were asked to respond
within 15 days. When you did not respond, the attorney assigned to investigate the matter fot the
Mecklenburg' County Bat contacted you at least once and reminded yo~ of your obligation to
respond. Nevertheless, you failed to respond to the complaint until June 5, 2002. Your failure to
respond to the letter of notice sent to you by the 26th Judicial District Grievance Committee
constituted a tr.iolation of Rule 8.1(b) of the Revised Ru1es oiProfe~~iona1 Conduct.

..1.:+.
.f

I

Your misconduct is aggravated by the fact that you were reprimanded in July 2000 fQr, among
other things, failiIlg to respond promptly to a letter of notice from the State Bar ~onceming
another client complaint.
. You are hereby reprimanded .by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grieyance COJll1llittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be .
remembered by you, that it will be b~neficial to you, and that. you will never again ·allow yours~lf to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards ofth~ legal profes~ion.
. In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina'

I

State Bar regarding the t~ing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amountof$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this ~ day of

~{

, 2003,

..
Sharon B. Alexander
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

I
......

.

\

