-----WAKE COUNTY
NORTE CAROLINA

THE NORTH CAROLlNA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
)
)

)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
& ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)
BRENDA M~ FOREMAN, ATTORNEY )
Defendant)
.
)

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and wa,s heard by a duly appointed
. committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of M . .Apn Reed, Chair;
Carlyn G, Poole and Betty Ann Knudsen. Carolin Bakewell represented the North
CarolinaState-Bar. The Defendant, Brenda M. Foreman, did not appear in person ot
through counsel. Based upon the pleadings and evidence presented herein, the Hearing
Committee h~reby makes the followirig:
,

:

I

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the-Iaws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder,
2. The Defendant, Bre:nda M. Foreman (Foreman), was admitted. to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1976, and is, and was at alI-times referred to herein,
an attorney ~t- iaw licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar
al1d the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. Duiing all ofthe periods relevant hereto, Foreman maintained an office
forthe practice oflaw in Raleigh N.C.

I
'.

4. Foreman was served with the State Bar's complaint in this matter in
perso~ by the Durham County Sheriffs Department on Dec. 2, 2002.
!

!

5. Foreman's answer was due no later than Dec. 23,2002.
: 6. Foreman did not fi1e an answer or other responsive pleading, nor did
'she seek an extension of time in which to respond to the State Bar's complaint.
!

'7. On Jan. 7,2003, pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchipter B> §§ .0110(f}and .0114(f), the Secret~y ofthe N;C. State Bar
entered Foreman's default in this matter.

I

,
;8. Following entry of Foreman's default, Foreman was served with notice
that the hearing on the question of the appropriate discipline to be imposed would
be held on Feb. 28,2003.
'

On.

Feb. 27, 2003, Foreman filed a motion requesting that the hearing
9.
be contfnued, which motion was granted.
I

:10. On Feb, 28, 2003, the Clerk of the DRC sent Foreman notice that the
hearing on th~ question of discipline would be held at 10 a.m. on May 16, 2003.
11. Foreman has not filed a motion to set aside the entry of default and
has not filed any other motions in this action other than the Feb. 27 motion to
continuy.
12. In late 1998, Foreman undertook to represent Andre D. Knight
(Knight), regarding a dispute \\jith the City ofRocky Mount Board of Adjustment.
!

"

'

13. In 1999; Foreman :ijled a civil complaint on Knight's behalf against
the'Rocky Meunt Board of Adjustment in Nash County Superior Court and
appeared' on his behalf.
I

'

,

lt4. On or about Aug. 17,2000, the Nash County Superior Court entered
its order'affi~ing the decision ofthe Rocky Mount Board of Adjustment.

On

1:5.
or about Oct. 2, 2000, Foreman filed a notice of appeal on
Knight'sl behalf froIP the Nash County Superior Court to the N.C. Court of
Appeals.: :' .
16~ Foreman failed to perfect the appeal on Knight's'behalf.

17. P:dor to Dec. 5,2000, the attorney for the Nash County Board of
Adjustment flied a motion to dismiss the appeal.

2

I

18. On Dec. 5,2000, Knight's appeal was dismissed, based upon
Foreman's failure to perfeyt the appeal in compliance with the N~rth Carolina
Rules of Appellate Procedure, Foreman did not appear at t4e hearing on the
motiQn to dismiss, nor did she respond to the motion.'
..
19. Foreman failed td' communicate with Knight regarding the apPeal and
failed to respond to his requests for infonnation.

I

20. Foreman has failed and refused to refund any portion of the fee which
she was p~q py Knight.
'
21. Ori or about Feb. l~, 2002, Knight filed a grievance against Foreman
with ,the North CaiolinaState Bar, based upon her failure to perfect the appeal on
hi$behalf
22. On June 12, 2002', Foreman was personally served with the letter of
notice and s~bstance of grievance by the Durham County Sheriff's Department.
23. 'Pursuant to the N.C. State Bar's Discipline & Disability Rules,
Foreman's response to the lett~r of notice was due no later than June 28,2002.

24. 'Foreman did not obtain an extension of time in which to answer the
letter of notice regarding Knight's grievance.

25. foreman <lid not respond in any fashion to the letter of notice
regarding Knjght's grievance.
In addition the foregoi~g Findings of Fact, based upon the evidence
introduced at hearing, the Hea.riing Committee enters the following

.1

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE

26. On March 12,2003, the Plaintiff served Foreman with a notice of
<lepositi6n, scheduling her deposition for 10 am. March 24,2003. T4e notice was
sent by regular mail to Foreman's business and home addresses.
27. T4e notice of deposition sent to Ms. Foreman's hculie address was not
returned to the State Bar.
28, Fpreman did .not appear for her deposition.

29. The N.C. State Bar hicurred $140 in costs as a result of Foreman's
failure to ap~,ear at her duly noticed deposition.
,.

3

I
-i

. 30. On Feb. 28, 2003', the N.C. State Bar served Foreman with its First
Interrogatories and First Request to Produce Documents. The discovery requests
were sent to Foreman's busine~s addreSs .
. 31. In March 2003, the State Bar's discovery requests were returned to
the State Bar with a notation that Foreman had closed her business post office
box.
32. On Apri14, 2003, the State Bar's investigator, Don Jones, contacted
Foreman hy t~rephone and asked her to provide the State Bar with·a current
addres$. Foreman declined to give Jones an address on Apri14, but promised to
come qy the State Bar on April 7 and provide a new addtess.

I

;33. Foreman did not app~ar at the State Bar on April 7, did hot provide
the Bar 'with a valid address and did not file any respo:p.ses to the State Bar's
discov~ry.
th

:34. On Feb. 7,2003, the 10 Judicial District Bar notified Foreman that a
fee dispute petition has been filed against her by a former client, Cynthia Harper.
The notice was sent to Foreman's business address by certified mail and was
returned as i.iJ?~laimed by Foreman.

~5. An' additional notice concerning th~ fee dispute petition Was sent to
Forem$ at her business address by regular mail on Feb. 19,2003. This letter was
not returned.
i

36. Foreman did not respond to the notice of Ms. Harper's fee dispute
petition nor did she participate in the mandatory fee dispute process .as required
by Rule 1.5Cf).. ofthe Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct.
:
'

37. Foreman has failed to comply with the State Bar's regulations
concerning mandatory continuing legal e<iucation.

I

38 .. Foreman's violations of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
are aggrflyate:d by the following factors:
,

~. Foreman has engaged in a pattern of misconduct which occurred over a
period of at least three years.
I

c. Foreman has violated multiple provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
.

d,. Foreman has failed to make any restitution to her client.
,,

e. Foreman has substantial experience in the practice of law.

i

4

I

f

Foreman failed to coop~rate with the N.C. State Bar in any way and
has failed to show remorse.

39. Foreman's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. Foreman has no prior discipline.
40'. :rhe aggravating factors substantially outweigh the mitigating factors.

1

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee hereby
enters the following:
.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By failing to perfect the ~ppeal from the order ofthe Nash County

Superior C~4rt on behalf of her client, Andre Knight, ~oreman neglected her
9lient's casein violation of Rule 1.3 ofthe Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
2. By failing to commUnicate effectively with Knight and by failing to
respond to his inquiries about his case, Foreman failed to keep her client
reasonably informed about the status of his case, in violation of Rule 1.4 of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3. By failing to refund the unearned portion of the fee which she was
paid by Knight, Foreman retained and/or collected an excessive fee in violation of
Rule 1.5. .

I

4. By failing to respOlid to the letter of notice regarding Andre Knight's
grievance, Foreman failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a
disciplinary .authority, in violation of Revised Rule 8.1 (b}.
5. Foreman's misconduct caused significant harm to her client in that
Knight was denied the opportunity to pursue his appeal against the City QfRocky
Mount Bpardof Adjustment as a result of Foreman's failure to perfect an appeal
on his behalf, w4ich harmed his standing in the community.
.
6. F0t:eman's misconduct has also caused actual harm to the standing of
the legal prOfession by undermining her client's trust and confidence in lawyers
and th.e legal system.
7. Foreman's failure to respond to the State Bar's letter of notice and her
failure to participfl.te iIi mandatory fee arbitration undermine the State Bar's
apility to regqlate attorp.eys and undermine the privilege of lawyers in this state to
remain self-regulating.

5 ..

..

.1
r

8. All order calling for discipline short of a suspension of Foreman'B law
license with' appropriate conditions precedent for reinstatement would not
suffidently protect the public for the following reasons:

,
I'

!a. Foreman engaged in mUltiple violations of the Revised Ruies of
Professionai Conduct over a lengthy period of time, as opposed to an
, isolated act or mistake, and it therefore appears that her misconduct is the
result of some problem or personality defect that is not readily changeable.
, h. Foreman failed to provide any assurances that she has addressed
whatever problem or character flaw caused her misconduct and therefore
, there is a substantial risk that her mis,conduct would be repeated if she is
, permitted to continue to practice law.

I

: c. Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge
, the set:iousness of the offenses which Foreman committed, would be
r incons~stent with orders of discipline entere9. by this body in similar cases
and would send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct
, expected ofmembers'bfthe Bar in this State.
'd. The' protection of the public requires that Foreman not be permitted to
resUIhe the practice oflaw until she demonstrates that she understands her
ethical obligations to her clients, and demonstnites that she is not suffering
, frOill any addiction or mental illness or condition that prevents her from
,pract~~ing law competently.

:Bas.~d,upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of'Law and
Findings of Fact Relevant to Discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
followi,ng:
'

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

.1. The law license of the Defendant, Brenda M. Foreman, is hereby
suspended for 3 years. After serving 12 months of the active suspension of her
license; Foreman may apply for reinstatement upon filing a petition with the
Secretary ofthe N.C. State Bar demonstrating the following:
a. That she paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of
service of the order upon her.
b. That she obtained a medical evaluation within 6 months of the
effective date of this order by a psychiatrist approved by the
N.C. State Bar and complied with all treatment
recommendations of the psychiatrist during the period 9fthe

6

I
r

.

'); _""1.-

C>'-~-

active suspension of her law license. The medical evaluation
shall be obtained at Foreman's expense and shall provide that
she is not disabled or suffering from any mental or physical
condition or ailhlent that prevents her from practicing law
cOlnpete~,t1y.

c,

I

That, not less than 30 days before filing the petition to stay the
remaining period of the suspension ofher law license, she ,
provided a written release to the North Carolina State Bar
authorizing t!?-e Office of Counsel to speak: with the psychiatrist
who performed the evaluation and to obtain copies of her
..
medical records from the psychiatrist.

d. That she has kept the N.C. State Bar Membership DepartIp.ent
advised of her current business and home address.
e; That she has responded to all communications from the N.C.
State Bar within 30 days of receipt or the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner.
f. That she has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct or the laws of the United States or of any state.

g. That she properly wound down her law practice anq complied
with the terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter
B, § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules.
h. That she paid all past due membership fees, penalties and fines
owed to th~ St~te Bar and has become c'QITent with ~.l1
mandatory continuing legal education requirements.

I

1.

That she participated in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process in good faith and refunded all fees the mediator
determined were owed.

2. If Foreman successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of her law
license, such stay will continue in force only so long as she complies with the
conditions set out in ~ 1 (d) - (f) and (h) ,-(i) above .

. 3. If Foreman does not seek a stay of the active portion of the slispension
of her law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the
stay is revoked, Foreman must comply with the con~itions set out in ~ 1 (a) - (i)
before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law.

. 7

I
'.

•

Signed' by the Chair of the Hearing' Committee with the knowledge and
consent of the pther Committee members.

,This the c2!

i

y of

/[Jj.~ ~.
M. Ann Reed, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I

I

8

I

