,,

i

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff
v.
JOHN V. NICOPOULOS, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) & ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)
)

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on Friday, June 13,2003 by a
duly appointed committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Cbrtnnission composed of Stephen
E. Culbreth, Chair; Karen Eady and H. Dale Almond. Carolin Bakewell represented the
North Carolina State Bar. The Defend@,t, John V. Nicopoulos, did not appear in person
or through counsel. Based upon the pleadings and evidence presented herein, the
Hearing Committee hereby .makes the following
.

I

.

,
.

1. The Plaintiff, thEj North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
l.l11der the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
.
Carolina, and the Rules ~nd Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated therelinder.
2. The Defendant, John V. Nicopoulos (Nicopoulos), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1979, and is, and was at all times referred to herein,
an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rt:i.1es of Professional Conduct of the North CarQlina State Bar
and the laws of the State 'of North Carolina.
.
3. During most of the periods relevant hereto, Nicopoulos maintained an
office for'the practice oflaw in Charlotte N.C.
4. Prior to December 1999, Robert Shaw and Cynthia Chatman
(hereafter, respectively, Shaw and Chatm~n), retained Nlcopoulos' services to
represent them regarding three matters: 1) their claim against their landlord

I

,arising out of the use of lead paint in a rental home occupied by Shaw and
Chatman; 2) a wrongful termination claim on be4alf of Chatman and 3) a
malicious prosecution claim on behalf of Shaw.
, 5. Nicopoulc;>s failed to take effective action to pursue any of the three
legal matters for which Shaw and Chatman retained him: There was no evidence,
however, that the statutes of limitation for the various claims had run or that Shaw
and C~atman were unable to retain other counsel to handle their cases.

i 6. Nicopoulos failed to respond to all of the inquiries Which Shaw and
Chatman made about their cases.

I

7. Jn4at~ 2000, Shaw and Chatmpn learned that Nicopoulos had left the
law finn with which he had been employed. Nicopoulos did n~t advise Shaw and
Chatman that he was leaVing the firm, did not tell them how they could reach him
after 1#s departure, and did not return their file materials to them. Shaw and
Cha,tnian were able to retrieve their files and filing fee from Nicopoulos' law
partn~rs.
!

i 8.
On Feb. 27, 200t Shaw and Chatman filed a grievance against
Nicopoulos with the North Carolina ~tate Bat.

i

9. On June 21, 2001, the North Carolina State Bar served Nicopoulos with

a letter of notice and substance ofgrievance cOilcerning the Shaw-Chatman
griev~ce

by certified .ma,il.

! 10. Pursuant to the N.C. State Bar's Discipline & Disability Rules,
Nicoppulos' response to the l~tter of notice was due no later than July 8,2002.

: 11. Nicopoulos did not obtain an extension of time in which to answer
the letter of notice regarding the Shaw-Chatman grievance.
12. On July 20,2001, deputy counsel for the N.C. State Bar sent a letter
to Nicopoulos,teminding him that his response to the Shaw-Chatman grievance
was overdue.
1

I

13. On or about Oct. 12,2001, the N.C. State Bar received a partial
response from. Nicopoulos regarding. the Shaw-Chatman grievance. Nicopoulos'
respon;se did not constitute a full, fair disclosl!l'e of the facts and circpmstances
pertaining to the alleged misconduct, as required by 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Ch. 1,
Subch~pter
B, Section .0112(c) of the Sta,te Bar's Discipline & Disability Rules.
,
,
!

: 14. On Aug. 30,2001, the State Bar issued a subpoena to Nicopbulos,
commanding him to appear at the State Bar's office on Oct. 2, 2001 and produce
his client file regarding Robert Shaw and Cynthia Chatman. The subpoena was

2

I
.......

\'

served upon Nicopoulos in person'by the Mecklenburg County Sheriff's
Department on Sept. 17,2001.
15. .Nicopoulos did not appear in compliance with the State Bar's

subpoel1~.

16. On Feb. 14,2002, bar cOUhsel wrote to Nicopoulos and asked him to
respond more fully to the Shaw-Chatman grievance.
17., Nicopoulos failed to respond in any fashion to bar counsel's Feb. 14,
2002 letter nor did he ever supplement his original partial response to the ShawChatman letter of notice.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the he~ng comm.ittee hereby
enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
,

,

1. By failing to take effective ~ction to assist Shaw and Chatman with the
three legal matters they entrusted to him, Nicopoulos neglected. his clients' cases
in violatioll' of Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules ofProfession~1 Conduct
2. By failing to respond to his clients' inquiries about their legal matters,
Ni<;opoulos failed to keep his clients reasonably informed about the status of their
cases, in violation of Rule 1.4 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3. By 1) failing to tell Shaw and Chatman that he was leaving his law
firm in the fall of2000,and 2) [ailing to return their file materials to them,
Nicopoulos failed to talce all steps reasonably practicable to protect his clients'
interests upon withdrawing from their c~se, in violation of Rule '1. 16(d). ,
,4. B'yfaHing to provide a full, fair, timely response to the letter of notice

regarding the Shaw-Chatman grievance, ignoring the State Bar's subpoena and by
failingto respond to bar counsel's Feb. 14,2002 letter I:eq'uesting additional
information concerning that matter, Nicopoulos failed to respond to lawful .
demands for information from a disciplmary authority, in violation of Revised
Rule 8.1(b).
, In addition the foregoing Findings of Fact, based up6nthe evidence
introduced at hearing, the Hearing Committee el1ters the followmg ,

3

I

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT RELEVANT TO DISCll>LINE

are

,1. Nicopoulos' violations of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
by the followil};g factors:

ag~av~ted

:a. Nicopoulos violated multiple provisions of the Revised Rules of
:Professional Conduct.
ib. , Nf,?opoulos has substantiaLexperience in the practice oflaw.

I

!2.
Nicopoulos' misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
i ..

'ao His misconduct was not motivated by dishonesty or selfishness and he
did not personally benefit from it.
b. He has no prior discipline.

c.

There was no pattern of misconduct. Shaw and Chatman are the only
clients who have complained about Nicopoulos in the 23 years of his
career.

$. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
I

'

•

4. Nicopoulos' law license Was suspended in October 2001, based upon
his failure to complete the minimum mandatory continuing legal education
courses required by the State B;ar. Consequently, he will not be able to resume
the practice oflaw until he con).plies with the CLE Departnient' s rules and pays
all dues: and fines owed to the State Bat.
(,

~ased upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and
Findings of Fact Relevant to Discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
following:

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
~. The Defendant, John V. Nicopoulos, is hereby Reprimanded for his
misconduct.
1

. 2. Nicopoulos shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of
service 9fthe Secretary's assessment ofthe ?osts.

4

I
r

.

,

Signed by the Chair of the H~aring Committee with the lmowledge and
consent of the oth~r Committee members.

~

This the ~ day of Jun~, 2003.

I

~ (?~ C7":
C~L~~
Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

5

.1
:"",

.

