!
, ,I
1

.I

, I

BEFORE THE

I

)
) .
)
)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)
)
)

EVELYN DOVE-COLEMAN, ATTORNEY
Dove-Coleman

rd

This matter was heard on the 23 day of May 2003, before a.hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commi~sion composed ofT. Paul Messick, Jr., Chair; Charles M. Davis
and Betty Ann Knudsen. Defendant, Evelyn Dove-Coleman (hereafter, "Dove-Coleman") was
not represented and did not attend the hearing. Bobby D. White represented plaintiff, the North
Carolina State Bar.
,

"'.

I

,

A complaint was filed in thi!:; matter on January 23, ~003. Unsuccessful attempts were
made to serve Dove-Coleman by certified mail and by Sheriff. Dove-Coleman WaS served by
publication in the Kinston Free Press on March 3, 10, and 17,.2003.. Pursuant to N.C. Civ. Pro.
Rule 4 and §.0114(e) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, Dove-Coleman's
answer was due no later than April 14, 2003. Dove-Coleman did not file an answer or other
responsive pleadings and on Apri123, 2003 the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar entered
an Entry of Default against Dove-Coleman.
Based upon the pleadings, the entry of d¢fault, and the evidence introduced at the
hearing, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
'
FINDINGS OF FACT

1, The North CaroJina State Bar (hereafter,. "State Bar") is a body duly organized under
the Jaws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeqing under the- a1,lthority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes and the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar.
"

I

I

2. pefendant, Evelyn :Dove-Coleman (hereafter, "Dove,-Colerpan") was'admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on September 6, 1979 and was at all times relevant hereto licensed to
practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bat.
3. iDuring all times relevant hereto Dove-Coleman Was actively engaged in the practice

of law andi maintained a law office in Kinston, North Carolina.
,

4. !Dove-Coleman was properly served with process pursuant to N.C. Civ. P. Rule 4 and,
the hearing.was' held with due notice to all parties.
S.1p. 1999, Dove-Coleman Was entrusted with fiduciary authority to make all
decisions Jtecessary to care for Roberta and Blyden Jackson, (hereafter, Ms. Jackson or
Mr. Jacksdn; respyctively, or the Jacksons, collectively). The Jacksons Were an elderly
couple whom Dove-Coleman had known for several years.

I

6.• On April 4, 1999, Dove-Coleman drafted and had the Jacksons sign a power
of attorney in her favor. The power of attorney, which purported to give Dove-Coleman
various powers to deal with the Jacksons' real and personal property, Was recorded in the
Orange CoUnty Register of Deeds Office on AprilS, 1999.
7. As of Apri14, 1999, MI). Jackson had been in hospitals and nursing homes
continuously since August of 1996 and lacked capacity to execute a power of attorney or
manage her affairs.
I

8. Dove-Coleman'drafted and obtained the Jacksons' signatures on the power of
attorney in;an attempt to gain control of the Jacksons' property for her own benefit and/or
the benefit :of third parties other than the Jacksons Without proper authorization.
9. On April 7, 1999, Dove-Coleman prepared a deed conveying the Jacksons'
'home at 1O~ Laurel Hill Roaq, Cliapel Hill, N.C. (Laurel Hill Road property) to herself.
10. The Jacksons did not agree to give the Laurel Hill Road 'property to DoveColeman, nor did the power of attorney authorize Dove-Coleman to convey the Jacksons'
real property to herself.

I

11. lrn June 1999, .James Hodges (hereafter, Hodges), who was the son of Ms.
Jackson
the stepson of Mr. Jack~on, learned that Dove-Coleman had deeded the
Laurel Hill Roaq property to herself and demanded that Dove-Coleman re-convey the
property. :

ana

12. ' Although Dove-Coleman promised to convey the property to Hodges in fee
simple, Doye-Coleman did not do so. mstead, Dove-Coleman drafted a deed which gave
Hodges a life interest in the Laurel Hill Road property and which left Dove-Coleman a
remainder interest in the property.

2

I

'/0

13. Dove-Coleman failed and refused to re-convey her .remainder interest in the
Laurel Hill Road property.
14. On April 7, 1999, and June 13, 1999 Dove-Coleman withdrew a total of
$50,000 from Ms. Jackson's checking account at Natiol1sbaJ.ik (hereafter, checking
account), which Dove-Coleman characterized as legal fees.
15. The Jacksons did not authorize the payment of$50,000 in legal fees, nor did
Dove-Coleman provide legal services that-would have justified the payment of a $50,000
fee.
_..
16, On June 14, 1999, Dove-Coleman withdrew $15,000 from Ms. Jackson's
checking ~ccount and relayed the money to Constance Eve (Ms. Eve), Ms. Jacl\son's
sister.
..

17, Ms. Jackson died intestate in July 1999. Mr. Jackson and Hodges remained at
the Laurel Hill Road property, except for Mr. Jackson's brief stay at Hillcrest
Convalescenr Center, Inc. (hereafter, Hillcrest) from June 1 through July 13, 1999. Mr.
Jackson died on April 28, 2000. Mt. Jackson's will devised all personal and real property
to Hodges in fee simple.
.
18. As of the date of her death in July 1999, Ms. Jackson was a resident of
Hillcrest, which was holding $90,000 in a fund for the benefit of the Jacksons.
19. Shortly after Ms. Jackson died, Dove-C9leman directed Hillcrestto disburse
the entire $90,000 to Ms. Eve. The power of attorney expired upon the death of Ms.
Jackson and Dove-Coleman was not named executrix of Ms. Jackson's estate. Therefore,
Dove-Coleman did not have proper authority to direct the release ofthe $90,000 to Ms.
Eve.

I

i

20; In Febru~ 1998, Dove-Coleman prepared a will for John J. Hannibal, Jr:.,
(Hannibal).
21. Hannibal died in March 1998. His son,Charles Hannibal, qualified as
executor of Hannibal's estate in March of 1999. Dove-Colelllail and Fred W. Harrison
(Harrison) acted as attorneys for the estate.
22. Harrison opened a general account at Branch Banking & Trust Co; (BB&T
account) and a dividend account at Wachovia Bank (Wachovia account) for the estate;
23. In 2001 Harrison retired, leaving Dove-Coleman as the sole attorney for the
estate.
24. Between Jan. 3 and Feb. 1,2001, Dove-Coleman withdrew the entire· balance
from the BB&T and Wachovia accounts, which totaled $5,302.95, and closed both
accounts.

3

I

'II

25. Dove-Coleman misappropnated all or a portion of the $5,302.95 to her own use and
benefit without authorization.
26.: . In April of 2002, Elizabeth Worthington (Worthington), the attorney fo1' Charles
Hannibal, demanded that Dove-Coleman return the $5,302.95 from the closed BB&T and
Wachovia:accounts. Dove-Coleman paid Worthington a partial reimbursement of$4,727.78 of
the funds that Dove-Coleman had misappropriated from the Wachovia and BB&T accounts.
27. _.On May 1, 2002, upon demand from Worthington, Dove-Coleman gave
Worthingt9n a personal check for $575.17 to reimburse the remaining funds that Dove-Coleman
had misappropriated from the Wachovia and BB&T accounts.

I

28'1 On Feb. 5,2001, Dove-Coleman received two checks from Putnam Investments
. totaling $IP,148.68. 'These.checks were made out to the Hannibal estate and were the property
ofthe estate: Dove-Coleman endorsed both checks and misappropriated the proceeds without
the knowl~dge or consent of the executor of the Hannibal estate, the heirs or the Clerk of Court.
'29., Dove-Coleman failed and refused to return the $10,148.68 in check proceeds that
. she had misappropriated from the H~bal estate.
.
In addition to the foregoing Findings of Fact, based upon the evidence introduced at the
hearing, th~ Hearing Committee enters the follpwing:
ADDiTIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
30. The pefendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. Dove-Coleman exhibited a dishonest or selfish motive.
b. Dove-Coleman engaged in a pattern of misconduct, which occurred over
.
several years.
c. Dove-Coleman has violated multiple provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

I

d. Dove-Coleman failed to acknowledge the wrongful nature of her conduct and
failed to respond to the State Bar.
e. Dove-Coleman took advantage of the vulnerability of her client.

f.

Dove-Coleman has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

g. Dove-Coleman has made no attempt to repay either the Jackson or the
Hannibal estate and thereby appears indifferent to making restitution.

4

I
I.
I

h. Dove-Coleman failed to cooperate with the N.C. State Bar iIi any way and .has
failed to show remorse.
31. Dove-Coleman's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. Absence of a prior disciplinary record;
32. The aggravating factors do outweigh the mitigating factors.

I

Bas.ed on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing com~ittee and the committee has
.
jurisdiction over Evelyn Dove-Coleman and the subject matter.

4. Dove-Coleman's conduet, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipiine pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By obtaining Ms. J acksofJ' s signature on a power of attorney in April of 1999
for the purpose of seizing control of the Jacksons·' property, at a time when DoveColeman knew Ms. Jackson lacked mental capacity to sign the power of attorney,
Dove-Coleman engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit in
violation QfRule 8.4(c).
b. By deeding the Laurel Hill Road property to herself without proper authority,
Dove-Coleman engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit in .
violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in criminal conduct that reflects adversely
on her honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4Cb).
i

I

c. By directing that $90,000 be paid by Hillcrest Convalescent Center to Ms.
Constance Eve, Without proper authority, Dove-Coleman engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit inyiolation of Rule 8.4(c).

d.. By misappropriating the proceeds of the Putnam Investment checks and the funds from
the Wac:p.ovia and BB&T accounts that belonged to the Hannibal estate, bove-Colemar~
engaged in criminal acts that reflect adversely on her honesty, trustworthiness or fitneSS
as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b), engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misr~presentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and failed to hold client or
fiduciary funds in trust in violation of Rule 1.15-2(b).
3. Dove-Coleman's misconduct caused significant harm to the J acksbns' estate in that
real and personal'property belonging to the estate Was transferred to others requiring legal action
by Hodges to recoup estate assets.

5

I
.::,

~

..

,

.

43 .. ...4

4. Dove-Coleman's misconduct caused significant haim to the Hatmibal estate in that the
heirs to the Hannibal estate were denied the use and enjoyment of funds misappropriated by
Dove-Coleman.
5. Dove-Coleman's failure to appear before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
undennin¢s the State Bar's ability to investigate and regulate attorney conduct, the p~blic trust in
the discipiinary p~ocess, and the privilege of attorneys ill North Carolina to remain selfregulating.
6. :An order calling for discipline short of disbarring Dove-Coleman from the practice of
law would not sufficiently protect the public for the following reasons:

I

a. iDove-Coleman engaged in multiple violations of the Revised Rules of
Prpfessional Conduct over a lengthy period of time, as opposed to an isolated act
or mistake, ahd it therefore appears that her miscopduct is the result of a problem
or personality defect that is not readily changeable.
b. : Dove-Coleman failed to provide any assurances that she has addressed
Whatever problem or character flaw caused her misconduct and therefore there'is
a 8ubstl:}l1tial risk that her misconduct would be repeated if she is p.ennitted to
cOhtinue t6 practice law.

c.:

Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses which Dove-Coleman committed,. would be
in¢onsistent with orders of discipline entered by this body in similar cases and
would send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
mymbers of the Bar in this State,
d .. The protection of the public requires that Dove-Coleman not be pennitted to
re$ume the practice of law until she demonstrates that -she understands her ethical
ooligations to her clients, and demonstrates that she is not suffering from any
addiction or mental illness or condition that prevents her from practicing law
competently.

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact. Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
of Fact Relevant to Discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. i Defendant, Evelyn Dove-Coleman~ is hereby disbatred from the practice of law
beginning 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.

2.: Dove-Coleman shall submit her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina ~tate Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon Defendant.
I

•

•

i

G

I
! .
I

,,'

3. Dove-Coleman shall pay the costs of this proceedi11g as assessed by the Secretary no
later than 30 days following service ofthis order upon Defendant.
4. Dove-Coleman shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this the

~ day of:..Jl)~·

2003.

"------

I

7

I
':,"

.. :

