, scrt

.\ 0

WAKE COUNTY

IN RE: Elizabeth Wood,
ATTORNEY

)
)
)
)
)

I

~----~------~~.)
~S MA'ITER is before the undersigned Chairperson of the Grievance Committ¢e of .
the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter IB, Section .Ol18(g).
David R. Jqbnson represented the North Carolina State Bar and Ronald G. Blanch~d represented
Elizabeth Wood. Based upon the infOrniation and with the consent of both counsel for Elizabeth
Wood and the Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar, the undersigned makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The
North Carolina State Bar, the Plaintiff, is a body duly organized under the laws of
I
North Carolina and is the proper party to consent to this proceeding under the authority granted it
in Chapter ~4 of the General Statutes of North' Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Elizabeth Wood was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 21 August 1982 and
is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law, licensed to practice law in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina
3. !Elizabeth Wood was engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and
maintained a law office in the city of Hendersonville, Henderson County, North Carolina.

I

4. !Elizabeth Wood currently suffers from depression and anxiety disorder, which
significantly impairs her professional judgment; performance, or competence as an attorney.
!

5. :Elizabeth Wood consents to being transferred to disability inactive status. Elizabeth
Wood consents voluntarily and without duress or coercion and with the advice of counsel.
!

.

6,' the North Carolina State Bar consents to the transfer of Elizabeth Wood to disability
inactive st8;tus.
,

BaSed upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the underSIgned makes the following:

I
!.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Elizabeth Wood is disabled within the meaning of 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chap. IB,
Section .0103(18). .
2. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chap. IB, Section .0118(g), the proper parties
have consented to the transfer of Elizabeth Wood to disability inactive status.

I

THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
I. Elizabeth Wood is transferred to disability inactive status effective immediately.
2. Elizabeth Wood shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina until reinstated to
active status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter IB, Section .0125(c) (or any successor
provision relevant to reinstatement to active status).

This, the

8~

day of

7O.J~
==u

.,2003 ..

,kCSQH

Sharon 8. Alexalider,Chair
Grievance Co_ttee
The North Carolma State Bar

c~~

I

Elizabeth Wood, Attorney

I
,':,',. "

4.7

