-

-- - -

-

-

-

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE. NORTH' CAROLINA STAtE BAR
.
Plaintiff

v.
JOHN W. WELLMAN, ATTORNEY
Defendant

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DiSCIPLINE

I

This matter came before a Hearing COl.11Il;littee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Carlyn G. Poole, Esq., Chl:l,ir; M. Ann Reed, Esq.; and Lorraine Stepherts, pursuant
to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B SectioJ.1, .0114 (h) of the Rules and Regulations
I
..
ofthe North ICaro lina State Bar. The defendant John W. Wellman, was represented. by Alan M.
Schneider. The plaintiff was represented by Thomas F. Moffitt. Defendant has agreed to waive a
formal hearip,g in the above referenced matter. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of
fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Further,
the Defendant hereby waives his right to appeal this consent order or challenge in any way the
sufficiency Qfthe findings. Based upon the consent of the parties the hearing committee hereby
enters t4e following:
I

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. the Plaintiff, the North Carolina State ·Bar, is a body duly orgartized tinder the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding Uilder the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 qfthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations offue North
Carolina St~te Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. 'the Defendant John W. Wellman was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
1997, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in'
North.Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
I

_

3. Ouring all of the relevant periods referre~ to herein, the Defendant was actively
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Asheville, North Carolina.

I

4.
Lisa Duncan paid Defendant Wellman $500 to represent her in a patent or copyright matter
and to find a company to develop or market her idea.
. ... . . .
.
5.

Duncan received a patent pending number in February 2000.

6.
In Septel11ber 2000; Defendant told Duncan he found a <;ompany that was interested in her
idea and needed to meet with her to discuss the matter.

I

7.

Defendant scheduled three meetings with Duncan but failed to attend any ofthem.

8.
Duncan repeatedly telephoned Defendant about the status of her case bt:Jt always got his
answering machine instead. Defendant did not return Duncan's calls and did not keep her informed
.
about the status of her case.
9.
Finally, Duncan left a phone message in which she demanded that Defendant returp her file
and refund the $500 she had paid him. Defendant neither returned the file not refunde4 the fee.
10.
Defendant did not handle Duncan's case with reasonable diligence or promptness and did not
eru:n the $500 fee Duncan paid hil11.
1L
In June 2000, Christine Halvorsen paid Defendant Wellman $135 to represent her in a
consumer dispute with a.furniture company.
12.
Halvorsen repeatedly telephoned Defendant to obtain information about the status of her
case. However, Defendant did hot return her calls or otherwise keep her informed about the status
of the legal matter for which she' hired him.

I

On September 13,2000, Halvorsen wrote Defendant a letter in which she· fired him as her
13.
attorney and demanded that he rett.l.i11 the documents she had given him regarding her claim against
the furniture compa,ny.
14.

Defendant did not respond to Halvorsen"s September 13,2000 letter or return her documents.

15.
Defendant did not handle Halvorsen's'case with reasonable di1ig~nce and promptness and
did not earn the $135 attorney fee paid to him.
.
16.
Faye Barwick hired Defendant Wellman to represent her in a divorce and. equitable
distribution action.
17.

On June 26, 2000, Defendant withdrew as Barwick's attorney ofrecord~

18.
After Defendant with4rew frOl11 the case, Barwick hired another attorney, Ralph Pennington,
to rep~esent her in the domestic action.

2

I

.

~!

19.
Barwick repeatedly tried to retrieve her file and materials from Defendant in order to give
them to Pennington, who needed them for an impending show cause hearing in the matter. Barwick
left several phone messages demanding that Defendant return her file but Defendant did not return
her calls.
,

20.
On September 6, 2000, Pennington wrote Defendant a letter in which he asked Defendant
to send him Barwick's materials because he needed them to prepare for the upcoming show cause
hearing. However, Defendant did not return Barwick' s materi~ls before the hearing was held,
although
he eventually
did send her file to Pennington.
.
I
I

21.

John
. alake paiq Defendant WeHman $200 to prepare a deed for property located in FIQrida.

I

'

,

\

22.
Blakeirepeatedly telephoned Defendant about the status of the preparation of the deed, but
Defendant di4 hot return his telephone calls or prepare the deed.
I

23.

Defendant did not earn the $200.00 attorney fee or refund the unearned fee to Blake.

24.
In October 2000, John Blake filed a grievance against Defendant Wellman with the 28th
Judicial District Bar Gri~vance ComIl?-ittee ("local grievance committee").
25.
The local grievance committee sent a letter; dated October 20, 2000, to Defendant at his
office address. The letter asked him to respond to Blake's grievance within 15 days of his
(Defendant's):receipt of the grievance: Defendant did not respond to the letter.
26. On Novem.ber 13, 2000, the local grievance committee sent the grievance lettetto Defendant at
his home ~ddress and asked him to respond to it. However, Defendant again failed to respond
to Blake's grievance.
I

!

.

27. The above referenced c0ndl~ct oC,turred during a period oftime in which the D~fendant was
experiencf;ng. Significant personal problems in his life and was suffering from depresSion.
28. The above referenced conduct was a direct result of the Defendant's depression for which he
has since ~eceived psychiatric treatment and counseling.
29. The Defen:dant is currently practicing law in the State of Florida and has entered into a
contract wjth the Florida Lawyer's Assistance Program.
30. The Defendant has made excellent progress in addressing the personal problems he was
experiencing during the time period in which the conduct at issue occurred.
31. According; to De~endant's psychiatrist, Steven R. Machlin, M.D., the Defendant is doing
.excellent C)n a combination of psychotherapy and medicatioI1. Dr. Machlin reports that the
Defendant has excellent intelligence, insight, judgment, is quite compliant with treatment and
continues in treatment.
.
l

3

I

32. Defendant .has agreed,to make financial restitution to repay the fees he collected frol1) Duncan
($500.00), Halvorsen ($135.00) and Blake ($200.00) and to participate in the Florida Bar's
lawyer assistance program during the two year stay period, to wit: until July 30~ 2005.
Based upon the foregoing Fin.dings of Fact, the Committee enters the following:
CONCLUSiONS OF LAW

I

1. All p~ies are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the Committee has
jurisdiction over defendant, John W. Wellman, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C, Gen. St~t. 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

I

(a)

By not acting with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing his cli~nts.
as all~ged in the State Bar's complaint, the Defendant neglected his clients' cases,
in violation of Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

(b)

By failing to keep his clients reasonably infonned about the status of their cases and
to promptly comply with reasonable reql,lests for information as alleged in the State
Bat's complaint, the Defendant violated Rule 1.4(a) of the:Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

(c)

By failing tq retl,lrn his clients' files as alleged in the State Bar's complaint,
Defendant violated Rule 1.16 (d) of the Revised Ru1es of Professional Conduct.

(d)

By failing to refund the unearned ~ttorney fees in the Duncan, Blake and Halvorsen
matters, the Defendan:t violated Rule 1.16 (d) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.

(e)

By failing to respond to the local grievance committee's request for infonnation, the
Defendant violated Rule 8.1(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters the following:
FINDINGS REGARDING D1SCIPLlNE
1.

The Defendant's misconduct is aggravat~d by the foHowing factor:

(a)

multiple offenses.

4

I

5:1

~' --~------~~--~----------~--~-A

2.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

(a)
(b)
(c)

(f)
(g)
(h)

absence of any prior disciplinary record
absence of a dishonest or selfish motive
The Defendant suffered from significant personal problems during the time period
in which the violations occurred and has actively and successfully sough~
treatment and counseling to address these problems
efforts to rectify the consequences of his misconduct
full and free disclosure to the North Carolina State Bar and cooperative attitude
toward the' proceedings
remorse
interim rehabilitation; and
The conduct ~n question occurred more than two and a half years ago.

3.

The mitigating factors significantly outweigh the aggravating factor.

i

(d)
(e)

I

, Based upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLUStONS OF LAW and the
FINDINGS :REGARDING DISCIPLINE and based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Committee ¢nters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. the license of the defendant, John W. Wellman, is hereby suspended for one year
from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon him. The period of suspension is stayed for
'
two years lipon the following conditions:
a. The Defendant shall participate in the Florida 'Bar's lawyer assistance program
during the two-year stay period, to wit: until July 30,2005.
b. The Defendant ;hall, at his own expense, continue counseling and treatment
by a medical provider approved' by the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar and shaH comply with the COllIse of treatment prescribed by
the medical care provider for the next two years or until the defendant is
released from treatment, whichever first occurs

I

:... c. The Defendant shall be responsible for ensuring that a written report is
received in the Office of Counsel from his medical care provider on October
1, 2003, J~. 1,2004, April 1, 2004, July 1,2004, October 1,2004, Jan. 1,
2005, April 1, 2005 and July 1,2005. Such report shall indicate whether
defendant is follOWing his treatment plan and whether he is currently able to
engage in the active practice of law.
d. Within 30 days of service of this Consent Order of Discipline, the pe:i:endant
shall provide the Office of Counsel with a written release, authorizing the

5

I
"

,

.

I

Office of Counsel to contact the Defendant's medical care provider for the
purpose of determining whether Defendant is following his treatment plan and
is able to engage in the practice of law. The Defendant sh4tll not revoke this
.
written release prior to July 30, 2005
e. Within 30 days of service of this Consent Order of Disciple, Defend~t shall
provide evidence to the Office of Counsel that he has made restitutjon to
Duncan ($500.00), Halvorsen ($135.00) and Blake ($200~00).
.

I

f.

During the period of the stay, Defendant will keep his address of record with
the North Carolina State Bar current, will accept all certified mail from the
North Carolina Stat~ Bar, and will respond to all letters of ~otice and requests
for information ftom the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in
the communication.

g. The Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws during the period of
the stayed suspension.
h. The Defendant shall not violate any provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct during the period of his stayed suspension; and

1. The Defendant shall pay all ~osts incurred in this proceeding, as assessed by
the Secretary, within 30 days of service of the notice of costs upon him.
2. If, upon a motion by the State Bar, a Hearing COl11P1ittee of the nHC finds that the
Defendant has violated any ofthe conditions in Section 1(a)-(h) of this Order of Discipline, the
suspension of the defendant's license shall be activated. If the suspension is ~ctivated, prior to
seeking reinstatement of his license, the Defendant must:

a.

corp.ply with Ml provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, SlJhchapter
B, Sec.. 0125 (b) of the N. C: State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules; and

b.

satisfy all the conditions set forth in section 1 (a)-(h) of this Order of
Discipline prior to seeking reinstatement.
.

." . Signed by the undersigned Chair with·the·fuII knowledge and 'consent of the other
members of the Hearing Committee.
This the

1

day

6f-=~~r--_' 2003
G .poole, Chair
Heari g ommittee

6

I

..

We Consent:

I

Tomas f. Moffitt
Attorney for lPlaintiff

I

7

I

