•

\.N
~

..

i""
q',

v'

...

C~)

NORTH CAROLINA

"'"

.:~"

~~j .
1~'

'­

.- . ',
~"

5::,;
if "

f"r;"

"i.

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
93 BCS 6

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER OF
SURRENDER OF LICENSE OF:
ORDER OF DISBARMENT
JOSEPH DANIEL PIKE,

Attorney

This matter corning on to be heard and being heard on July 9,
1993 by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to
Sec. 17 of Article IX of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar upon the tender of surrender of license of
Joseph Daniel Pike by affidavit executed on July 1, 1993 and
filed on July 2, 1993; and with notice of the hearing of this
matter having been waived by pike; and based upon the contents of
the affidavit, the Council finds as follows:
1. The affidavit of Joseph Daniel pike satisfies the
requirements of Sec. 17(A) of Article IX of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.
2.
In his affidavit, Joseph Daniel pike admitted that he
caused investors in a real property transaction to believe that
he had contributed money to the purchase of the property when he
had not done so.
Pike also admitted that he provided the
investors with false documentation of the transaction.
BASED UPON the foregoing, the Council concludes:
1. The tender of surrender of license of Joseph Daniel Pike
should be accepted.
2.
The facts admitted in the affidavit are grounds for
discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. Sec. 84-28(b) in that Joseph
Daniel pike engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 1.2(C) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
THEREFORE, the Council, upon motion made and seconded,
enters the following ORDER:
1. The affidavit of tender of surrender of license of
Joseph Daniel Pike is hereby accepted.
2. Joseph Daniel Pike is hereby DISBARRED from the practice
of law in North Carolina.

3. Joseph Daniel Pike is taxed with the costs of this
proceeding as assessed by the Secretary.
This the

(lj~

of July, 1993.

Ro ert A. Wicker
President

ro,,)
(,"~

1

1-1...

"".'.1'

tj

,::

\:7~
\-.lJ

"
i,~"
r.,;­
"

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY
TO:

AFFIDAVIT OF J. DANIEL PIKE

Council of the North Carolina State Bar

The undersigned J. Daniel Pike, after first being duly sworn,
deposes and says, pursuant to the provisions of Article IX, Section 17 of
the Rules of the North Carolina State Bar, as follows:
1. There is pending before the North Carolina State Bar an
investigation into allegations of misconduct on the part of the
undersigned and the said J. Daniel Pike desires to resign and
voluntarily surrender his license to practice law. Said J. Daniel Pike
tenders such resignation freely and voluntarily and such is not the
result of any coercion or duress. The said J. Daniel Pike is fully aware
of the implications of submitting this resignation in that such could
result in the entry of an order of disbarment by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar with the said J. Daniel Pike being unable to
apply for reinstatement for a period of five years from the effective date
of the order of disbarment.
2. Your affiant is aware that there is presently pending an
investigation regarding allegations of misconduct, the nature of which
are that affiant engaged in a real estate transaction with two investors
involving the purchase of the "Lowe Property". Your affiant
contracted for the sale of the above referenced property at a purchase
price of $954,072.63 but presented the price to the two investors as $1.4
million dollars. Your affiant represented that he was contributing
money towards said purchase price when, in fact, your affiant did not
make a monetary contribution towards said purchase price. Your
affiant further acknowledges that he provided documentation to the
investors indicating that he made a monetary contribution towards the
purchase price of the above referenced property, when in fact such a
monetary contribution had not been made.
3. The affiant is submitting his resignation because he knows
that if charges were in fact predicated upon the misconduct mentioned
above, he could not successfully defend against the same and the
affiant further does hereby acknowledge that the material facts
contained herein and upon which the investigation is based are true.
This the 1st day of July, 1993.

Pike Affidavit

Page 2


Sworn to anc! ~scribed before
me this theL day of July, 1993

