WAKE COUNTY

I

)
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
. PLAINTIFF
v.
MELVYN H. BROWN JR.
DEFENDANT

)
) FINl)INGS OF FACT
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
)
& ORDER
)
)
)

THIS MATTER came en to. be heard and was heard en Friday; June 27, 2003,
befere a duly assigned cemmittee efthe Disciplinary Hearing Commissien cempes~d of
Elizabeth Bunting, Chair; Karen Eady-Williams and Marguerite Watts. The defendant,
Melvyn H. Brown, Jr., wa$ represented by David R. Tanis. Careljn Bakewell
,represented the N.C. State'Bar. Based upen the evidence presented attrial and the
pleadings herein, the hearing cemmittee hereby enters the fellowing:
I

'

FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. On Dec. 3, 2002; the Disciplinary Hearing Cemmission entered an erder ef
discipline herein. Theerder suspended Brewn's law license fer ene year and stayed the
suspensien fer three years, based en varieus cenditiens. Pursuant to. the erder, Brown
was required, iIlter alia, to.:
a.

Select a practice meniter approved by the State Bar by Nev.
30,2002.

b.

Meet with the appreved practice menjter at least ence a menth
threughout the term efthe stayed suspension.

c.

Provide written reports to the State Barsign~d by the practice
monitor confirming that the meetings ate eccurring, en each
Jan. 1, April 1, July 1 'and Oct. 1 threugheut t4e term efthe
stayed suspension.

I

i/

!.

......

d.

Successfully complete a three hour course in law office
management by March 1, 2003.

e.

Submit proof that he had completed the law office management
course to the Office of Counsel by April 15, 2003.
.

. f.

Successfl!l1y complete a three hour course in trust accoulit
management by March 1, 2003 or as soon thereafter as
practicable.

I

: 2. Brown signed the order of discipline and Was familiar with its terms .
3. Shortly after the order of discipline was signed, Brown selected David R.
Tanis, who had represented him in the underlying disciplinary case, as his monitor.
; 4. Brown did not seek the State Bar's approval of the selection of Mr. Tanis as
his mdnitor,
I

: 5. Bar counsel wrote to Tanis on Feb. 7 and March 14, inquiring about the
identity of the monitor.
• 6. Brown testified that Tanis assured him that he would "take care of'
respon,ding to the Bar's inquiries.
· 7. Tanis did not respond to Bar counsel's Feb. 7 or :March 14 letters.
· 8. The State Bar did not approve a bar monitor for Brown until June 26, 2003.
: 9. Brown. met at least monthly with Tanis to discus1? the status of'his practice
betwe~n December 2002 and the present. Brown has represented approximately 3 - 5
the entry•
of the
disciplinary order and the present. He testified that he
clientsibetween
I·
.
•
had no; plans to expand his practIce.

I

110. Brown did not submit the required Jan. 1 and April 1, 2003 reports to the
State Bar. On J au. 31, Brown dig write a letter to Tanis, outlining the status of several
client matters. That letter, which was signed only by Brown, was forwarded to the State
Bar shortly thereafter.
: 11. Brown completed the required three hour CLE course on law office
manag¢ment on Feb. 21, 2003. He did not submit proof of compliance of this
requir~ment .tothe State Bar until May 27,2003.
I

I

'12. Brown has not taken the required three hour CLE course on trust account
management and te~tified that he had had trouble locating an appropriate course, in part
because he has health problems and does not drive.
.

I

I

13. Bruno DeMolli, who conducts the State Bar's random audit program, is
available to provide training on trust account management at no charge to North Carolina
attorneys and could assist Brown in complying with the trust account CLE requirement.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee makes the
.
fonowing:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
,.'.

1. Defendant, Melvyn Brown, violated the tenns of the disciplinary order entered
herein in the following particulars:
a.

Brown failed to select a monitor and get the monitor approved
by the State Bar by Nov. 3Q, 2002.
Brown failed to s1Jbmit evidence to th~ State Bar by April 15, .
2003 that he cQmpleted a 3 hour CLE course on law office
management.
Brown failed to forward reports cortfinning that he was meeting
with an approved monitor at least monthly to the State Bar by
the Jan. 1 and April 1 deadlines.
Brown failed to complete a 3 hour CLE course on trust account
management.

b.

c.

d.

2. Brown's violation of the order was not the result of a deliberate intent to
disregard the Hearing Committee's wishes.

I

3. Because the goals and purposes ofthe.original disciplinary order have not been
met, the order of discipline entered herein should be amended, but the protection of the
Pli~lic does not requite that the suspension of Brown's license be activated.
.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The ConserttOrder of Discipline entered herein istnoditled as foHows:
a. Brown shall meet with a practice monitor approved by the State Bar at
least monthly throughout the tenn of the stayed suspension of his law
license.
b. Brown shall ensure that the State Bar Office .of Counsel receives a
written report no later than the 15 th of ea(1h month throughout the tenn
of the stayed suspension which specifies that:

I
."

"

.
Monthly in-person meetings are occurring.
u. Brown is meeting all deadlines for his pending client cases.
111. Brown is adequately communicating with his clients.
iv. Brown is complying with the trust account rules of the N.C.
State Bar ifhe is handling client or-fiduciary funds.
L

c. No later than Aug. 27,2003 Brown shall meet with Bruno DeMolli and
complete a course in trust account procedures. It is Brown's
responsibility to contact Mr. DeMolli and scheduling the training
seSSIOn.
d. No later than Sept. 15,2003 Brown shall submit a letter to the Office
of Counsel confirming that he has met with Mr. DeMolli as required.

., ,.

I

I

: 2. Except,as hereby modified, the remaining terms aild conditions of the Consent.
Order :ofDiscipline remain in place.
I

I

i

hearin~

This the iL day of ~~'-T:!-r-<~--;' 2003.
Signed by the Chair ofthe hearing committee with the consent ofthe other
committee members.

I
. !

.i

