'"'

.

!

NORTH CAROLINA

HE GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE

W Al<E COUNTY

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Petitioner

, v.
PAUL C. BLANl), ATTORNEY
Respondent

)
)
)
)
ORDEROFREC~ROCAL
) DISC~LINE PROCEEDING
)
)
)

Pursuant to the a1.Jthority vested in me as Chair of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §§
.0105(a)(12) and .0116(a) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules and based
upon the record in this matter, the undersigned finds as follows:

1. By order effective Aug. 16,2002, the Virginia State Bar Disciplinary Board
suspended th~ law license of Paul C. Bland for 18 months.

I

, 2. On March 17,2003, a Notice of Reciprocal Discipline Proceeding
upon Bland by registered mail by the North Carolina State :Bar. '
.

was served

3. Bland failed to respond or show cause that imposition of the identical
discipline would be unwarranted within 30 days of service upon him ofthe Notice of
Reciprocal.Di$cipline.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS the Chair of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1. The North Carolina State Bar has jtuisdiction over the subj ect matter of this
proce~ding and over the person of the respon.dent, Paul C. Bland..

2. The procedqre for imposition of reciprocal discipline pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0116(a) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules has been complied with.

I
"

,7r', ,

3. The Aug. 16, 2002 order of the Virginia State Bar Disciplinary Board found
that Bland had neglected one or more e1ient matters, failed to preserve the identity of
client funds and engaged in other vIolations of the Virginia Code of Professional
Responsibility.

4. The order of suspension imposed by the Virginia State Bar Disciplinary Board·
should be imposed oli Bland's right to practice law in the State of North Carolina. I

. '

THEREFORE
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1

L The North Carolina law license of the ~espondent, Paul C. Bland, is suspended

I

for a period of 18 months from the effective date of this order.

2. Respondent shall forthwith surrender his North Carolina license certificate and
member.ship card to the Secretary of the N.C. State Bar.
3.
Secretmy-.

R~spondent is

hereby taxed with the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the

I

4. Respondent sha!1 comply with the wind down provisions of27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter
1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disbarment
I
Rules. :

This the

l

/

day of

(j~

,2003.

sIfaronB. Alexan<Ier>Chair
Grievance Committee

I

I

76

"

Bland Opinion

Page 1 of3

VIRGINIA: BEFORE THE VIRGINIA STAT!= BAR DISCIPLINARY BOARD
IN THE MATIER OF:
Paul Corneliou~ Bland
VSB Docket No. 03-000",0870
ORDER

I

THIS MATtER came before a duly convened panel of the Virginia State Bar Disciplinary Board
(the "Soard"), consis.ting of.JonnA.D.ezjo (Chair), James L. Banks, Jr., Thaddeus T. Crump . '
(Lay Member), Robert L. ,Freed and Peter A. Dingman, on October 25, 2002, pursuant to·~
Show Cause Order entered September 25, 2002, and duly served upon Paul Cornelious BI~nd
("Respondent"). The Virginia. State Bar (the "Baril) was represented by Barbara Ann Williams,
Attorney ~t ]..aw, Bar Counsel~ Respondent appeared and represented himself. The
proceedings were recorded and transcribed by Valarie L. Schmit (who was fir~t duly sworn py
the Chair), a registered professional reporter, Chandler & Halasz, Post Office Box 9349,
'
Richmond, Virginia, 23227 (telephone number 804-730-1222).
The hearing commenced promptly at 9:00 a.m., and the Ch~lir.recited the purpose' of the
'hearing: to determine whether good cause existed not to impose on Respondent alternative
discipline specified in an order (the (Suspension OrderO of the Board entered pursuant to an
agreed dispositi.on by and between the Bar and Respondent in VSB Docket Nos. 99-031-0907,
99-031-0921,99-031-1708,00-031-2092 and 00':031-3456. The Chair further recited the
procedure to be followed in th~ hearing and polled the members of the panel as to whether any
of them were conscious of any personal or financial interest or bias which would preclude qny
of them from serving on this panel. ~ach member, including the Chair, answere" in the
negative, and the hearing proceeded.

,

"

"
;.

After opening statement of cQunsel, the Bar introduced, without objection, as an exhibit, a true
copy of the Suspension Order entered pursuant to the agreed disposition, entered on April 26,
2002, which provided, in pertinent part, that Respondent (... shall not accept any neW clients
" between the date of the acceptance of this agreement by a panel of the Virgini~ State Bar
Disciplinary Board and August 16, 2002, who require anything more than consultations and/or
the preparation of documents". Further, the Bar introduced, again without objection, additional
exhibits, being copies of orders entered in ~he Juvenile, and Domestic Relations General'
District,Court of the City of Petersburg, Virginia, showing that Respondent had been appointed,
by judges of that Court, as guardian ad litem on behalf of various individuals brought before
that Court on dates falling between April 26, 2002, and August 16, 2002. .

I

,'.

- ,~

Further, the Bar called Professor Robert Edward Sheppard, an emeritus professQr of Jaw at the
T.C. Williams School of Law, University of Richmond, who was qualified as an expert witneSS
on the subject of service as ~ guardian ad litem b~fore the Juvenile and Domestic Relations
General District Courts of the Commonwealth. Among other qualifications, Professor
Sheppard, on behalf of the Virginia Supreme Court, conducts orientation for new Juvenile and
Domestic Relations General District Court judges" served on a state-wide committee which
drafted reql:Jitements for lawyers to serve as guardians ad .litem before those courts and

.

':.

,.l
~"

Page 2 of3

,B~and Opinion

continues to provide, on .behalf of Virginia CLE, an annual seminar on such service. Professor
Sheppard has :also himself served in that capacity and mentored or taught law students and
lawyers desiring to seNe in such capacity. Professor Sheppard testified that, in his opinion, tlie
function of gua,rdian ad litem was an attorney-client relationship, with some greater fiduciary
responsibilities than might othelWise exist and subject to certain exceptions to the clientconfidentiality requirements,
limited to those specified by statute and rule. of court.
.
I

Respondeht, irihis own testimony, testified that he did not consider the appointments received
between April 26, 2002, and August 16, 2002, to be in violation of the suspension order
because these' appointments were on behalf of individuals who had been previously
represented by Respondent jn otber.proceedings before the same court. Thus, Respondent
did not consider these individuals to be "new clients".

·1

I

I

•

In response to f:luestions from the Board, however, Respondent testified that he did not
consider individuals (either the individuals in the SUbject appointments or individuals
represented by him in other proceedings before the Juvenile and Domestic Relations General
District Court) to be "clients'; for purposes of providing the notice of suspension mandated by
the suspension; order and the applicable Supreme Court Rule .. This testimony was viewed by
members of th~ Board as uhdermining Respondent's credibility regarding his understanding of
the responsibilities imposed Or) him by the Suspension Order.
,

Upon the evidehce presented and after consid~ration of the argument of counsel, the Board
concluded that Respondent had failed to show cause why his license to practice law in the
CommonwealtH of Virginia should not be further suspended and the alternative discipline set
forth in the Suspension Order (pursuant to the agreed. disposition) imposed,' Respondent
having failed tOishow by clear and convincing evidence that he had not violated the terms of
the Suspension: Order by accepting, during the time frame April 26, 2002, through August 16,
2002, new clients requiring representation other than consultation and/or the preparation of
documents. Specifically, the Board found that Respondent failed to prove by clear and
convincing evidence that the persons for whom he was appointed as guardian ad litem during
the time period April 26, 2002, to Augu~t 16, 2002, were not "new clients" within the meaning
of the Suspension Order;

·
'
I
-

.'.
~.
~

!
I

In Gonsideration whereof, it is

ORDERED that;the alternative discipline specified in the Suspension Order be, and the same
herebyis~ impo~ed; and

Accordingly, it is FURTHER ORDERED that the license of Respondent to practice law in the
Commonwealth Iof Virginia be, and the same hereby is, suspended for a period of eIghteen
(18) months frorn August 16, 2002; and
FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to part Six, Section IV, Paragraph 13(M), oUhe Rules of
the Supreme Cqurt of Virginia, Respondent shall forthwith give notice, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, of this suspension of his license to practice law in the Commonwealth of
I

htto:llwww.vsb.oii!/discinlinarv

18

ornp.r~/hhmrl

"ntTlt"n? 'hin-ll

'l/" l'l{\{\'l

1

. :&l~d Opinion

Page 3 0[3

V'irginia to all clients for whom he i~ currently handling any matters,. to all judges and the clerk .
of the court before which Respondent may' have any pending cases and to opposing counsel
in all such cases. Respondent shall also make appropriate arrangements for the disposition .of
matters now in his care, in conformity wjth the wishes of his clients; and
'
FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Part Six, Section IV, Paragraph 13M,'ofthe Rldes of
the Supreme Court of Virginia, the Clerk of the Disciplinary System shall assess costs;' ano

I

FURTHER ORDERED that a copy Of this order shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to Responden~, Paul Cornelius Bland, at his C!ddre~s of record with the Virginia
State Bar, P.O. Box 402, Petersburg, VA., 23804-0402, and hand delivered to Barbara Ann
Williams, counsel, Virginia State Bar, 707 East Main Street, Suite 1500, Richmond, Virginia,
23219. '
.
.
ENTERED this ---,._ day of _ _...,..,....._ _,.......,...._, 2002.
VIRGINIA STATE BAR DISCIPLINARY BOARD

BY: ___~~~______~'~i_~~~~
John A. Dezio, Chair

I

I

http://www.vsb.orgldisciplinary_orders/bland_opinion2.html

2/412003

