NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
03CVS1873

ROWAN COUNTY

INRE:

BY_._.._.,__~~•._

CHARLES LINWOOD MORGAN, JR.
Attorney at Law

I

)

)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

AND
ORDER.,. OF DISCIPLINE

This matter came on to be heard and was heard in Cabarrus ·County Sup~rior
Court,designated a~ file number 02 CVS 3019, on December 16, 2002 and Apri12S,
2003, thereafter th~ case was transferred to Rowan County by consent of the parties and
upon order of the undersigned ~d was concluded on July 18,2003; Isaac T. Avery, III
and Patricia A. Duffy represented the State of North CarolIna, A. Root .Edmonson
represented the North Carolina State Bar, and Ronald L. Gibson represented Ch~les
Linwood Morgan, Jr. Based upon the evidence presented at the he'ltings ,and the
arguments of counsel, the undersigned fmds the following by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence:
FINDINGS·OF FACT
1. On or a,bout May 26,2001, Christopher John'Lyle (hereinafter, Lyle) was
charged with driving while impaired in Cabarrus County..

2. Lyle retained Charles Linwood Morgan, Jr. (hereinafter, Morgan), an attorney
licensed in North Carolina, to represent him on the DWI. On appeal to Caban:us County
Superior Court, Lyle's case was denominated 01 CRS 9716.
'

I

3. In Lyles' case, Morgan issued a subpoena duces tecum
to Paul Glover
,
(hereinafter, Glover) of the Forensic Test for Alcohol Branch of the North Catolina
Department of Health and Human Services (hereinafter, Forensic Test Unit) that required
Glover; to produce all data for all tests and oj?er~tionsperformed on the Intoxiliyzer 5000,
SN-003526, from January 1, 2000 until November 21,2000.
4. On September 24,2002, the undersigned conducted a hearing on the state's
motion to qua,sh the subpoena issued to Glover in Lyle's case. In that hearing, the state
produced eviderice that Morgan had issued subpoenas to Glover and other employees of
the Forensic Test Unit to appear in DWI cases in more than one county on the same date.
S. At the conclusion of the hearing on Septemb'er 24,2002, the undersigned
found, inter alia, that the data sought by Morgan's subpoena to Glover was not material
to whether the Intoxilizer used to test Lyle's blood alcohol content malfunctioned on
Lyle's test and that, the data demanded by Morgan's subpoeria was overly broad and
undq.ly burdensome.

/

..~

6. Also at the hearing on September 24,2002, the found that Morgan's practice
of sUbpoenaing employees of the Forensic Test Unit to appear in multiple counties on the
same qate severely and adversely impacted the employees' ability to comply with the
demandS of such court appearances and was intentionally c.alculated to inflict chaos and
.
inconvenience upon the employees of the Forensic Test Unit.

7.

Also at the hearing on September 24,2002, in the presence and hearing of
the undersigned ordered Morgan to cease and desist from issuing subpoenas
requiring any Forensic Testing Unit employee to be present in more than one county in
the Stat¥ of North Carolina on the same day.
Morgan~

?

I

On September 25,2002, the undersigned entered a written order that had been
announeed to Morgan in open court the previous d~y, ·and a copy was ·sent to Morgan oil
that date.

·9. On or after September 25, Z002, Morgan subpoenaed Forensic Test Unit
to be present in more than one county in the State of North Carolina on the
same day on at least eight court dates, in willful violation of this Court's order of
September 24, 2002.
e1hploy~es

.

I

~O.

Morgan was properly served with an order to appear and show cause why he
should not be disciplined for msviolation of the September 24,2002 order, and a
discipli:tlary hearing was cO,nducted in Cabarrus County Superior Court on December 16,
2002. !
I

:11. On De~ember 31, 2002, the undersigned entered an order referring Morgan to
the Lawyers' Assistance Program (hereinafter, LAP), ordering Morgan to fully cooperate
with LAP, including entering into a contract with LAP under. such terms and·conditions
as they may impose for the period that LAP may find appropriate, and retaining
juris4iction of the disciplinary matter.

:12. Morgan entered into a contract with LAP.

I

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the
.

fu~w~:

·CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

.1. The undersigned has personal and subject matter jurisdiction of this
disciplirary matter pursuant to this Court's inheren~ power to discipline officers of this
Court, and has concurrent jurisdiction with the North Carolina State Bar for this purpose
putsuarh to NCGS §84-36.

I

qo

',fil .

2. Mergan's cenduct as feund in the findings .of fact abevecenstitQ.tes,cenduct
prejudicial te the administratien .of justice in vielationofRule 8A(d) efthe·Revised
Rules efPrefessional Conduct.
3. Mergan's condl,J-ct has caused harm te employees ofth~ Forensic Test Unit and
their ability te perform the functiens of their .office fer the citize.ns efthe$tate efNetth
Carelina such that Mergan's conduct warrants impositien of a Reprimand.

I

4, Mergan should centinue te cemply with the requirements .of paragraphs 2, 3,
and 4 .of the .order entered by the undersigned in this matter en December 31,2002.
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED:
1. Charles Linweed Mergan, Jr. is reprimanded fer his miscenduct. A
Reprimand, of even date herewith, will accempany this .order.
2. 'Mergan shall continue te comply with the requirement$ .of paragraphs 2, 3,and
4 .of the .order entered by the undersigned in this matter en December 31,2002.

1'''f; ef1:/$.Oof!

This is the

tb~~
W. Erwin Spainhe . .
Superior Ceurt Judge Presiding

I

I

.~

I,

F!;, ,ED IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

NORTH CAROLINA
r",~ ,ii'
If'
Lt,;
..,Ub

RowAN COUNTY

IN REi:

SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
03C''VS' 18' 73

21.:;w , g i l10'
, ' l6
V,f.!1

BY_~_,_,_'_'_ ~

,

CHARLES LINWOOD MORGAN, JR.
Attorney at Law

REPRIMAND

)
)

I

After hearings conducted in Cabarrus County on Decembet 16, 2002 and April
25,2003 and, after the case was transferred to Rowan County by consent ofthe parties
and upo;n order of the undersigned, concluded on July 18, 2003, the undersigned entered
Findings of Fact, Conc1us~oIiS of Law and Order of Discipline signed of even date
herewith. Pursuant to that order, the undersigned found that you, Charles Linwood
Morgan, Jr., should be reprimanded. This document constitutes that reprimand.
\

,
On Septembet 24,2002, the undersigned ordered you not to subpoena Forensic
Test Unit employees to appear in more than one county in the State of North Carolina on
the same day. You were sent a written order on September 25,2002. Thereafter, you
issued slIbpoen'as requiri:o.g employees of the Forensic Test Unit to be in multiple
counties, on at least eight court dates. Your conduct severely and adversely impa..cted the
ability of the employees subpoenaed to comply with the demands of multiple court
appeara~ces. Your conduct was willful and intentiop.al, calculated to inflict chao$ and
inconvenience upon the employees of the office and was prejudicial to the administration
of justice in violation ofReyised Rule 8A(d).
The undersigned hereby reprimands you for your professional misconduct. The
undersigned hope~ that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be remembered by you,
that it WIll be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adl}erence to the high ethical standards ofthe legal profession.

,
I

Issued this

_?

M

th~
__

nIMliST
day ofitrlf, 2003.

I

1l1~
W. ErWIn Spainho
Superior Court Judge Presiding

I

~

.

