NORTH CAROLINA

- --" - ~- - ---

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCECOMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Q2GI068

WAKE COUNTY

--

I

IN RE:

)
)
)
)

J. Dewey Edwards, Jr.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

",'

REPRIMAND

On 17 April 2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Coley H. Rhodes.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the N6rthCaroHna
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a mem1;>er of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

The rules 'provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Co11lll1ission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue al1. Admonition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent attorney.

-,
;.
-',

The Grievance Conimittee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case
al1.d issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Gri¢vance COITImittee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
For several yeats before the events giving rise to this matter, you were counsel for a close,
farpily owned corporation named Rhodes Chevrolet, Inc. which operated a car dealership. The
president of this corporatioI). was Forbson Rhodes. Mr. Rhodes also held the corporate stock in

I
,

(

~:

,

A Reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued in
caSeS in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a c1ient~ the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.

:\

-

~.~

~.
"~.

...

- -,

.

:'

his name. HIS
spouse, Coley Rhodes, was the corporate secretary and treasurer. Y QU were also
I
the corporation's registered agent.

In November 1998, the Rhodes'separated. A court order was entered in January 1999
designating the corporation as a marital asset and prohibiting Mr. Rhodes from encumbering,
damaging, or disposing of it. Shortly thereafter, the stock in the corporation was purportedly
transferred to Ms. Rhodes by Mr. Rhodes. Although there is so:me dispute over whether the
transfer was :valid, you became aware that Ms. Rhodes clrullled ownership of the stock at some
point while the domestic case was pending.
'
Despite the court order prohibiting such, Mr. Rhodes executed, as president of the
corporation, two notes payable as debts of the corporation to one Lester "Huck" Venters, one for
$55,000 in December oI 1999 and the other for $149,800 in September 2000.

1

AImdst two years after their separation, the Rhodes agreed on a divlsi'on of the mantal
assets, including the corporation. Among oth~r things, the agreement provided for the transfer of
cash, notes, ~d land title with a lease back with respect to the dealership from Mr. Rhodes in
exchange for: all interest of Ms. Rhodes in the corporation. On 1 February 2001, the court ~ntered
a memorandUm ofjudgtnentlorder incorporating the tenns of this agreement.
,

On or:I about
22 February 2001, you bega,n representing Mr. Rhodes individually with
'
respect to the: execution of the executory tenns of this order and other aspects of his domestic
case.
On 14 March 2001, the court entered an order requiring your client, Mr. Rhodes, to show
cause why he: should not be held in contempt for his failure to comply with the February order
dividing the property. A hearing on this matter waS scheduled for 23 April 200 1. You were
served with a !copy of this order, as well as the motion by Ms. Rhodes' attorney that resulted in
the order, and: knew or should have known the contents of the motion. The motion reiterated that
Ms. Rhodes ciaimed ownership of 100% of the stock in the corporation.
On 19 Aprl12001, with tmowledge of the pending contempt hearing, you prepared and
permitted Mr.iRhodes to execute a confession ofjudgment in the name of the corporation in the
amount of$185,000 in favor of Mr. Venters based on the debts evidenced by the notes executed
by Mr. Rhode~ in 1999 and 2000 even though there was at the least some question of his
authority to do so. There was no pending action to enforce any debt by Mr. Venters at the time.
Mr. Venters was also a regular client of your finn.

I

On 27 April 2001, a hearing was held on the contempt motion. At your request, the matter
was continued until 21 May 2001. However, the court ordered compliance by your client with
certain conditions before the next hearing. One of those conditions prohibited yom client from
encumbering t~e dealership for more than $75,000.

,
"

<,

",

On 8 May 2001, Venters issued a demand letter to Mr. Rhodes oli the alleged dealership
debt which Was the subject C?fthe confession of judgment you prepared. Venters indicated that he
was turning th~ matter over to "his attorneys" and instructed Mr. Rhodes to direct all
correspondence o,n the matter to your finn. He copied you on the letter.
-2-

I

The next day, you wrote to Ms. Rhodes' counsel telling him ~bout the Venters dell1and
and th'at Venters, would agree to release the deal~tship from liability under certain conditions of
payment. The only person shown as copied on this letter was Venters.

I

I

The next day, 10 M~y 2001, you filed the confession ofjudgment in favor ofVentets with
the Clerk of Court. This created a judgment lien on the cOfporation(!.nd its assets. At the time,
you knew or should have known that Mr. Rhodes no longer had the sole interest in the
dealership, that Ms. Rhodes had either an actual or equitable interest in the corporation assets,
and that the dealership assets, were subject to a court order prohibiting your client ti"om
encumbering the dealership for more than $75,000.
The Cominittee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules and
Revised Rules of'Professional Conduct. By representing Mr. Rhodes in his individual capacity
with respect to the transfer and division of the corporate assets while, as counsel for the'
corporation, allowing him to execute a confession of judgment on behalf of the corporation, you
attempted to represent one client, Mr. Rhodes, with adverse interests to the other client, th¢
corporation, in violation of Rule 1.7(a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. By
representing Mr. :Rhodes in his individual capacity when both Mr. Venters and the corporation
were regular clients of yours and the parties had conflicting interests with respect to the notes
executed by Mr. Rhodes in favor of Mr. Venters while under court orqer not to encumber the
property, you represented a client under circumstances when the representation would be
materially limited 'by your responsibilities to other clients or third'parties in violation of Rule
1.7(b} of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. By attempting to negotiate the tenns Under
which Mr. Venters would release the corporatiop.'s alleged dElbt to him with M~. Rhodes' counsel
at the same time you represented both Mr. Rhodes and the corporation, you represented a client,
Mr. Venters, with adverse interests to two other clients in violation of Rule 1.7(a) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct. By filing the confession of judgment at a time when you mew or
should have knovv:n that there was a court order prohibiting your client from encumbering the .
corporate assets for more than $75,000, you engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration
of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Revi~ed Ru1es of Professional Conduct.

In de~iding to issue a ReprimaIld, the Committee considered the aggravating and
mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered that there were multiple violations
of the Rules and your conduct complicated the ultimate resolution of the divigiolJ. ofthe marital
property between the Rhodes. In mitigation, the Committee considered that you had no prior
disciplinary record.
You are l1ereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
miscop.duct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the higb ethical standards of the legal profession,

-3-

I
"

'

,
!'

./

["J \

.

'.~

In accord~ce with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina St~te
regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this acti<;>n in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Bar

Done and

. :

ord~red, this ~ day of a~ /,vj}c

f

,2003.

he-(jJ

Sharon B. Alexand r
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

I

-4-

I

