..•... ~
"

--~.

"~-

.. -.........

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GlUEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G0587 .

WAIffiCOUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

ROBERT A. KARNEY
Attorney At Law

REPRTh1AND

On July 23,2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered th~ w:ievances filed against you by the NC State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Catolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, includi:Q.g your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee f01.ll1d probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the rules as' "reasonablecauS,e to ...
believe that a member of the North Carolina St~te Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
. '.
"

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not req1,lired, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline <;lependi:Q.g upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caUSed, and ,any
aggravating. or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition isstied in .
. caseS in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has' caused hann or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a cenS'QIe is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North .
Carolina State Bar, it is now·my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you win
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.

.

.

YOllr law firm. sel),t a direct mail solicitation postcard to a prospective client who had, been
in a car accident. The postcard had the disclaimer~ "This is an advertisement 'for legal serYices"~
You also indicated on the postcard that "[W]e can win your case and get you compensation for
your pain and suffering, recover your lost wages, and pay your medicl;il bills.

I

. '.

. .:

"

The Grievance Committee found that your direct mail solicitation violated Rule 7.3 of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct, as the use of postcards are prohibited in direct mail
solicitations.
Furthermore, the Grievance ComPlittee found that your statement, "[W]e can win your
case," viola~ed Rule 7. 1(a) (2) of the Revised Rules ofProfessic;mal Conduct. The Grievance
Committee believed that statement was a misleading communication about your services, in that
the $tatemerit likely created an unjustified expectation about the results. you could achieve.

I

Youare hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional .
misconduct., The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
•

'

•

I

In ac:cordaI!ce with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issu.ed a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the" amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and, ordered, this the

~ day of . ~

,2003 .

.Zc &Cj

s1fal'()1;B. Alexander, Chair.
Gri.evance Committee

SBA/nkt

/~

I

