7 - - - " " "_ __

,

i

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COl\1MITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02G1419

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

ARRIS N. KING,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

On July 23, 2003, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance file.p against you by Darren Heatherly.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After consjdering the information
available to it, in<?luding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee foundprob~ble
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifyi~g disciplinary action."

I

The rule~ .provide that ~fter a finding of probable ca"Qse, the Griev~ce Committeeinay determine .
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are'not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
m.isconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an adinonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprim~d is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued jn cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the 'Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused hann or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
,

,

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in .
which this duty is performed,
ill September 1999, you undertook to represent D. H. in a slander action against Habitat
for Humanity. You withdrew from the case in early 2000 but, by January 3,2001, agreed to
resume responsibility for the matter. You were paid a $2,000 fee.

Between· late June and September 2001 opposing counsel served, you with various
discovery reques~s. Your responses to these requests were late, incomplete and in some cases~
illegible. Although you stated that you intended to find other counsel to accept responsibility for
the case because:you had decided to leave the private practice oflaw ~n the summer of2001, the'

I
,.

,",
.~

:

I

fact remains. that you hag not withdrawn as D.H. 's attol11ey and. remained responsible for the
proper handling of his legal matter.
You also :failed to return a number of phone calls from opposing counsel, including
inquiries about sGheduling your client's deposition in late 2001. When defense counsel noticed
your client for a deposition in Dec.ember 2QO 1, neither you nor n. H. appeared and defense
counsel filed a motion for sanctions.
Yow! failUre to file timely discovery responses, communicate with opposing counsel
about the deposition and your failure to appear at the deposition constituted neglect in violation
of Rule 1.3 qfth¥ Revised Rules ofPtofessional Conduct.
,
I

Finally it appears that you retained an excessive fee in this matter. It is undisputed that
D. H. paid you a $2,000 retainer yet you devoted less than 3 hours of work to his case after you
resumed your role in it in January.2001. Your conduct in that respect violated Rule 1.5.

I

In depiding to impose a reprimand instead of more substantial discipline, the Grievance
Committee tbok.into consideration that you appeared to be suffering from substantial emotional
and personal; dif:qculties at the tiIhe of your misconduct.
You ~e hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. :The Grievance COrhmittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
tem,emberediby you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourse1fto
depart from ~dherence to the high ethical standards of the lega:l profession.

In aceord~ce with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative ~d investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand b~ the Grievance Copunittee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and'ordered, this

~ day of

aT,

,2003.

I

Sharon B. Alexander
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

