-------------------,
i.
"I

BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROLINA

GRffiVANCECO~TTEE

. WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
MARK E. RANDOLPH,
ATTOR.NE.Y AT LAW

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE:aAR
03 G0443

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE .. ,

On July 23;· 2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and cQnsidered
the gri,evance filed against you by John Eric Gibson.
.
Pursuant to section .0113.(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. A~er considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice" the Grievance Committee fO'!l11dptohable
cause. Probl:!ble cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable calJse, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and' a hearing before the DisCiplinary Hearing Commission are
not required ~d the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending UPOJ,1 the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The.
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.

I

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provision$ ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct and ha$ c~used
significant hann or potenti~l significant hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the proff;:ssion or,
a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance:Connnittee of·
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censur~. I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In June 2001 you filed an application to obtll.in professiona1liabilityinsurance with Lawyers
Mutual Insurance Co. Question 13(b) ofthe application required you to disclose whether you were
aware of any "grievance having been filed against" you. You answered this question in the negative.
This answ~r was fa:lse. In July 2000 you were notified that the State Bar had filed a grievance
against you in file·no. 0021GR013 concerning your handling of the estate of David Sundberg. You
filed responses in July and September 2000. You were served with a subpoena for cause audit in that
matter in October 2000 and hired counsel to represent you. Your attorney also filed a response in the' •
underlying grievance on Dec. 1,2000. Both you and your attorney m~t with the State Bar's al.lditors

I
"

I

on a number of occasions and you were therefore well aware not only that a grievance existed but that
it was still pending when you filled out the insurance application in June 2001.
.
l
You conduct in knowingly filing a false insurance application constituted a violation of Rule
8.4(b). Your misconduct is aggravated by the fact your falsehood caused the insurance company to
deny coverage when the -Sundberg estate filed suit against you, thus depriving the estate of a source of
compensation..
I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourselfto depart from· adherence to thehigh ethical standards of the legal profession. This .censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow a.ttorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accor4ance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Coupcil of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by theOrievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
'
.

Done ap.d ordered, this

.5

day of

~

,2003.

Sh on B. Alexander, ChaIr
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

• I
'1

/0&

1) :, i

