NORTH CAROLIN.A
.
. i

BEFORE tHE
GRffiVANCECONlliflTTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

03G033~

IN THE MATTER OF

I

)
)
)
)
)

DANIELL. TAYLOR,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

On July 23,2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered·
the grievance file~ against you by the NC State Bar.
PurSUaIlt to section .01 13 (a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. Aft~r considering the informatiO:/;l ..
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Griev~ce Commjttee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the N()rth
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding· of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may detennine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing CommisSion are not
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
Plisconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney,.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline moreseri.ous than an admonition issued in caSes. in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofPtofessionalConduct and h~
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censur~ is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to YOll .. As chairman of the Grievance Committe~ ofthe North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty is performed.
On Dec. 11,2002 the N.C. State Bar notified you that a former client, Charles L., had
filed a petition for fee dispute against you. The notice directed you to file a written response
within 15 days. On Jan. 9,2003, the State Bar sent you a reminder letterthat your response was
overdue.
On Feb. 5,2003 yoh contacted the State Bar and were given another 5 days in which to
respond. On Feb. 11, the mediator agreed to hold the fee mediation file open until Feb. 17. No
other extensions were provided to you. Nevertheless, you did not file a response to the fee
dispute petiti()n until Feb. 24.

I
:,"..

"

Your failure to file a response to the fee dispute petition by the Dec. 26, 2002 deadline
constituted a violation of Rule 1.5(d) and Rule 8.1. Your misconduct in this matter was
aggravated by the fact that you waited until well after the response was due to seek an extension
of time and even then failed to file a timely response. Your violation is also aggravated by the
fact that yoti ;hav~ previously been admonished for, among' other things, failing to respond to a
State Bar letter of notice ai1d ~ubpoena.
Y ou ~e hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar dlJ.e to your professional
misconduct. :The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered:by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will -never 'again allow yourselfto
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

sful1'OIlB. Alexancter
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

I

lof

