BEFORET}{E
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE'
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
00G1102

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

THOMAS M:' URQUHART, .
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

·On July 23, 2003, the Grievance Committee ofth~ NQrth Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by Ruth Whitley and Nancy Sidebottom.
Purs"llant to section .. OJ 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina,State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, inCluding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probahle Cquse is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member ofthe North
CaroHna State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjustifyirtg disciplinary action."

I

The rules.provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are hot .
required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various leVels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an adrnonition, a repri~and, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in eases in
which an attorney-has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused hann or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not requir~;i a censure.
The Grievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is now my duty to issue ¢.is reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fl.dly the spirit in
which this duty is' performed.
.

.

In 1996, Ruth Whitley sought your assistance in improving the performance of her mother's

investments. Yeu were also asked to do some tax r~turns for Mildred Whitley and Ruth Whitley; and .f6r .
a trust established by Robti,rt Whitley. In, September 1996, Ruth Whitley asked you about doing some
estate planning work for Mildred Whitley that would include putting Mildred's assets into trusts t6 avoid
estate taxes. In April 1997, Mildred Whitley was in poor health, and was t~el1 to Duke Hospit~1. YoU:
were asked to go to the hospital to advise about apy estate pl~ing docurnents that needed to .be . ,
completed. You retumed to Ahoskie and prepared a power of attomey for Mildred to give you the

I
'::

.... .
'

·Ior

,

power to sign any other necessary estate planning documents. When yoU returned to Duke Hospital with
the documents, you found that Mildred was alert and able to understand any documents you would have
asked her to sign, but Ruth Whitley and Nancy Sidebottom asked you not to present any documents to
Mildred for iher signature because they did not want Mildred to think that she would be signill.g
documents ip anticipation of her death. Nancy Sidebottom signed Mildred's name to the power of
attorney that you had brought. Knowing that Mildred Whitley had not signed the power of attorney, you.
had a not~ notarize Mildred's signature as though the notary had witnessed Mildred signing the
document. :(3ased upon that power of attorney, you prepared and signed other trust documents for
Mildred Whitley. By having the power of attorney notarized as though Mildred Whitley had appeared
before the notary and the notary had wjtnessed her signature, you engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4Cc).
i

You 'are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. •The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this repnmand~ that it will be
remembered! by you, that it will be beneficial to yoU, and that you will never again allow yourselfto
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Caroli:p.a
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
,

r

ill
a.~nt
Done!I and ordered, this -::.'...:I~_
day of~

,2003.

Chair, Grievance Committee

Ii
:\

'.

;

/(0

