,-i

·

1

-----------.

•

,

BEFORE THE '
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATB BAR
03G0638

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN
- THE- MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

--

I

I

RICHARD V. BROADNAX,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

On July 23, 2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and conside.red
the grievance filed against you by Joyace M. Tate.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After consideririg the infonnation
available to it, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the ruies as
"reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct
justifying disciplinary action."
The rilles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may detennine
that the filing of a complaint an4 a hearing before the Pisclplinary Hearing Cominission are not
required, and the Grievance COIinnittee may issue variolls levels of discipline depending Upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue. an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the. respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a Written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member9f
the public, but t~e misconduct 40es not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure, is ,not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As cIiainnan ofthe Grievance Conunittee ofthe North Carolina State:aar~
it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit ill
which this duty is perfonned.
On April 17, 2003, the State Bar received a complaint that you had been appointed
defense attorney by the Court for IT., that you refused to return J.T. 's calls, that you failed to
appear for l T. 's hearing, and yet submitted a fee request for reimbursement to the Court, which
was paid. You were sent a letter of notice trom the State Bar by certified mail detailing this '
complaint and requiring your response within 15 days of receipt; this letter was received and
signed for on May 1, 2003. You failed to respond to this letter. When you did not respond, the
State Bar Office of Counsel sent you a follow up letter on May 23', 200~,'reminding you that yourresponse was overdue. You failed to respond to this letter as well.

I,-

j

, "

(J / .

Your failure to respond to the State B~ constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b), as a violation of Rule 8. 1(b)- of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct which r~quires attorneys to respond to requests for infonnation from a disciplinary
authority, in~ludi.ng the State Bar, and pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(3).
In depidi~g to iss~e you this reprimand, the Committee took into consideration that you

were warned in 2000 for failing to respond in a timely fashion to a letter of notice in another
grievance.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to 'your professional
The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from aqherence to the high ethical st~dards of the legal profession.
misc~mduct.

,

I,

,

In aceordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina

State 13ar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
I

reprimand:b~ the .GrievanceCtimmittee, the costs of this· action in the amount

Done'andordered, this

-¥

~ day of

2003,

kbCf

Sharon B. Alexander
Chair, Grievan~e Committee

1

I

