NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
N9RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0226GR022

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

LEON ORR,
ATlORNEY AT LAW

)
.)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 23,2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and consider¢d
the grievance filed against you by Michael Thomas.
Plirsuant to section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State' .
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the infof111ation .
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee fo\li1d probable.
cause: Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member ofthe North
Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmiscon,ductj"qstifying disciplinary action."
The ~les provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misc;onduct, the actual or potential injury caused, aiJd any aggravating or mitigating factors. The.
Grievance Committee may issue .an·admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.

I

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or'more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has c~:psed
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a 4earing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
Mr. Michael Thomas filed a grievance with the Grievance Committee of the 26th District.
alleging that he was not paid for an option on real estate when the land was sold to your client, Mr.
Rashad Sabur. The 26th District sent you a Letter of Notice regardingMI'. Thomas' allegation, but
you failed to respond. Therefore, the 26th District recommended a finding ofprobabTe cau,se on the
issue of failing to respond to the Grievance Committee. After receiving the 46th District's
recommendation, the State Bar gave you an additional chance to respond. You failed to respond and
a summons was issued for you to appear at the State Bar. You appeared in response to the summons,
but :provided a written response only when asked to do so while at the State Bar Office.

I
'-!

I

\

The C<i>mmittee views your failure to respond timely to the State Bar as a violation of Rule
8. L Furthennore, this is not the only incidence of your failure to respond timely. The Committee
also considered the fact that you have recently received discipline in other matters.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Profe~sional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this ce~sure, recognize the
error that you h~ve made, and t4at you will never again allow youtselfto depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement fot you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member ofthe legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without q~estion.

I
.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regar~ing the taxing of the adrhinistrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the OrievanceCommittee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
,
to you.
Done and ordered, this

L

day of

O~

,2003.

bB.§eEioc,

Chm

Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

/1 Lf

