'~-'- - - ; '

j

1-'

I

NORTH CAROLINA.
WARE

I

BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE

COUNT~

NORTH CAROLIWA, STATE BAR

In the Matter of the Petition
of Phillip A. Escoffery, Durham,
Durham County, North Caroli~a, '
for Reinstatement to The Nortn
~arolina State Bar.

)
)
)
)
)

JUDO-iVlENT AND ORDER

THIS CAUSE coming on tp be heard before the Council of
The North Carolina State Bar at a regular quarterly meeting
held in Raleigh, North Carolina, on the 18th day of April" 1958
upon the petition and motion of Phillip A. Escoffer.y for
reinstatement to The North Carolina State Bar and for issuance
of certificate to him to

rein~tate

him to be admitted to the

practioe of law in the State of North Carolina; ,due notice
having been given as required by the rules and regulations of
The North Carolina State Bar and petition having been filed aa
of 18 October, 1957 and, petitioner having submitted said petition together with recommendations from numerous citizens of
Durham"and other counties in this State and there

b~ing

pre-

sented to the Cquncil the unanimous recommendation of the Bar
of' the Fourteenth JUdicial District fa.voring ,such restora'tion,
and granting of the petition; and it appearing further that
proceedings for disbarment of the

pet~tioner

had been insti-

tuted by, the Council of,The North Carolina State Bar in October
1937 and hearing held and Judgment entered by tJ:le Council on
the report of the trial corumi ttee de,signated fOr such proceeding and said Judgment was appealed to the Superior Court of
Durham County and the cause having been determined in the
Superior Court of said county October Term 1938 and Judgment
entered disbarring petitioner and thereafter, appeal was heard"

I

in the Supreme Court of the State of North Carolina, Spring
Term 1939, Judgment affirmed (In re Escoffery, 216 N. C.,
Page 19); and it further appearing that since the determina-.
tion of said litigation in the year 1939 thepeti ti,oner has

..

.

). \

shown gQ.od conduc't and reformation and has :presented evidence '•

..I /1

..
2

of the same and of his good character during that period and
bearst such good reputation and character and evtdence of reformati0tl.; and the Council of The North Carolina State Bar having
considered and examined into the matters presented with reference
to the facts presented showing the reformation and good character
f

I

of petitioner and finding satisfactory information and evidence
for the restoration of the petitioner and the granting of said
petition; upon motion duly madel seconded and adopted did unanimously adopt the following resolution:
"That Phillip A. Escoffery be and he is hereby
restored and reinstated in The North Carolina
State Bar, that the President enter proper Judgment and Order to effectuate the same and further,
that copy of such Order as may be necessary be
directed to the Board of Law Examiners for issuance of certificate· by it in accordance with law.
~hat copies of such' Judgment and Order be certified to the Cle.rk of the Superior Court of Durham
County and to the Clerk of the Supreme Court of
North Carolina."
IT IS THEREUPON ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED that the·
said Phillip A. Escoffery be and he is hereby

re~nstated

in

The North Carolina State Bar from and after the 18th day of
April~

I

1958.
IT IS.FURTHER ORDERED that a copy of this Judgment and

Order be
.

cer~ified

to the Board of Law Examiners

o~

the State

I

of North Carolina to the end that they may issue certificate to
said ~hillip A. Escoffery with notations thereon as provided by
law.
IT IS FURTHER ADJUDGED AND DECREED that the said
Phillip A.. Escoffery pay the costs of these proceedings to be
fixed by the Cb\ll1cil of The North Carolina State Bar.
Dated at Raleigh, North Carolina, this the 18th day of

I

April,; 1958.

ames B. Swail , President
The North Carolina State Bar

/I!

