IN THE GENJ;RAL Co.URI Qf JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DMSION

STATE OF NORTH CAROUN,A
COUNTY OF WAKE

: \ :"if";"'

. . .'" v

IN RE: MAlTER OF DISCIPUNE
OF ALFREDA WILl,lAMSON,
ATIORNEY AT LAW'

)
)
)

•

I:"J
:

r.'~·

I I,

,-" ..I u0

'", •

No. 03M47-92:·
":'"'

.•.

--:--!"'~

ORDER OF DISBARMENT
This matter came on for hearing before this Court on October 16, 20Q3, during
the regular CIVil Session of Wake' County Superior Court. Respondent Alfreda Williamson
was· present at the hearing and was represented by counsel, Eric C. Chasse. David
Johnson appeared on behalf of the Nort;h carolina State Bar. Based on .the Courfs
review of the matters proffered by both sides at the hearing and the full consideratiOn of
the record proper, the Court hereby rmlkes the following FINDINGS OF FAcrby dear,
cogent, and convindng eVidence, and CONCLUSIONS OF LAW.

I

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.' Alfreda Williamson is an attorney licenSed to practice law in the State ot'North
Carolina..
.

L
!.

2. In an Order dated April 29, 2003, Ms. WiJliamson was censured by the .~orth
Carolina State Bar for .violating the Rules of Professional Conduct in a matter unrelated
to the present case.

J

3. On or about October 10, 2003, Senior Resiqent Superior Court Judge Donald
W. Stephens gave formal. notice to Ms. Williamson that a judicial discipline proceeding
would be held on or after October 16, 2003, to deal with allegations of misconduct
involving Ms. Williamson. Ms. Williamson timely received this notice prior to the hearing
on this matter.

I

4. On October 16,2003, Ms. Williamson entered a guilty plea pursuant to North
Carolina v. Alford, 400 U.S. 25 (1970), to one count of the criminal offense of Obtaining'
Property by False Preten~, see N.C. Gen. Stat § 14-100. The offense to which Ms.
Williamson pleaded guilty pursuant to Alfordis dassified as a Oass H felony under North
Carolina law. In Wake County file number 03CRS60610, Superior Court Judge Abraham
Penn Jones entered a criminal judgment against Ms. Williamson, and sentence~ her a
tenn of community punishment involving five yeal'$ of probation with several conditions.

I

!.
i

5. The allegations with respect to the offense of Obtaining Property by False
Pretenses to which Ms. Williamson pleaded guilty involve acts and conduct of Ms.
Williamson directly relating to her practice as an attorney and reflect seriously and
adversely on her ~onesty, tru.stworthiness, and fitness as an attorney.

. 6. Ms. Williamson's conviction of a felony offense is. such as to demean and
bring into disrepute and disgrace the practice of law and the legal profession.

I
(~1
/
J'

."

."

2

7. Ms.' Williamson's conduct as alleged in the charge of Obtaining Property by
False Preten$es
hqs caused substantial actual harm to members of the public.
.
.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. TI;leCourt has the requisite subject matter and personal jurisdiction and the
inherent authority to address the m(itters presented here and to enter the ORDER in this
matter.

2. R,espondent A!freda WilliamsOn has been convicted of a serious felony
involving mQral turpitude, and this COnviction reflects adversely on her honesty,
trustworthiness, and fitness as an attorney at law and as a practitioner licensed by the
North carolina' State Bar.

I

3. Entry of an ORDER of disdpJine short of disbarment is insuffident to protect '
the public and the integrity of the legal profession.
Based on . the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and .CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, IT IS
HEREBY ORDERED that:
1. Respondent Alfreda Williamson is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law
and from the legal profession in the State of North carolina effective immediately.

2. 'Ms~ Williamson shall have thirty (30) days from the entry of this ORDER in
Which to wind down her law practice. During the wind down period, Ms. Williamson
, may condude existing client matters that may reasonably be conduded in the best
interests of her clients and that are accomplished with the consent of her dients.
During this wind down period, Ms .. Williamson shall not accept any new dients or any
additional lega:1 matters from any existing clients. During this wind down period, Ms.
Williamson sha,U fully comply with the provisions contained in TItle 27, Subchapter 18,
Section .0124: of the North carolina Administrative Code (State 'Bar Disdpline and
Disability Rules), with respect to the winding down of her practice.
3. Ms. !Williamson shall not practice law unless and until her iicense is restored
by the North Carolina State. Bar pursuant to the Bar's reinstatement rules, see N.C.
Admin. Code, tI~. 27, subchap~er 18, § .0"125. This ORDER shall be and is an injunction
of this Court pr,ohibiting Ms. Williamson from (A) engaging in any acts constitut;ing the
practice of law; (8) holding herself out as an attorney, or (C) holding herSelf out as
being capable o,f providing the services of an· attorney as defin'ed by the laws of North
carolina.

4. In the event that Ms. Williamson seeks to petition the Bar to be reinstated as
a licensed ~ttorney and member of the North Carolina State Bar, she shall follow the
eligibility prerequisites and other procedures of the North Carolina State Bar then in
effect at the time that her petition, if any, is ·filed. Pursuant to the terms and conditions
of this ORDER, Ms. Williamson shall not be allowed to file any petition for reinstatement
prior to the expir,~tion of five years from the date of the entry of this ORDER. '

I
': '

I·

..

3
5. Within ten (10) days of the entry of this ORDER, Ms. Williamson shall deliver
her law license certificate and North Carolina Bar state membership card to the North
Carolina state Bar, Post Office Box 25908, Raleigh, North Carolina, 2761L
6. The Oerk of Superior Court for Wake County shall forthwith certify a copy of
this ORDER to the North Carolina State Bar.
This, the 16tfl day of October, 2003.

-I

R~

Superior Court Judge

..

I

1
.

','

