-, -.----~-,---.~

BEFORE THEGRffiVANCECON.lliflTTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G1093

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKECGUNTY

IN RE: BENJAMIN F. CLIFTON, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On 23 October 2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you. by Lea L. Chandler.
I

.
:

Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the .
information l'j.vailable to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee f<;lund probable cause. Probable caUse is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary ~ction."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Discipljnary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent attorney. '

A Repri,mand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issue4 in
cases in whicn an attorney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or:a member of the public, but the misconduct does not requite a Censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case
and issues this~Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State!Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will
understand :fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.

ill September 2002, Ms. Chandler contacted your offic~ about representing her on a
speeding ticket in Wake County District Court. You agreed to do so. The original court date was
19 September ~002. Ms. Chandler sent a check to your office for $330.00, which she was told
included both ~our fee and her court costs and fine; You did not deposit this check into your trus,t

I

account even though it included funds that were intended by the client to be paid to the court.
illstead, you cashed the check at the Longbranch Saloon, a business establishment.
ill December, Ms. Chanqler learned. that you had not appeared in court on her behalf as
scheduled and as you had agreed through a notice by DMV. She contacted your office and left a
voice mail that was not returned. She then contacted the Clerk's office, had the matter
:recalend~ed, and represente~ herself.

I

ill January, Ms. Chandler called your office several times and left messages that were 110t
returned. It was not lintU after the State Bar contacted you as a result of Ms. Chandler filing a
grievance that you communi<;:ated with her and refunded her money~
The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules and
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. First, by failing to .appear in court on Ms. Chandler's
behalf, you neglected a legal matter entrusted to you in violation ofRule 1.3. Second, by not
returning Ms. Chandler's calls or otherwise communicating with her, you failed to keep Ms,
Chanlder informed abolJt the status of her matter and respond to reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4. Third, by not promptly refunding the fee paid to you that
yOlJ did not-earn, you violated Rule 1.5. Finally, by not depositing Ms. Chandler's check into your
trust account, you failed to preserve the identity of your client's property in violation of 1. 15-2(a)
and failed to deposit mixed'funds intact into your trust account in VIolation of 1.15-2(g).
ill deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee considered aggravating ~d mitigating
factors. ill aggravation, the Committee considered that you were reprimanded in 1995 for failing
to appear at a court hearing in 1992 and that you are experienced in the practice and, therefore,
should have handled this matter appropriately from the ·start. ill mitig~tion, the Committee'
considered that you promptly rectified the problem once it was brought to your attention, that you
apologized to 'both the Bar and Ms. Chandler, and that your prior discipline was remote in time
'and unrelated to the curtentgrievance.·
.

I

You are hereby Reprimanded by the North.Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it. will be
:remembered by yoti, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
ill accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

1

day of

Ockbe;

,2003.

~8

sliaIOllB. A1exqjer
Chair, Grievance Committee

.: ~

c·

..

'

.

.

