;

,

i

NORTH CAROLINA

---- ---------

WAKE COUNTy

-~--~

BEFORE THE
aRmVANCE C01viMItTEE
OF THE
NORtH CAROLlNA STATE BAR

02GI265

IN THE MATTER OF'

)
)
)
)
)

ARTHuR C. BLOO m,
ATTORNEy At LAW

REPRIMAND

On October 2:3, 200'3., the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina Sta,te Bar met and
considered the grievance 'fiied against you by Annette Scott.
'
Pmsuanttp section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grit=:vance C0111hlittee conducted a preliminary hearing. Aftet considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the GrievartceCommittee
found probable ca,use. Probabie cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a
member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing disciplinary action."
the rules provide that after a fmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the. filing of a complaint and a hearing befote the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are not reqUIred, a,nd the Grievance Committee ll1ay issue various levels of discipline depending
upon the miscondhct, the actual or potential ip.jury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating
factors. The Grieyance Committee may issue an Admonition, Ii Reprimand, or a Censure to the
Respondent attorney.
A Reprimcind is a Written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more prOVisions of the Rules ofPtofessional Conduct
and has caus'ed hatm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a
member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censtiie.
the Grievance Committee Was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case and
issues this Reprim~d to you .. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North CarblinaState
Bar, it is now my q.uty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully the
spirit in which thiS' duty is perfo11i1ed. '
I

You repres~nted Ms. Annette B. Scott in a domestic matter. Ovet the course of the
representation, you' stated that you thought you and Ms. Scott had become friends and consequently
you dropped your guard.and "opened up personally." Upon yoUr own admission, this led to
inappropriate sexu~l contact with Ms. Scott. The Committee believes your actions to be in violation
of Rule 1.18 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. In issuing this reprimand, the
Con:m.1itt~e took into consideration that yotl. admitted your conduct Was a violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct, and the remorse you demonstrated in having ,committed such a violation .

.:

-"

',:

I,

"'['

1 .~

.:' ,'; :

I

i

YOil ate hereby Repri.manded hy the North Cat01ina State' Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The, Grievance Committee trusts that you will 'heed this Reprimand, that it will,be
remembered py you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you'will nevet again allow yourselfto
depart from adherence to 'the high ethical standard~ o(the legal prpfession. _
'
In accordance with the policy adopted October is, 1981 by the Coun-cil of the North

1

Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby tmc.ed to, you.
Done and otdered,. this

G
.

~,
,

,

~

I6"
~

ft",
:

...

-

I

I·

.::

"\'

"

'

"

.:./ .

" '

.

'.

"

'

.

".: ~

