BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROLINA

GRffiVANCECO~TTEE

wAkE CouNtY

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
OOG0602

IN THE MATTER OF
FLOYD B. MCKISSICK.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

I

)
On Oct9ber 2$,2003, the Grievanc~ Committee of the North Carolina State'Barmet and
considered the grievance tiled against you by Reverend Thomas Griswell.
Pursuant to section ;0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Cominittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
-information av~ilable to it, inciuding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee
found probable: cause, Probable cause is defined in thertiles as "reasonable cause to believe that a
member the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

or

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable catJ.se~ the Grievance Co:tn:riijttee may
determine that ,he filing of a complaint and a h~aring before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levelS of discipline depending
upon the misconduct, the acmal or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating
factors. : the G~evance Committee may issue an Admonition, a Reprimand, or a Censure to the
Responden.t att(l'>lney.
A RepriIfiand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued in
' caseS in which ill attotney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused. hann ot potential han'll to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a
membet of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.
i

the Grievance CoIilll1ittee was of the opinion that a 'Censure is not required in this case ~d
issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance COn'linittee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will understand fully the
spint in which this duty i1:' performed.
The Gri¢:vance Co'm1nittee at its January 2003 meeting originally considered this matter and
issued a reprimand. At your request, and with the approval of the Chair ofthe Grievance
Committee, the;matter was reconsidered at the October 2003 meeting. After reviewing your
statement requeisting teconsideration and the facts of the caSe, the Committee declined to change its
original reco:mn1endation.

.. :

~~.

',','

.,!:.

.

,

:.

~

•

',;0.-

I

Y6u represented Blanche and Thomas Griswell (husband and' wife) orr various legal matters
over a period of several years. Shortly after the death of Blanche Griswell, you prepared, documents
whereby Mr. Griswell renoUnced his right to qualify as executor of.his Wife's estate~ gave PoWet of
Attorney to Ms. Lily Richardson (Richardson), ~d deeded, the marita1 home to Lily and Napoleon
,Richardson.
Eventually, Mr. Griswell Came to realize the legal importance oTwhat had transpired and
ilistittited legal action to remove Richardson as executrix and'regain the ownership oflus home.
Griswell~ through counsel; also gave you notice of a conflict of interest should you represent
Richardson. However, you continued to represent Richardson for several weeks n(;lcessitating that
YOllf former client file a motion to have you removed as counsel based on a claim ofconflict of .
interest. You withdrew as co4nsel after the motion was filed but before the hearing wa$ held.
Richardson was later arrested and charged with Domestic Exploitation of the Elderly.
Although she later obtained new counsel to represent her on thiscrilninal charge, you did assist het
in being released frbmjail.
'
The interestoI your fonner client, Mr. Griswell, was adverse to Richardson. Yet in the civil
and, to a lesser extent, the criminal C'l-ses you represented Richardson.
The 'Committee found that your above-described cbnduct violated Rule 1.9' of'the Revise4
Rules of Professional Conduct in that your actions in representing the Richardson','s cre'l-ted a
conflict ofinterest with Mr. Griswell.
,
You are' hereby Reprimanded by the N?rth Carolina State Bar due to yourprolessional
misconduct. The Grievance COrhmittee tnists that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you,. that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical st~dards of the legal profeSSIon,.

I

In 'l-ccordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council,ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any,~ttorney
issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the a;mount of $$0.00
are hereby taxed to YOll.
.
Done and ordeted~ this ~ day, of

~is~,~e'(~',:iH
',,'~,
Sharon B. Alexand~
Chair, Grievance Cohltnittee

I·

.. ;

.,-'-0-'-

.,'

~:

':'/

'. :.... ;

:

. ',:;"

