NORTH CAROLINA

~-

----------

_

BEFORETHE

GRrnVANCECO~TEE

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01G0931

WAKE COUNTY

IN tHE MATTER OF
MELVIN L. WALL JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

I

On April 17, 2002, the Grjevance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered t~e
, grievance filed against you by the' North Carolina State Bar.
Purs'Q,ant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause IS defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member ofthe North
Carolina Sta~e Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a\complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
hot required ~.nd the Grievartce Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or initigating factors. The
Grievance qmilnittee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.

I-

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant hb or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of ,the public, but the lflisconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
I

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not requited in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance'Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.

In Juhe 1999, you wldertook to represent client R. A. J. in a civil action against his former
employer, Arhold Palmer Cadillac. Eventually, the ca$e Was removed to federal court. During the
course of yolV representation, you failed to provide discovery responses and failed to appear for a
deposition scheduled for July 18, 2001. Your conduct in this regard constituted neglect in violation of
Rule 1.3 oftlie Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Even more troubling to the Grievance
Committee 'Was your conduct in falsely representing to the federal court that the' initial Attorneys
Conference h~d been scheduled for Nov. 16,2000 when in fact, you had never contacted defense counsel
about the lAC and the conference was not held on Nov. 16, 2000. Your lack of candor with the federal

I
.:...

17~

, '

court violated Rule 8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. As a result of your
misfeasance, your client's complaint was dismissed by the court.
The Grievance Committee did acknowledge that you provided the name of your malpractice
insurance carrier to your client and that you were III during a portion of the time in question..
However, these facts at most mitigate your misconduct but do not excuse it.
..

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar- for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee tru~ts that you will ponder this censl.l1;'e, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
.
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the_co~s, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
.

ill accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Counci19fthe North Carplina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

pY

of

• 2002.

Calvin E. Murphy, ChaIr
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

