----....---

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G0094

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Gregory W, Stafford
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On April 17, 2003, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered ¢.e
grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
,
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the Nqrth Carolina
State Bar, th¢ Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cauSe. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that ~ member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty bfmisconductjustifying
disciplinary ~ction."

or

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cauSe, the Grieyance Coinmittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission !are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

I

A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in whicJ;i an attorney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct and ~as,caused hann or potential h~nn to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or: a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require ,a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan ofthe Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State! Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is perfotnied.
You sent a direct mail solicitation letter to a prospective client who was charged with a
traffic offense. 'your l,etter to the prospective client did not bear the advertising disclosure
statement, "ThIS js an advertisement for legal services". Furthennore, the envelope containing
the direct mail ',solicitation letter did have the advertising diSclosure statement stamped on the

I

envelope, but the disclosure statement was not in print as large or larger than your law firin'S '
name.
Your d,irect mail solicitation letter and envelope were not in compliance with Rule 7.3(c)
of the ,Revised Rules of Professional Con4uct.
You ate hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for yourpr()fessional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

ill accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina, State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs ~o any
, attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to' you.
pone and ordered, 'this the

;),q

day Of-t-Al.L.I'J=..:-(Y,--\-\_ _ _ _, 2003.

Sharon B. Alexander, Chair
Grievance Committee

SBAInkt

I

"

I
'.

.

\

\

