] ~{(O
WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROL

I

INRE GEORGINA M. MOLLICK

)
) OR1)ER OF INTERIM
) SUSPENSION

THIS CAUSE came on to be heard and was heard on ~ /',.C)()ol/beforethe
undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing COnimissioll pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin:
Code Chapter 1 Subchapter B,§ .0115 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disbannent
Rules pursuant to the State Bar's motion for an order of interim suspension of
Respondent's liC~i1se to practice law. The Respondent, Georgina M. Mollick was
represented by Robert Hale. The N.C State Bat was represented by Carolin Bakewell.
Based upon the petition anq the response thereto, the up.der$igned hereby.makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1992.

1. Georgina M. Mollick was licensed to practice law in North Carolina March

2.. Mollick's last known address of record with the North Catolina State Bar is
2109 MaI1Uel Street:, Raleigh NC 27612.

I

3. On Sept. 11,2003, Mollick tendered a plea of guilty to one co~t of
misprision of a felony in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 4..
4. Mollick has not yet been sentenced.
5.. The offense to which Mollick has tendered a guilty plea is a criminal offense
showing professional li11fitnessas defined by § .0115 ofthe State Bar.Discipiin~ &
Disbarment R u l e s . ·
.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned hereby makes· the
following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. Respondent's plea has been accepted within the meaning of the State Bar's
interim ~uspension rule.

4.

The offense to which the Respondent has tendered a guflty plea is a crime
showing professional unfitness Within the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter B, §
.0115 of:the·.state Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

I

3. An order suspending the Respondent's law license on an interim basis is
necessary for the protection of the public and to uphold the standing oithe legal
pr~fession.
.
I

.I~ased,ilpon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the

undersi~ed Ohair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following:

ORDER
1. The license to practice law in North Carolina of Georgina Mollick is hereby
.SUSPENDED until the conclusion of all disciplinary proceedings pending before the
North Cci.rolina State Bat relating to Mollick's tender of a guilty plea. to a violation of 18
U.S.C. §4.

..~'. '.

:

~Mr.6-RicH d T. Gammon; Chalr
Disciplinary Hearing Commission

.

..

I

I
..
...

.,'.. ., '

.

,'

