,--

BEFORE THE
GIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03 DHC 1

NORTH CAROL

I

THE NORTH CAROLINASTATE BAR
Plaintiff

)
)
)

)

)

~

)
WALTER T. JOHNSON, JR. ATTORNEY )
Defendant
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACt
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE '

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and wa,s heard before a d,uly appointed
hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing COIlilllission composed of Richard T.
Gammon, Chair; Betty Ann Knudsen and Charles M. Davis on Aug. 41 - 23, 2003. The
Defendant, Walter T. Johnson, Jr., was represented by W. Erwin Fuller Jr. and Henry E.
Frye. Carolin Bakewell represented the State Bar. Based upon the stipulations of the
parties and, the evidence introduced at trial, the hearing committee hereby makes the
following: '
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

I. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organize'd
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper partyto bring this proceeding
under the authoptygranted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina; and the Rules and Regulations of the North CaroHna State Bar
promulgated there~der.

2., The Defelldant, Walter T. Johnson, Jr. (Johnson), was admitted to the
NotthCarolina State Bar in 1964, andis, and was at all 'times referred to' herein,
an attorney at.1~w licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, '
regulations and Rules ofProfe~sional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar
and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. DuriIlg all of the periods relevant hereto, Johnson was eng~ged in the
practice of law in the City of Greensboro, North Carolina.

I

"

'.:;

,~.

{~~,

,

\

..

,',

..
"

.. ,
"

.:

.

'"

{q~
.
,"-

.

'

....

• 4. In November 1999, Johnson undertook to represent William McGhee
(McGhee) regarding his efforts to obtain parole from prison. Johnson was paid ~
$3,800 fee for his services in late 1999,
I

'5. At orshortiy after the time he agreed to represent McGhee, Johnson
knew or should have known that McGhee 'had been convicted of conspiracy to
traffic in cocaine and. assault on a law enforcement officer, had prior convictions
of second degree murder and 'assault, was in a medium custody prison unit, had
accumulated approximately 15 infractions while in prison, had failed or refused to
participate in rehabilitation programs while in prison, and had been denied parole
.
severai tilnes previou$ly.

I

6. At the time that Johnson agreed to represent McGhee, the North
Carolh\a Par.ole CoIhlhission was granting i1111hediate parole to inmates in
mediurp custody only in very rare circumstances.
7 . Johnson had handled numerous parole cases prior to 1999 and Was
aware of the Commission's position regarding parole of inmates in lJledium
custody. Of the many inmates whom Johnson had represented over the years,
only op,e had successfully obtained parole "to the street" from medium custody.
Johnson thus knew that it would be very difficult, ifnot impossible, to obtain
immediate parole for McGhee under the circUrnstt;ll1ces of his case.
.

,

8. Johnson failed to advise McGhee in a timely manner that it would be
very difficult, .if not illlPossible, to achieve McGhee's release on parole given the
.
facts arid circumstartces of his case.
,9. On May 10,2000, the Parole Commission considered McGhee's case
and refused to grant him parole, even though the Parole Commission had
previously advised McGhee in writing that his next parole review date would be
May 15:, 2000. Neither Johnson nor his staff requested a parole review hearing
and no parole.hearing was held respecting McGhee in May 2000. McGhee's
request :for parole was considered solely based on the records already on file with
the Corinnission.

I

~o. Although Johpson and a non-lawyer assistant, John Stewait
(Stewart), prepared a three page report regarding McGhee, the report was not time
stampe4 by the Parole Commission until May 16, 2000, six days after McGhee's
request for parole had been reviewed and denied. The three page report consisted
primari~y of information gathered from the public recotds and did not include any
medical reports concerning the poor health of McGhee and his wife, although
these w$re factors that might have supported McGhee's parole petition.

i 1.

Johnson <:lid not tell McGhee that the three page report was not
received by the Parole Commission until after McGhee's request for parole had
been .dellied.
,

I
:-.... : .. :'.

12. Johnson failed to keep McGhee reasonably infonned about his C1:l.se
am:!. faiied to promptly comply with reasonable requests for infonnation.
13. On June 19,2000, McGhee discharged Johnsoll and directed him to'
refund the unel:lffied portion of the fee.
'
14. Although Johnson acknowledged receiving the June 19,2000 letter
from McGhee, Johnson did not withdraw from the case as directed by McGhee
nor did he refund any portion ofthe $3,800 fee .

I

.l5. Johnson's refusal to withdraw as McGhee's attomeywas :motivated at
least in part by a desire to avoid refunding a portion of the fee paid to him.

16. After mid-June 2000, Johnson perfortned little or 110 additional work
for McGhee until April 8, 2001, when Johnson wrote to McGhee to inquire about
his prison status.

,,' ,

17. On April 12, 2001, McGhee responded to Johnson's April 8 letter and
again discharged him and requested a refund of the $3,800 fe,e.
.
18. Johnson did not withdraw from the case as directed nor djd he refund
any portion of the $3,800 fee that he had been paid.
,
19. On May 8,2001, despite the fact that Johnson knew that McGhee had
d,ischarged hirn, JohnsQn sent Stewart to make a presentation on McGhee's behalf
to the Parole Commission. The Commission again denied McGhee's request for
p3:role •

I

20. N~ither Johnson 1}0r Stewart had any contact with McGhee after the
May 8, 2001 parole review date and no refund ofthe fee was ever made .
.21. On or about Sept. 14,2000, Susan Swears (Ms. Swears) paid Johnson
a $3,800 fee to assist her husband, Stephen Swears (Swears), to obtain parole
from prison.

22. Johnson knew on or shortly after Sept. 14, 2000 that Swears was in a
medium custody prison in Florida, that he had pled guilty to a serious assault, and
that he had been denied parole several times prior to 2000. Johnson also knew
that it would be very difficult, ifnot impossible, to achieve'Swe!U's' d.irect release'
on parole under the circumstances of his case.
23. JoOOso11 failed to advise Swears or Ms, Swears in a timely fashion
that it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to obtain innnediate parole for
Swears under the circumstances of his case.

I
.

".,

f

•

\

·24. In September 2000 Johnson agreed to speak to Swears by telephone
before his next parole review date in March 2001. Swears desired to speak to
lohnson about several legal issues of concern to hhn .
•25. Johnson never spoke with Swears in person Or by tel<:;:phone .
.26. Stewart appeared on' Swears' behalf at a parole review hearing in
March 2001. On or about March 13,2001, the N.C. Parole Commission denied
Swears)' request for parole.
!
I

, - , _

, :27. Johiison ignored a number of letters and requests for infonnation from

I

Ms. Swears and Swears after the March 2001 parole hearing.
~28. Stewart spoke to Swears by telephone on one occasion, in May 2001,
after Swears had alre~dy been denied parole. As a non-lawyer, however, Stewart
to address Swears' legal questions.
was un~hle
,.
,

'

?9. On Aug. 4, 2001, Ms. Sweats discharged Johnson and reque&ted a
refund of the f~e paid to him, at least a portion of which had not been earned.
;30. Johnson initially refused to retlim any portion of the $3,800 fee.
31. After Ms. Swears filed a fee dispute resolution petition with the N.C.
State Bar, Johnson agreed to refund a portion of the fee, but did not make the
paymen~sas promised. Johnson ultimately refunded the entire $3,800 fee, but
only aft~r the State Bar filed its fonnal complaint herein.
32. Johnson's failure to make a timely refund of the unearned portion of
the fee' hampered Ms. Swears' ability to retain other counsel to represent Swears.
~3. On or about Feb. 26, 1997,. Larry Eugene Allred (Allred) was
convicted of four counts of second degree kidnapping, three counts of armed
robbery,. and two counts of robbery with a dangerous weapon.

I

34. Bhortly after the trial, Johnson undertook to appeal from the
convicti9n on Allred's behalf

3'5. Johnson delegated the work on Allred's appeal to an associate,
Jacqueline St~ley (Ms .. Stanley). Ms. Stanley filed the record on appeal in
Allred's 'case 20 days after it was due, without first obtaining an extension of
time.

36. The briefthat Ms. Stanley filed for Allred in January 1998 violated
the Nort~ Carolina Rules of Appellate Procedure in at least the following respects:

~.

. :,
..

"

.. ,

-,

'-I"

I

a. The statement offacts in Johnsbn's brief was l10t supported by
references to the record on appeal.
b. The brief did not contain assignments of error and references to
the pages in the record where the assignments of error
appeared.

I

c. The final assignment of error was deemed abandoned because
it was not support<ed with argument.
37. J ohn~on failed to r~view-the brief ~d recbrd on. appeal before they
were filed and he failed to Cldequately supervise Ms. Stanley's activities regarding
the Allred case.
38. On OF aboQ.t December 5, 1998, johnson undertook tppursue postconviction relief on behalf of Jeffrey Rogers (Rogers).
39. Rogers' mother, Marie Rogers (Ms. Rogers), paid Johnson $3,800 for
his setvic'es.
40. In 1996, prior to retaining Johnson's services, Rogers had filed a
habeas action in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North
Carolina. The habeas case was still pending in late 1998 When J Ohnsoh
undertook to represent Rogers.
41. Johnson did not file any ple~dings or briefs in the federal habea$
action, nor did he take any other effective action to-assis~ Rogers.
-

I

42. The federal court ruled on the habeas petition in November 2000 and
Rogers filed a notice ofapP<eal on his own behalf.
43. In March 2001, Johnson attempted to file a notice of appearance in the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit ~n Rogers' behalf. Shortly
afterw~d, however, Rogers discharged Johnson, who filed no other documents iIi
the appellate proceeding on Rogers' behalf.
44. Johnson did not respond in a reasonable fashion to attempts by
Rogers and- Ms. Rogers to determine the status ofthe case and did not keep
ROgers informecl about the cas~.
4~. After he withdrew as Rogers' attorney, Johnson failed to promptly
refund the unearned portion of the $3,800 fee, despite promises that he would do.

46. fuDecember 2001, Ms. Rogers filed a fee dispute resolutionpetitiop.
with the North Carolina State Bar. After the peti,tion was filed, Johnson

I
,.,

"

.

ultima~ely refunded

approximately $430 of the $3,800 fee paid by Ms. Rogers for

her son.

41. On May 9, 1995 Orlando T. Lea (Lea) was convicted of attempted
second degree murder and several assault charges. Lea Was sentenced only on
the attempted second degree murder charge and the court continued judgment on
the assault convictions.
:48. In March 1999, Lea's girlfriend, Lisa Lytle, paid Johnson $3,800 to .
pursue post-conviction relief for Lea.
I

49. Johnson failed to file a motion for appropriate relief or take other
effectiye action on Lea's behalf between March 1999 and May 2000 .
. '50. 'On May S, 2000, Johnson filed a motion for appropriate relief for
Lea. T4e motion was filed about a month after the N.C. Court of Appeals entered
an opinion in another case which held that the crime of attempted second degree
murder idid not exist in North Carolina.
?1. In response to Johnson's motion for appropriate relief, the State filed
a brief requesting the court to pray judgment on the assault convictions against
Lea.
~2.

On May 15, 2000, a hearing was held on Lea's motion for appropriate
relief. The court granted Lea's motion for appropriate relief as to the attempted
second degree murder convictions, but also granted the state's motion to pray
judgmeJ;lt on the assault charges. The written order in the case was filed on June
16,2000.

. 53. johnson agreed to appeal from the June 16 order granting the state's
motion to pray judgment, but failed to perfect the appeal or prepare a record on
appeal in a timely fashion.
.

I

54. Johnson also failed to respond to numerous letters and inquiries about
the statu,s ofthe case from Le~'s aunt, Leona Dove, who served as contact or
liaison between Johnson and Lea.
I

.

55. On Aug. 6,2001, after he received notice that Lea had complained to
the Nortp. Carolina State Bar abouthis failure to pursue the appeal, Johnson filed
a petition for writ of certiorari on Lea's behalf.
.
5:6. In approximately August 20bo, Johnson undertpok to represent
Frances l3arnack (Barnack) regarding 'a domestic case. The parties signed a fee
contract whereby Johnsoh agreed to file an actjon for divorce and complete a
separati~n agreement for a $1,500 flat fee.

"

.'~.~~

I

..

57. Barnack's domestic case turned out to be considerably more
complicated than Johnson or Barnack had initially contemplat(;:d and Jolu:).son or
Ms. Stanley represented Barnack in a domestic violence action and disputes over
custody 'llld other issues.
58. Although Barnack was eligible to seek divorc~ on Sept. 17,2001,
Johnson did not file a complaint for divorce on her behalf.

I

59. JohIlson failed to respond in'a rea$onable and timely mann(;:f to
Barnack's requests for infonnation and failed,to keep her advised ofthe status of
her case.
'

60. 011 or about Feb. 26, 2001, Cecelia Davis (Ms. Davis), retained
Johnson's services to represent her son, Brandon Davis (Davis), regarding first
degree murder and d.nig charges then pending against Davis.
61. Ms. Davis ultimatelypajd Johnson $12,500 ofa total contemplated
fee of $25,000 for herson's case.
62. After a hearing in October 2001, Davis became dissatisfied with
Johnson's services and orally discharged him.
63. Johnson did not withdraw as Davis~ attorney and, on Nov. 12,2001,
Davis 4ischarged Johnson in writing and requested a refund of the unearned
portion of the fee.
64. Johnson again failed to withdraw and failed to return any portion of
the fee. He cop.tinued (tttempting to negotiate a possible plea bargain for Davis
with the assistant district attorney assigned to Davis' case.

I

65. In December 2001, Johnson negotiated a plea to second degree
murder fot Davis, although he had not been authorized to do so by Pavis a;nd" in
fact, had been discharged as Davis' attorney.
66., On Dec. 31., 2001, Johnson wrote to Davis, explained the plea bargain
that he had arranged, and advised Davis that he (Johnson) would withdraw if ,"
Davis declined the plea. Johnson told Davis that he'would not refund any part of
the fee since Johnson had effectively saved Davis' life' by l).egotiating a plea to
second degree murder.
67. Johnson's refusal to withdraw as Davis' attorney was motivated at
least in part by a desire to avoid refunding a portion of the fee paid to hiin.
68. Davis rejected the plea offer and Johnson withdrew as Davis'
attorney ip. January 2002. Johnson 'did not refund any portion of the fee paid to
him by Ms. Davis. '

:1
''' ..

i

,"",

..

69. On Sept. ,8, 1999, Johnson undertook to assist Wendell Corey Cole
(Cole) in seeking post-conviction relief from several convictions for robbery with
a dangerous weapon dating from 1993.
.
. 70. Specifically, Cole sought relief from a February 1993 conviction on
the gro,unds that his trial attorney had failed to warn him that if the criminal
charges were resolved after December 1992, when Cole turned 21, he would not
receiver the benefit ofthe CYO (committed youthful offender) statute then in
existen,ce (the "CYO argument").
:71. Cole also sought relief from additional robbery charges to which he
pled gtlilty in August 1993 on the grounds that he had newly discovered alibi
testimqny (the "alibi argument").

I

72. Beverly M. Cole (Ms. Cole), Cole's mother, paid Johnson $3,800 as an
attorney fee.
'
73. Cole finished serVing his prison sentence for the February 1993
convic~ion in April 1999, a fact which Johnson knew or should have known about

the tim¢ he agreed to represent Cole. Johnson did not warn Cole that it would,
likely be very difficult to obtain any effective relief regarding the February 1993
convidion since Cole had completed serving the prison sentence.

:74. Johnson also railed to warn Cble that it would b~ very difficult to
.pbtain any relief from the August 1993 convictions, in light of his guilty plea to
those
c,4arges.
.
!
.
,
\
175. On Sept. ~ 1, 2~01, Johnson filed a motion for appropriate relief on
Cole's behalf in connection with the February 1993 conviction. The only basis
for relief raised· in the motion was the "CYO argument" of which Johnson had
been aware since April 1999. The motion did not seek relief from the August
1993 conviction based on the "alibi argument" or any other theory.

I

:76. On Dec. 20, 2001, the superior court denied Cole's motion for
appropriate relier on the grounds, among other things, that the motion was moot
since Cole had finished serving the sentence on the February 1993 conviction.

77. Meanwhile, Johnson failed to communicate with Ms. Cole and Cole
.
and fail~d to keep them apprised of the status of the case.

78. On or about Feb. 5, 2002, Ms. Cole discharged Johnson. Thereafter,
Johnson failed to refund the unearned portion ofthe fee paid to him by Ms. Cole.
i

79. On or about Sept. 3, 2002, Ms. Cole filed a grievance against Johnson
with the N.C. State Bar.

I
.:-'

". :.

80. On Sept. 26, 2002, Johnson was served with the State Bar's letter of
notice and substance of grievance regarding Ms. Cole's grievance. Pursuant to
the N.C. Stat~Bar's Disciplin~ & Disability Rules, Johnson's response was due
no later than Oct. "11, 2002.
.
.
.81. "Johnson did not file a response to the letter of notice and substance of
grievance until November 4, 2002.

I

82. Johnson did not file timely employee withholding returns for the
period 2000 - 2002 a:lthough he employed at least one employee during this
period and was required to file withholding returns.
83. Johnson did not pay employee withholding taxes on a timely basis
between Jan. 1, 2000 - Dec. 31, 2002 and did not hold the funds which shol.lld
have been paid to the taXing authorities on his employees' behalf separate and
apart from the other funds reiating to his law practice.
"
84. J ohnso~ did not maintain a sufficient balance in his office operating
account between Jan. 1,2000 and Dec. 31,20'02 to pay the amounts owed to the
taxing authorities in employee withholding taxes for the period 2000 - 2002.
85. As of July 2003 , Johnson's tax liability to the' federal governmen.t,
including taxe~, penalties and interest, exceeded $500,000. Johnson was aware
prior to 1996 that the sta:te and federal governments had filed substantial liens
against him.

I

86. On Oct. 17, 1997, Johnson's mother, Gertrude johnson, di~d. At the
time of her death Ms. Johnson owned four rental properties in Guilford County.
Hyr only heirs were Johnson and a daughter, PatriCia Johnson.
87. On Jan, 6, 1998 Johnson renolfllced any interest he wOl.lld otherwise
have had in his mother's estate.
88. On March 28, 2000, in his role a,s administrator pfhis mother's
estate, Johnson deeded the four tracts of rental property to his four children.
89. On April 2, 2000, Johnson's children deeded the four tracts of rental
property to a corporation known as WGJ Properties, Inc. Johnson's four children
were shareholders ofWGJ Properties.
90. Johnson renounced his interest in his mother's estate and arranged the
conveyance of the four tracts of rental properties to his children and then to WGJ
Properties for the purpose of delaying or hindering the federal government's
, efforts to collect'personal in<;ome taxes owed by Johnson to the IRS.

I

"

"

.'

'

'91. Johnson failed to file timely personal income tax returns with the
state tax authorities for the years 1996 - 2001, inclusive. .tohnson failed to file
timely personal income tax returns with'the Internal Revenue Service for the years
1997 -,20Q1, inclusive.
' '
,92. Johnson's failure to file timely income tax returns Was knowing and

willfuLi
:Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee hereby
enters the following:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. By failing to advise McGhee and Swears in a, timely fashion that it
would be very difficult, if not impossible, for them to achieve p,arole, Johnson
failed t9 explain the matter to the extent necessary to' permit the clients ,to make
il1fortn~d decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b).
12. By accepting and ret~ining a substantial fee on behalf ofSwears,
McGhe,e and Cole when he knew or should have known that it WaS very unlikely ,
that the clients' desired result could be achieyed, Johnson ~ccept~d dearly
excessive fees in violationofRule 1.5 and engaged in conduct involving
dishon~sty, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

:3. By failing to take appropriate measures to ensure that the written
packagy fot McGhee was received at the Parole Commission prior to his May
2000 pfu-ole review date and by failing to include in the submission any medical
records, regarding McGhee or his wife, Johnson neglected his client's case in
violation of Rule 1.3.
,
'
.4. i3yfi;liling to return the unearned portion of the $3,800 fee paid to him
#ler McGhee discharged him inJune 2000, Johnson retained a clearly excessive
fee in violation of Rule 1.5.

I

5. By continuing to act as attorney for McGhee and Brandon DaviS' after
he had been discharged, Johnson failed to withdraw as instructed by his clients, iIi
violation of Rule 1.16(a)(4).

o.

By failing to keep Swears, Barnack, Cole" Rogers and Lea reasonably
informed about the status of their caSeS and by failing to promptly respond to their
request~ for infortnation, Johnson violated Rule l.4(a).
7. By failing to return the unearned portion of the $3,800 fee at the
conclusion of the representation, Johnson retailled a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule 1.5.

" ..

I

I

"

-:

:-

...

"

8. By failing to file the record on appeal'in Allred's case in a timely
fashion, Johnson neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 1.3.
9. By filing an appellate brief in Allred's case which failed to 'comply
with tlie N.C. Rules of Appellate Procedure in several important respects, Johnson
undertQok a legai matter 'Yithout adequate preparation in vi~lation of Rule 1. 1(b).

I

10. By failing to take timely steps to pursue post-conviction relief fot Lea
and by fCJiling to timely seek appellate review ofthe order praying judgrtlent on
the assault convictions, Johnson neglected a cliep.t matter in violation of Rule 1.3.
11. By failing to take timely, effective action to file a compl~nt for
divorce on Barnack's behalf, Johnson neglected a client matter"i~ violation of
Rule 1.3.
12. By failing to refund the unearned portion of the fee after he was
discharged by Jeffrey Rogers, Brandon Davis aI1d Corey Cole, Johnson charged
or retained an excessive fee in violation of Revised Rule 1.5.
13. By negotiating-a plea on Davis' behalf after he had been discharged
and when he had no authority to act on Davis' behalf, Johnson engaged in
conduct prejudici;:tl to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).
14. J3y\yillfuUy failing to file timely personal income tax returns with the
state and federal governments for the years"1997, 1998 and 2000, Johnson
engaged in criminal conduct that reflects adversely on his honesty, :fitness or
trustworthiness as an attorney in violationofRule.8.4(b) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

I

15. By failing to take timely, effective action to a~sist Rogers with an
appeal or other post-conviction. relief, Johnson neglected it client matter in
violation of Rule 1.3.
'16. By failing to advise Cole that it was unlikely that he could do
anything to effectively assist him regarding the 1993 robbery convictions,
John~on failed to expiain the matter to the extent necessary to permit the cliertt to
make fnfoIlTIed decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b).
17. By waiting from April 1999 until September 2001 in Which to file a
motion for appropriate relief for Cole, Johnson neglected a client's matter in
violation of Rule 1.3.
18. By failing to respond in a timely fashion to the State Bar's letter of
notice and substance of grievance regarding Ms. Cole's complaint, Johnson
violated Rule 8.1 (b).

I

~"

',.,,:., ':

.::

.

.~.

~

... ..... _..
:

~

.

In addition to the foregoing Findings of Fact, based upon the evidence
introduced at the hearing, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
1. Johnson's violations of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct are

aggravated by the foHowing factors:
a. Johnson engaged in a pattern of misconduct which occurred over a
period of at least four years;

I

b. Johnson violated mUltiple provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
c. Johnson has been previously disciplined by the' State Bar, including
the issuance of a reprimand and an order of stayed suspension from the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission. .
,d. Johnson received a letter ofwam,ing less than 3 years before the date
of the hearing herein.
.
e. Johnson has subs.tantial experience in the practice oflaw.
f.

Johnson engaged in deceptive practices during the pendency of the
disciplinary proceedings herein. Specifically, he told the Grievance
Committee that he had filed a divorce complaint on behalf ofMs.
Barrtack and he testified that the transfers.of property to his children .
and then to WGJ Properties Inc. was not designed to interfere with the
federal government's attempts to coHeet personal income taxes owed
by Johnson.

,g. Some of Jphnson's conduct was motivated bya selfish or dishonest
motive.

I

;2. Johnson's violations ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct are
mitigated by' the following factors:
..

'a. Johnson expressed remorse and acknowledged responsibility for some
of his violations ofthe Rules.
b. 10hnson presented substantial evidence of good character and
replJ.tation in his home community.

•••••

.

1 ......... - ·

-

'.

•

I

c. Johnson has performed public service activities during his career as an
attorney.
3. 'the aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. Johnson's misconduct has caused actual harm to a number of his clients
and their familie~ and has harmed the standing of the legal piofes~ion in the eyes
of some members of the pUblic.
.

I

5. Johnson's failure to respond in a timely fashion to the State.Bat's letter
of notice regarding Ms .. Cole's grievance undermines the State Bar's ability to
regulate attorneys and undermines the privilege of attorneys in this state to remain
self.,.regulating.
6. An order calling for discipline short of a suspension of Johnson's law
license with appropriate conditions precedent for reinstatement would not
sufficiently protect the public for the following reasons:
a. Johnsbn engaged in multiple viol'ltions ofthe Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct over a·lengthyperiod of time, as opposed to an
isolated act or mistake, and it therefore appears that his misconduct is
the result of a problem or personality defect that is not readily
changeable.
b.

I

Jo~son

failed to present adeqqate assuranceS that he has addressed
whatever problem or defect has caused his misconduct and' there is
consequently a substantial risk that his misconduct would be repeated
ifhe Were to be permitted to practice l'lw.

c. The protection of the. public reqllires that Johnson's law license be
slJspended until he demonstrate~ that he unclerstands his ethiC'll
oblig'ltions to his clients, that he is capable of operating it law office in
a manner consisted with the Rules bfProfessional Conduct, and that he
is not suffering from any mental or physical condition that prevents·
.
him from practicing law competently.
.d. Prior. warnings and ord~rs of discipline, including a period of
probation, Were insufficient to prevent Johnson frQm additional
violations oftne Rules of Professional Conduct and it appears that the
only way to insulate the public. from further haffil is to prevent him
from practicing law at least for a period of time.
e. Entry of an order imposing a lesser discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness ofthe offenses which Johnson
c()mmitted, would be inconsistent with the orders of discipline entered
by this body ill similar cases, and would seIl:d the wrong rp.es~age to

' " •• , •••• ".>,-........ " ,. _.-

I
:-: :.

'"

:

:'.'

~

;..

~....

_,

t

d,.(J
7
.---

!''>~''

~

attomeys.regardingthe conduct expected ofmem.bers of the Bar of this
State.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of
, FilCt Relevant to Discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The law license' of the Defendant, Walter T. John~on, Jr.,. is hereby suspended
for a period ofthree years, effective 30 days from the service of the written order upon
him. All but One year of the suspension may be stayed for five years'upon proof of
compliance with the following condition$:

a.

I

Within 60 days of seeking a stay of the active suspension of his

licens~, Jo4nson received a mental health assessment from a licensed psychiatrist

and executed a written waiver permitting the counsel of the North Carolina State
Bar to receive copies of all evaluations, assessments and reports of the examining
psychiatrist.
.b. He has p,aid all outstanding employee withholding taxes owed to the
state and federal goverhments.
,c. Within 60 days of seeking a stay ofthe active suspension of his license,
10hnso:p selected a member of the Guilford Comity Bar to supervise his law practice
throug4out the 5 year stayed period of the suspension. The supervising attorney shall be
approved by the North Carolina State Bar. ,
d. He has successfully completed, at his own expense, a course in law office
management review offered by Nancy Byerly Jones or some other provider approved: by
the North Carolina State Bar. He shall implement all recommendations of the
consult~t, provide all staff training recoIl)lllended by the consultant and shall provide the
State B~ with written verification that he, has successfully completed the course.

!

. ..

: .... :.

.::
.. ,

,

"

"

~..

..

I

e. He has paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service of
notice of the sta~ement of costs by the Secretary of t~e State Bar.
f. He has complied with all laws of the United States and the several
states that make up the United States during the one-year active suspensiol1 of his
law license.

I

g. He has not viol~ted any provisions ofthe Revised Rul,es of
Professional Condl).ct dl).ring the active suspension of his law Iicen~e.
2. If an order is entered staying any portion ofthe suspension of
Johnson's law license, such stay will continue in effect only so long as Johnson
complies With the addition~l following conditions:
'
a, Johnson shall comply with all laws ofthe United States aild the several
.
states that make up'the United States.
, b. Johnson shaH comply with all provisions ofthe Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct. Any violation of the Rules shall be sufficient to activate
the remaining period of suspension of Johns.on's law license.
c. Johnson shall respond to all letters of notice, subpoenas and other
lawful demands for information from any district grievance committee or from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in the communication or, if
mown, by the deadline stated in the applicable law or rule.

I

d. Johnson shall meet with his supervising attorney at least once a month
-during the five-year stay period and shall report to the supervising attorney
regarding the status of all current client matters. He shall develop a plan of
action with proj ected time frames for handling all client matters and shaH
cooperate with the supervising attorney including providing all information which
the supervising attorney deems necessary to ensure that Johnson's caseload
remains of a manageable size, that he responds in a timely fashion to inquiries of
the State Bar and from his clients. The entire cost of retaining the supervising
attorney shall be borne py JoMson. Johnson shall provide wri,ttel1 reports signed
by the supervising attorney to the North Carolina State Bar certifying that Johnson
is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this order. The reports must be
received by the Office of Counsel on the first day ofJgnuary, April, July and
October throughout the stayed suspension of Johnson's law'license.
e. At least quart~r1y Johnson shall comml).mcate in'writing with all clients
for whom he is handling legal matters. He shall main~ain copies of the quarterly
letters and shall provide copies to the North Carolina State Bar and his
, supervising attorney upon request.
f. Johnson shall handle all client' matters ,promptly, shall respond to
requests for information from his clients in a timely fashion; and shall ensure that
his case load remains of a manageable size.

I
... :,

'.:

.

':"

3. If Johnson rloes not se-ek a stay of the suspension ·ofh.is law li·:::;ense at
If the suspension is stayed ~n.d later activated, Johnson must comply with tbi!
cOlldi(jOllS sct out in paragraph 1 prior l() seeking reinstatenlent ofh:.:; law lictn$c
at the' conclusion of the three year suspension: of his law license.

Signed by the Cll::l.ir or thc Hearing Committee \\Tith the consent of the other
c.omrrllttee membf.\fs.

This

thL~y of January, 2004.

I

I
.~

~'.

I
"

":.

