BEFORE THE
CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OFTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03 DHC 22

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.
WALTER J. ETRINGER, Attorney,
i
Defendant.

')
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

I

,

[

This matter was heard by a Hearing Cortll1'littee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair; Charles M. Davis and H.,
Dale A!lmond. Alan M. Schneider represented the defendant, Walter J. Etringer,
and Thomas F. Moffitt represented the plaintiff. Defendant has agreed to waive a
formal hearing in the pbove referenced' matter. Both parties stipulate and agree
to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to
the discipline imposed. The defendant also stipulates that he waives hi~ right to
appeal :this consent o~der or challenge i'n any way the sufficiency of the findings
by consenting to the entry of this order. Based upon the consent of the parties,
the He~ring Committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), isa body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
, (Chapte'r 1 of TitI,e 27 of the No~h Carolina Administrative Coae).

I

I"

2. ,'D,efendant, Walter J, Etringer ("Etringer"), was admitted to the North
Carolina: State Bar in 1976, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the
State of; North 'Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
'
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Ettinger was
engaged' in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintaine'd a
law office in Madison or Eden, Rockingham County, North Carolina.

,.:

, <,

I

4.
Defendant willfully failed to timely file state and federal income tax returns
for tax years 1997, 1998, and 1999 when those tax returns were due or pay the
taxes when due, as required by N.C. Gen. Stat Sec. 105-152 and 26 USC §.
- 6012, respectively. Willful failure to file state and federal tax returns or pay the
taxes when due are misdemeanors under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236 (9) and 26
USC § 7203, respectively.
.
5.
During the calendar years 1997-1999, defendant earned annual income
higher ~han the minimum statutory amount requiring a taxpayer to file state and
federal individual returns.

I

6.
Defendant filed his state and federal income tax returns for tax years 1997, 1998 and 1999 on or about January 25, 2001 prior to .any contact or inquiry
by the North Carolina Department of Revenue or Internal Revenue Service.
7.
. The above referenced conduct occurred during a period oftime in which,
he was experiencing significant personal problems in his life, including financial
difficulties which made him unable to pay on the due dates for filing and .
paymen~.

,.:{,'.

8.
Defendant stipulates to the facts and consents to this Order of Discipline
freely and voluntarily with advice of counsel.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the
following:
'CONCLUSIONS OF

I

LAW

1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over defendant, Walter J. Etringer, and the subject
matter of this proceeding.
2. -By willfulJy failing. to file North Carolina and federal individual income
tax returns for 1997, 1998 and 1999 when the tax returns were due 'and failing to
pay the tax~s when due, the defendant committed criminal acts that reflect
.adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other
respects, in violation of Rule 8.4 (b) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee .also enters
the following:

-'

,

,

"

-2-

:.: ::' "~".
..

t.;

, FINDINGS REGARDING OISCIPLINE
1. The

Def~ndant's

(a)
(b)

misconduct is aggravated by the folJQwing fac.tor:

Multiple offenses, and
Pattern of misconduct.

2. The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the folloWi~g fac.tors:
~a)
~b)

(c)
(d)

Absence of any prior disciplinary record,
Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive,
Defendant w~s-suffering from significant personal problems during
the time period in which the violations occurred,
Efforts to rectify the consequences of his misconduct by filing the
'required state and federal income tax returns and payhig and/or
making ,arrangements to pay all of the state and federal taxes for
which he is obligated to pay,
Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings, and
Remorse.

I

3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factorS.
::

aased upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLUSIONS OF
LAW and the FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE and with the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Committee enters the following:

ORr;:)ER OF blSCIPLiNE
1. The license of the defendant, Walter J. Etringer, is hereby suspended for two
years fr9m the date this Order of Discipline is served upon him. The period of
suspension is stayed for two years upon the folloWing conditions:
a:
The defendant shall pay all past due state and federal taxes due
that he is obligated to pay for tax years 1997 through 1999. Provided.
however, that if the defendant enters into an installment agreement or
S0me other agreement to pay said outstanding tax iiabilities. the execution
and compliance wit,h the terms of such an agreement will fulfill the terms of
this paragraph concerning payment of taxes. During the period of the stay,
the defendant sha'JI abide by all the terms of and make all payments due
urilder any such agreement with the North Carolina Department of
R~venue and the Internal Revenue Service.

I

b. i
The defendant shall provide dOCumentation, wIthin sixty (60), days
ofitheentry of this Order, to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar to prove
th~t he has paid his state and federal income taxes for tax years 1997 '
through 1999, and/or made agreements with state and federal taxing
I

-3-

I
':.~
,

':./ '.~.
,

authorities for payment of the taxes due but not yet paid for tax years 1997
through 1999.
C.
The defendant shall timely file all '.f¢detal and state income- tax
returns on the appropriate due dates or th~ extenqed due dates, and shall
timely pay all taxes assessed based L1pon those returns.

I

d.
The .defend~nt shall provide the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar with written verification that he-has filed all reqLiired:tax
returns with the North CC)rolina Department of Revenu~ and the Internal
Revenue Service during the stayed suspensiOn. This written verification
th
shall be sent on or before April 15 of each year of the stayed suspension
period. If an extension for filing income tax returns is SOUght, then written
verification shall be provided to tbe Office,of Counsel of the North Carolina
State Bar within one weeK of the filing date ofthat return.

e.

The def~ndant shall provide the Office of Counsel -of the North
Carolina State Bar with written ve,rification, on a qLlart~rly basis, of his
payments through the installment plan or agreement thClt he has entered
into with the North Carolina Department of Revenue and the Internal
Reve-nue service. The first written verification is due Qn April 1, 2004. Th~
other written reports shall be due on July 1, 2004,October 1, 2004,
January 1, 2005, April 1, 2005, July 1, 2005, October 1, 2005 and January
1,2006.
f.
Defendant will respond to all State Bar requests for information- by
the deadline stated in the communication or within thirty (30) days,
whichever is earlier, as required by Rule 8.1 (b) of the Revised ,Rules' of
Professional Conduct.
-

I

g.
The Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws or any
provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the
-stayed suspension.
h.
Defendant will timely comply with a'll State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements.

i.

Defendant shall pay all costs incurred in this proceeding, at;;
assessed by the Secretary, within -30 days of service -of the notice of costs
uponhim.
2. If, upon a motion by the S'tate Bar, a Hearing COmmittee of th~ DHC finds that, .
the defendant has violated any of the conditions in Section 1(a)-(i) of this Order
of Discipline, the sLlspension of the defendant's license shall be activated. If the
suspension is activated, prior to seeking reinstatement of his license, the
defendant must:

-4-

(I

_.

~

.

....... ~. . w • • '

.

. ,. . . . . . . .

.

'.'

.:':,':.:,,:,

,

....

.,
.'

-,'.

--'-'f'

....

..'

.

.

.

'.

.

'

'a.

Comply with all provisions of State Bar Discipline & Disability Rule
27 NCAC 1 B, § .0125 (b).

b.

Satisfy all the conditions set forth in section 1 (a)-(i) of this Order of
Discipline.

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge arid consent of
the other members of the f/earing Committee.

,
' t::l(
..Jt"w..."y
Thi~ the ~ day of.ooooffiber, 2004

I

~~14
tepilf1E.CUfbreth, Chair
Hearing Committee

WE CONSENT:

~f1t~

I

Alan M. iSchneider
Attorney for 'Defendant

.

~/)I~
"'-rhOil1aiF:MOtfltt· •~.
~'

,Attorney'for Plaintiff

EtringerOrdet of Di'scipline (12-18-03)

-5-

I

