Y HEARING COMMISSIQN
.

wAKE· COUNTY
NORtH CAROLINA

)

THE NORTII CAROLiNA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF

v.
PAUL E. HEMPHILL
DEFENDANT

)
FINDINGS OF FACT
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
)
ANPORDER
)
OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)

TEns MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on the 9th day of January,
2004 before a duly assign~d hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing COminis.sion
composed of Carlyn G. Poole, Chair; M. Ann Reed and13etty Ann Knudsen. The
Defendant; Paul E. Hemphill, appeared on his own behalf. Carotin Bakewell representeq
the State Bar.
Based upon the pleadings and evidenc'e pte'sented herein, the Hearing Committee
hereby ~nters the following:
.
FINDINGS OF ~ACT
1. On April 16, 2003, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered an order of
discipline which fblind that Hemphill violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
in a number of respects.

I

2. The order suspended ~emphill's law license for one year and~tayed th~
suspension for two year.s, based on various conditions. Pursuant to the order, Hemphill
.
was required, inter alia, to
a)

pay all State Bar Membership dues and Client Sec~ty Fund
assessments on a tim~ly baSis.

b)

comply with all Continuing tega~ Education requirements on a timely
basis.

3. Hemphill was aware of and consented to ~ll of the conditions set out in th~
April 16, 2003 order of discipline.

.;;-

I

.

-

,

'.

'

..

':.:

,

.',

~

. 4. Hemphill's 2003 N.C. State Bar dues Were required to be paid no later than
June 30,
2003, a fact of which Hemphill was aware.
I

, 5. Hemphill wrote a. check to the N.C. State Bar for his mandatory dues and late
filing fee on Aug. 19,2003. The check was posted to the State Bar account on Sept. 2,
2003 .•
'6. Hemphill did not take reasonable steps to pay bis State Bar dues in a timely

mannet.
;7. Pursuant to the State Bar's mandatory continuing legal education rules,
Hemphill had until Feb. 28, 2003 in which to complete the required 12 houts of
continUl:p.g legal education for calendar 2002.

I

8. Hemphill was aware of his CLE requirements and Qfthe Feb. 28, 2003
deadline.
(9. As ofFeb.'28, 2003, H~mphill h~d a deficit of 5.75 hours of continl.ling legal
education
. tr~ning courses for calendar 2002.
,

, il. Hemphill took 5.5 hours ofCLE on Juiy 30,20'03 and complyted the
remaining .25 hours of CtE on Dec. 19,2003.
,11. Although Hemphjl1 testified at the show cauSe hearing herein that he did not
complete the mandatory CLE on a timely basis because he could not afford to pay the
course registration fees, he failed to take reasonable steps to locate free or low-cost
courses' and failed to take reasonable steps to purs,ue other means by which he could have
obtainep funds to pay the ·registration fees.
'
,12. The N.C. State Bar Board of Continuing Legal Education assessed $200 in
late filmg fees and penalties. against Hemphill, based upon his failure to complete his
mandatory CLE courses for calendar 2002 on a timely basis. The $200 penalty included
a $75 late filing fee that was assessed in April 2003 and a $175 penalty assessed in
AugustZ003.

13.

I'

Hemphill did not pay the $200 in late fees and penalties until Dec. 23, 2003.

Based upon the foregoing Findings 'of Fact, the'Hearing Conup.ittee hereby enters
the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Hemphilllmowingly and willfully violated the terms' of the April 16, 2003
order of: discipline herein by failing to complete his mandatory CLE for calendar 2002 on
a timely basis, by failing to pay l\is mandatory 2003 bar dues on a timely basis and by

I
.:':" '.'

.:

":

.

:

failing to pay the late fee and penalty assessed against him. by the B04rd of CLE on a, ,
timely basis.
2. A,total of30 daysofthe 1 year suspension ofHeinphilT's law license should be
activated, based upon Hemphill's knowing and willful violatiQn oithe April 16, 2003
, order of discipline.
' . .'
.
3. An order calling for discipline shott of an active susp~psioil. ofHemphiI1's law
license would not sufficiently protect the public for the followmg reasons:

I

a.

Hemphill's violations of the April 16, 2003 order extended oVer a period of
approximately 10 months and thus do not appear the result of an isolated act or mistake.

b. Hem.phill's failure to comply with his professiol1aI obligations is. consistent
with SOhle ofllie c~liduct for which he has been disciplined in the past, and there is
therefore a pattern of misconduct on his part. Hemphill failed to establish that he has
taken sufficient steps to correct the cause of his misconduct and the Committee is
therefore concerned that his misconduct would be repeated iIhe is allowed t9 continue
practicing law.

. c. Hemphill's violations undennine the State Bar's a,biHtyto regt1lat~ attorneys
and undermines the privilege oflawyers in this State to remain self-regUlating.
, d. Entry of an orderimposinRlesser disCipline would fail to 'acknowledge the
seriousness ofthe offenses that Hemphill cOllimitted, would be inconsistent with orders
entered in similar cases and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public
regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this state.
:Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact aIid COlic1usiorts of LaW', the HearlD.g
COllinlittee hereby enters the following:

I

ORDER OF DiSCIPLINE
1. The stay of the suspension of the law license ofPaUfE. Hemphill is hereby
lifted and Hemphill's law license is suspended for a period of30 days, effective Feb. r,
2004.
'
.'
2. The remaining II-month suspension of Hemphill's license shall be stayed until
May 25,2006, provided Hemphill complies with the COn.ditioils set out in the April 16,
2003 order herein. Any violation of the conditions of the stay of the suspension of
Hemphill's law license may be grounds for activation of some or all of the. suspension.
3. Hemphill shall provide copies to the State Bar of all records regarding'therapy
appointments and rec~mlmenqations for treatment or a release allowing disclosure of '
these records, upon receipt of written request from the State Bat at any time during the

I
:.

':"

...

"

':, .

.~:

-

j.,.,

'.-

stayed suspensi.on' perigd, A vi.olati.on .of the provision .of this paragraph may also be ,
gr.ounds f.or activation ofs.ome.or all .ofthe suspensi.on .ofH~mphi11's
. law license.
,

'

4. Pri.or t.o resuming the practice .oflaw after the active suspensi.on, Hemphill
must ,fHe a petiti.on'affirming that he has not'practiced lawdwi,ng the 1 m.onth peri.od.of
suspensi.onand that he has c.omplied with the applicable p.ortions .of27 N.C.A.C. Title 1,
Subchapter B" S~cti.op .0124 .of the State Bar Rules.

5. Hemphill shall pay the c.osts .orthis pr.oce'edingwithih 30 days .of service .of the
state:ment .of c.osts up.on him by the Secretary .of the State Bar.
Signed by the Chair with the c.onsent of the .other Hearing C.ommittee members.

,I

I

I

I

This the ~ day .of January, 2004..
. P.o.ole, Chait
Hearing C.olliIhittee

I

.

~:

r

I
,

. ':.:

"

jc,l~

...

~:

I

