BEFORE THE
.
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
:
. Plaintiff,

v.
THOMAS W. JONES, Attorney,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE OF
DISBARMENT

This matter came before the, Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of T. Paul Messick, Jr., Chair; W. Steven Allen,
Sr., an~ H. Dale Almond on the Plaintiff's Motion for E:ntry of Order of Discipline
of. Disbarment. Orville D. Coward, Jr. represented the Defendant, Thomas W.
Jones ("Jones" or the "Defendant"). Thomas F. Moffitt represented the Plaintiff
(the "St~te Bar").
Ih his Answer, JoneS admitted the factual allegations in the Complaint,
and in his Response to the State Bar's Supplemental Amendment To Complaint,
he stated that he (1) did not deny or conteSt the factual allegations in the
SuppJertlental Amendment to the Complaint, (2) waived his right to a hearing and
(3) did hot oppose entry of an Order of DiSCipline disbarring him based On the
conduct set forth in the Complaint, as amended. Thus~ the pleadings have
closed, the facts are not in controversy, and. the matter. is ready for disposition.

I

TI,e Hearing Committee hereby-makes the follOWing:
FINDINGS

OF FACT

1. The Nb~D .Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of North
Carolina: and:'is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules
and Regulations of the, North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the
North Carolina Administrative Code).
2. Jones was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1968, and is, and was
at all timt3s referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, SUbject to the Jaws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and
1

'.~

.: '.:", -:'.::'

.:

:.
';

.

'.;
"~

,

..

'

,':

'.
"
,:

,

,

'.

_/-

.!

"'}",'

•

1"

Regulations of the North Carolina state' Bar and the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
'3. During the times relevant to this Complaint, as Eimended, Jones actively
engaged in the, practice of law in the State of,J~prth Carolina and maintained a
law office in the city of Sylva, Jackson County, North Catalina. ,
FINDINGS OF FACt AS fa COUNT ONE

..

4. On April 11, 2003, Jones was convicted by a Jury in the' United Stales 'District
Court for the Western District of North Carolina of three felonies: (1) ,aiding and,
abetting bank fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1344;, (2) making material false
statements to influence the actions of a bank in violation 18 U.S.C. '§ 1014; and
(3) conspiracy to commit bank fraud and make false statements to influence the
action of a bank inyiolation of18 U.S.C. § 371.

~

5. The conduct for which Jones was convicted related to two loans secured by
real estate for which he served as closing attorney.
.
FINDINGS OF FACT AS TO COUNT TWO

~;.

I

6. On May 7, 1969, Jones was appointed by the Clerk of Court for Jackson
County to serve as the guardian for Woodrow Justice, a veteran disabled in
World War II. Under the prOViSions of the Veterans', Guardianship Act, guardians
appointeQ for veterans are required to make annual accountings to court of funds
re,ceived by the guardian and dis~ursements made on behalf of the veteran
during the year. ·N.C. Gen. Stat. § 34-10.
7. In 2003 the Clerk of Court for Jackson County, 'l=rank Watson, Jr., discovered
that Jones had been embezzling funds from Justice's guardianship/trust funds,
Jones .admitted to Watson ~that he had embezzled the funds over the years and
that the re~ining qccounts of Woodrow Justice were short of funds by over
$300,000.
'

e.

Over the years, Jones had made accountings to the court that did not qisclose "
the embezzlements.
9: Embezzlement by a guardian is a criminal offense under state law. N.C. Gen.
Stat. §,14-90.
.
10. Part of the money that Jones embezzled was for disability compensation Paid
to Justice by the Department of Veterans Affairs, Embezzlement of money the
Department of Veterans Affairs pays to a disabled veteran is a crime ul1der
federal law, 38 U.S.C. §, 6101.

-2-

-,

...... _...... --.

.

.

..
"

..

..
. . . '
,

.

'1 {"

'.'

..
,':
i:

., .

."

.;.:
.'
::~

"

....--.

,.,

11. On August 11, 2003, a Consent Order of Interitn' Suspension was filed with
the Disciplinary Hearing COIT]mis~ion, which Jones .for.mally accepted on August
15, 2003, and which was filed on August 25, 20'03. Incideht to this order, Jones
'
submitted his law license and membership card to th'e State Bar.
~ased upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Heating Committ.ee makes
thefollpwing:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the committee lias
jurisdiction over the Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.

I

2. As t6 Count One of the Complaint, as amended, the crimes de~cribed above
for which Jones was convicted:
~a) Are criminal offenses showing pr6f~~sional unfitr1~ss as defined in 27
NCAC 1B § .0103 (17),

(b) Constitute professional misconduct and unfitness to practice law for
Which Jones may be disciplin~d as provided in N.C. 'Gen. Stat. § 84-28
(b)(1) and Rule .011'5 of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the N.C. State
Bar, (27 NCAC 1B § .0115), and

(C) Establish professional misconduct for Vioiation of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct as provided in N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28 (b)(2) in that
they show that Jones was guilty of committing criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other
respects in violation of Rule 8.4 (b).
3. As to Count Two of the Complaint, as amended,' JoneS' acts and omissions
relating! t.o th.e embezzlement of money from Justice's guaro.ia(lship/tru~t funds
constitute misconduct and grounds for discipline pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat. §
84-28 (b) (2) in that he violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct as
follows:

I
"

t

(a) Jones violated Revised Rule 1.15-2; 1.1'5-3 in that he failed to properly
a'ccount for funds he hel,d in a fiducipry capacity as the legal guardian for
Woodrow Justice and that he misappropriated over $300,000 of those
fljnds;
I

(0) Jones violated Revised Rule 4.1 in that he knowingly made false
statements of material fact to cover up his misappropriation of fiduciary
fundS he held and managed as Wqodrow Justice'slega.l guardian; and

-3-

I

::"
"

'. ~

......

:.

,
:;

"

':

.":

, .:

f

,

t

i

(c) Jones violated Revised.Rules 8.4 (a), (b), (c) & (g) in that he committed
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness and
fitness as a lawyer, engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice and intentionally damaged ot prejudiced his client during the
course of the professional relationsh'ip by 'misappropriating fiduciary funds
belonging to Woodrow Justice that Jones administered as Justice's legal
guardian.

I

The Hearing Committee also makes the fonowing:

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Jones' conduct is aggravated by the following factors: (a) dishonest motive, (b)
multiple offenses, and (c) substantial experience in the pr9ctice of law. 27 NCAC
t8. '§ .0114 (w)(1 )(8), (D) & (I).
2. The Hearing Committee does not find that.;Iany mitigating. factors are present.
3. The, aggravating factors substantiallybutweign the mitigating factors.
4. Jones' criminal conduct has caused significa'nt harm to his clients and the
administration of justice.

'5. Jones' misconduct has also harmed the standing of the legal profession by
undermining trust and confidence hi lawyers and the legal system.
6. Disbarment is th~ only sanction that can adequateiy protect the public for the
. following reason~: '
-

I

(a) An order of discipline iess than disbarment would not sufficiently
protect the pl,Jblic because Jones' misconduct involved commission of'
fe!Qnious crimes involving moral turpitude and Violations of the public trust.
The federal criminal convictions were based on fraudulent conduct and
material misrepresentations, and the embezzlement of Woodrow Justice's
money involved ~urreptitiou$ theft carried but by a fiduciary over many
years. It also constituted a fraud against the courts because Jones made
false statements to the clerk of court to conceal his thefts and the true' status of Jones' handling of Justice's funds in his capacity as Justice~s
guard}an.
'
(b) Entry of an order imposing lesser disCipline would fail. to acknowledge
the seriousness of the offenses that Jones commi:tt$'~'---' i vlouid send the
wrong message to attorneys and the public 'teg( ' .. ,-'9 the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in North Carolina.
- --. .

-.

-4- .

I
.,.

,

:'.
"

'

,.~

.' ~

-_-I • •

';'.

'~

(c) The protection of the public requires that Jones not be pe.rmitted to
resume the practice of law unless and untii he denionstrat~s that he has
, reformed, that he understands his obligations to his clients, the public, the
courts and the I~gal profession, and that reinstatement would not injure
.the standing of the legal profession. Disbarred attorneys must show
,reformation among other things, before they may resume the practice of
.law, whereas, no such showing of reformation is required of attorneys
:whose licenses are suspended for a term certain.
.
.Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and
the Pihdings of Fact R~garding Dj$cipline, the Hearihg Co.mmitt~e enters the
" ,
followihg:
ORDER OF DISCIPUNE
1. Thomas W. Jones is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law.
I

t

2. The: Secretary of the State Bar shall permanently retain Jonas ·Iaw license and
membership card.
3. Jones Shall pay the costs 'of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary ear
no later than 30 days from s!?,rvice of this order upon Jones.
4. Jones shall comply with all' provisions of 27 NCAC 18 § .0124 of the 'North
Carolilla State Bar Jjiscipline & Oisqpility Rules ("Discipline Rules,").
Signed by the undersigned chairmah with the f~1I knowledge and consent
of the qther Hearing Committee members, this the ~ay of Januc;lry 2004.

T. Paul Messic'
Chairman, Hear ng Committee

, -5-

..
,

,

"

'

"

'.;
,',

\'

,'~"-!-j.

I.,'i

