--

-- ------~-----~------~ --

----

-~

ILf~{
,

--

---- ----- -

--~-- ~ ~

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
PLAINTIFF

v.

.

DARWIN LITTLEJOHN
DEFENDANT

)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)

I

I

tIDS MATTER came before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Elizabeth Bunting, T. Paul MessiCk, Jr., and H. Dale Almond,
pursuant:t9 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1 subchapter B, § .DI14(h) of the RU1~s. and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. The defendant, Darwin Littlejohn, was
represented by Michael J. Parker; Carolin Bakewell represented the State Bar. The
parties stipulated to the Findings of Fact set out herein. Based upon the stipulations and
the evidence presente~ at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the fol1owing~
FINDINGS OF FACT

I: The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under th~ authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina; and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promplg~ted thereunder.
2.' The Defendant, Darwin Littlejohn (Littlejohn), was admitted to the North
Carolina ~tate Bar in 1987, and is, and waS at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licen~ed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.!
3.i During all of the periods relevant hereto, Littlejohn was. engaged in the
practice of law in the City of Winston-Salem, North CaroHna.

4'i On Nov. 9,2001, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered an order of
discipline which found that Littlejohn violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
in a number of respects.

': ~' ',:, ',: :,"

I

5. The order suspended Littlejohn's law license for two years and stayed the
suspension for three years, based on various conditions. Pursuant to the ordet, Littlejohn.
was required, inter alia, to:
,-.J

comply with all terms of the contract.

..;. ..c,.

.

Provide semi-annual reports to the Office of Couns~l each M~y
9 and Nov. 9, confinn.in,g that Littlejohn was meeting with a
supervising attorney at least once a quarter.

b.

I

•

Ent~t into a contract with the'Lawyers Assistance Program and .

a.

.

Respond in a timely fashion to any conununi~ations from the
State Bar regarding pending grievances or fee disputes .

. 6. Littlejohn's contract with the Lawyers Assistance Program required him, inter
alia, to contact his PALS monitor at least weekly and to meet at least weekly with his ..
counselor and to attend at least 3 AAJNA meetings per week.
.

.',

7. Littlejohn failed to keep some appointments with his counselor, failed to meet
with his PALS monitor at least once each week ap.d failed to attend at least 3 AAlNA
meeting~ per week. Littlejohn did seek and continues to use the services of a license
psychi.~trist and regularly. attends meetings of AL-ANON. He has been drug and alcohol
'
free for the last four years.
8. Littlejohn has failed to provide the State Bar with timely semi-annual reports
regarding his meetings with his practice monitor. . The report that w~ due on May 8,
2002 was filed on Sept. 10, 200~. The report due on Nov. 8,2002 was filed on Jan. 27,
2003. The report due on May 8, 2003 was filed on July 18, 2003. The report that was
due on Nov. 8,2003 was received on Nov. 10,2003.

I

9. Littlejohn has failed to respond in a timely fashion to ~l correspondence 'from
the State B~ concer.Qinggrievances and fee disputes. Specifically, he has failed to ,file
timely responses in the following matters:
.
a.

On May 9, 2003 the State Bar-issued a letter ofnoti~e to
Littlejohn regardihg a fee dispute filed by Bobby Hoskins and
·directed hiIn to respond within 15 days of service of the letter
of notice. Littlejohn was served with the letter of notice on
May 9, 2003 but did not file a response until June 12, 2003.

I
"::":.:'.::.

".:.

:~: ~

,',

':'

'

)

b.

On Oct. 30, ~002, the N.C. State Bar issued a letter of notice to
Littlejohp. regarding a fee dispute petition filed by Jenane
Bradley and directed him to tespo~d within 15 days of receipt
of the letter. Littlejohn was served With the letter of notice
concerning the Bradley petition on Nov. 4,2002. The State
Bar mailed Littlejohn a follow up letter on Nov. 18,2002, but
Littlejohn did not tespond to the Bradley fee dispute petition,
until Dec. 4, 2002.

c.

On May 16,2003, the State Bar ma,iled Littlejohn a letter of
notice regarding a grievance filed by Sylvia Minor and directed
,himt<:H6spond to the letter ,of notice 'within 15 days .
Littlejohn was served with the letter of notice on May i9, 2003
but did not file a response until J~e 12, 2003.

. ·.'·'~r ..

I

,Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, and the consent of the parties,
the Cortunittee enters the following:
.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

,I. AU parties are properly before .the Hearing Commi1;tee and the
Committee has jurisdiction over the defendant, Darwin Littlejohn and the subject
matter <\>f this proceeding.
.. ,....

;2. Littlejohn's conduct, as set out hetein, violated the provisions of the
order of discipline entered herein on Nov. 9, 2001 in the following respects:
~)

He failed to comply with all terms of his contract with the
Lawyers Assistance Program.
I

I

b)

He failed to file timely semi-annu~ reports .with the Office of
'Counsel confirming ·that he was meeting With his supervising
attorney.

d)

He failed to respond in a timely fashion to all communications
from the State B~ regarding pending grievances or fee
disputes.

. 3. Littlejohn's violations of the 2001 consent order were knowing and
willful.
I

""":",:'

I

..

l,

'f'~

;~

'.'

Based upon. the consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters
·the followil)g
.
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
•

1. Littlejohn's ,conduct is aggravated by the f~tlowing factors:
a) He engaged in 'Jnultiple violations of the order of discipline entered
herein.

I

b) He continued to violate the terms of the order of discipline after the
order to appear and show cause was entered herein.
2. An order calling for discipline short ofa suspension of"Littlejohn's
license with appropriate conditions preceqent forreinstaternent woulq not
sufficiently prote~t the public for the following reasons:
a) Littlejohn has failed to provide any credible evidence that he has
addressed whatever problem or character flaw catlsedhis violations of
the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and therefore there is a
substantial risk that he would engage in continued violations of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct ifhe is permitted to cOl)tinue to
.. . , ..practice law. . ...
b) Entry of an order imposing lesser,cliscipline would fail to
aCla10wledge the seriousness of the offenses which Littlejohn
committed, w01llq be inconsistent with orders of discipline entered by
this COlPIDissibn in similar cases and would send the wrong message
to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of attorneys, in this state.
c) The protection of the public requires that Littlejohn not be
permitted to resume the practice of law until he demol)strates that he
understands his obJigations to the Bar. and to his clients and he
demonstrates that he ,is hot-:suffy,ring' from any :tnenta16r. physiqal
condition that prevents him' from practicing law competently. :
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact andConc1usions of Law and
upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license of the Defendant, Darwin Littlejohn, is he1:'eby suspended for two
years, effective 30 days after the date that this Order is served upon hhn.
2. Prior to filing a petition for reinstatement, Littlejohn shall demonstrate that:

.1
"::';:.:, .. :.

,.,..'
.:

.

','

.

~.

/
'.

"

'

!

a) He obtained a mental and physical examination within 6 months of seeking
reinstatement by a psychiatrist approved by the N.C. State Bar and complied
with all treatment recommendations of the psychiatrist during the period of
suspension of his law license. The evaluation shall be obtained at Littlejohn's
expense.
b) The psychiatrist has submitted a written report to 1;he N.C. State Bar
confirming that Littlejohn is not suffering from a mental or physical condition
that substantially impairs his judgment or comp~tence as an attorney.
~c) He executed awritten release authorizing the Counsel of the N.C. State ~at to

cohtact 1;he psychiatrist who perfonned the evalllation and to obtain copies of
,~~edi~~ rec.otds relatin.g to his ~val~on ~,tr~atm~t from the
psychiatrist and all other treating medical personnel. ' , '

I

d) He has responded to all communications from the N.C. State Bar within 30
days of receipt or 1;he deacf.Une stated in the communication, whichever is
earlier.'
,
~) He has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of

any state or of the United States.
,

:'~" i

~ He properly wound down his law practice and--complied with the tenns of 27

N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the State Bar
,'" Discipline & DisbaI1llent Rules.

',if.: ,

,~."

;,iitx

g) He has paid all past due membership' fees and penalties owed to th~ State Bar
and has complied with all mandatory continuing legal education requirements.
b) He has completed 24 hours of continuing legal education courses given by
sponsors approved by the N.C. State Bar.

'i) He has refunded all fees d~tennined to be owed in all State Bar fee dispute
! matterS to Which, he IS :& 'has 'been a 'party.
'
. 1 :
.
•
" "

n

He p~d the costs of this proceeding within 30 days after service of notice of
the costs by the Secretary of the N.C. State Bar.
'

i'

i

' .. -_, _____ ..

..

::

':.': :,', : .
.':~.

.;.

,',

'.

I

•

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the knowledge atid consent Qfthe other
Committee Plembers.
" . ,.

I

This th.e/!f- day of April, 2004.

I

." ...... .. " .... .....'. ...
~

~

"

.

-... .. ., .......
~

..-

~-

-,-.
': :'-:,:, ',:::
,,'

..
':<
..

,

','

"

,',:

