BEFORE tHE
GRffiVANCECONlliflTTEE
OF tHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G1115

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Conrad A. Airall,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On Thursday, Apri122, 2004 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
mel and considered the grievances filed against you by the. North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State ~ar, the Grievance CoIhmittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including yoUr response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee foli,nd probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a :Q1ember of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmiscond-uctjustifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a:complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ate not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depe):"lfling upon the ~isconduc.t., the actual or potential injllty caused, and any
aggr'dvating or tnitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a! censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hanrt or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public; but the misconduct does not req:uire a censure.

>.

,

a

The Grievance COinmittee was of the opinion that censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee bfthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this repriniand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.

,.

. This matter caine to the attention of the N.C. State Bar shortly after June 2003, when
Judge Alice Stu~bs sanctioned you for, among other things, filing frivolous pleadings during the
course of litigatIon you were handling for client named Mfundotih Keshk. During the State
Bar's investigation of this matter~ bar counsel wrote to you on Oct. 1,2003, requesting more

I
..

...

"

'I
!

"

','
"

infonnation. You dId not respond to this letter or to bar counsel's follow up letter dated Nov. 12,
2003. As a result ofyolir failure to provide the requested infonnation, bar counsel was forced to

subpoena you to appear in the Bar's offices to respond in person. Your,conduct in this regard
violated Rule 8.1(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
In detennining the appropriate sanction to be imposed, the Committee noted that you
received letters of warning in 1997 and 1998 in which you were reminded of your obligation to

I

respond promptly to official inquiries of the Bar. The COI)11llittee was also advertent to the fact
that you were censured in 1998 for, among other things, failing to respond promptly to an earlier
inquiry of the Bar. The Committee wishes to remind you that the Bar cannot remain selfregulating if attorneys fail to cooperate in the investigation of complaints. Any future violations
of Rule 8.1 (b) on your part may well result in the imposition of more substantial discipline.
The Grievance Committee did not deem it necessary to Impose professional discipline for
your conduct during Mr. Keshk's case in light of the ~ubstantial sanctions levied by Judge
Stubbs.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Connnittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
~;' remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
" to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards ofthe legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolin!i State Bar regm:ding the taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this actiop in the amount·
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the..s

I

-1\

U. "._ __"""""~' 2004.

, day of _ _='~_-4

. McMillan, Chair
be Connnittee

JBMllr

."

"

"

"

...:
~:

..' .. :'

.

