BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROLINA

GRffiVANCECO~TTEE

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G0937

WAKE COUNTY

, IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

.THOMAS P. $HELBY,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

I

REPRIMAND

On Apnl 22,2004, the Grievance Committee otthe North Caro~ina State Bar met and considered
the grievance .fjled against you by Catherine E. Livingston.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Dis~ipline and Disabjlity Rules of the North Caz:olina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the infonnation
available to it, ~ncluding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guiity of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
,

The tuI~s provide that aftvr a finding of probable cause, the Grieyance Committee may detennine
~hat the filing of a. complaint 'and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not
required, and tIle Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, thy actual or potential injury caused. and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition. a reprimand, or a censure to the'respondent attorney.
A repritb.and is a \vritten fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or mote provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused harm or:potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but ~he misconduct does not require a censure.
'
The Grievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprilnand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar,
it is noW my duty to issue this reprimand, ~d I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in
which this duty:is perfonned.
You were hired by' Catherine Livingston to file a civil action against a builder tbr
negligent construction of her house. Livingston repeatedly tried to commlinicate with you about
the status of het ,case with ~itt1e success. When the case was scheduled for trial, you assured her
that it would nqt be reached. Instead, you took a voluntary dismissal without her knowledge or
consent. You failed to re-file the action. within a year, and her claim now is barred by the statute
of limitations. On rune 27, 2003, the State Bar sent you a Letter of Notice that a grievance had
heen fih~d conc$ming
this matter. When no timely response was received, the State Bar sent you
,

.......
: .. :'
: ..

"

I'

. ~.

a second 'letter on August I, 2003. This letter ~]so was not answered, and you were subpoenaed to'
appear and answ~r questions conqerning the grievance, pursuant to 27 NCAC 1~ § .0112 (t).
You failed to, app~ar as required by the subpoena. '

•

.: .

v

Your hereby are t:eprimanded for violating several of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct and causing potential hann to your fonner client, the administration of justice, and ,the
profession of law. Your lack of di1igenc~ in the handling of the legal matter for which Catherine .
Livingston employed you and your failure to communicate with ,her about. the matter violated.
Rules 1.3 and 1.4 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Your failure to respond to the
State Bar's lawful demands for infoimation and your failure to r~spond·tQ the subpoena to appear,
and ansWer questions concerning the grievance violated Rule 8.1 (b) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
. "
'
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it wiUbe
'remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to YOU, and that YOll will never again allow yolirselfto
depart fl:om adherence to the high ethical stand~ds ofth~ legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted Octo1;ler 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the adminjstrative and investigativecO$ts to any attorney iS$ued' a
reprimand by the Grievatlce Committee, the costs of this action'in the amount of $50.00 are herebytaxed
to you.
.
.
"

Done and ordered, this J 1 "F>day of

I

,"

"

:0• •

:

:.

"

"

",'

yo: ':~,
".,
....
::
',:

:{

.

..

.lh ~

,2004.

