WAKE COUNTY

THE 'NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.
MELVIN L. WALL, JR., Attorney,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

This matter was heard by ~ Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair; M. Ann Reed and H. Da:le
Almond on May 7,2004. Thomas F. Moffitt represented the plaintiff, and W. Terry
Sherr:ill represented the defendant. The complaint was filed on June 24,2003. In
his ahswer, filed on July 7, 2003, the defendant admitted all of the factual
allegations hi the complaint and the allegations of misconduct.
j

: Based on the pleadings and evidence intro<;Juced during the hearing, the
Hearihg Committee makes the fo'Jlowing:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. PI~intiffi the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
of North Carolina and· is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 21
of the: North Carolina Administrative Code (,'NCAC").
2. D~fendant, Melvin L. Wall, Jr., (hereinafter 'Wall" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar if! 1990, and is, and was .at all times
referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina,
subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3. During the times relevant to this Complaint, Wall actively engaged in the
practite of law in the State of North Carolina and practiced law in the city of
Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. In 1997 and 1998, Defendant
was practicing law with Frank C. Creft, Jr.

I

.

4. On August 27, 1997, Marion Elizabeth Forney ("Forney") was injured in a fall
on a wet floor in a Winn Dixie food store, and on October 13, 1997; she entered
Into a contingency fee contract with Frank C. Creft, Jr" to represent her to, recover
damages for~personal injuries sustained in the fall.
,

"

5. On January 14, 1998, Forney was injured in an automobile accident in which'
she was a passenger in a car that was hft from behind by a car driven by Bobby'
Dean Pressley, Jr.,and on February 10, 1998, Forney entered into a contingency
fee contract with Frank C. Creft, Jr. to represent her to recover damages for
personal injuries she sustained in the collision.

I

6. On May 1,1998, Forney waS injured in a collision when Crystal Cribb made an '
unlawful turn in front of Forney's car, ahd on May 6, 1998, 'Forney entered into a
contingency 'fee contract with Frank C. Creft, Jr. to represent her to recoVer
damages for personal injuries she sustained in the collision.
7. Defendant provided legal services relating to all three of Forney's personal
'injury cases. :

,

"

,

8. In June 20,90, Creft and Wall stopped practicing law together. Wall sent a letter

. ,.~.:

to the clients',whose caSeS he was handling, including Forney, and informed thern
that they had the' option of allowing him to continue to represent them or to
choose to ha,ve Creft represent them. Forney returned the form sent to her and
indicated on it that she elected to have Wall continue to represent her..
';~'!<}""

.;¥;;'
,:~.

I

9. Wall filed a complaint against Bobby Dean .Pressley, Jr. in Superior Court for
Mecklenburg County on March 17, 1999 (Forney v. Pressley, NO. 99 CVS 4202).
An ahswer was filec;i on May 3, 1999, and Wall voluntarily dismissed the case on
May 10, 1999, pursuant to Rule 41 (a) of the North Carolina Rules of Civil
Procedure. Wall did not re-file this action within one year of the dismissal,. and
Forney's legal right to seek compensation in the courts for recovery for her
personal injuries arising fro,m Pressley's negligence was extingl.lished.
1.0. Wall failed to take timely action on F=orney's other two personal injury c.laims
described ab9ve against Wirin Dixie and Cribb, and those claims now are barred
by the applicable three-year statute of limitations for suCh claims (N;C. Gen. Stat.

§ 1-52 (16)).?
"

:,:'.

11. Forney r~peatedly tried to contact Wall to learn about the status of her cases
and the progress he was making on them, but her efforts were unsuccessful.,
When she tried to Gontact him, Wall was either out of the office ·or wa~, too. busy
to taik with her. He did not have meaningful communications with her: or provide
timely meaningful legal advice concerning her three personal injury cases until
after recovery of damages in all three was barred by the applicable statute of
limitations.'
'
'

. ·r

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee makes
the following:
.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

,

.,

1. All parties::are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the Committee has
jurisdiction dver defendant, Melvin L. Wall, Jr., and the subject matter of this
proceeding. :.

for~going

2. Walll,s
actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen.
Stat. §84-28 (b)(2) and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct 8.4 (a) in that he
violatectf the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:

I

(a) By failing to act with reasonable diligence ~nd promptn.ess in
representing his client, Marion Elizabeth Forney, in the three personal
injury ,cases' which liow are barred by the statute of limitations, the
defendant violated Rule 1.3;
(b) By\ failing to keep his client, Marion Elizabeth Forney, informed about
. the status of her personal injury cases and by failing to promptly comply
'{Vith her reasonable requests for information, the defendant violated Rule
1.4 (a),, and
.
(c)'Bifailing to explain the matters to the extent reasonably liecessary to
permit his client, Marion Elizabeth Fo.rney,. to make informed decisions
regarding th~ representation, the defendant violated Rule 1.4 (b).
Based upon the evidence presented, the Hearing Committee also makes
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. The Grievance Committee of the State Bar censured the defendant on May 4,
2002, for negJect of his clienfs case in violation of Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules
of Profession,al Conduct and Rule 8.4 (c) fqr conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or mis.tepresentation. The censure states that defendant failed to provide
discovery re~ponses, failed to attend a scheduled deposition and. made false
representations to the federal judge concerning the matter. As a result of his
conduct~ defe:ndant's c1ie~t's case was dismissed.

I

2. The Grievance Committee of the State Bar reprimanded the defendant on
January 24, 1998, for neglect of his clientis case and failure to communicate with
his c1ien t. The reprimand states that defendant had been ordered by a judge to
provide piscovery materials or face dismissal of his client's case. He failed to do.;
the case was dismissed and was n'ot re-filed before the statute of limitations
barred his client's claims. The reprimand found numerous violations of the Rules
1

-3-

I
';

.

'
t .. '

:

of Professional 'Conduct, including neglect of his client's case,fai/uretQ
adequately .communicate with his client and conduct prejudicial to the
.administration of justice.
,

I

3. The Griev~nce Committee of the State Bar issued an admonition to defendant
'on November 6, 1997, for his misconduct in handling several'legai matters for his
clients, inclu~ing failure to adequately communica'te with them, failure tq promptly
refund the uhearned portion of. a fee they paid, failure to promptly return 'the
clients' files, ,failure to maintain a trust account and place unearned fees in it and
failure to· promptly respond to the local grievance committee's legitimate request
for information.
4. The Grievance Committee of the State Bar issued a reprimand to the
defendant on November 15, 1993, for conducting interviews with an.adverse
party in civil1itigatioi1 on behalf of his client, knowing that the adverse party was
represented by counsel and without the know/edge, or consent of the adverse
party's counsel,
. 5. Defendant!s license was suspended from October 24, 1997 until April 17, 1998

.<>\;:t< .' for failure - to pay
State Bar membership fees for 1997.
.r
~

-

6. Defendant failed to pay a judgment rendered against him in 1999 in. a ·civil
'action by a former client arising from neglect ot-the client's case. (Barnes v. Wall,
99 CVD 9665', Guliford County).
'~:~::>:>. 7. Defendant failed to pay a judgment rendered against him in 1999 in a civil.
.. '~,~:i·. :. action filed by a court reporter for failure to pay for preparation of transcripts.
(Frassinelli v. Wall,01 CVD 817A, Orange County)

8. Wall has not made restitution to Marion Elizabeth Forney.

I

Based upon the Findings of Fact Regarding DiSCipline, the Hearing
Committee also makes the following:
';CONCLUSION$ OF LAW REGARDING

DIS~IPLINE

"

1. The defeh~iant's misconduct is aggravated by the following fa.ctor: .

(?l)

·:P.rior disciplinary offenses;

(b)

A pattern of misconduct relating. to client neglect and failure· to keep .
his clients informed;

(c)

Multip/$ offenses;

(d)

Substantial experience in ·the practice of Jaw; and

-4-

I

..

(e)

Indifference to making restitution.

2. The defe.n~ant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a) . ~Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive; and
.(b)

'~Physical or emotional problems during the time period in which the
~. violations occu rred.

3. The ;aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
Def~ndant has violated Revised Rules of Professional Conduct 1.3 and 1.4.
His misconduct resulted in significant harm to his client, Marion Elizabeth Forney ..
Defenqant fajled to keep her informed about the progress and status of her .cases
despit~ her repeated requests fot information. She had three personal injury
claims that now are barred by the statute of limitations due to defendant's negle<;:t
and failure to communicate with her. This pattern of misconduct follows a history
and pr;ogres~ion by defendant of misconduct for which the State Bar has
imposed les$er sanctions in the past, including an admonition, two reprimands
and a qensur'e, in an effort to protect the public and to help the defendant see the
errot of his w,~ys and correct those errors. Those lesser sanctions have not been
successful· to achieve those purposes. The Hearing Committee finds that
suspen'sion the defendant's law license now is necessary to protect the public.
Howev~r, disbarment is not warranted and staying
portion of the suspension
may b~ appropriate, provided that the defendant meets the conditions of the stay
set forth below.

4.

of

".;,

;.

(: .

I

a

Based upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLUSIONS OF
LAW ;and the FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE and
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE, the Hearing Committee
makes the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The idefendant, Melvin L. Wall, Jr., is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for three ~ears, effective thirty (30) days from service of this order upon him.

I

2. After no I~ss than six. months following the effective date· of the order; the
defendant m~y file a verified petition for a stay of the remaining period of the
suspen~ion in accordance with the requirements of 27 NCAC 1B. § .0125 (b) of
the Discipline· Rules. His remaining suspension may be stayed if he establishes
by cle$r, cogent and convincing evidence that he has met the following
conditidns:
~. Defendant shall comply with the requirements of Discipline Rules .0124
qnd' .0125 (b).

-5-

I

b. Defendant shall provide documentation to the State Bar that be has
been evaluated by the State Bar's Lawyer Assistance Program (LAP) and
has abided by the LAP r~commendatio!1 for treatment and follow..up
progr~m for the physical, mental, emotional or substance abuse problems
found :to, exist. Provided further that he shall enter into a LAP Recovery
Contract that shall remain in effect during the three years, that defendant's
Iicens~ i~ suspended~ comply with the terms of the contract and authorize
forward semi-annual reports to the Office of Counsel of the State
LAP
Bar no later than January 1st and July 1st for each year during the
suspension period. The reports 'shall either (i) certify defendant's
continued compliance with the contract or (ii) alternatively, disclose the
details of his non-compliance with the contract.

to

I

c. An' arbitrator shall be appOinted to d~termine the appropriate amount Of
restitution that Defen'dant shall pay to Marion Elizabeth Forney. The
arbitrator shall be an- attorney who practices law in Gaston County, is
acceptable to the Defendant, and has' been approved by the Office of
Counsel for the State Bar, Once ,the amount of restitution has i:?een
,detern:1ined, Defendant shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the Office'
of Coqnsel for the State Bar, to pay same.
'd. Defendant shall make' arrangements, satisfactory to the Office gf
Coun~:el for the State Bar, to satisfy the judgments entered against him in
Bames v. Wall, 99 CVD 9665 (Guilford County) and Frassinelli v. Wall,01
CVD f3'17A (Orange County).
'
e. Defendant shall make good faith efforts to obtain and maintain
malpractice insurance.

I

f. Defendant shall not violate any federal or state laws or any of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct (2003), except minor traffic laws
punishable as infractions.
'
g. Defendant will timely comply with' all State Bar membership and
Contin~ing Legal Education requirements.
~

h. Defendant shall make arrangements, satisfactory with the Office of
Couns~1 for the State Bar, to pay all costs incurred in this proceeding, as
asses~ed by the Secretary.
3. If no stay fs sought or if a stay of suspension is obtained and subsequently is,
lifted and the" suspension is activated fdr any reason,. the defendant must show
that he has complied with each of the following conditions precedent ,to
reinstatement of his law license:

,.6-

I

.,.

'
4,

r

a.

Defendant shall comply with the requirements of Discipline Rules .0124
and .0125 (b).
b. Defendant shall proVide documehtation to the State Bar that he has
been evaluated by the State Bar'S L~wyer Assista'nce Program (LAP) and
has a;bided by the LAP recommendation for treatment and follow;.Lip
~rogrcim for the physical, mental, emotional or substance abuse .problems
found'~to exist. Provided further that he shall enter into a LAP Recovery
Contr~ct that shall remain in effect during the three years that defendant's
license is suspended',' comply with the terms of the contract and authorize
l;.AP to forward semi-annual reports to the Office of Counsel of the State
5t
6ar no later, than Jpnuary 15t and July 1 for each year during the
suspension period. The reports shall either (i) certify defendant's
Gontinued compliance with the contract or (ii) alternatively, disclose the
details of his non-compliance with the contract.

".
,:/4;i
',1/

......
.....

.,'

•

~

I

c. An arbitrator shall be appointed to determine the appropriate amount of
restitution that Defendant shall pay to Marion Elizabeth Forney. The
"arbitraJor shall be an attorney who practices law in Gaston County, is
$cceptable to the Defendant, and has been' approved by the Office of
'CoLin~el for the State Bar. Once th,e amount of restitution has been
Qetermined, Defendant shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the Office
of CoJnsel fot the State Bar, to pay same .

d!.

Defendant shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the Office of
Couns'el for the State Bar, to satisfy the judgments entered against him in
J;3arnes v. Wall, 99 CVD 9665 (Guilford County) and Frassinelli v. Wall,01
~VD 817A (Orange County).

e.

Defendant shall make good faith efforts to obtain and maintain
malpractice insurance.

f. Defendant shall not violate any federal or state laws br any of the
,Revised Rules of Professional Conduct (2003), except minor traffic laws
punistipble as infractions.

I

(

"

g. De~endant will timely comply with all State, Bar membership and
90nti n'ping Legal Education requirements.
h. De~$ndant shall make arrangements, satisfactpry with the Office 'of
Counsel for the State Bar, to pay all costs incurred in this proceeding, as
assessed by the Secretary.

-7-

I

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full kno~e and consent of
the other members of the Hearing Committee, this the It:' day of June 2004.
,.

~~

.'

¥

,

I.

~

,

I'

Hearing Committee

I

:~

.

I
.
~,

,.I

-8-

I

.

