WA.KE COUNTY

Plaintiff

v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISC1PL1NE

RICKY F. SHUMATE, Attorney,

I

Defendant
. This matter was heard on the 18 th day of June, 2004, before a hearing committee
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair, M.
Ann Reed, and Marguerite P. Watts. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff, the
North Carolina State Bar. Stephen E. Robertson represented the Defendant, Ricky F .
. Shumate. Based lipon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the
hearin$ committee hereby enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
. 1.
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authonty granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes ofN'orth Carolina, and the
Rules ~d Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
The Defendant, Ricky F. Shumate, was admittl::d to the North Carolina
State Bar on 1 September 1974, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney
.at law ~icensed to practice in North Carolina, SUbject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Profes~ional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bat and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

I

•3.
During the periods relevant to this proceeding, Defendant was actively
engaged in the private practice oflaw in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.
i

4. . Defendant was properly served with process and the hearing was held with
due notice to all parties.
5.

Defendant willfully and unlawfully failed .to timely file a state individual

incom~ tax return for tax year 2000 when that tax return was due, as required by N.C.
Gen. S~at. §§ 105-152 and 105-157.

I

6.
Defendant filed a state income tax. return for the 2000 tax year on or about
August 27,,2002.
7.
Defendant willfully and unlawfully failed to timely pay state individual
income taxes for 1.997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.
.
8.
The. North Carolina Department of Revenue served an order garnishing
Shumate's bank account to collect outstanding state individual income taxes in January
2003.

I

9.
The North Carolina Department of Revenue agreed to release the
garnishment if Shumate would pay $1,200 and enter into payment agreement to pay the
remainder of his outs,tanding state individual income taxes ..

a

10.
Shumate paid $1,200 to the North Carolina Department of Revenue in
March 2003 and entered into a payment agreement to pay $100 per month. This payment
agreement was signed on July 15, 2003.
11.
Shumate is currently in a payment agreement with the North Carolina
Department of Revenue,. the terms of which will result in. payment of his outstanding
state individual income taxes in approximately eighteen (18) years.
12.
Willful failure to file or pay a state income tax when due is a Class 1
misdemeanor under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236(9),
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiGtion over the Defendant, RickY F. Shumate, and the· 8,1;lbject niatter.

I

2.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a.
By unlawfully and willfully failing to timely file his 2000 state
income tax return when that return was due, Shumate committed a criminal act
that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects
in violation of Rule 8.4(b).
b.
By unlawfully and willfully failing to timely pay state income
taxes when those taxes were due for 1997, 1998~ 1999, and 2000, Shumate
committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b}.

".

-2-

I
~

-- -il -

.~

,

.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLiNE
1.

The Committee finds no aggravating factors.

2.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

a.

Absence of a prior disciplinary record;

I

b.Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
c.

Personal or emotional problems, including sigriificant depression
stemming from divorce and difficult financial times, contributing
to his miscon4uct;

d!

Timely good faith effort to make restitution or to rectify the
consequences. of his misconduct, inc'luding unilaterally discovering
his failure to timely file his 2000 state income tax return and filing
it as soon as possible after discovery, entry into an installment
agreement with the North Carolina Department of Revenue, and
seeking entry into an installment agreement with the Internal
Revenue Service;

e.

Full and free disclosure to the hearing connnittee and. a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

f.

Good character and reputation;

g.

Substance abuse problem in the form of untreated alcoholism
during the period of time in which the misconduct occurred,
contributing to the misconduct;

h.

Interim rehabilitation, including treatment with PALS and
continuing participation in PALS as a volunteer;

1.

Remorse.

I

."

-3-

I

I
~

'I

Based upon the foregoing factors and the arguments of the parties, the bearing
committee hereby enters the f o l l o w i n g ·
.
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of the Defendant, Ricky F. Shumate, is hereby suspended for·
thirty (30) days and that Suspel1sion is stayed for one (1) year upon the following terms
and conditions. I)uring the stayed suspension, the Defendant shall:

I

a.
Comply with the terms of all agreements with the Internal Revenue
Service and the North Carolina Department of Revenue in existence during the
stay;
b.
Provide the State Bar with documentation Itom the Internal
Revenue Service and the North Carolina Departm~nt of Revenue showing
compliance with the terms of any agreements with these entities, documenting
compliance from the date of the entry ofthis order through sixty (60) days prior to
the expiration of the one year stay and filed with the State Bar no later than fifteen
(15) days prior to expiration ofthe one year stay;
c.

File and pay all future taxes in a timely manner;

d.
Provide the State·:Bar with copies of all tax returns filed during the
stay and proof of payment of taxes due during the stay, filed with the State Bar
contemporaneously with filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the North
Carolina Department of Revenue;
e.
Not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or ofthe
United States;

I

f.
Conduct;

Not violate any provision ofthe Revised Rules of Professional

g.
Pay the costs of tbis proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within 30 days of notice of the costs being serVed upon
him.
h.
Pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis;
and
i.
Keep his ~ddress of record with tbe North Carolina State Bar
current, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and respond
to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North Carolina State
Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication.

-4-

I

2.
If during the stay of the thirty day sl.lspension the Defendant fails to
comply with any bne or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph I (a) through lee)
above, Ithen the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in
§ .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules .

.3.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated fot
any rea;son, Defendant will comply with each of the followip.g conditions precedent to
reinstatement:
a.
Defendant will have submitted his license and membership card to
'the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days ITom the
,effective date of the order activating his suspension;

I

i

b.
Defendant will not have violated any ofthe Revised Rules of
,ProfeSSIonal Conduct;
c.
Defendant will not ,have violated any laws ofthe State of North
Carolina or of the United States;
d.
Defendant will have paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed
py the Secretary;
e.
Defendant will show that he is not then suffering from any
disability that would impair his ability to practice law;
f.
Defendant will have complied with the terms of any installment
payment agreements with the futemal Revenue Service and the North Carolina
Department of Revenue during the suspension period;
g.
Defendant will have provided the State Bar with documentation
from the futemal Revenue Service and the North Carolina Department of
Revenue showing compliance with the terms of any payment agreements with
these entities during th~ suspension period;
~

,

I

h.
Defendant will have timely filed an<l paid any state or federal taxes
coming due during the period of the suspension;
.
I

i
i.
Defendant will have provided the State Bat with copies of ail tax
.returns filed during the suspension and proof of payment of any taxes coming due
during the suspension, filed with the State Bar contemporaneously with filing
with the futemal Revenue Service or the North Carolina Department of Revenue;

j.
If the suspension was activated for Defendant's failure to timely
file andlor pay state andlor federal in.dividual income tax, Defendant will have

-5-

I

rectified the deficiency by filing and/or paying as appropriate the income tax(es)
at issue and will have provided proof of such tq the State Bar;
k.
Defendant will have paid all Menibership dues and Client Security
Fund assessments and will have complied with all Continuing Legal Eq.ucation
requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice ~uring the suspension; and

. 1.
Defendant will have kept his address ·of record with the North
Catolina State Bar current, will have accepted all certified mail from the North
Carolina State Bar, and will have responded to ail letters of notice and requests
for information from the North CaroUna State Bar by the deadlines stated in the
communication.
4.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retainjurisdiGtion of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admirt. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter 13, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing cOinmittee members,
this the :L 8' day of .J ~
. . ' 2004.

~~._ra~
~Culbreth
..
Chairman, Disciplinary Hearing Co1nlt1ittee

I

-6-

I
.

,

