. .'

.

. 4

I

----------

1

STATE OF NORTH CAROLI~~

~,THE GENE~COURT

OF JUSTICE

i-'\ L EtSUPERIOR COURT D;IVISION
COUNTY OF CLEVELAND
'? '004 CRS 4162
lw& JUN tiP;' c..: I
, f "r' C'Y" '" '/
IN THE MATTER OF.~:_EVf:L/l,\~;)
,,/J,; I i

f'
J

SC

'u • • •

GARY S. LEIGH
[)"(_,........

_,_~~._

.. >~~,. ___.... --.

,00

. . . . . . . . ._

ORDER

This cause came OIl before the undersigned Superior
Court Judge presiding at the June 7; 2004 session of the
Superior Court of Cleveland County.. On June 9, 2004 the
underSigned Judge ordered Gar-y S. Leigh to appear at 12
o'clock noon on June 10, 2004 to show Cause why he
should not be adjudged in contempt for his failure to
appear in court on Monday, jUne 7, 2'004 and at 9: 30 a.m.
on Wednesday, June 9, 2004. Pursuant to the Court's
order a hearing was held on June 10, 2004 at the
scheduled time. The allege~ contemnor, Gary S. Leigh
was represented by Rob·Deaton. ProseGuting the contempt
was Steve Kaylor, assistant 'district attorney for the
27BJudiciai District. Based upon the evidence
presented at the hearin~~ the Court makes the following
Findi~gs of Fact, all found beyond a regsonable doubt:
1. Gary S. Leigh is an attorney licensed to
pr'actice law in the State of North Carolina and haS been
practicing law in North Carolina for five years. Mr.
Leigh has offices in Hickory, Asheville and Shelby.
2. On May 10, 2004 Mr. Leigh was appointed to
represent David Lee Weeks in the caSe of the State of
North Carolina versus David Lee Wee~s, docket number 00CRS-55319, in Cleveland County Superior Court.

I

I

3. It is a practice in Cleveland County for
published court calendars and orders appointing coUnsel
in criminal cases to be placed in mailboxes provided for
Cleveland County attorneys in the Office of the Clerk of
Superior Court. Mr. Leig~ has a mailbox for his use in
the Clerk of Superior Court's office in Cleveland
County.

4. Mr. Leigh employs a secretary, Leslie 'Miller;
whOse responsibilities include checking his courthouse
mailbox weekly. '.
5. Ms. Miller ordinarily checks the mailbox on
Mondays ..
1

I

6. The appointment of counsel in the case of
David Lee Weeks was placed in Mr. Leigh's mailbox, on
around,the date of the appointment, May 10, 2004.

Q+' ,.'

7. Ms. Miller neglected to check tne mailbox :por
court calendars and other documents placed therein for'
three to four weeks.
'

I

8. Mr. Leigh did not see the order appointing nim
in the Week$ Case until Wednesday, June 9th, 2004, when
he removed it from'the mailbox in the clerk's office.
9. During the three- to four-week period when Ms, "
Miller did not check the mailbox, Mr. Leigh did not
inquire of Ms. Miller whether she had checked the
mailbox or whether he had received any documents placed
therein.
10. David Weeks' case appeared on the published
calendar for the June 7, 2004 one-week criminal session
of Cleveland County Superior Court. The case was
scheduled for hearing on June 7, 2004. A copy of the
calendar was placed by an employee of the district
attorney's office in Mr. Leigh's courthouse mailbox
during" the last week of May, 2004. Mr. Leigh was not
aware that the case appeared on the published calendat
until he received a telephone call from the district
attorney's office on the afternoon of Monday, June 7,
2004.
11.
On Monday, June 7, 2004 David Weeks appeared
in court at the call of the calendar. Mr. Leigh was not "
present and did not appear in court that date.

I

12. On the afternoon of June 7, 2004, the
,
llndersigned Superior Court Judge instructed the district'
attorney's office to contact Mr. Leigh's office and to
inform him that his presence would be required in cOtlrt
on Tuesday, June 8, 2004 at 9':30 a.m. to handle the
Weeks case.

13. An employee of the district attorney' $ of:E:ice
telephoned Mr. Leigh's office on the afternoon of J~ne 7
to tell Mr. Leigh that his presence would be required in
court on the next day, June 8. The message was left
with one ·of Mr. Leigh's secretaries.
.
],4. Shortly after the telepl10ne call was made,
Mr. Leigh called the district attorney's office and
informed the district attorney's office that he planned
to attend a Continuing Legal Education seminar on
'
Tuesday, June 8, 2004 in Asheville. Mr. Leigh asked if:
the Weeks case could be continued to a later date. ~t
2

I

...... " ...

:

the direction of Elizabeth Lari, assistant district
attorney, Mr. Leigh wa.s informed that the Weeks case
would be called for disposition on Wednes.ciay, June 9,
2004 at 9:30·a.m. Mr. Leigh was directed to be p~esent
in court at that time.
15. Mr. Leigh spent the night of June 9, 2004 :j..n
Asheville with his fiance who was suffering from stomach
problems. Mr. Leigh was aware that he would have to be
. in Superior Court in Shelby the next day at 9:30 a.m.
16. On the morning of Wednesday, June 9, 2004 Mr.
Leigh's fiance was experiencing severe stomach
discomfort. Mr. Leigh was going to drive to Shelby for
court that morning, and his fiance was going to drive to
Shelby for a doctor's appointment in a separate vehicle ..
Concerned for his fiance'S medical condition, Mr. Leigh
did not leave Asheville for Shelby until approximately 9
o'clock. Mr. "Leigh telephoned the district attorney's
offfce·in Shelby to inform them that he would be late,
and would arrive in court at approximately 10:~5.

I

17. When court convened at 9:30 a.m. on
Wednesday, June 9, 2004, Mr. Leigh was not present, and
he did not arrive in court until after 10 a.m. The
David Lee Weeks case was heard at 12:15 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 9, 2004.
18. Mr. Leigh's failure to appear in court on
Monday, June 7, 2004 was not willful. However, his
failure to appear in court on that date was a result of
Mr. Leigh's gross negligence in the handling of the
appointed case assigned to him by the Court on May 10,
2004. His failure to check his mailbox in the clerk of
Superior Court's office for court calendars and orders
of appointment, and his failure to supervise the
employee in his office responsible for checking the
mailbox was grossly negligent inasmuch as the mailbox
was not checked for three to four weeks and no inquiry
was made by Mr. Leigh as to the documents placed in the
mailbox during that three- to four-week period.

I'
,"

.
19. Mr. Leigh's failure to appear in court on
June 9, 2004 was neith~r willful nor grossly negligent.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, all
found beyond a reasonable doubt, the Court makes the
following Conclusions of Law:
1. Mr. Leigh's failure to appear in the Superior
Court of Cleveland County on Monday, June 7, 2004 to
represent David Lee Weeks in the case of State of North
Carolina versus David Lee Weeks, Cleveland County docket
3

I

~umber OO-CRS-0553~9,

cohstituteQ a gros$ly negligent
failure to· comply witn tb,~ schequles?lnd tne practic~s
of the Superior Court which l;'esul ted in substant.ial
interference with the busin~s's of th~ Court . His
failure also donstituted a g~osSly negligent failure by
an officer ot the court to perform hi$duti~s in an
official t:r;:-ansaction.

z. Mr. Leigh's failur~ to app~ar in the .Superior
Court of Cleveland County on 'Wednesday, June 9, 2004 ·at
9:30 a.m. was not a willful or grossly negligent act ..

I

3. Mr. Leigh's failure to appear ,ih tlle SUperio-r
Coil·rt of Cleveland county on June 7,' 20'04 consti tutes a~
indirect criminal contempt of court.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING F'INDINGS OF FACT AND
CONCLUSIONS OF Li\.W.; 1:'1' IS THE:REFORE lillJUJ)GEP that Gary S .
, 1.eigh be and is hereby censured '.for h:L.s gross negligence
ih failing to appear or). June 7, 2004 in the .superior
Court of Cleveland County. It .is ordered that copies of
this order be sent to the HOhorable F. ponald Bridges;.
Senior Resident Superior CoUrt Judge ot the 2713 Judicial
District, and tl1at a copy of this order be sent to the
North Carolina State Bar'for such actio!).; if any, the
North Carolina. State Bar deems aPPropriate ..
This the

{lfIt

day of June, 2004 .

',oner
Court Judge Pre$iding

I

4

",
I

,

,
,

A

