• 1

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

I

BEFORE THE
DISCiPLINARY HEARING COMMISSiON
OF
OLINA STATE BAR
'9
JA-::Ir:;:t;;'t;tlo",u

)
)

The North Carolina State Bar,
Plaintiff

)
)
)
)
)
)

v.
Edward D. Seltzer" Attorney,
Defendant
.o.,---;..---~",-,---,~~--_ _ _

Cons'ent Order of Discipline

)

This matter was considered upon this proposed consent order of discipline
by hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of W..
Steven Allen, St., Chair; Stephen E. Culbreth, and Betty Ann Knudsen. The
Defendant, Edward D. Seltzer, represented himself. bavid R. Johnson representecf
the plaintiff. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions
of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Further, by
entering into this consent order of discipline, Defendant freely and voluntarily
consents to the order of discipline, waives a formal hearing ht the above referenced
matter, and waives aU right to appeal this consent order or challenge in any way
the sufficiency of the findings, the conclusions, or the discipline imposed. Based
'upon the consent of the parties the hearing committee hereby makes the followi,ng:

a

I

FINDINGS of FACT
1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bat; is a body duly organized
under the laws of'North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the' a1ithotity granted it in Chaptet84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
2.
The Defendant, Edward D. Seltzer (hereinafter Defendant), wa~
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar Oh 1980, and is, and was at aU'times'

I

referred to hereih, ah attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject
to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bat :and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein,
Defendant was actively engaged in the _practice of law in Mecklenberg County,
North C~o1ifia and maintained an office fot the' private practice of law in
Charlotte, North Carolina.
4,.: On or about 1j June 2001, Defendant agreed to represent one
Anthony 'Marra (hereafter "Marra") in an effort to have Marta's driving privileges
restored by the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles following Marra's
conviction of driving while impaired before the nortnal time when Marra would be
eligible for restoration of his license in 2003. Marra wanted his license restored
early because he Was a. principal in a construction business and needed to drive
vehicles fOr the business.

I

5.' Defendant informed Marra that he would file a motion for appropriate
relief (hereafter "Motion") with respect to Marra's conviction promptly and, if
successfut, proceed to an administrative hearing before the DMV to testore the
licen$e. Defend:ant infortned Marra that his fe'e would he $7,500 for handling this
mattet.:
'
I

•

6. I Marta paid Defendant the $7,500 fee for representation shortly after
iUne-200i.
7.' By November 2001, Defendant had not filed any motions for
appropria;te relief em behalf of Marra. ,After an exchange of emails between Marra
and the befendant~ Defendant informed Marra in November 2001 that Marra
needed tQ take certain actions to comply with the court judgment before he could
file the Motion.

I

,

8., On or about 30 January 2002, Marta informed Defendant that he had
complied: with all of the requirements set out by Defendant in November 2001.
Marta requested Defendant to proceed with filing the Motion for Appropriate
Relief with the court at that time. 9.: Defendant and Marra had all exchange of emails' and other
correspoiJ,dence during February and Match 2002 concerning the filing of the
Motion. Marta
requested Defendant give him. a , specific date by which
Marra could
I.
,
.,
•
expect actIOh. Defendant repeatedly assured Marra that he would file the MotIOn,
,but woul~ not specify any date by when he would :file it.

I

I

,

'

10. By email dated 1 April 2002, l)efendant informed Marra that th¢
District Attorney had agreed to review the Motion for Appropriate Relief with
Defendant in a conference. In that email, Defendant stated that he would meet with
the District Attorney at some point after the' 15th of April.
.

I

11. . Marra sent Defendant several email messages in late April 2002
asking if he had met with the District Attorney on the 15 th of April. On 18 April
2002, Defendant's assistant replied to one of Marra's emajls that Defendant was
working on. the Motion to submit to the District Attorney. Defendant did fiot
respond to any of the emails from Matta. .
1.2. Defendant's assistant sent Marra an email oil 2 May 2002 advising
that Defendant would present the Motion to the District Attorney on 10 May 2002.
13'. Defendant did hot meet with the District Attorney with regard to
Marra on In May 2002. Defendant did not inform Matta that he did not meet with
the Di~trict Attorney. Marra learned that Defendant had not met with the, District
Attorney on or about 14 May 2002 when Defendant's assistant so informed Marra.
Matta emailed Defendant on 14 May 2002 to· express his dissatisfaction with
Defendant's failure to meet with the District Attorney as he had been informed.
14. On 17 May 2002, Defendant's assistant replied to Marra's 14 May
2002 email and infonned Marra that Defendant chose not to keep his meeting with
the DA because of the "crude" language used by Matta to express his
dissatisfaction with Defendant's conduct in emails from Marta on April 25 and
April 3'0.
.

I

15 . A t some time between 17 May 2002 and 6 July 2002,. Marra
discharged D'efendant and demanded a refund of the unearned fee paid in advance.
Defendarttrefused to refund the fee.
16. On or about 6 July 2002, Marta :filed a lawsuit against Defendant
requesting a refund of the fee. Judgment was entered against Defendant for the full
amount of'$1,500'. To date, Defendant has failed to pay the judgment to Marra.
17. On or about 24 November 2000, Hernan and Beverly Rush (hereafter
"the Rushes;;) retained Defendant to investigate the circumstances under which one
Carl D. Goins (hereafter "Goins") ha.d been criminally convicted. Defendant was to
report to the Rushes his assessment of Goins' innocence and an evaluation of the
chances of challenging Goins' conviction by a post-conviction remedy. The
Rushes paid Defendant $1,000 as his fee.

I
• J.,

.~

18. In early February 2001, the Defendant met with Goins at the Pender
County Correctional Facility.
19. On or about 12 March 2001, the :Oefe~dant informed the Rushes that
he was sc;t:tiM'ied that Goins was innocent and would continue to investigate the
matter to detefinine an appropriate post-conviction proceeding for $5,000.
The Rushes paid Defendant the quoted $5;000 on or about 9 April
2001. Thy Rushes understood that Defendant would keep them informed of his
:fIndings. :
.
20. !

I

21. : The Rushes repeatedly tried to communicate with the Defendant
'concerning the status of Defendant's investigation over the course of the next
several months, but Defendant would not return telephone calls. On or about 30
August 2001, Defendant received a letter from Beverly Rush requesting a status
report. Defendant did not respond to the letter.
22.; Additionally, Goins tried to COrtil11tmioate with the Defendant by mail
from jail 4uring the period from February 2001 through July 2001. Defendant did
not reply tp Goins during that period.

25.; in: October 2001, Goins wrote to 'the. North Carolina State Bar and
asked for. assistance in getting a refund of the money the Rushes had paid to
Defendan~ to investigate his case. As a result, Cl' fee disp\lte resolution file was
established.
,

t

•

,

24.! A Letter of Notice was sent to the Defendant on the fee dispute
pursuant t~ the Bar rules on 26 October 2001 by certified mail. The Letter of
Notice was addressed to Defendant'S ,address of record. By rule, the Defendant was
required t6· respond within 15 days., The Defendant did not accept service of the
letter and lit. was returned on or about 16 November 2001 by the United States
Postal Service as '\inclaimed."
,

I

25. i A second letter was sent to the Defendant on the fee dispute on 15
, November 2001 by certified mail. this letter referenced the first letter and asked
for Defen~:ant's response to the tetter of Notice. The Defendant received the
second letter on 16 November 2001. The second letter requested a response within
10 days of;receipt.

26. : The Defendant did not respond to the second letter within the deadline
stated. As aresult, a grievance file was established by the North Carolina State Bar
on 19 Dec,emher 2001. Pursuant to the rules of the North Carolina State Bar, a
Letter or Notice was sent to Defendant on 14 January 20'02. Defendant received the
t

'

"

I

..

.

.

LetteforNotice on 16 January 2002. By rule, Defendant had 15 days from the date
of receipt to respond to the Letter of Notice. Defendant did not respond by the rule
deadline.

I

27. On 14 Match 2002, the North Carolina State Bar fssued a subpoena to
Defendant to appear before the Office of Counsel on 9 April 20'02 to testify with
regard to the grievance to which Defendant had not responded. The subpoena was
served by registered mail on 18 March 2'002. Defendant submitted documents to ' .
the Bar by fax on 8 April 2002 in response to the subpoena and was excused from
the subpoena.

28..

The Defendant undertook nb substantive action on behalf of Goins '
after receipt of the fee paid by the Rushes nor did h,e provide either Goins or the·
Rllshes any reports, assessments, or evaluations of the vhlbility of arty legal action
on behalf of Goins to overturn Goins' convi~tion. Defendant stopped work on
behalf of Goins upon notice of the fee dispute -and did not resullle work. Defendant
did not refund any portion of the fee paid by t!?-e Rushes.
29. At s0111e time before 20 F~bruary 2001, Defendant agreed to
investigate 'the possibility of a post-conviction remedy for an imprisoned criminal
defendant, Willie L. Monk (hereafter "Monk"). Defendant received $1,500 from
Monk 'or On Monk's behalf as a fee', to meet with Monk at the Caledonia
Correctional Institute where Monk was incarcerated.

30.

I

After meeting with Monk, Defendant infomed Monk that he would
purSue I;ti-s case for an additional $7,500 minimuin fee, and agreed to have Betsy
Gomez (hereafter Gomez); a friend of Monk's, pay the fee ort Monk"s behalf in
installments of $1,0'00 every two weeks. This agreement was memorialized by a
letter from Defendant to Monk dated 26 February 2001.
31: Thereafter, Gomez paid Defendant 'at least $925 more towards'
Detendane s fee.
32. On Or about 21 June 2001, Defendant wrote to Monk terminating his
representation. Defendant asserted that he waS entitled to retain all of the amounts
paid by Gomez as a fee at that time. At that point, Defendant had made no
substantial 'efforts toward investigating Monk's case.
33. On 31.August 2001, Gomez. filed a petition for tee dispute resQluti,on
with the, North Carolina State Bat disputing 'Defendanfs retention of all of the,
all10untspaidas a fee.

I
, -.. -~:;:..it ./

•
A Letter of Notice was sent to the Defendant on the fee dispute
pursuant to the Bar rules on 2. November 2001 by certified mail. By rule, the

34.

Defendant was. required to respond within 1$ days of receipt. Defendant received
the Letter of N6tice on 6 November 2001. Defendant did riot respond within 15
days of receipt.

35.; A second letter was sent to Defendant asking for his response to the
fee dispute petition on 17 December 2001. That letter referenced the first letter and
requested, a responSe within 10 days. Defendant received that letter on 18
December 20'01,. Defendant did not respond to that letter within 10 days of receipt.

I

,

On 22 January 2002, LueUa Ctane of the No!1h Carolina State Bar

36.

staff cal1~d tJefendant's office and informed Defendant that the matter would be
cOliverted into a grievance if there was no response.

37.

1

On 4 February 2002, a grievance file was established in the offices of

the North Carolina State Bar. Pursuant to the rules of the North Carolina State Bar,
a Letter of Notice was sent to Defendant on 13 March 2002. Defendant received
the Letter of Notice on 18 March 2002. By rule, Defendant .had 15 days from the
date of receipt t6 respond to the Letter of Notice. Defendant did not respond by the
rule deadline~
38., On or about 19 June' 2000, Defendant agreed to represent one Stephen
Ryals (hereafter "Ryals") with respect to collection of a debt for Ryals' business
from a Ronnie Prophet or Prophet's business..

39.

Defendant accepted a $1,000 refaiherfrom Ryals that was to be
applied against a one-third contingency fee if Defendant was successful in
recovering the debt.
40.: Defendant wrote a demand letter to Prophet in June 2000 and received
a reply from Prophet's counsel denying any liability in July 10'00 ..
!
41. After attempting to work out a settlement with the opposing party
himself; Ryals asked Defendant to proceed with filing suit against Prophet.
Defendant did not take any substantive action for soine period of time, finally
sending an unfilled complaint to the opposing party along with another demand
letter 011 or about 12 March 2001. Defendant did not file the Complaint with the
court.

I

42. '. 'Ryals discharged respondent and requested a refund of the fee paid.
Defendant'refused to refund any amount.

I

·. ....: ..-. -

~

~

43. On 22 June 2001, Ryals filed a grievance with the North Carolina'
State Bar. Pursuant to the rules of the North Carolina State Bar, a Letter of Notice
was sent to Defendant on 17 July 2001. Defendant received the Letter of Notice on
1'8 July 2001. By rule, Defendant had 15 days from the date of receipt to respond
to the Lettet of Notice. Defendant did not re'spond by the rule deadline.

I

44. In early March 1996, Defendant agreed to represent Hanan Zaghari in
to pursue a claim against Sears arising from an incident at its Eastland Mall store in
which two security personnel grabbed her, handcuffed her, and accused his of
'being a person who had been banned from the store fot Shoplifting. .Zaghari"s,
husband, Ismail Zaghan, had been detained as wen when he' attempted to ' .
intervene. Defendant agreed to represent him as well. The incident occurred on 28
February 1996.
45. Even though Defendant knew that the statute of limitations on,
intentional torts wasohe year, Defendantma:de no fOni1al claim or demand on the
insurance cartier for Sears until October 1997.

46.

Defendant did not inform either of the Zagharis that the statute of
limitations had run on any claim they may have had based on intentional conduct.,
Defendant did not communicate with the zagharis concerning the status of their.
claim on a tegular basis and the Zagharis were unaware of any problem with their
claim.

I

47. About two years after retaining ipefendant, the Zagharis retained new
counsel. After retaining new counsel, they learned that Defendant had failed to act
on their behalf with respect to filing a' :claim 'based on intentional conduct before
the statute of limitations rah.
"

48. In August 1999; the Zagharis filed a grievance with the 26th Judicial'
District Bat. The local grievance committee sent a Letter of Notice to Defendant
dated 27 August 1'999. Defendant Was given 15 days to respond. Although
Defendant's office was contacted repeatedly by the local committee's investigator,
Defendant never responded to that Letter of Notice.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee
has jurisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. The Defendant's conduct, as set blit in the .Findings of Fact above,
constitutes gFounds for discipline pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as
follows:

"

I

.!\'

"

'.,

'

••.•• ;',~~ !.!,Y',

.

, ...

, ;.-:.;.:'~

,

CarBy failIng to. take any apprcpriate substantive actien en behalr ef
Marra, Goins, Menk, et Zaghari cn a timely basis, Defendant failed to abide by the
decisien of the client with re~pect to the ebjectives ef.the client in vielatien efRule
1.2; failed to act with reasenable diligence and premptness in vielation efRule 1.3,
engaged iih conduct prejudicial to the administratiofiof justice in violatien ef Rule
8A(d), and intentionally prejudiced 'Or damaged his client in violatien ef Rule
8A(g);

(b) By railing to. file the lawsuit en behalf ef Ryals in a timely manner er
as directed by the client, Defendant failed to. abide by the decisien ef the olient
with respect to the ebjectives of the client in violatien ef Rule 1.2; failed to. act
with reasonable diligence and premptness in vielation ef Rule 1.3, engaged in
cenduct prejudicial to. the administration ef justice in vielatien ef Rule 8A( d), and
intenti'On~lly prejudiced er damaged his client in vielatien cfRule 8.4(g);

I

(c) i :By railing to inform Marra, Geins, Menk, Ryals, and Zaghari that he
weuld not take any further actien en their behalf, Defendant failed to. keep the
client reasonahly inferned abeut the status ef representatien and failed to. explain
the matte:\; to the extent reasenably necessary to. permit the client to. make infermed
decisiens ,regarding the representatien in vielatien 'Of Rules 1.4(a) and 1.4(b);
(d) .By failing inferm Marra, Geins, Monk., Ryals, and Zagh,ari that he
weuld net take any further actien en their beha1f, Defendant withdrew frem
representation of his client witheut adequate grounds and witheut giving
reasonab1e notice in violation ef Rules 1.16(b) and (d);
(e) . :By inferming Marra that he weuld be taking steps to file the Mctien
fer Appropriate Relief in the neat future, including but net limited to meeting with
the Distri~t Attorney and filing the Metien, but repeatedly failing to. perferm these
actions, perendant engaged in cenduct invelving deceit, dishenesty, er
misrepresentatien in violaticn ef Rule SA(c);

I

(f)
By failing to refund to. Matta, Gcins, artdMonk all or any part cf the
fee paid in advance upcn termination of his services, Defendant cellected a clearly
excessive ;fee in vielaticn of Rule 1.5(a) and failed tn refund the ameunt ef the
advance p:ayrrrent cf his fee that had net heen 'earned in vielatien cf Rule 1.16(d);
(g)' By failing te respcnd to. the grievance Letter of Netice en a time1y
basis wit11. respect to. Geins, Monk., and Zaghari, b'efendant knewingly failed to.
respend tp a lawful demand fcr informatien frem the disciplinary authcrity in
violatien 6fRu1e 8.1(b) and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84..28{b)(3); and
I

I

(h) By failing to respond to the B'ar's request for information regarding
the petition for fee dispute resolution with respect to Goins and Monk on a timely
basis, Defendant failed to participate' iti good faith in the fee dispute resolution .'
process in violation of Rule 1.S(t) and knowingly failed to respond to a lawful
demand for fnfonnation from the disciplinary authority in violatioIi of Rule 8.1 (b).

I

Bas'ed upon the consent of-the parties, the hearing committee also enters the
following:
FiNDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant received an AdmonitioIi from the Grievance Committee in .
1992 for neglecting a client matter~ failing to communicate with a client, ,and
failing to respond to' the Bar's inquiry on a timely basis.
2.
Defendant received a Reprirnandfrom the Grievance Committee in
, 1994 for neglecting a client matter, failing to communicate with a client, and
failing to respnnd to the Bar's inquirY on ,a timely basis.
3.
Defend~t received a Censure froth the Grievance Committee, ,in 1996
for neglecting a client matter and failing to communicate with a client.
4.
Defendant received a second Censure from the Grievance Committee
in 1996 for neglecting a client matter, failing to communicate with a client, and
failing tQ respond to the Bar's inquiry on a timely basis.

I

5.
Defendant received a Reprimand from the Grievance Committee in
2000 for neglecting client matter and failing to communicate with a client in thr~e
separate matters.
Defendant has personal problems related to depression and is seelcing
treatment and -counseling.
6.

Based on the Findings ,of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the
additional Findings 'Of Fact Regarding DiscipUne;the Hearing Committee makes
the following:
.
CONCLUSIONS WITH RESPECT TO.DISCIPLINE

1.,

The Defendant's conduct is aggravated by the following factors:
8..

Multiple offenses;

b.

Pattern of misconduct;

I
.,

c.Multip1e, prior disciplinary orders involving similar conduct.
2.

3.

~he Defendant's conduct is mitigated by the following factors;

a.

Significant personal problems incident to depression during the
period;

b.

Cooperative attitude toward these proceedings; and

c.

Remorse.

the 'aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

I

4.
Defendant's repeated neglect of clients and the notices from the Bar
pose~ suf:qcient potential harm to the public and Defendant's clients as well as the
reputation: of the legal profession if tepe'ated such that it is in the interest of the
public anct the' profession that an order of discipline suspending Defendant's law
license for a 'significant period that is stayed as long as Defendant complies with
reasonable conditions for a substantial per10d is necessary.
Based upon the foregoing Findings Of Fact, ConCluSions Of Law and the
Findings: Of Fact Regarding niscip1i'IH~; and With the consent of the parties, the
Hearing 'Committee enters the following:

ORDER OF nISC!PLINE
1.
the license of the defendant, Edward n. Seltzer; is hereby suspended
,for three years from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon him. The
period of suspension i~ stayed for five years upon the following conditions:
a.

Defendant will satisfactorily participate in the Lawyers
Assistance Program (LAP)· and fulfill all terms of his LAP
contract during the entire period in ,which his suspension is
stayed, including but not limited to these specific conditions: '
1.

I

Defendant will satisfactorily participate in and make
satisfactory progress in all treatment programs or
regimens recommended by his treating professionals,
including all treating phySicians, psychologists,
psychiatrists; counselors,andother professionals
associated with' his treatment, during the entire period of
his stayed suspension unless and until both the LAP and
his treating professionals, agree to the termination of

I

treatment on the basis of a full and complete recovery
with little likelihood, in the professional opinion of the
treating professionals, of relapse;
,

..

11.

Within 15 days of the service of this Order on him"
Defendant will furnish the Office ',of Counsel with a list
of the names, titles, function, association or organization,'
addresses, telephone numbers, and other contact
information on each and every treating professional
connected with his personal treatment program;

111.

Within 15 days of the service of this Order on him,
Defendant will, execute and deliver to the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Barany and all
necessary and appropriate releases and authorizations
directing 'all treating psychologists and psychiatrists to
immediately report any failure to follow any prescribed
course of treatment and/or counseling to the State Bar's'
Office of Counsel;
.

IV.

Within 15 days or the' service of this Order on him,
Defendant will execute and deliver to all treating
professionals conne'cted with his personal treatment
program, with a copy to the Office of Counsel of the
North Carolina State Bar, a directive instructing him or
his to provide quarterly reports of Defendant'$
compliance with and progreSs in his treatment program to
the State Bar's Office of Counsel. Defendant will, at aU
times, be responsible for seeing that these reports are
provided on a timely basis and for any costs of providing
these reports. These reports shall be provided no later
than the fifteenth day after the end of each calendar
quarter (i.e. January 15, April 15, JulylS, and October.'
is) during 'each year or the stay. The directive will ,also
instruct his treating professionals to inform the State Bar
immediately if he fails to comply With any therapy Qr
treatment recommendations. Defendant will likewise
execute and deliver the same directive, with a copy to the
Office of Counsel, within 15 days after any change in his
treating professionalS;

I

..
."

I

I

v.

b.

Defendant will not change any of his treating
professionals on his own initiative without first receiving
approval by the LAP program, his other treating
professionals, and the Office of ~ounsel of the North
Carolina State Bar. At least 15 days before any changes
in his treating profeSSionals, Defendant will provide the
names, contact information, credentials, and reason for /
change, along with the acceptance of the change by the
LAP program, to the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar for approval or the change, which
approval will not be unreasonably Withheld;

VI;

All releases and directives issued by Defendant will
satisfy any requirements of any medical privacy laws,
rules, or regulations, Whether. federal or state, and permit
the Offi'ceof Counsel to directly make meaningful
inquiry of the treating professional .concerning the
information provided to the Office of Counsel without
objection by Defendant. befendant waives any
physician-patient or similar privilege of any treating
professional with respect to reports and information
. provided to the Office of Counsel with respect to his
. trec;ttmeht program; anq

Vll.

Defendant will be solely responsible for all costs of his
treatment program and all treating professionals.

Within 15 days of the service of this Order on him, Defendant
will arrange for 'all of his mental health professionals to provide
quarterly suminaries or his treatinent progress to the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar no later than the
fifteenth day after the end of each calendar quarter (i.e. January
15, April 15; Julyl5, and October 15) during the stay..
Defendant will, at all times, be responsible for seeing that these
reports are provided on a timely basis and for any costs .of
providing these reports. If Defendant's treating professionals
conclude that no further regular treatment is required during the
period of the stay, unless a recurrence or change in condition
requires, regular treatmeht may be stopped ,and further reports
may be discontinued. However, Defendant's treating
professional will provide the Office of Counsel of the North

I

I

I

Carolina State Bar with at least 15 days advance notice of the
end of regular treatment and include the reasons therefore. If
treatments resume during the period of the stay, then
Defendant's treating professionals will notify the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar and the regular reports .
will resume. Defendant will also instruct his treating
professionals to inform the State Bar immediately if Defendant··
fails to comply. with any therapy '01' treatment
recommendations;'

I
c.

By the end of the stay of the order of discipline, Defendant win
have refunded all unearned fees to clients identified in this
Order of Discipline in the amounts shown below and provided
the Office of Counsel with satisfactory evidence of payment,
'
such as a signed receipt or cancelled check:
.

~

_.

Client

Amount

Anthony Marra

$7,500.00
.

Carl D. Goins (Payee Herman Rush)
Willie D. Monk

,

$5,000.00
$975.00

'.

$1,000.00

Stephen Ryals

$14,475.00

Total

I

...

"

".

Defendant will agree to reaffirm these debts in any bankruptcy
proceeding in which he is a debtor and will agree to pay at least
one-fifth of the total due in pro-rata payments to each of the'
identified clients (or their designated payees) each year of the
period this Order is stayed.

d.

During the period of the stay, Defendant will promptly refund· .
all unearned fees to client~ upon discharge or withdrawal from
representation of the client;

e.

No later than 1 September 2004, Defendant wiUcontract with a
licensed North Carolina attorney who maintains a private law
practice in the judicial district in which Defendant maintains his

I
,

~.

primary office for his practice to sefVeas a practice monitor.
Defendant will first secure the approval or his proposed practice
monitor to the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State
Bar~ which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
Defendant will personalIy meet with his practice monitor at
least once a month throughout the· stayed suspension of his law
license. Defendant will keep the monitot apprised of all open
and pending client matters and the status of all such matters.
Within 15 days after the end of each calendar quarter (Le., by
January 15, April 15, July 15; and October 15) of each year
during the stayed suspension of his law license, Defendant will
deliver to the Office of the Counsel written reports signed by
the practice monitor conhrtning that the meetings are occurring
and reporting ort the status of Defendant's client matters.
Defendant will be solely responsible for all costs associated
with the monitoring of his law practice.

I

L

f.

During the period of the stay, Defendant will keep his address
of record with the North Carolina State Bar current, will accept
all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and will
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North-Catolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the
communication.

_g. \ The Defendant shaH not violate any state or fedetallaws during
the period of the stayed suspension.

h.

The Defendant shall not violate any provisions of the Rules of
ProfessionalCon.duct during the period of his stayed
suspension;

i.

Defendant will respond to all State Bar requests for information
by the deadline stated in the communication or within thirty
(30) days, whiChever is earlier;

j.

During the stay period, Defendant will pay all mandatory Bar
dues and assessments, including State Bar and District Bar dues
and Client Security Fund assessments, and will fully comply
- with all requirements of the State Bar Continuing Legal
Education Department, and any other mandatory State Bar
program that may COIne into existence during his stayed

I

I

suspension, on a time1y basis throughout the stayed suspension
of his law license; and

k.

The Defendant shall pay an costs incurred in this proceeding, as
assessed by the Secretary,- Within thirty (30) days of service of
the notice of costs upon him.

If, upon motion by the State Bar; a Hearing Committee of the DHC
finds that the Defendant has violated any of the conditions in Syction lea) - (h) of
this Otdet of Discipline, the suspension of the Defendant's license shall be
activated. If the suspension is activated, priot to seeking reinstatement of his
license, the Defendant must:

2..

I

a.

Comply with all provisions of 27 NCAC IB § .0125 (b) of the
N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules; and

h.

8atisfy -all the conditions set forth inSectioh 1 (a) - (h) of ,this
Order of Discipline prior to seeking reinstatement.
.
,

3..

I

If the suspension of Defendant's law license is activated, at any time -

during the five-year stay period, Defendant's law license will not be reinstated'
until Defendant has fully complied with the ptdvisions'of'paragraphs 1(a) through
(1) above and has shown his compliance with all prOVisions of 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Sec..0125{b) of the' N.C. State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules. In addition, prior to the reinstatement of his license, Defendant
shall provide written or documentary evidence from treating professionals to the
Office of Counsel establishing that she is not then suffering from any mental or
physical condition that significantly impairs his professional judgment,
performance ot competence as an attorney along with sufficient :releases to permit
, direct, meaningful inquiry by the Office of Counsel to his treating professionals.
Defendant will waive any physician-patient or similar privilege of any treating
professionai with respect to reports and infQtlnation provided to the Office of
Counsel with respect to his condition.

I

,

'"

'
'
, \::.\"1'-~.
\

,

-------:-----------------------~

-

-- ---

--

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the
other niemb~rs of the Hearing Committee.

This the

.tJ~ day of

.

JuY::.

2004

I
w. Steven AlIert~ Sr., Chait
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

By signing below, the parties affirm their consent and agre-ement to the entry of the
fotegoing FOhSetlt Order of Discipline in 04 DHC 9:

i

For th~ Plaintiff
,

For the Defendant

I

I

