BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G1738

NORTH C.AROLINA

WA!CECdUNTY

IN RE:

)
)
)
)

I

Joseph M. Kosko,
:ATTORNEY AT LAW

REPRIMAND

I

On 14 Ju12004, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the griyvance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, t4e Grievance COl11lllittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After cO:Q.sidering the
infonnation' available to it; including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
CoIlUb.ittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonabie cause to
believe thata member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The .rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Comtnittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing .
Co:rtnnissio~ are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating! or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand,; or a Censure to the Respondent attorney.
A Rbprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Condu9t an~ has caused harril or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, ;or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.

I

The Grievance COnimittee Was ofthe opirrion that a Censure is not required in this case
and issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is noW my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will"
understand ,fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On br about 23 October 2003, you were asked to close a real estate purchase transaction
in which M.. Ray Johnson waS to buy property belonging to Ruth Brown that evening for
$28,500. You agreed to conduct that closing. As part of the transaction, you were asked to

I
.

-'

prepare a lease with option to purchase between Johnson and a third party, Barbara Campbell.
You agreed to prepare that as well.
.

I

Ms. Brown met with you in youroffice on 23 October 2003 and executed a deed to
.Johnson and a HOD-I form. She also signed a statement prepared by you authorizing you to
disburse her prQceeds of sale to Campbell. Ms Brown is an elderly woman with limited
education. The evidence tends to show that she did not fully :I,lnderstand the transaction or what
she was signing. Mr. Jolmson did not attend this meeting. In fact, you did not receive the funds-to
complete the sale from Johnson unti126 October 2003 at which time Mr. Johnson gave you
$28,500 in cash. There were a number of problems with your handling of this transaction.
•

You prepared a HOD-I indicating that the settlement funds were received and
disbursed on 23 October 2003 when in fact you did not receive the funds until
three days later. Accordingly, the HUD-l you prepared and delivered tQthe parties
contained false information. The law requires ~ HUD-I fonTI. to present ~ We and
, accurate statement ofthe receipts and disbursements in a real estate closing
transa.cti on;

•

You receiyed more than $10,000 in cash, but did not file a report with the IRS as'
required by law;

iii

II

While you deposited the $28,500 'in cash in your trust account, yo1.J did not
identify the source ofthe funds on the deposit ticket; and
You directed the notary to execute a false jurat on the lease with option to
purchase showing th~t the parties had execl,lted the document on 23 October 2003
when Johnsori did :!fot execute it before 26 October 2003.

The·Conunittee concluded that your conduct violated these Rules of Professional
Conduct. By preparing the false HUD,.! form and directing the notary to execute a false jurat,
you engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or misr~presentation in viol~tion of Rule
. 8.4(c). By-preparing the document for Ms. Brown to authorize the disbursement ofthe sale
proceeds to Campbell and otherwise not fully explaining your role as attorney for Johnson to
Brown, you failed to make reasonable efforts to assure that Ms~ Brown did not misunderstand
your role in violation of Rule 4.3. By failing to identify the source of the funds on the deposit
ticket when you deposited the cash from Mr. Johnson into your trqst account, you violated Rule
1. 15-3(a).
, In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee consid~fed the following aggravating
and mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered that you had preViously
received an admonition in a.nother matter. In mitigation, the Committee found that yo~
cooperated with the Bar's investigators by voluntarily pro~ucing documents and answering
~~~m.

-

You are hereby Reprimanded by-the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be

I

remembere<i by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October

IS, 1981 by the Council·ofthe North

Carolina St~U~ Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance C01Illllittee, the costs of this ~ction in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

/0 ~ day of ~ '""'" r:

,2004.

I

Chair, rievance Committee

I

