"

:":

"

.'
.

J,.
i路

" l
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GR!EVANCE COM;MITtEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02G0652

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN tHE MATTER OF

)

)
William H. Sessoms, lr;
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On Wecfuesday;, july 14, 2004 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
met and considered the grievances filed against you by Teresa F. Williamson.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
Stat~ Bat, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the

information avai1abl~ to tt, including yoti.rr~Sponse to the l~tter 6fnbtice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

the rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the' filing oia complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not reqi,lited~ and the Grievance Committee Play' issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual ,or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance C01l1J.11ittee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a..written form of discipline more seriQus than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, theactministration of justice, the
profession, or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance COminittee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar~ it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in Which this duty is performed.
On July 16, 2001 your office c10sed a loan for the complainant, Teresa F. Willianison.
Although you were retained to Close the loan, you were not present in your office to handle the
.
matter. Instead, your secretary, Cindy Greer, closed the loan.

I

Ms;. Williamson believed that she was obtaining a loan to purchase a home, and pay
personal bj1ls from the proceeds ofthe loan funds. However, Ms. Greer and a mortgage broker,
Stanley Wi1Hams, appeared to have orchestrated the closing proceedings in a different way. It
appears that Mr. Williams led the mortgage company to believe that the loan closing was a "refinance/ca~h out" transaction; when in fact Ms. Williamson was purchasing the home from Mr.
Williams. It further appears that Ms. Greer prepared a deed from Mr. Williams to Ms;
Williams0l! dated July 5,2001. That deed had Zero revenue stamps and you recorded it on July
9,2001. At the time you recorded the deed on July 9, 2001, there had been no closing
transaction: relative to that conveyance. Mr. Williams was then able to show the mortgCl;ge
company t1;iat Ms. Williamson was the record owner of the property, ahd th\ls obtain are-finance
of her loan:. It further appears that Ms. Williamson paid off a second deed of trust that was Mr.
Williams' obligation from his purchase of the property. Upon infonnation and belief, Mr.
Williams agreed to pay M~. Williamson's .personal debts, and she signed a statement indicating
that her personal debts would not be paid out of the closing.- However, Ms.- Williamson stated
that nlimerous documents were presented ana not explained to her by Ms. Greet or Mr. Williams
at the closing and she was not sure what she signed on the closing day.

I

"

\

I

The Grievance CbhlIrtittee was deeply concerned that you failed to appear at the Closing
and advise iyour client, Ms. Williamson, about the closing transaction. the Grievance
Committee found that your conduct violated Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct. Furthennore, the Grievance Committee had grave cOncerns about your failure to
supervise Iy1s. Greer, as she conducted the closing, without your knowledge. Your failure to
properly supervise Ms. Greer was in violation ofRu.le 5.3(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct. i

th~Grievance Cortnnittee noted other troubling aspects 6fthis transaction.

Ms. Greer
signed your name on the closing documents. You Were not even aware of any problems with the
closing until you were contacted by the North Catolina State Bar. Upon your own admission,
you did not know when the closing took place. Lastly, you did not sign any of the disbursement
checks. T~e Grievance Committee was very much troubled by the fact that you were totally "out
of the loop?', as it relates to the handling of Ms. Williamson's closing .. The Grievance COfnlllittee
appreciates[your acknowled~ent that you are "ulthnately responsible as the closing attorney", as
it relates to'the many problems associated with that closing.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you wiil heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards ofthe legal profession.

ill accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North
Catolina S*te Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
att_orney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby. taxed to you.

I

r""

,

t

I

charges tHat the court had appointed a local lawyer to represent Aguilar with路 his
con$ent. The court allowed you to withdraw as counsel on December 12, 2002. AguilaJ
and his family members asked you to refund the Unearned PQrt;ion of the fee that you
were paid but you refused to make any refund.
.
Your hereby are reprimanded for violating the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct and caUsing potential harm to your former client, the administration of justice,
an~ the p-rofession of law. The attorney-client r~lationship ended approximately two
months after you collected the fee and ended at a very early stage of the criminal
process. At that point, the $20,000 fee bec~me cle~rly excessive in light of the services
actually rendered.,. and you had a duty to refund the uhearned portion of the fee. Your
refusal to refl;Jlld the unearned portion of the fee you collected from Aguilar and~ his
family violated Rules 1.5 (a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. See, 2000
Formal Ethics Opirlioh5 (July 2000). In making this ruling, the Grievance Committee
has taken in account as mitigating factors your remorse and agreement to refund
$15.,000 of the fee.
THe Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow.
Y9urself to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. '
In accordance with the policy adopted' October 15, 1981, by the -Council 路of the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative
costs to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
.
action in the amount of $50.00 a~ hereby taxed to you. Co
/D
A-t.....,r ~f}1A..
Done and 'ordered, this ~ day of ~ 2004.路

I

John . McMillan
Chair, rievance Committee

I
,

.: ....... .

I"
I,

""

