--~---

;;\~ q S~

NORTH CAROLINA~_~ ___ ~__ ~ _ _.______ . __._

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
\ OFTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G1801 & 03G1580
i

i

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MAtTER OF
ROBERT J. HUME,
ATTORNEY; AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

I

On W~dnesday, July 14, 2004 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met
and considered the grievance filed against yoU by the North Catolina State Bar.
I

Pursu(mt to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State'
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering th~ information
available to it; including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. ProbaOle caUse is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
d<;ltermine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required ahd the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, tHe actual otpotential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Cotnmittee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an att~rney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
signiticant hal~ or potential significant harm to a client, the adtninistration of justice, the profession or
a menlber oft~e public, but th~ misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.

I
.

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required,.in this case and issues this censure
to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
.
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty'to issue this censure. I am certain that you will
understand fuIJy the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In Novemher 2002, Vincent G. paid you a $300 retainer to handle a domestic case for him. When
you failed to c~mmunicate with Mr. G. or take effective steps to resolv<;l his case, he discharged you in
April 2003. Although he asked you to refund the $300 retainer, you did not respond or return the unearned
part of the fee to Mr. G.
In July 2003, Mr. G. filed a fee dispute petition with the N.C. State Bar. The Bar notified you ofthe
petition and directed you to respond no later than Aug. 29, 2003. You failed to do so and the State Bar
opened a grievance file against you. You were served with the letter of notice regarding the grievance on
Oct. 23, 2003, and were directed to respond within 15 days. Nevertheless, you did not actually respond

I

0

..
until March .26, 2004, after the State Bar was forced to subpoena you to Ral~igh to respond. The Grievance
Committee found that you ne~lected Mr. G. 's case and failed to communicate with him, in violatIon of
Rules 1.3 and 1.4, respectively, that you failed to participate in the fee dispute process in violation of Rule '
1.5 and that you failed to file a timely response to the letter of notice, in violation of Rule 8.1. Finally, the
Committee did not believe that you earned the entire $300 fee paid to you by Mr. G. and found that YOll
retained an excessive fee, in violation of Rules 1.5 and 1.16.
In March 2002, you undertook to represent Lisa p. regarding a judgment that had been entered

1

against her. Ms. P. paid you a $500 retainer. Thereafter, she discharged you and filed a fee dispute
petition with the State Bar, claiming that you had not earned all of the fee. You were notified of the petition
on Oct. 23, 2003 and Were directed to respond in 15 days. You did not do so and the State Bar open~d a .
grievance file against you. The letter of notice was served upon you on Feb. 12,2004, and you were
directed to respond in writing by Feb. 27; 2004. You failed to respond to the letter of notice tLntil March
26, 2004, after the State Bar subpoenaed you to appear in Raleigh to respond.
The. Grievance Committee found that you failed to participate in the fee ·dispute process regarding
Ms. P., in violation DfRule 1.5 .and that you failed to file a timely response to the letter of notice, in
.
violation of Rule 8.1. The Committee also found that you did not earn the entire $500 fee paid to you by
Ms. P. and that you retained an excessive fee in violation of Rules 1.5 and 1.16.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards ofthe legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your resp0f!sibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member ofthe -legal
profession whose conduct maybe relied upon without questiop..
.

1

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina'
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are· hereby taxed
to you.

Done and ordered, this

10

'1\_ day of

A...,. . . . +- ,

2004.

. McMillan, Chair .
Griev ce Committee
The N rth Carolina State Bar

I·

