WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.
HOLLY: L. SAUNDERS, ATTORNEY
Defendant

I

..

)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)
)"

I

, ....

THIS MATTER was heard on Friday, Aug. 20, 2004, before a duly assigned
Hearing:Committee of the bisciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Karen EadyWilliams, Chair; Elizabeth Bunting and Donald G. Wilhoit. The Defendant, Holly L.
Saunder~, did nat appear nor was she represented by counsel. Carolin Bakewell
represen~ed the N.C. State Bar. Based upon the pleadings, evidence introduced at the
hearing and arguments of counsel, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1,. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is Ii body du1y organized
under thy laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under th~ authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina~ and the Rules ahd Regu1ations of the North Carolina State Bar
promu1gated thereunder.

I

2. The Defendant, Holly L. Saunders (SliUi1ders) was admitted t6 the
North Ckolina State Bar in March 1997, and is, and Was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules, regulations arid Ru1es of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bat and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

3'. During all of th~ periods relevant hereto, Saunders was engaged in the
practice oflaw in Charlotte, N.C.

4;. The State Bar; s summons and complaint in this matter Were filed on
May 28, 2004.

I

.
5. Saunders was personally served With the Sutnnions and complaint
herein by the Mecklenburg County Sheriff's Department on June 23, 2004.
6. Saunders' answer was due no later than July 14,2004.
7. Saunder$ did not file 'an answer or other responsive pleading and the
Secretary of the N.C. State Bar entered her-default on July 19,2004.

I

8. The Disciplinary Hearing Comtilission.has jurisdiction over the person
of the Defendant and over the subject matter of the State Bar's complaint.
9. Saunders had proper notice of the hearing time, date and place.
10. On or about Aug. 7,2001, Saunders undertook to file a civil action
agains! Gaston College on behalf of Sharon E. Williams (Ms. Williams) for
wrongful termination and racial discrimination.

11. Between August 7, 2001 and May 21,2002, Saunders failed to
respond promptly to Ms. Williams' inquiries about the case and failed to keep her
informed about the status of the matter.
12. On three occasions in January, February and April 2002, Saunders
falsely advised Ms. Williams that she had filed the complaint against Gaston
College and that she was having difficulties serving one of the individual
defendants in the case.
13. On May 21,2002, Saunders filed the complaint against Gaston
College 011 Ms. Williams' behalf.

I

14. After June 2002, Saunders failed to respond promptly to Williams'
inquiries about the case and failed to keep her informed about the status of the
matter.
15. 'On or about Nov. 27, 2002, Gaston CoHege's,attorney~ served
Saunders with interrogatories and a request for production of documents.
Salmders did not notify Ms. Williams of the receipt of the discovery requests and
did not file responses thereto.
16. Saunders faile4 to notify Ms. Williams when Gaston College's
attorneys scheduled Ms. Williams' deposition for Jan. 23,2003. 'Neither Ms.
Williams por Saunders appeared for the deposition.
17. Saunders failed to notify Ms. Williams when Gaston Coilege's
attorneys filed a motion to dismiss Ms. Williams' lawsuit. Saunders did not
oppose the motion and did not appear at the hearing on the motion to dismiss.

2

I
,

?>l

"

t

1\

~
'

-: \
.

I/r.s -

;/

18., Saunders failed to notify Ms. Williams when the court dismissed the
lawsuit against Gaston College on Feb. 12,2003.
19. On or about Sept. 19,2003, Ms. Williams filed a grievance against
Saunders with the North Carolina State Bar.
•20. On or about Oct. 14,2003, the N.C. State Bat served Saunders with a
letter of notice and substance of grievance concerning Ms. Williams' grievance by
certified mail.
21. The letter of notice directed Saunders to file a written response to the
griev~ce within 15 days.

I

· 22. . Saunders did not respond to the letter of notice.
123. On Nov. 7,2003, the N.C. State Bat sent a letter to Saunders,
reminding her that her response to Ms. Williams' complaint was overdue.
,24. Saunders did not reply to the Bar's reminder letter of Nov. 7,2003.
i 25. On or about Nov. 24, 2003, the Executive Director of the N.C. State
Bar issued a subpoena to Saunders. The subpoena directed Saunders to appear at
the St~te Bar's office in person on Dec. 30,2003, produce copies of Ms.
Williatns'
client file and respond to Ms. Williams' grievance.
I ,
'

26. Saunders was personally served with the State Bar's subpoena by the
Meck1~nbtlrg COUhty Sheriffs'Department on Dec. 19,2003.
I

as directed pursuant to the State Bar's
•I 27. Saunders did not appear
'
subpoena nor did she produce Ms. Williams' client file.
: Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact; the hearing committ~e hereby
enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. Sy failing to respond to Ms. Williams' requests for information about
her ca~e and by failing to tell her that discovery requests had been filed by
opposing counsel, that opposing counsel had schedUled her deposition and that
her ca$e had been dismissed in February 2003, Saunders failed to communicate
with a!c1ie~t in violation of Revised Rule 1.4.
, 2. By falsely telling Ms. Williams on three occasions in early 2002 that
the coinplaint had been filed against Gaston College, Saunders engaged in
condupt involving fraud, deceit or dishonesty in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(c).

3

I

3. By delaying until May 2002 to file a complaint on Ms. Williams'
behalf against Gaston College, failing to respond to discovery and the motion to
dismiss filed by Gaston College's attomeys and by failing to appear at the hearing
on the motion to dismiss Ms. Williams' lawsuit against Gaston College, Saunders,
neglectecl a client matter in violation of Revised Rule 1.3.

I

4. By failing to respond to the State Bar's letter of notice, Nov. 7,2003 ,
follow up notice and the subpoena dated Nov. 24, 2003, Saunders failed to
respond to an official inquiry of a di~ciplinary authority in violation of Revised
Rule 8.1(b).

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DiSCIPLINE
1. The Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the fol1owing factors:

a. Multiple violations of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
b. Defendant engaged in a pattern of miscondllct.
c. Failure to acknowledge wrongdoing ortnake restitution.
d. Bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary process.
e. Pattern of misconduct.
2. The Defendant's conduct is mitigated by the following factor:
Defenda,nt has no prior discipline.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factor.

I

4. Saunders' misconduct has caused substantial actual or potential harm to
her client, Sharon E. Williams, who has lost, perhaps forever, her claim against
Gaston College and who did not receive the legal services for which she paid.
Saunders' misconduct has also harmed the standing of the legal profession in the
eyes ofher former client.
5. An order calling for discipline short of suspension would not
sufficiently protect the public for the following reasons:
a. Saunders engaged ina multiple violations of the Revised Rules
of Profe~sional Conduct over a substantial period of time. Her
misconduct was not the result of a mistake, nor did it appear to
be an aberration and it therefore appears that her misconduct is
the product of a personality flaw that is not readily changeable.
b. Saunders has offered no plausible evidence or aSStl!ances that
she has addressed the problem or flaw that led to her
misconduct. Indeed, she has ignored the State Bar's attempts

4

I

, ,

','

, '

'> :.,: ''\;,'

to investigate this matter and ignored a lawfully issued
subpoena. Consequently; the Committee finds that there is a
substantial risk that her misconduct w()uld be repeated if he
Were permitted to retain her law license.
c. The protection of the public requires that Saooders be
suspended for a period of time, with the right to seek
reinstatement under proper conditions.
d. Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses which Saunders
. committed, would be inconsistent with the orders of discipline
entered by this body in similar caSes and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.

I

e. Saunders' misconduct has jeopardized the profession's ability to
remain self regttlating. Lawyers cannot continue to enjoy this
privilege if members of the Bar do not respond to legal
inquiries <?f the regulatory authorities .
. Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and
Findings of Fact Relevant to Discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
.follow~rig:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

! 1. The law license of the defendant; Holly t. Saunders is hereby
suspended for three years, effective 30 days from the date of service of this order
upon Her. After serving 12 months of the active suspension of her law license,
Saunders may apply for reinstatement by filing a petition with the Secretary of the
N.C. State Bar demonstrating the following:
a. She paid the C()sts of this proceeding within 30 days of service of the
notice of the statement of costs.

I

b. She obtained an evaluation within 6 months of the effective date of
this order by a psychiatrist approved by the N.C. State Bar and
complied with all treatment reco11l1i1endations of the psychiatrist
during the period of the active suspension of her law license. The
inedical evaluation shall be obtained at Saunders' expense and shall
provide that she is not disabled or suffering from any mental or
physical
condition that prevents her from practicing law competently.
r
c. She provided a written release t() the N.C. State Bat authorizing its
representatives to speak with the psychiatrist who performed her

5

I

evaluation and to obtain copies of her medical records from the
psychiatrist. The release shall be 'provided not less than 30 days before
. .
Saunders :files the petition for reinstatement.
d, She h?s responded to all cOllununications from the N.C. State l3ar
within 30 days of receipt or the date stated in the communication,
Whichever is Sooner.

I

e. She has paid all mandatory state bar dues, Client Security Fund
assessments and all sums owed to the N.C. State Bar Continuing Legal
Education Department.

f. She has not violated the Revised Ru1es ofPtofessional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or of any state.
g. That she properly wound down her law practice and complied with the
terms of27 NCAC lB Section .0124 of the State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules.
h. She is current with all mandatory continUing legal education
requirements and that she took 12 hours of continuing legal education
for each year during which her license was actively suspend~d.
1.

She has refunded the $400 fee paid to her by Sharon E. Williams and
has rettnned Ms. Williams' client file to her.

2. If Saunders successfully seeks a stay of the suspension ofher law
license, such stay will continue in force only so long as she cO:rriplies with the
conditions· set out in ~ l(d) - (f) and (h).
.
.

I

3. If Saunders does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension
dfher law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and the stay is
revoked at any time, Saunders must comply with the conditions set out in ~ 1 (a)(i) bef()re seeking reinstatement of her law license.

I
"

j';'

-,: J

-;:.

Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Coin111ittee' With the consent of the
.
other hearing, committee members.

-~.

I

I

7

I

