I

BEFOR;ETHE
GR.!EVANCE COMMITTEE
OF TBE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE:aM
04G0228

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
John 1. Peck,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On Wednesday, July 14, 2004 the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar
met and considered the grievances filed against you by Kelly M. Toms ..
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Piscipline and Disability Rules of the North Carpljna
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the l~tter of notice~ the Grievance
Committee fOlmd probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member ofthe North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
,
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
COh1mission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or pote11tial injury caused, and any
aggravating ()r mitigating factors. The Grievance -Committee may issue an adlllonition,a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an aclmonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused h~ or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require' a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this ,reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fl}.lly the spirit in which this duty is performed.
The complainant, Attorney Kelly M. Toms, shared office space with you for several
months. Ms. Toms put a cup of frozen iced tea containing a roach in the office freezer. The cup
of iced tea with ¢.e roach was evidence in Ms. Toms' client's case. Ms. Toms' client had
recently taken a voluntary dismissal in his action, and he asked that Ms. Toms return the

I

evidence to him. Ms. Toms asked that the cup be stored in the freezer until her client could
retrieve it the following week. Apparently, you removed the cup of iced tea with roaches from
the freezer and disposed of it.
The:Grievance Committee found that you destroyed evidence of Ms. Toms' client, in
violation of Rule 8A(d).
Ano,ther of Ms. Toms' clients brought a letter that he had received from the Department
of Motor Vehicles to the office for Ms. Toms. Your secretary received that letter from Ms.
Toms' client. When you leamed that your secretary had accepted the letter from Ms. Toms'
client to give to Ms. Toms, you shredded the letter.

I~

The Grievance Committee found that you should not have destroyed information that Ms.
Toms' clie!).t brought to her. Your conduct in this matter violated Rule 8A(d) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.
YoJ are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. the Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15; 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney is~ued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

: and ordered, this the
Done

It

t= day of

L1
rr
tT--J"""'"

. McMillan, Chair
ce COinmittee

, 2004.

I

JBM/lr

I
.1

,.

