., .
,

(',~?.\ Z~29JOJ!.

i-:>"
~

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

,~

/.-:'5.

/) 11l ,,-

~ ¢'CJ
A ~.,,(,<'Ocq;,

:BEFORE THE
.
U i rSCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION ..
V~'O
~
OF THE
C'~:;;
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03 BCR2
.

';'::.V

I

)

IN RE REINSTATEMENT PETITION OF )
)

RANDY MEARES

)

REPORT OF THE HEARING COMMITTEE
RECOMMENDING THAT PETITIONER'S
REINSTATEMENT BE DENIED

)

On November 7, 2003, a hearing committee ofthe Disciplil,1a:ry Hearing Commission
composed of Carlyn G. Poole, Chair; Karen E. Eady-Williams and Betty Ann Knudsen heard the
above-referenced matter pursuant to 27 NCAC 1B, §.012S(a). Randy Meares represented
himself and A. Root Edmonson represented the North Carolina State l.~ar. Pursuant to 27 NCAC .
1B, §.012S(a)(3), the petitioner had the burden of proving that he had satisfied all of the elements
qUalifying him for reinstatement by clear, cogent and convincing evidence. Prior to the hearing, .
the parties filed memqranda that limited the contested issues to five issues: .

I

1) whether Meares has reformed and presently possess~s the moral qt1alifications
to practice law in this state taking into account the gravity of miscQnduct
which resulted in the order of disb1J,rment [emphasis added]; 2) whether
reinstatement would be detrimental to the integrity and standing of the Bar, the
adniinistratiqn of jtlstice or the public interest; 3) whether Meares engaged in th~
up.authorized practice of law during his disbarment; 4) whether Meares
tlllderstands the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; and 5) whether Meares
has the compete~cy and learning in the law required to practice law in this state.
Based upon the evidence presented, the hearing committee enters the following:
Findings of Fact
1. In an order of discipline filed on January 8,. 1998 in 97 DHC 24 that resulted in
disbarment, a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission found that Randy
Meares (hereinafter, Meares) misappropriated clients' funds, made false stG1,tements.to the State
Bar's investigator, intentionally withheld copies ofrel~vant checks .in response to a State Bar
subpoena, and failed to disclose the State Bar's investigation to the Real Estate Commission
when he applied for a real estate salesman's license in response to a question on his application
that called for disclosure.

I

..
2. On April 17, 1997, during the State Bar's investigation, Meares consented to the entry
of a Preliminary Injunction in Wake County Superior Court that enjoined Meares from accepting
any funds from clients or thjrd parties in a fiduciary capacity and from withdrawing funds from
any account in which cliellt or fiduciary funds had been deposited. On August 3, 1998, Meares
admitted that he had violated the Court's injunction on four occasions, and was given a
probatiOnary sentence for four counts of criminal contempt.
3. On April 23, 1998, Meares filed a bankruptcy petition. Meares failed to list on his
schedule of assets a fee that he knew he had a potential claim to in a worker's compensation
caSe. In, April 1999, the bankruptcy trustee recovered $10,000 as Meares' .share of the
unschedilled fee for distribution to Meares' creditors. Meares' failure to list the potential fee as a
potential asset in the bankruptcy petition showed a lack of candor in the bankruptcy proceeding.

I

4. On November 20,2001, Meares was called as a witness in a hearing before a deputy
connnissioner of the Industrial Commission in a worker's comperisation case. On cros/?examination, Meares was asked ifhe was disbarred for stealing from clients. Meares answered
that he was not disbarred for stealing from clients. He also denied that he was disbarred for lying
to the Stflte Bar. He admitted only that he was disbarred. Meares' testimony in the 2001 hearing
was evasive, and he was not candid about his testimony in that case at this hearing.
5i' Oh April 22, 2003, Meares wrote a letter on behalf of Geraldine Moseley and her
husbandconceriling their account at MBNA. In the computer-generated letterhead, Meares was
identified as "Randy Meares, Esq." Typed above his signature on the letter was "LAW OFFICE
OF RANDY MEARES."
6.. Meares presented testimony from three lawyers at the firm where he began working as
a paralegal in August 1998. Meares also offered testimony from two other laWyers and two lay
witnesse~, including his wife. They all testified that, in their opinion, Meares had satisfied each
of the el~ments at issue and that he should be reinstated. However, the basis that the witnesses
gave fot-their conclusion was not convincing given the gravity of MeareS' misconduct.
7l None ofthe lawyers who testified for Meares waS aware of the April 22, 2003 letter
that Meares wrote to representatives of MBNA on behalf of the Moseleys. The associate from
the firm that Meares works for was not asked about the letter. However, the other four lawyers
who testrfied for Meares considered that Meares had engaged in the unauthorized practice of law
by sending the ietter. Meares' explanation concerning the letter was that he was only trying to
help the Moseleys because a lawyer that he recommen4ed to them had failed to clear the matter
up. That: was not justification for engaging in the unauthorized practice of law.

I

S,i Meares' evasivenes~ and lack of candor during his testimony ·before the hearing
committee shows that Meares lacks remQrse.
9.: Meares failed to demonstrate that he had engaged in activities that would exhibit to
the public that he had the present moral character to be reinstated to the practice of law sU,?h that
the public wQuld have confidence that his reinstatement would not be detrimental to the integrity
and standing of the bar, to the administration ofjugtice, and to the public interest.

2

I

l'

.'

.

~

10. By reading advance sheets, issues of Lawyers Weekly, performing his job as a
paralegal with the law firm, and attending seminars, Meares has demonstrated his understanding
of the Ru1es ofFrofessional Conduct and his competency and leamin,g in the law, however, his
actions an4 lack of candor fol1owing his disbarment indicate Meares lacks a true appreciation of
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:
. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Meares has not reformed and does not possess the moral qualifications required for
admission to practice law in this state taking into account the gravity of the miscondtlct that
resuhed in his order of discipline: Meares has failed to satisfy a necessary element required by
27 NCAC 1B, §.0125(a)(3)(C), and is ineligible to be reinstated to the practice oflaw.
2. Permitting Meares to resume the practice of law within the state would b~ 4etrhnental
to the integrity and standing of the bar, to the administration- of justice, and to the public interest
taking into account the gravity of the misconduct that resulted in his order of discipline. Meares
has failed to satisfy a necessary element required by 27 NCAC 1B, §.0125(a)(3)(D), anQ. is
ineligible to be reinstated to the practice of law.
3. During the period of disbarment, Meares engaged in the unauthorized practice ,of law.
Meares has failed to satisfy a necessary element required by 27 NCAC 1B, §.0125(a)(3)(l), and
is ineligible to be reinstated to the practice of law.
4. Meares understands the current Rules of Professional Conduct as required by 21
NCAC IB, §.0125(a)(3)(K).

I

5. Meares has the competency and learning in the law required to practice 'law in this
state as required by 27 NCAC IB, §.0125(a)(4)(A).
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
committee recommends to the Council of the North Carolina State Bar that the -law license,
of Rapdy Meares not be reinstated at this time.

'7/..

Signe~~hair with the consent of the other members of the hearing committee this

~dayof

4 '~blf=

,2003.

.

3

