BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0480152

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

William 1.. Mason,
Attorney At Law

INRE:

)
)
)

CENSURE

I

On Wednesday, July 14,2004 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
met and con~ideted the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Purstiant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Comtnittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information ;lvailable to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee ~ound probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that !;l. member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary ~ction."
The iples provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievanc.e Committee may
determine th?t the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission' are not warranted and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating Qr mitigating factors. The Grievance ColllIrtittee may issue an a~onition, a
reprimand, o~ a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more ptovisions'ofthe Rules ofPrbfessional Conduct
and has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the ptofession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney's license.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinjon that a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of
the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You told mortgage lenders that you had malpractice liability insurance with Lawyer's
Mutual Liability Insurance of North Carolina (hereafter, Lawyer's Mutual). You made that
representation to the mortgage lenders by altering a file copy of an expired policy that you had
with the insurance company. At the time you told the lenders that you were covered by Lawyer's
I

I

q/O

"

I

Mutual, you knew that your policy had lapsed and that you were not covered by Lawyer's
Mutual.
Your misrepresentation violated Rule 8.4(C) ofthe R~vised Rules orProfessiohal
Conduct. The Grievance Committee was very disturbed by your dishonesty. However, the
Grievance COTInnittee found as mitigating factors: your admission of wrongdoing and no prior
disciplinary record.

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow youtselfto depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards ofthe legal profession. This ce'nsure should serve as.
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to
the public, yoUr .clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself
as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without
question .
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North

'.. Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
.... attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

/I'll day of_~f-..J-.--":r---~-=--L,--,.--A-:~~. _____ , 2004.
Done and ordered, this the --1-1--

I
JBMllr

I

I

I

