NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

9

(2%
i
,
,

BEFORE THE
aw+2*,a
! ) ~ i ~ l ~ ~ iliAiilY(i
~ ~ i i ( - .
&A$? =
==!
3
COMMISSION
""j
c,
OF THE
z*,fiORTH CAROLINA STATE BA

THE NORTH CAROLINA STA YE BAR.
Plaintiff
V.

FINIIINGS OF FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER OF DISCIP1,INE

MARK A. KEY, Attorney,
Defendant

T11IS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on Friday, May 5 , 2006
before a duly assigned hedring committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Con~mission
co~nposedof W. Steken Allen, Sr., Chair; Karen Eady-Williams and h~largueriteWatts.
Penny K. Hell represented the defendant, Mark A Key, and Carolin Bske~icll
represented the N.C. State Bar. Rased upon the pleadings anti the evidence i~~troduced
at
the hearing, by the greater \\eight of the evidence, the committee hcrcby enters the
following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I
Plaintiff. 11ic Aorth Carolma State Bar. IS a body duly organi~edunder thc
laws of Nol-th Carolina and is the proper party to brlng lhls proceeding under the
authority grantcd it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and the Rules
Regulatioi~sof the North r a r o l ~ n aState Bar.

2. Derendant, Mark A. Key (-'Keym), was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in 1997 and was at all times referred to herein an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina and was subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina and the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3. Key was properly served with process and the hearing herein was held with
due notice to all parties.
4. On May 21, 2003, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered an order
finding that Key violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in several respects.

5. The May 21, 2003 Order of Discipiine ("Order of Discipline") suspended
Key's license to practice law for two years and stayed the suspension for three years,
provided that Key complied with certain conditions set out in the order.

6. Key consented to the entry of the Order of Discipline, which is final and
binding on all parties hereto.
7.

No order has been entered amending or vacating the Order of Discipline.

8. Among other things, the Order of Discipline required Key to comply with the
laws of the State of North Carolina and the Rules of Professional Conduct throughout Lhe
three ycar stayed suspel~sionperiod.
9. Prior to 14ug 8. 2005, I'ammy Faircloth (.'Faircioth4') rctaintd Kcj. to
represent her on charges that she used cocaine and failed to observe a curfew, In violation
of the terms of her criminal probation ("cocaine/curfew violation").
10. 011Aug. 8, 2005. Key appeared on Faircloth's behalf before Hon. Abe Jones
("Judge Jones") regarding the cocaine/curfew violation charge. While awaiting the
hearing on the cocainelcurfew violation charges, Faircloth was arrested on a new charge
that she had absconded from supervision ("absconder violation").
11. [luring the ~Zng.8 hearing. Key asked Judge Jones to consider disposing of
the cocaitlc/curfcw a i d absconder violation charges in one order.

12. Margaret Price ("Price"), who was Faircloth's probation officer at the titnc,
opposed sntry of an order disposing of the abscoilder violation charge at the same time as
the cocaine/curfew charge.
13. Key did not lirn~tthe scope of 111s representation in any i+ay, nor did he tell
Judge Jones that hc d ~ not
d ~cpt-cscntI:ai~.cloth on the absconder violation

I'rice lest the Aug. 8 hearing ~ ~ n d ethe
r irnprcssion that the absconder
violat~onhad not becn resol~ed. Key and Falrcloth believed that the aixcondcr violation
had been resolved by Judge Jones along with the cocaine/curfcw charge.
14.

15. Following the Aug. 8 hearing, Judge Jones ordered as follows in Faircloth's
case: "[glet an assessment and follow through with any recommended treatment. The
first positive or first missed curfew the probationer is to be arrested. Proba.tioner is to be
brought back before Judge Abraham Jones within 90days of this hearing for disposition
of probation violation and probationer to remain on intensive probation for the next 3
months." The written order did not address the absconder violation.
16. Thereafter, Robert Porter ("Porter"), a probation officer in Cumberland
County, assumed responsibility for supervising Faircloth's compliance with the terms of
her probation.

17. In late August 2005, Porter told Faircloth that a hearing had been scl~eduled
for her in Wake County Superior Court on Sept. 12, 2005. Faircloth relayed this
information to Key.

IS. Key agreed to appear on Faircloth's behalf at the Sept. 12, 2005 hearing
before Judge Stafford Bullock ("Judgc Bullock").

19. During the Sept. 12 hearing, in response to questions from Judge Bullock,
Key admitted Faircloth's guilt to the absconder charge.
that
20. When Judge Bullock refused to be bound by Price's recomme~~dation
ihc absconder charge be resolved by continuing Faircloth on intensive probation. Key
moved to continue the case.
Key did not limit the scope of his representation of Faircloth during the
21.
hearing before Judge Bullock on Sept. 12.

22. T11e hearing on tl~eabsconder violati011 was rescheduled for Oct. 10, 2005.
2 3 . Prior to the Oct. 10, 2005 hearing. Faircloth agreed to pay Key an additional
$200 lo handle the absconJer violation.

24. O n Oct. 5. 2005,Key issued a subpoena to Porter to appear at the Oct. 10
hearing.
25. Uefore court bcgan on the afternoon of Oct. 10: 2005, Key knew that the
matter on the calendar was the absconder violation charge.

26. Shortly before court was to commence on Oct. 10, Faircloth told Key that
she did not have the additional $200 fee. Key Ieft the courtroom area. and told Faircloth
that he was not going to return to court because she had not paid his fee.

27. Thereafter, Key toid Porter that he (Key) had not been "riiliy retaineci" by
Faircloth and reIeased Porter from the subpoena.
28. Key did not seek or obtain the Court's permission to withdraw as Faircloth's
attorney, nor did he take any steps to protect Faircloth's interests before he effectively
concluded his involvement in the case.

29. As a result of Key's refusal to complete his representation. Faircloth was left
without representation at the Oct. 10, 2005 hearing on the absconder violation.
30. After Faircloth's case was called and Key's absence became known, Judge
Tom Haigwood ("Judge I-Iaigwood") directed his courtroom clerk, Sonya Clodfelter
("CIodfelter") to contact Key and direct him to return to court.

31. After several attempts, Ctodfeltcr spoke with Key, who indicated that hc was
on his way to meet with his child's teacher. It was ultimately determined that it was not
possible for Key to attend the meeting and return before the close of court on Oct. 10.
32. Judge I-laigwood ordered Key to retur-n to court on Oct. 1 1 to handle
Faircloth's case.
When Clodfelter told Key that he had been ordered to roturn to court to
33
handle Faircloth's case, Key became angry and asked what Jucigc Ilaigwood ~boulddo if
Elc (Key) did no1 appear for court on Oct. 1 I . Clodfelter indicated that the judge might
issue a bench warrant for his arrest, to which Key replied that he "did not give a shit"
ivl~arthe j d g e did.

34. Because Key failed to handle Faircloth's case on Oct. 10, and did not return
to court that day, Paircloth's case was continued untij the following day.
35. Faircloth was adversely affected by Key's rerusal to appear on her behalf in
that slie was required to r e t ~ r nto court on Oct. 11 and by the fact that she was also
subpoenaed to testify at a disciplinary hearing regarding Key conducted by the Court on
Nov. 14 and 15.2005.

36 Porter was also required to return to Ralcigh for the Oct. 11 hearing and for
the disciplln~iryhearing regarding Key.
Rascd upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the I-Icaring Conii~litteeenters the
follouing Concl~rsionsof l.acv:
1. All partics arc propsrlq heforz the hearing coinmittee aid thc hearing
co111mittee has jurisdictioi~over the subjcct of'tllis procceding and over the person of the
I)efindmt, Mark A. Key.
2. Key entered a general appearance regarding the absconder violation pending
against l-'aircloth on Sept. 12,2005. Consequelltly, he could not properly refuse to appear
at the Oct. 10, 2005 hearing on the grounds that she had not paid his fce, without first
seeking pern~issionto withdraw from the court.

3 . Key's conduct as set out herein violated the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct in the follow-ingrespects:
a. By refusing to appear on Faircloth's behalf at the Oct. 10, 2005 hearing,
Key neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 1.3, and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4id).

b.

By failing to seek Court permission before effectiveIy concluding his
representation of Faircloth, Key violated Rule 1.16(c).

4. By violating the Rules of Professional Conduct, Key has failed to comply with
a material condition of the order staying the active suspension of his Iaxv license.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and based
upon the evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the
hearing committee by the greater weight of the evidence hereby finds the following
additional:

FIIVDINGS OF FACT REGAICDFNG DISCIPLINE
1 . Key's rniscond1;ct is aggravated b l the folioxlng Ltctors:

a. Key has prior disciplinc.
b. Key engaged in ~nultiple violations of the Revised R~lles of
Professional Conduct.
c. Key has substantial experience in the practice of law.
d. Part of Key's misconduct was caused by a selfish motive, narnely his
deterinination not to complete Faircloth's case until his fcc had been
paid in full, dcspitc the fact that he had entered a general appearance
on her behalf.

2. There are no mitigating factors.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. An order calling for discipline short of a suspension of Key's law license will
not sufficieintip prolecr rhe public and the standing of the iegal profession lor the
followily, reasons:
a. Key's misconduct hanned his client and the administration ofjustice.

b.

Key has failed to demonstrate that he has taken steps to cure whatever
character flaw or problem resulted in his misconduct and therefore,
there is a risk that Key may engage in additional misconduct in the
future.

c.

Entry o f an order imposing less severe discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses which Key committed,
would be inconsistent with orders of discipline entered in similar cases

and would send thc wrong message to Ihe public and to attol.neys
regarding the condilct expected of membcrs of the Rai- of this state.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The stay of the suspension of the law license of the defendant, Mark A. Key, is
hereby lifted and Key's law license is actively suspended for a period of 90 days,
effective 30 days from service of this order of discipliile upon him.
2. The rcmnining 21 month suspension of Key's law license shall be stayed until
July 4, 2007, provided that Key complies with all of the conditions set out in the ariginal
order hcrein.

3. Key shall pay the costs of this proceeding prior to resuming the practice of
law following the 90-day active period of suspension.
4. IIxcept as expressly modified herein, all provisions of the original order of
discipline helei11remain in ciljct.

Signed by the Choir of the lieanng Committee with the consent and kno\iVledgeof'
the other C o ~ ~ ~ l n l tmembers.
tce

This the

7& day of

03d

.2006.

W. Stmen illlen, St-., Chair
Hearing Committee

