I CJ ~33
BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMiTTE:E
OFTHE
NORtH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03<30935'

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

INTHE MATTER OF

)

')

I

Deborah G. Church,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On Wednesday, July 14, 2004 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina
State Bar met and considered the ,grievances filed against yo~ by J. Michael Godley.

.

Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disapility Rules of the North
Carolina St13te Bar, th~ Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considering the 'information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the ru!es as j'reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The rules proVide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance
Committee may determine that the filing ofa complaint and a hearing before th-e
Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may
issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
'injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may
issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than ~n admonition
issued in cases in which an attorney has vioiated one or more provisibnsof the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct
does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is hot required in
this case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State B~r, it is now my duty to issue this reprirncmd, alld I am certain
that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You met with and provided legal advice to David Charpentier and Sindy Ann
Charpentier, a couple who were in the process of dividing their marital property incident
to the break up of their marriage. In your representation of the Charpentiers, you
drafted a property settlement ,agreement, signed by the parties on August 6, 2002. The
parties did not r$ceive adequate' legal advice concerning the law and their rights

I

concerning equitable distribution, post separation support, alimony, attorney's fees and
other issues relating to the their child, Joel David Charpentier. In substance, you
attempted to concurrently r~present and mediate the interests of both David
Charpentier and Sindy Ann Charpentier even though their interests clearly were
adverse., You also failed to inform the parties about your conflict of interest in providing
legal advice concurrently to two parties with adverse interests. The advice you gave
may have misled the parties, particularly David Charpentier, and resulte<;i in an
unworkaple agreement that disadvantaged both David and Sindy Ann Charpentier.
After the settlement agreement that you helped to negotiate, draft and execute was
signed, t,he agreement soon broke down; each party retained separate counsel in an
attempt to resolve their differences resulting from the termination of their marriage and
the problems created by the agreement you prepared.

I

Your hereby are reprimanded for violating the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct land causing potential harm to your former clients, the administration of justice,
and the profession of law. Your conduct in concurrently representing two people with
clearly adverse interests violated Rule 1.7 and Rule 8.4 (d) & (g) of the Revised Rules
of Professional
Conduct.
I
'
I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that
you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standard~ of the legal profession.
.
In ,accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the
North Ca:rolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative
costs to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

D~ne and ordered, this the 1° 1], day of ~ ""'" +-

,2004.

I

~lA-~
. McMillan, Chair
ce Committee

JBMllr

I

