BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OFTHE'
, NORiH CAROLINA STArE BAR
03G1519

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

)

IN THE MATTER OF

)
Milton T. Goff,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

\

On Wednesday, July 14, 2004 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina
State Bar rnet and cOflsidered the grievances fileq against you b,y Veronica Barragan.
Pursuant to Section ,0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
<;;onsiderJn.g the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable Cause is defined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State,
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disCiplinary action."

I

.
The rules provide that after a finding .of probable caUse, the Grievance
Committee may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the
DisCiplinary Hearing Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may
issue various levels of discipline depending upon the mi$conduct, the a<;;tual or potential
injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue ali admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent a~orney;
A reprimand is a written form of discipline mote serious than an admo'nition
issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct
does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a ~ensute is not required in
this case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairtnanof the Grievance Committeeof the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I amcertain that you will understand fully the spirit in which thIs duty is performed.
On April 8" 2003, Veronica Barragan hired yOl,J to represent her as a plaintiff in '8collection action. You filed a complaint in small claims court on her behalf on July 23,
2003, and the case Was scheduled for trial on August 20, 2003. In the meantime,. you
took a job with a law firm located 75 miles away. As the trial approached, you decided
that you could not win the case. You failed ~o notify Barragan of the trial date and chose

.,

",

"

'

to work on cases for your new law firm rather than to appear for trial of the Barragan
matter. Nelther you nor your client appeared at trial, and the case was dismissed with
prejudice. Theil you failed to tell Barragan what happened until she pressed you about
the status 9f her case after the case had been dismissed.
You hereby are reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for professional
misconduct in violating the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and causing
potential h~rm to your former client, the aqministration of justice, and the profession of
law. Your conduct violated several of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct,
including Rule 1.1 (competence), Rule 1.3 (diligence), 1.4 (communicating with a
client), 8.4 (d) (conduct prejudicial to administration of justice), and 8.4 (g) (intentionally
prejudicing: or damaging a client). In making this ruling, the Grievance Committee took
into accou:nt that your response to this grievance showed a lack of remorse and
apparent failure to appreciate that your conduct violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

"I.

. The, Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow
yourself to :depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profes$lon.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative
costs to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

I () T}- day of

4-;;. . 1-"

, 2004.

~~~a.,
John B McMillan, Chair
Grieva ce Committee

JBM/lr

I

