NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE. COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE.BAR
04G0162

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
Richard E. Steinbronn,
Att()rney At Law

)
)
).
)
)

REPRIMAND

On Wednesday, July 14,2004 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
met and considered the grievances filed against you by the North Carol\na State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
ca!;es in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm ot potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a c~nsure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censur~ is not required in this case
aIld issues this reprimand to yoU. As chail1l1an of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you Wiil
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In late 2000, you associated with a company known as The Closing Place (hereafter,

TCP). TCP contracted directly with members of the public to perform various legal services
related t() real estate clo!;ings, includ~ng title abstracts and preparation of legal documents. The.
HUD-l settlement statement showed TCP as the closing ag~nt for-the real estate closings. The

I
~.'

tf81

y

HUD-l settlement statement showed that you collected attorney's fees for your services. The
legal services that you provided involved reviewing title abstracts and other legal documents
related to the real estate closing. These documents were prepared by employees of TCP .
The Authorized Practice Committee of the North Carolina State Bar found in a letter of
caution to cease and desist dated May 10,2001 that TCP had engaged in the unauthorized
practice of raw by contracting directly with Illembers of the public to perform legal services
related to rea~ estate closings.
I

, In May 2001, as a result of the letter of caution to cease and desist issued by the
Authorized Practice Committee, you and TCP entered into a contract, by which TCP became
your "closing agent". The Authorized Practice Committee conducted further investigation and
determined that TCP continued to hold itself out as being able to provide legal services through
its fee quotations, including the preparation of legal documents and title examinations. On
February 3, ~004, the Authorized Practice Committee issued a letter of caution to TCP indicating
that it continued to engage in the unauthorized practice of law. The Authorized Practice
Committee also noted that your arrangement with TCP, whereby TCP was a "closing contractor
for you," did not cure the unauthorized practice of law issues relative to' TCP.

I

!

The Grievance Committee, after careful consideration of all of the information before it,
determined that you assisted TCP in the unauthorized practice oflaw, in violation of Rule 5.5(d)
of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
The Grievance Committee took into consideration in issuing this reprimand to you that
according td TCP's attorney, TCP operates in compliance with the law since receiving the
February 3, 2004 letter of caution to cease and desist.
Youare hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct.: The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. '

I
""='

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State' Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs, to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the

I~
I

nday of----'1"""f+=~V\4~
J.l.. .
. ..1-1-:
______---,.--', 2004.

. McMillan, Chair
ce Committee
JBMIlr

I

f

I ":.'

.~~,

