WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STA

I

Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
TERRY T. ZICK, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was heard on July 30 and 31, 2004, before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed.of W. Steven Allen, Sr., Chair, Stephen E.
Culbreth, and Marguerite P. Watts. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff, the North
Carolina State Bar. Johnny S. Gaskins represented the Defendant, Terry T. Zick. Based
upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee
.
hereby enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1.
the Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly orgaili2;ed under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it,in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the .
Rilles and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
.

I

.

2.
Defendant, Terry T. Zick, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on
or about March 19, 1994 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at
Law licensed to practice in North Cru::ol~ subject to the rules, regulations, ajid Rul¢s of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State·ofNorth
Carolina.
../ :

3.
Duringfue. .·periods relevant to this proceeding, Defendant actively
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
.in the city of Wihnington, New Hanover County, North Carolina.
4.
Defendant was properly served with process and the hearing was held with
due notice to all parties.
.
5.
On or about August 13,2001, Robert Dorsey (Dorsey) retained Defendant
to represent him in a case alleging bid rigging on the part of the New Hanover County

I
..
,

"

-

'."

,"~~"

-

,-

~

t

Schooi District (the School District). Dorsey paid Defendant a $4,000 nonrefundable
retainer fee plus an advance fee of $1,000.
6.
On or about October 9, 2001, Defendant filed suit against the School
District on behalf of Dorsey. The case was filed in the Eastern District of the United
States District Court (01-CV-187-F (1».
: 7.
On or about November 30, 2001, the School District filed a motion to
dismis,s Dorsey's case. Defendant filed two motions, on December 21,2001 and January
11,2002 respectively, requesting an extension of time to respond to the School District's
motio~ to ~smiss.

I

8.
Despite having been granted the requested extensions, Defendant failed to
respond to the School District's motion to dismiss and failed to appear in court to oppose
the m9tion. On February 22, 2002 the Court entered an order directing the Clerk to
dismis,s the case. Despite weekly inquiries from Dorsey regarding the status of the case,
Defendant did not infonil Dorsey that the case had been dismissed.
.
,9.

During the pendency of the School District case, Dorsey also retained
represent him in filing for bankruptcy protection. On November 29,2001,
Dorsey paid Defendant $500 in attorney fees plus a filing fee of $185 to file his petition
in the bankruptcy
court.
I

Defen~antto

10.

Defendant did n.ot place Dorsey's filing fee into a trust account.

On or about January 16,2002, Charles H. Calder (Calder) filed a
,11.
grievaJ;lce with the North Carolina State Bar. On or about March 16,2002, Defendant
received, via certified mail, a Letter of Notice from the Chair of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the grievance filed by Calder.
Defendantwas required to respond to the Letter of Notice by March 31, 2002.
I

: 12.
Defendant did not respond to the Calder Letter of Notice and a follow-up
letter was sent to Defendant on. or about April 3, 2002 reminding her that her response
was overdue. Defendant did not respond to the follow-up letter.
.

I

·13.
On or abollt May 30, 2002 a subpoena was served on Defendant requiring
her to appear at the State Bar on June 20, 2002 and respond to Calder's complaip.t.
Defen4ant's written response to the Calder Letter of Notice was received on or about
June 5, 2002, only after being subpoenaed to the State 'Bar.
I

I

.

'14.
In July 2000, Teresa Cooper (Cooper) hired Defendant to collect a debt.
Cooper paid Defendant a fee of $2,500. In August 2000, Cooper supplied Defendant
with th~ documents supporting her outstanding debt claim and informed Defendant that
time was of the essence, in that collection of the debt was necessary for Cooper to meet
her mortgage obligations.

-2-

I

15.
Despite numerous communications from Cooper, Defendant failed to file
the complaint in Cooper's case until February 2001.
16.
On the trial c41te in January 2002, a sett1em~nt agreement was reached.
Defendant presented the court with a hand-written settlem~nt order that was signed by the
parties and the judge.
17.
Defendant's refusal to provide Cooper with a typed court order caused
additional expense and delay for Cooper.

I

18.
On or abom February 12, 2002~ Defendant received a Letter of Notice
from the Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the
grievance filed by Cooper. Defendant was required to respond to the Letter o£Notice by
February 27, 2002.
19.
Defendant did not respond to the Letter of Notice as required. On or about
. May 30, 2002 a subpoena was served on Defendant requiring her to appear at the State .
Bar on June 20, 2002 and respond to Cooper's complaint. Defendant's written responSe
to the Letter of Notice was received on or about JQne 18, 2002, only after being
subpoenaed to the State Bar.
.
Defendant represented Connie Brownson (Brownson) in a civil action
20.
filed against the Wilmington Hilton Hotel (the Hotel).
21.
In November 2001 Defendant wrote opposing counsel Lori Patterson
(patterson) and accused her of engaging in a sexual relationship with Mr~ Andrew Sims
(Sims) who was president of the Hotel and Patterson's client. In the November letter to
Patterson, pefendant also misrepresented advice given to her by ethics counsel for the
North Carolina State Bar.

I

22.
On December 19,2000, Defendant wrote a letter and sei;lt it directly to
David Stocker (Stocker), Director ofIIuman Resources for the Hotel, and a member of
the management team involved in the civil action. Defendant knew that Stocker was
Director of Human Resources and as such was represented by counsel for the Hotel at the
time she sent the letter directly to him. Defendant did not have the consent of counsel for
the Hotel and Stocker to comhlunicate directly with Stocker.
23.
Sims filed a grievance against Defendant. On or about January 31, 2002,
Defendant received a Letter of Notice from the Chair of the Grievance Committee oitbe
North Carolina State Bar regarding the grievance filed in this matter by Sims. Defendant
was required to respond to the Letter of Notice by February 15, 2002.
24.
Defendant did not reSpond to the Letter of Notice and a subpoena was
served on her on May 30, 2002 requiring her to appear at the State Bar on June ~O, 2002
and respond to the grievance filed by Sims. Defendant appeared as required by the

-3 -

I
<1 q,{;

subpoena, but did not supply a written response regarding her representation of
Brownson until March 17,2003.
25.
Jackson Moore (Moore) hired Defendant on or about May 20, 1999 and
paid Defendant $2,500 to represent him in an employment discrimination caSe.
26.

Defendant filed Moore's employment discrimination action in federal

court.
After filing the suit, Defendant failed to respond in writing to or to appear
27.
at the hearing on the defendant's motion to dismiss. The motion was granted and
Moore'8! case was disnUssed.

I

~8.
On or about January 30, 2002, Defendant received a Letter of Notice from
the Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar regarding a
grievance filed by Moore. Defendant was required to respond to the Letter of Notice by
February 14, 2002. .

79.
Defendant did not respond to the Letter of Notice and a subpoena was
served on her on May 30, 2002 requiring her to appear at the State Bar on June 20, 2002
and respond to the grievance filed by Moore. Defendant appeared as required by the
subpoetia, but did not supply a written response regarding her representation of Moore.
1

30.
Bobby J. Chastain (Chastain) hired Defendant on or about September 18,
2000 to represent him in a contract dispute with a concrete supplier. Chastain paid
Defendant it flat fee of $2,500.
I

31.
After receiving the fee, Defendant rarely responded to Chastain's
commurucations and filed the complaint in the case only after Chastain threatened
to fire Defendant.
,
32. After the complaint was filed; the case languished and Chastain, on
at least tWo occasions, discussed the need to hire a new attorney. Each tiine
Defend$t promised she would get the matter resolved~ yet took no action.

I

I

3i3.
Chastain requested that Defendant return his file. Defendant failed
to return:the client file to Chastain.

34.

On or about October 23, 2002, Chastain filed a fee dispute petition

with the North Carolina State Bar. On or about November 5, 2002, Defendant
was served with the notice of petition. Defendant failed to respond to the notice
regarding Chastain's fee ·dispute.
i
3~.

On or about November 18, 2002, the State Bar sent, via certified
mail, a second Letter of Notice requesting a response to Chastian's fee dispute

-4-

I

petition. Defendant failed to respond to the follow-up Letter of Notice regarding
Chastain's fee dispute petition.
36. . On or about October 23, 2002, Chastain fil~ a grievance with the
State Bar against Defendant. On or about December 21 ~ 2002, Defendant received
a Letter of Notice, via certified mail, requesting a response to the grievance filed
by Chastain. Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice.

I

On or about October 16, 2002, Jack Liberstein (Liberstein)
37.
retained Defendant to represent him on a homeowner insurance policy issue.
Liberstein paid Defendant $2,500 as an advance fee.

38.
Shortly after hiring Defendant, Liberstein experienced problems
communicating with Defendant and decided to dismiss her from the case.
. 39.
On or about October 22,2003, Liberstein terminated Defendant's
representation in writing and asked for a refund of the advance fee and the return
of his file.
40.
advance fee.

Defendant did not return Liberstein's file or refund any ofhis

On or about October 30, 2002, Liberstein filed a petition for the
41.
resolution of a disputed fee with the North Carolina State Bar.
42.
On or about November 1:4,2002, Defendant was served with a
Letter of Notice via certified mail requesting a response to Liberstein's fee dispute
petition. Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice regarding Liberstein's
fee dispute.

I

43.
On or about November 18,2002, the State Bar sent, via certified
mail, a second Letter of Notice requesting a response to Liberstein's fee dispute
petition. Defendant failed to respond to the follow-up Letter of Notice regarding
Liberstein's fee ~spute petition.
On or about October 30, 2002, Liberstein filed a grievance with the
44.
State Bar against Defendant. On or about December 21, 2002, Defendant received
a Letter of Notice, via certified mail, requiring a response by January 6, 2003 to
the grievance filed by Liberstein. Defendant's response was not received until
17 March 2003. Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice within the
required IS-day response period.
On or about May 17,2002, Mark Ziegler (Ziegler) filed a fee
45.
dispute petition with the North Carolina State Bar seeking the return of a legal fee
he had paid to Defendant.

-5-

46.
On or about May 21, 2002, Defendant was served with a Letter of
Notice via certified mail requesting a response to Ziegler~ s fee dispute petition.
Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice regarding Ziegler's fee
dispute.'
47.
On or about July 5, 2002, and August 1,2002 the State Bar sent,
via certified mail, a second and third Letter ofN'otice requesting a response to
Ziegler's fee dispute petition. Defendant failed to respOnd to the follow-up
Letters of Notice regarding Ziegler's fee dispute petition.
48.
The North Carolina State Bar opened a grievance against
Defendant based on her failure to respond to Ziegler's fee dispute. On or about
October 3, 2002, Defendant re~eived from the State Bar, via certified mail, a
Letter of Notice regarding her failure to respond in the Ziegler fee dispute. The
Letter of Notice required Defendant to respond by Octob~ 18, 2002.

49.

I

Defendant failed to respond to the Ziegler Letter of Notice.

I

50.
On or about November 10, 2000, Martha Ritchie (Ritchie) hired
Defend~t to represent her in bankruptcy court to object to the discharge of a debt
owed to. Ritchie by Sallie A. and Charlie Gregory. Ritchie paid Defendant a
$3,000.00 advance fee.
51.
After being hired, Defendant failed to respond to Ritchie's written
.
and verbal communications.

$2.

Defendant failed to file a complaint to object to the discharge of
Ritchie'~ claim in the Gregory bankruptcy.
~3.
Ritchie notified Defendant by a letter dated June 9, 2002 that she
no longer wanted Defendant to represent her, and that she wanted her files and
legal fee returned to her. Defendant did not return the files or refund any portion
of the fee.

I

54.
On or about July 22, 2002 Ritchie filed a fee dispute petition with
the North Carolina State Bar seeldng the return ofhet legal fee.
On or about July 26, 2002, :Oef~ndant was served with a Letter of
55.
Notice via certified mail requesting a response to Ritchie's fee dispute petition.
Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice regarding Ritchie's fee
dispute.'
.
I

56.
On or about August 13, 2002 and September 3, 2002 the State Bar
served, {ria certified mail, a second and third Letter of Notice requesting a
response to Ritchie's fee dispute petition. Defendant failed to respond to the
follOW-lip Letters of Notice regarding Ritchie's fee dispute petition.

-6-

I

57.
On or about July 10, 2002, Ritchie flIed a grievance with the North
Carolina State Bar alleging that Defel1dant had violated the Revised Rules of
P.rofessional Conduct.
On or about September 6, 2002, Defendant received from the State
58.
Bar~ via certified mail, a Letter of Notice regarding Ritchie's complaint.
Defendant was required to respond to the Letter of Notice by September 21,2002.

I

59.
On or about October 4, 2002, Defendant received a follow-up letter
from the State Bar reminding her that her response to the Ritchie grievance was
due.
60.
Ritchie.

Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice regarding

61.
On or about August 13, 2002 Paul Pratt (pratt) filed a grievance
with the North Carolina State Bar alleging that Defendant had violated the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
On or about December 21, 2002, Defendant received from the
62.
State Bar, via certified mail; a Letter of Notice summarizing Pratt's complaint.
The Letter of Notice reqUired Defendant to respond by January 6, 2003.
63.

I

Defendant failed to respond to the Pratt Letter of Notice.

64.
Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely file state
wi1:hbolding tax returns and failed to timely pay the state income tax withheld
frQm the wages of her employee Homer M. Boney (Boney) as required by N.C.
Gen. Stat. §§ 105-163.2 and 105-163.6, for some or all of the reporting periods
from August 2002 through April 2003.
65.

Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely file fede:t:al

wi~olding tax returns and failed to timely pay the federal income tax withheld

from the wages of her employee Boney ,as required by 26 U.S.C. §§ 3402 apd
6151 for some or all of the reporting periods from August 2002 through April
2003.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
Ali the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Teny T. Zick, and the subject matter.
I

2.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact apove,
constitutes grounds for discipline pwsuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).as follows~

-7-

I

\

~ ~ ':~ ",.~

a.By faillng to respond to the School District's motion to dismiss and failing to
appear to oppose the motion in Dorsey's case, Defendant failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing het client in violation of
Rule 1.3.
.
b.By failing to deposit Dorsey's bankruptcy filing fee into a trust account, and by
failing to refund the fee when she was unable to file Dorsey's bankruptcy petition,
Defendant failed to hold client property in trust in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and
failed to payor deliver client property to the client in violation of Rule I.IS-2(m)
:and Rule 1.16(d) of the Revised Rules of ProfessioilalConduct.

c.

I

By failing to respond to the Letters of Notice issued by the Chair of the Orievance
:Committee regarding the grievances filed by Calder, Cooper, Sims, Moore,
:Chas_ Liberstein, Ziegler, Ritchie, and Pratt within the deadline established
iby the niles, Defendant failed to timely respond to an inquiry by the Bar in
~iolation of Rule 8.l(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and North
'Carolina General Statute Sec. 84-28 (b)(3).

d. By failing to take timely action to assist Cooper, Defendant neglected a client's
:case in violation of Rule 1.3.
I

.

,

e. By writing a letter directly to David Stocker, who was a member of the hoter s
management team, without the consent 'of the hotel's COUnsel, Defendant
~ommunicated directly with a person loiown to be represented by counsel, in
violation of Rule 4.2.
f. By making statements regarding the sexual conduct of opposing counsel and
p:lisrepresenting the advice given by the State Bar during her representation of
Brownson, Defendant engaged in conduct with no SUbstantial purpose other than
to embarrass, delay, or burden another person in violation of Rule 4.4, and
engaged in behavior prejudicial to the administration ofjustice, in violation of
Rule 8.4(d).
I

I

g. By failing to respond to the defendant's motion to dismiss and failing to appear to
oppose the motion in her representation of Moore, Defendant neglected a client
matter in violation of Rule 1.3.
h. By failing to keep Chastain and Ritchie reasonably informed regarding the status
bftheir cases and by failing to respond to her clients' reasonable req~ests for
lnformation, Defendant failed to communicate with her clients in violation of
Rule 1.4(a).
1.

By failing respond to the Letters of Notice with regard to the fee dispute petitions
filed by Chastain, Liberstein, Ziegler, and Ritchie, Defendant failed to participate

-8-

I

in good faith in the fee dispute process in violation of Rule I.S(f)(2) and failed to
respond to a lawful demand for information in violation of Rule 8.1(b).
j. By failing to retu.rn the unearned portion of the $2~500 fee to Liberstein after she
was dismIssed from the case, Defendant retained a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule 1.5 and Rule 1.16(d).
.
k. By failing promptly to return the files belonging to Chastain, Liberstein, and
Ritchie upon being discharged, Defendant failed to take reasonable steps to
protect her client' s i~terest in violation of Rule 1, 16(d).

I

1. By failing to respond to the letter of notice issued by the Chair of the Grievance
Committee regarding the .Liberstein grievance within the deadline estaplished by
the rules, pefendant failed to timely respond to an inquiry by the Bar in violation
of Rule 8.l(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and North Carolina
General Statute Sec. 84-28(b)(3).
m. By failing to return, the unearned portion of the $3-,000 fee paid to her by Ritchie
at the initiation of the representation, Defendant retained a clearly excessive fee in.
violation of Rule 1.S and 1.16(d).
n. By unlawfully and will:fully failing to file and/or pay state inco!lle tax
withholdings when those taxes were due, Defen4ant cOnlmitted criminal acts that
reflect adversely o~ her honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in
violation of Rule 8.4 (b) and' engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4 (c).
o. By unlawfully and willfully failing to file and/or pay federal income tax
withholdings when those taxes were due, Defendant committed criminal acts that
reflect adversely on her honesty, tn:tstworthiness, ot fitness in other respect$ in
violation of Rule 8.4 (b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4 (c).

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning appropriate discipline, the bearing
.
committee hereby makes additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The Committee finds the following aggravating factors:
a. Defendant has engaged ip. a pattern of mIsconduct;

b. Defendant has engaged in multiple offenses; and

I

,,1
"

'.

V"

c. Defendant has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
a. Absence of a prior disciplinary record.

,3.

The aggtf,lvating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.
Defendant has engaged in conduct that has caused significant harm to her
clients Dorsey and Moore in that they were denied the opportunity to have their cases
heard accordance with the law. .

I

m.

$.
The conduct of the Defendant caused actual harm to the standing of the
legal profession, undermining her clients' trust and confidence in lawyers and the legal
system.:
6.
Defendant's failure to participate in the mandatory fee arbitration and
failure to respond to the LettetS of Notice from the State Bar interfered with the State
Bar's a1?ility to regulate attorneys and undermined the privilege of lawyers in this State to
temain.self-regulating.
I

7.
. This DHC Committee has considered lesser alternatives and fmds that a
public censure or repnmand would not be sufficient discipline ·because of the gravity of
the harm. caused by the conduct of the Defendant to the public and to the administration
ofjustic~.

8.

this DHC Committee finds Defendant's conduct caused significant harm
and sigi;lificartt potential harm to clients and to the administration of justice, to the
profession, and to members of the public, and that a more severe discipline is necessary
to protect the public.

9.

For those reasons, this DHC COl11mitlee believes and so finds that an

I

Order calling for a discipline short of a suspension of the Defendant's law license would
not be appropriate.

Based upon the foregoing findings and conclusions oflaw and the arguments of
the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I

The license of the Defendant, Terry t. Zick, is hereby suspended for five
years, begmnmg 30 days from the date of s~ce of this order upon the Defendant.
1~

-10 ...

I

2.
Defendant shall subtnit her license and membership card t9 the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order up6n
Defendant.
3.

Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in

27 N.C. Admin. Code Ch~pter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State

I

Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
she has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Qrder Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address at which clients seeking return of files can obtain such files.
5.
If Defendant seeks the return of anY do.cuments or files Pfoviqed to the
State Bar, within 15 days of the effective date of this order Defendant shall make
arrangements to pick up the files from the State Bar or shall make arrangements with the
State Bar to pay the cost of shipment of the files to h~r in advance of shipment.
After serving three years of the active suspension of her Ijcense,
Defendant may apply for reinstatement upon filing a petition with the Secretary of the
North CarolinaStateBar demonstrating the following by clear;. cogent, and convincing
6.

evidence~

a.

That she paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon her.

b.

That she obtained a mental health evaluation within 6 months· of
the effective date of this order by a psychiatrist or other mental
health professional approved by the Nonh Carolhla State Bar and
complied with all treatment re<;ommendations of the psychiatrist or
other mental health professional during the period of the active'
suspension of her law license. The medical evaluation and
treatment shall be obtained at Defendant's expense.

c.

That within ten days of obtaining the mental health evaluation
described above, Defendant signed the appropriate releases and
medical authorizations and provided to the North Carolina State
Bar quarterly any reports, medical records, or psychological
evaluations or mental health evaluations requested by the No$
Carolina State Bar at her expense. Defendant shall not revoke
these releases.

d.

Prior to the resumption of the active practice oflaw Defelldant will
obtain a certification from a duly qualified psychiatrist or other
mental health professional approved by the State Bar that she does
not suffer from any mental disease or defect or psychological .
condition that would interfere with her ability to practice law and

I

-11-

I
- ::..>o',s. .~.

that she will not cause harm to the public if she is allowed to
resume her law practice. Defendant will ensure that this
certification is provided to the State Bat at least 30 days prior to
filing any petition for reinstatement.

e.

That she has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current business and home address.

f.

That she has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline
stated in the communication, whichever is sooner.

g.

That she has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct or the laws of the United States ot any state.

h.

That she properly wound down her law practice and complied with
the terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §
.0124 of the State Bar Di~cipline & Disability Rules.

i.

That she paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and complied with all Continuing ltegal Education
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice during
the suspension.

j.

That in addition to satisfying the CLE requirements imposed upon
all active members of the State Bar during the applicable time
period, Defendant has obtained annually an additional three (3)
hours of ethics CLE above that which is otherwise required by the
State Bar.

k.

That she has completed a law office management course approved
by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar at her
own expense and has paid the costs thereof.
!

1.

That she made restitution in the amount of $3,000 to Martha
Ritchie, $185 to Robert Dorsey, $1,500 to Jackson Moore, and
$2,500 to Jack Liberstein.

m.

That she has participated in the North Carolina State Bar's fee
dispute resolution process for any subsequent Petition received
after the effective date of this order, participated in good faith and
refurided all fees that were determined to be subject to refund by
the mediation process.

n.

That she has opened both a regular business account for her law
firm and a separate trust account and maintains both in good
standing. If the IOLTA PrOgrani is still in existence in the State of

I

I

-12 -

I

North Carolina, the trust account is to be at an institution that
participates in the IOLTA Program and is to be an IOLTA account.

o.

I

That she has asked a member of the North Carolina State Bar who
is in good standing who practices law in New Hanover CoUilty and
who has been approveq by the North Carolina State Bar to serve a~
her monitor and that the selected monitor has agreed to so serve
and agreed to submit monthly reports to the Office of Counsel of
the State Bar. The monitor will supervise all client matters and
will ensure Defendant handles all client matters in a timely fashion
and that Defendant responds promptly to her clients. Thi~
monitoring will occur for the duration of any stay of this
suspension. Defendant will pay the cpst, if any, charged by the
monitor for this supervision. If the monitor requires a fee to be
paid in advance or a retainer to be paid at the inception of this
monitoring relationship, Defendant will have paid that prior to
submitting her petition for a stay or for reinstatement.

7.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of her law license,
such stay will continue in force only as·long as she complies with the conditions set out
in paragraphs 6 (b), (e) - (g), (i) - (j) and (m) - (n) above and with the following
conditions:

I

a

That she meet once a month with her monitoring attorney to whom
she will report ilie status of all current client matters, cooperate
with the monItor attorney and provide any information the
monitoring attorney deems reasonably necessary to ensure 1:Q.at
Defendant is handling all client matters in a timely fashion and is
responding promptly to her clients. The Defendant will be solely
responsible for any cost of this arrangement.

b.

That the monitoring attorney submits monthly repoi1:s to the Office
of Counsel of the State Bar.

8.
Ifan order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions referenced in Paragraph
7, then the stay of the suspension of her law license may be lifted as provided in
§ .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
9.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of
her law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoke4; Defendant must comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs 6 (a) - (n)
above before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter PlJfsuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x)
of the
r
10.

-13 -

I

North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Sif"ed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
this the 4 day of September, 2004.
.

,

.

~

;t/~ J,..
(

W. Steven Allen, Sr.
Chairman, Disciplinaty Hearing Committee

I

I

-14 -

I

503

