BEFOR,ETHE
. ISClPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

NORTH CAROLlNA

WAKE COUNTY

04DHC 18

Plaintiff

I

v.

FlNDlNGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

Theodore F. Cummings, ill, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter came before a hearing committee on the 21 st d~y of July, 2004, before
a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of F. Lane
Williamson, Chair, Carlyn G. Poole, and Marguerite P. Watts. Jennifer A. Porter
represented the Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Ernest (Jay) Reeves, Ir.
represented the Defenda,nt, Theodore F. Cummings, ill. Both .parti~s stipulate and agree
to the findings of fact and conclusions of law r~cited in this consent order and to the
discipline imposed. Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby
enters th~ followin,g
.
FlNDlNGS OF FACT

I

1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of
General Statutes ofNoiih Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
,.
,

the

2.
The Defepdant, Theodore F. Cummings, ill ("Cummings") was admitteq
to the North Carolina State Bar in 1978 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations <;>fthe North Carolina State Bar and the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Cummings
was engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and practiced from a
law office located in his residence in Lenoir, Caldwell County, North Carolina and from a
law office in Itickory, Catawba County, North Carolina.
4.
Cummings was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was
set, and the matter came before the hearing committee v:ith due notice to all parties.

I
r _,
.!:;..,,' .... ! .;-

,.....-----------------------

--

5'.
Cummings unlawfully failed to file state individual income tax returns
and/or pay state individual income taxes for some or all of the tax years from 1986
through ~002 as requited byN.e. Gen. Stat. §§ 105-152 and 105-157.
6.
Cummings acknowledges and admits his failure to file his state individual
income tax returns and faihtre to pay his state individual income taxes violated the Rules
of Professional Conduct and constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.
§ 84-28{b)(2).
.

7.
As a result of his failure to pay state individual income taxes, Cummings
owed the North Carolina Department of Revenue $81,000.?,7.

l-

S.

CU1i11i1ings unlawfully failed to file federal individual income tax returns
and/or pay federal individual income taxes for tax years 1997 and 1998 as required by
26 U.S.C. §§ 6012,6072 and 6151.
9.
Cummings acknowledges and admits his failure to file his federal
individual income tax returns and failure to pay his federal individual income taxes
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct and constitute grounds for discipline pursuant
to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
I

10.

On September 29, 2003 the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar
issued ~ subpoena to appear and produce documents or objects to Cummings,
commanding him to appear on October 30, 2003 before The North Carolina State Bar to
testify iri a confidential grievance investigation and to bring any and all pertinent files and
doctijlle1;lts.

,1.

Cummings was served with the subpoena by certified mail on October 8,

2003.
i2.
Cummings failed to appear at The North Carolina State Bar on October
30, 2003 and did not comply with the subpoena or the State Bar's request for
information.

I

13; . On February 24, 2004, Cummings was served with a Letter of Notice from
the Chair of the Grievance Committee requesting a response to the allega,tion that
Cummh)gs had failed to pay state and federal individual income taxes.
,

14.
Pursuant.to the tenns of the Letter of Notice and Rule .01l2(G) of the
Disciplip.e and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar (27 N.C. Admin. Code,
lB § .OtI2(c)), Cummings was obligated to respond to this Letter of Notice within fifteen
(15) day;s of reyeipt.
15.
Cummings failed to respond to this Letter of Notice within fifteen (15)
days of receipt.
!

-2-

I.

16.
Cummings aclrnowledges and admits his failure to comply with the State
Bar's subp.oena and his failure to respond to the State Bar's Letter of Notice within
fifteen (15) days of receipt violated the Rules of Professional Conduct and constitute
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (3).
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing gommittee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Theodore F. Cummings, ill, and the
subject matter.
.
2.
The Defendant's con.duct, as set out in" the Findings Qf Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (3) as
follows:
a;
By unlawfully failing to file and/or pay state income taxes When
those taxes were due, Curtunings committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on
his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in. violation of Rule 8.4(b)
and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit· or misrepresentation.
in violation of Rule 8,4(c);

'.

I

b.
By unlawfully failing to file and/or pay federal income taxes when
those taxes were due, Cummings committed criminal act$ that reflect adversely onhis honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in violation of Rule 8,4
(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,:ftaud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8,4(c);
c.
By failing to appear and produce documents in response to the
State Bar's subpoena, Cummings failed to respond to a' lawful demand for
information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b) and engaged
in contempt of the State Bar in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3); and .
d.
By failing to respond to the letter of notice issued by the Chair of
the Grievance Committee within the deadline established in the letter of notice
and 'by the rules, Cummings failed to timely respond to an inquiry by the Bar in
violation of Rule 8.l(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and N~C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3).

-3-

I
,

','

...

,":,

Based upon the consent ofthe parties, the hearing committee hereby makes
additional

FINDiNGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Cummings' misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a.
Cummings received a letter of warning from the State Bar dated
!April 30, 2002 for failing to timely respond to the State Bar;

I

2.

3.

I

b.

Pattern of misconduct;

c.

Multiple offenses; and

d.

Substantial experience in the practice of law.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

b.

Personal or emotional problems stemming from divorce and
difficult financial times, conttihlJ.ting to his misconduct;

c.

Timely good faith effort to make restitution or to rectify the
consequences, including having fully satisfied the agreement
between him and the North Carolina Department of Revenue to
pay his overdue state taxes, having entered into an agreement with
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to repay his overdue federal
taxes, and being in compliance with his agreement with the IRS;

d.

Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

e.

Good character and reputation;

f.

Interim rehabilitation;

g.

Remorse.

I

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

-4-

I

Based upon the foregoing factors and the arguments of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license ofthe Defendant, Theodore F. Cummings, ill, is hereby
suspended for two (2) years and that suspension is stayed for two (2) years upon the
foliowing tetms and conditions. During the stayed suspension, the Ctnnmings shall:

"I
'.

a.
Comply with the terms of all agreements with the Internal R~venue
Service and the North Carolina Department ofRev"~nue in existence during the
stay;
b.
Provide the State Bar with documentation from the Internal
Revenue Service (.iRS) showing compliance with the terms of any agreements
with the IRS, documenting compliance from the date of the entry ofthi$ order
through sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the two year stay and filed witb
the State Bar no later"than fifteen (15) days prior to expirati0:Q. of the two year
stay;
c.

File and pay all future taxes in a timely manner;

d.
Provide the State Bar with copies of all tax returns filed during the
stay and proof of payment of taxes due during the stay, filed with the State Bar
contemporaneously with filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the North
Carolina Department of Revenue;
;.
e.
Not violate any laws ofthe State of North Carolina or Qfthe
United States;

I

f.

Not violate any provision 9fthe Revised Rules of Professional

Conduct;
g.
Pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within 30 days of notice of the costs being served upon
him.
.
h.
Pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund .aSsessments
and comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis;
and
J
,i.
Keep his address of record with the North Carolina State Bar
current, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and
j.
Respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the commuI;lication.

-5-

,""

---------..,...----------------:-----------------

---

7.

If during the stay of the two (2) year suspension Cummings fails to
comply:with anyone or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph lea) through l(j)
above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license maybe lifted as provided in
§ .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
3.
any reason, Cummings will comply with each of the following conditions precedent to
reinstatement:
a.
Cummings will have submitted his iicense and membership card to
the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the
effective date of the order activating his susp~nsion;
I

I

h.
Cummings will not have violated any of the Revised Rules of
Erofessional Conduct;
I

c.
Cummings will not have violated any laws of the State of North
Carolina or of the United States;
d.
Ctimmings will have paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed
.
I
by the Secretary;
e.

Cummings will show that he is not then suffering from any
il1}pair his ability to practice law;

d~sability that would

f.

Cummings will have complied with the'terms of any installment
agreements with the hlternal Revenue Service and the North Carolina
Department of Revenue during the suspension period;
p~yment

g.
Cummings will have provided the St~te Bar with documentation
frpm the Internal Revenue Service and the North Carolina Department of
R~venueshowing compliance with the terms of any payment agreements with
these e~tities during the suspension period;

I

h.
Cummings will have timely filed and paid any state or federal
ta:kes coming due during the period of the suspension;

.
i.
/ Cummings wiiI have provided the State Bar with copies of all tax
returns filed during the suspension and proof of payment of any taxes coming due
during ,the suspension, filed with the State Bar contemporaneously with filing
wi:th the Internal Revenue Service or the North Carolina Department of Revenue;
j.

If the suspension was activated for Cummings' failure to timely

file and/or pay state and/or federal individual income tax, Cummings will have
!

"

•

-6-

'

I

FAX NO. :9199339233

FR0i1 :

,Jul.

19 2004 10:5SAI'1

rectified the, deficiency by filing and/or paying as appropriate the income tax(es)
at issue and'wiU have provided proof of suoh to the State Bar;
k.
Cummings will have paid all .Membetship dues and Client Security
Fund assessments ~ wilt have complied with all Continuing Le$alEducation
requirements on a tillwly basis as jf still in practice during the suspeMion; and

I

L
Cummings will haye kept his address ofreeord with the North
Cnrofina State Bar currentt will have accepted all certified mail fivm the North
'
Carolina State Bar, and

Cummings wiD haVe tQSPOnded to all letters of notice and requests

ro,

fur information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the

communication.
4.
The Disciplinary Rearms CO:tnnlission;wi1l retain jurisdiction of this
matterp\U.'SUWlt to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter,l! Subchapter B, § .01 14(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the

stayed suspension.
Signed~ the Chair with the COllSent of the otber hea.ri,og comtnitt~ members,
tliis the tlgf. day of _~
_ u , J 2004. ~ ~
~

fAY

,

. WilliamsOn
~ 1'.L~
F. Lane
iWsa;I.-.-~--~~----j/// '

Chairman, Disci1l1inary Hearing Committee

I

CONSENTED TO BY:
.....-..--.........
-~,.,..~-~

-

Theoiore-F. CWmIDngs, I
D~fendant

·7JUL 19,2004 10:17

9199339233

P3

