BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING

NORTH CAROLINA
COMMISSION
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLiNA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
EDWARD V. ZOTIAN, Attorney;
Defendant
)

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

On August 18, 2004, this matter came on to be heard before a hearing connrtittee of the
Disciplinary 'Hearing Commission composed of Richard T. Gammon, Chair; Elizabeth Bunting,
and Betty .Apn Knudsen. A Root Edmonson represented the North Carolina State Bar and Alan
M. Schlieider represented Edward V. Zotian. Based upon the admissions in the Answer and the
stipuiations 9f fact in the Pre-Hearing Order, the hearing committee finds that the following has
been establiShed by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
FINJ)INGS OF FACT
1. The plaintiii: the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 qfthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
.

I'

2. 11J.e defendant, Edward V. Zotian (hereinafter, "Zotian"), was admitte4 to the North
Carolina State Bar on Juiy 1, 1979 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at
Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
. Professional ;Cortduct of the North Catolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. Dlning the times relevant to this complaint, Zotian actively ~ngaged in the practice of
law inJhe St~te of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of Greensboro', Guilford
County, NOI1h C a r o l i n a . '
.
i

4. In; the fall of 1999, Zotian joined the law firm of Adams Kleemeier Hagan Hannah &
Fouts, PLLC (hereinafter, "the firm") as an associate. Zotian's compensation with the firm
included a ba;se salary, plus a formula amount based upon fee income from clients that Zotian
originated for the firm. Zotian's 2002 compensation agreement also provided a framework for his
becoming an ;equity partner.

I

5. Any'fee that Zotian received from adient was the property of the firm, and Zotian was
to turn any fee he received in to the firm~ s bookkeeper.
6. Late in the day on April 15, 2002, Zotian met with a new firm client, Ricky Loye'
(hereinafter, "Loye"), in connection with obtaining a surety bond for Loye..
,

7. At their April 15, 2002 meeting, Loye delivered $3,700.00 (in thirty-seven $100 bUls)

I

to Zotian as payment for the Zotian's professional s~rvices.
8. Zotian gave Loye a hand-written receipt for the $3,700.00.
9. Zotian did not tum the Loye fee over to the finn's bookkeeper and did not advise the
bookkeeper or anyone else at the fum that he had received the $3,700.00 fee.
10. On April 16, 2002, Zotian deposited $3,600.00 of the fee paid to him by Loye into his
personal account at Bank of Am~rica, account number 000193724309.
11. Zotian appropriated the firm's $3,700.00 to his own use.
12. On June 14,2002, Zotian's employment at the firm terminated.
13. In an effort to keep the firm from discovering his receipt of the Loye fee, Zotian
offered to return Loye's $3,700.00 ifLoye would return the receipt Zotian gave to Loye on April
15, 2004'
14. Zotian had several telephone conversations with Loye in which Zotian asked Loye to
give false information to the firm about the $3,700.00, including suggesting that Loye tell the fjtm

I

that 1) the money was for Zotian to deliver to Loye's employee or 2) the fee was not retained by
Zotian, but was immediately returned.
15. On September 4, 2002, in a telephone conversation, the managing partner at the firm

asked Zotian to explaiIJ. why the firm never got the fee,
16. Zotian told the managing partner that, inupediately after meeting with Loye on April
15,2002, he had placed the thirty-seven $100 bills in an env~lop~ and left the envelope in his

outbox, ~inc~ it wa~ late in the day, with instructions to the lawfirm's accounting department to
credit the funds to "client development," Zotian further said that, when he returned to his office>
the neXt morning, the envelope was gone from his outbox and he therefore assumed that his
secretary had picked up the envelope and had taken it to the firm's accOuilting department in
accordance with his instructions. Zotian denied that he had taken the funds for his personal use.
17. Zotian's explanation given to the firm's managing partner on September 4, 2002 was

false.

I
," ~

.. -

'7

18. By check dated Sept(;lmber 11,2002, Zotian paid the finn $3,700.00.
19., After the managing partner of the :firnt filed a grievance against Zotian, the Chair of
the griev~ce committee sent Zoti~ a letter of notice seeking a response to the grievance for the
griev~ce committee's consideration.
'
20.',In his November 6,2002 response to the letter of notice, Zotian claimed that:
,
I put the cash payment in an envelope with a notation on the face
that it was to go to bookkeeping. On the envelope I wrote, "It Loye
Bonding Fee $3,700.00 cash, no billirtg number had yet been obtained, any
questions please call me, E.Z." I went to the bookkeeping office and since
no one was there I brought the envelope back and put it in my outbox in
my office. the following morning the envelope was not in my outbox. I
assumed it had been picked up ~d delivered to bookkeeping.

I

21.: The portion of Zotian' sresponse to the grievance quoted above was false.
BA:SED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:
i

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commis~io:n and the hearing committee has jurisdiction over Zotian and the subject matter.
i

2. ~otian's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84..28(a) & (b)(2) in that Zotian violated the Revised Ru1es of Professional COIlduct
as follows: !
(a) ,

By appropriating the fees Zotian received from Loye while an associate with the
finn to his own use in~tead of remitting the fees to the firm, Zotian committed a
criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a
lawyer in other respects in violation ofRu1e 8.4(b), and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(b)

By asking Loye to make false statements to the firm about the $3,700.00 fee for
Zotian's benefit, Zotian cOlmseled his client to falsify evidence in violation of Rule
3.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation ofRu1e 8.4(c);

i

(c):

By making false statements, to the managing partner in the finn about his handling
of the Loye funds, including denying that he had taken the funds for his personal
use, Zotian engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation ofRu1e 8.4(c);

:

"<f-.

,..~

.,'

I

(d)

I

By making ralse statements to the grievance committee in his November 6,2002
response to the letter of notice, Zotian offered evidence that he knew was false in
violation of Rule 3.3(a)(4); knowingly made a false statement of material fact fu a
disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.1; and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4{c).

)3ASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the evidence
presented at the hearing and the argUments of counsel, the hearing committee hereby makes the
following:
.
.
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Zotian's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

Zotian had a dishonest or selfish motive in taking his firm's funds and in
attempting to get his client to lie to the finn for his own benefit;

(b)

Zotian made false statements to his firm- during its investigation of the Loye
fee;

(c)

Zotian submitted false statements to the State Bar during the dis~pIinary
process;

(d)

Zotian had substantial experience in the practice of law; and

(e)

Zotian's conduct involved :Q1ultiple offens~s.

2. Zotian's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

I

(a)

Zotian has no prior disciplinary record;

(b)

Zotian lllade timely reimbursement to the law finn;

(c)

Zotian presented evidence at the hearing of mental health impairment that
may have affected his judgment; 'and

(d)

Zotian expressed remorse during the hearing.

3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing committee specifically finds that Zotian's conduct involves material
misrepresentations, dishonest conduct and misappropriation Qf money belonging to his former law

I

fjnn. The hearing committee believed Zotian's assertion that he did not know why he took the
firm's money and concludes that this isolated incident of misappropriation did not warrant
disbarment.' However, Zotian's attempt to get his client to cover up his misconduct and his false
statements to his firm and to the State Bar warrant a substantial suspension of his ljcense.

2.
Suspension of Zotian' s license is the Dilly sanction that can adequatelY.protect the
public for the following reasons:
I

. (a)
An order of discipline less than suspension would not sufficiently protect
the public because Zotian's .misconduct involved corrunission of misdeeds involving moral
turp~tude and violations of the public trust.

I

Zotian's attempt to have his clieht, Loye, make false statements to the law
firm !about the $3,700.00 fee caused significant harm to his client, the legal profession, and
the ~dministration ofjustice.
(b)

(c)
Zotian's false statements made to the member of the law:firm that.
questioned him about the Loye fee violated the trust and honesty that all officers of the
court owe to each other, causing significant harm to our system ofjurisprudence.
(d)
Zotian's false statements to the Grievance Committee during the
investigation of this matter undenrtines the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys and
undehnines the privilege of attorneys in this state to remain self-regulating.
i

~
e)
Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline would rail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses that Zotian committed and would send the wrong message to
attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in North.
Carolina.
I

(

BAS)ill UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and the arguments of
counsel, the ltearing committee. hereby enters the following:

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. T4e Defendant, Edward V. Zotian, is hereby sqspended from the practice of law for a
period of :fiv~ years.

2. After three years of active suspension, Zotian may petition to have the remaining
portion of his suSpension stayed ifhe c~ prove that he has met the following conditions:
I

.

(a) That he has not violated any local, state or federal law or the Revised Rules of
Ptofe~siortal Conduct; and

I
:

.
..

..

(b) That he has submitted to a mental health assessment by a psychiatrist
acceptable to the North Carolina State Bar, other than Dr. James D. Mattox, Jr., who has
determined that Zotian is fit t9 practice law;
3, If any portion of Zotian' s suspension is stayed, that portion will be stayed for five years .
upon the following conditions:

I

(a) That he maintains his mental health treatment as recommended by Dr, James D;
Mattox, Jr. or other treating psychiatrist of his choice, including taking the medication·
recommended by the psychiatrist;
(b) That he provides and continues in force a signed waiver or rele;;lse that allow~
his psychiatrist to provide information to the North Carolina State Bar concerning
Zoti@'s compliance with the psychiatrist's treatment recommendations;
.

m

(c) That his treating psychiatrist reports writing to the North Carolina State Bar
on a semi-annual basis that Zotian is following the psychiatrist's recomtnended treatment .
and taking the recommended medication;
"
(d) That, ifhe is self-employed, he provides on a semi-annu~ basis a writtell report
by a CPA acceptable to the North Carolina State Bar showing that Zotianis in compliance
With the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct as they apply to trust accounts.
(e) That, ifhe is employed by a third party, he provides to the North Carolina State
~ar on a semi-annual basis a written report showing that he is in compliance with the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct as they apply to receipt of money from clients and
maintaining appropriate billing and trust accoUnt records. Zotian's billing and trust
account records shall be subject to audit by the North Carolina State Bar during:the p~od
of the stay.

I

4. IfZotian does not seek a stay of any portion of his suspension, or a stay is revoked,
then Zotian must prove at any time th1ilt he seeks reinstatement, in addition to the other proof
required by the .reinstatement rules, that he has submitted to a mental· health assessment by a
psychiatrist acceptable to the North Carolina State Bar, other than Dr. James D. Mattox, Jr., who
has determined that Zotian is fit to practice law.
. 5. Zotian shall surrender his license and membership card to the Secretary within 30 days
of the effective date of this order.
6. Zotian shall comply with the requirements of 27 NCAC IB, § .0124,
7. 'the costs of this proceeding are taxed to Zotian and shall be paid as assessed by the
Secretary with 90 days of the effective date of this order. .

I

Signed with the Chair with the consent of the other membets of the hearing committee this
the311)~~.
....

Richar
Chair
Hearing Committee

I

I

I

