BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE CHAIR
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G1441, 03G1665, 03G1764,
03G1807, 04G0057 & 04G0242

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

"

I

INRE:
MANLIN M. CHEE

)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER TRANSFERRING
MEMBER TO DISABILliY INACTIVE
STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chairperson of the North Carolina Stat(::l
Bar's Grievance Committee P4rsuant to 27 NCAC 1B §.0118(g). Deputy Counsel A.
Root Edmonson and Thomas i=. Moffitt represented the North Carolina State Bar (the
"State Bar"). Manlin M. Chee ("Chee") is represented by her attorney, (..ocke T. Clifford.
As evidenced by the attaqhed Agency Designation, Chee has authorized Clifford to
enter into this Consent Order. Based upon the information Chee provided and with her
consent through her 'counsel and the cons~nt of qeputy counsel, the under~igned
makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the
proper party to consent to this order under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the
General Statutes (jf North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the, North
Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina, Administrative Code
("NCAC").
,

I

'

2. Chee was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1978, and is, and was at all '
times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina,
subject to the, rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct- of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all or part of the r~levant periods referred to herein, Che~ was engaged iii the ,
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Greensboro, '
Guilford County, North Carolina.
4.
Chee presently suffers from mental disorders that significantly impair her
professional ju~gmeht, perfOrmance or competence as an attorney.
5. Dr. Parisli A. McKinney, M.D., a Board Certified Psychiatrist, has diagnosed that
Manlin Chee is suffering from Panic Disorder and Major Depression, Recurrent, S~vere
with probable psychosis. It is Dr. McKinney's opinion, based on these diagnoses, that

I

'f

,',

...

---------,-------------------------------------

- --------- ----

Ohee is disabled due to mental disorders that adversely affect her ability to practice law
and that Chee is unable to continue in the practice of law.
6. Dr. Ellen C. Wilson, Ph.D., a Clinical Psychologist, has been treating Manlin Chee for
Major Depression, Severe, with (possible) Psychotic Features since February 9, 2004,
and that during the coUrse of this treatment there h~s been no significant improvement
in Chee'~ mental status. In treating Chee, Dr. Wilson found that Chee has been
emotionally labile, cognitively disorganized, and illogical/irrational through the course of
their interactions. It is, Dr. Wilson's opinion that Chee is disabled and cUrrently is not
capable qf practicing law due to her mental condition.
7. Chee ponsents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

I

8.

There are six grievances pending against Chee, to wit: 03G1441, Q3G1665,
03G1764, 03G1801, 04G0057 & 04G0242, all of which involve allegations of neglect of
client cases, failure to meaningfully cOl11mLlnicate with her clients and/or failure to
adequately supervise her non-legal assistants in violation of Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct 1.1, 1.3, 1.4 and 5.3.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. There liS clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Chee is disabled within the
meaning ~f 27 NCAC 1B § .0103 (19).
2. 'Chee should be transferred to disability inactive status with the State Bar.
I

3. Chee has voluntarily consented to being transferred to disability, inactive status,
pursuant to 27 NCAC 1B § .0118 (g).
4. The pending grievances against Chee should be stayed during the period of
disabjlity"pursuant to 27 NCAC 1B § .0118 (d)(1).

I

!

5. A trustee should be appointed to inventory Chee's files and take action to protect her
interests and the interests of her clients, pursuant to 27 NCAC 1B § .0122.
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
1. Manlin M. Chee is transferred to disability inactive status.
2. Chee $hall not practice law in North Carolina until she is no longer disabled and has
been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to
the procedures set out in 27 NCAC 1B, §.0125(c).

- 2 -'

I

-

3. The pending grievances against Chee should be stayed during the period of
disability, pursuant to 27 NCAC 1B § .0118 (d)(1).
~;.

This is the 1,'" day on April 2004.

I

John . McMillan, Chair
Griav nce Committee
North arolina State Bar
CONSENTED TO:

Locke T. ClifforC!
Counsel
for Manlin Chee
:

'

A. Root Edmonson
Deputy Counsel

I ;L~i7nifC
Deputy Counsel

- 3-

I

"

i,

,-

--

AGENCY DESIGNATION BY ATTORNEY MANLIN CHEB TO ATTORNEY
LOCKE CLIFFORD REGARDING NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
GRIEVANCES
I, Manliri Chee, Attorney at Law, duly licensed by the North Carolina Sate Bar (NCSB),
ac!mowle:dge that my lawyer, Locke Clifford has presented to and reviewed with me
faxed copies of six grievances filed against me at the NCSB, and that the North Carolina
State Bar' Rules require that I respond in writing to each grievance with 15 days of its
receipt by me. 1 authorize and direct Mr. Clifford to act as my agent in dealing with these
grievanc~s and any additional grievances that may be filed against me as follows:

I

I hereby' authorize ahd direct Mr. Clifford to act on my behalf in accepting service of
these grievances and any additional such grievances that "may be filed against me.
I

"

Fot reasons wrrelated to the$e grievances, r hereby authorize and direct Mr. Clifford to
negotiate:;with the NCSB a surrender of my law license in lieu of my responding to these
grievance$, and to assist any trustee that may be appointed by the NCSB to aSsist in the
orderly termination of my law practice, !mown as Law Offices of Manlin Chee, with the
primary office at BB&T Building, 201 West 1Y:farket Street, Suite 406, Greensboro, NC
27401 an4 fornierly with secondary offices at Six Woodlawn Green #125, Charlotte, NC
and 1516 rvrarket Street, Wilmington NC.

r hereby authorize and direct Mr. Clifford to present each such grievance to my
malpractiqe insurance carrier, Lawyers Mutual Liability Insurance Company of North
Carolina in a timely way, in order that tJ.1e company be put on notice ofpotential
malpractiqe claims against me and to enable the company to take any steps they deem
reasonabl~ and appropriate to correct any problems or mitigate any damages tliat may
arise from i any of the allegations contained in these grievances.
This the

:z.-z.~

I

day of March, 2004.

ManIin Chee aka Manlin Maureen
Chee and Manlin M. Forgay

I

