NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96 BCS 1

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE
OF RAYMOND A. MCALLISTER JR.

)
)

)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

)

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B,
Rule .0117 of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar upon an
affidavit of tender ofIicense pursuant to Rule .0117(a) executed by Raymond A.
McAllister, Jr., and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on Jan. 2, 1996.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Raymond A. McAllister, Jr.'s
conduct of misappropriating client funds, making false representations to clients about
their cases, neglecting client matters and failing to respond to a formal disciplinary
inquiry of the N.C. State Bar, is grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.
Section 84-28(b)(2) in that Raymond A. McAllister, Jr., has thereby violated Rules
1.2(b), 1.2(c), l.l(b), 6(b)(3) and 7.2(a)(4) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon Motion being duly made and seconded, the Council enters
the following order:
1. The tender of surrender of license of Raymond A. McAllister, Jr., is hereby
accepted.
2. Raymond A. McAllister, Jr., is hereby DISBARRED from the practice ofIaw
in North Carolina, effective Jan. 12, 1996.
3. Raymond A. McAllister, Jr., shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.
Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Rule .0124 of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina, along with the affidavit required by Rule .0124.

4. The costs of this action are hereby taxed against Raymond A. McAllister, Jr.

Done and ordered this the 12th day of January, 1996.

Fred H. Moody, Jr., Preside
The North Carolina State B

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
AFFIDAVIT

TO:

THE COUNCIL OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

I, Raymond A. McAllister, Jr., hereby tender my license to practice law and desire
to resign from the North Carolina State Bar. My resignation is tendered freely and
voluntarily, is not the result of coercion or duress and I am fully aware of the implications
of submitting the resignation.

I am aware that there are presently pending investigations or other proceedings
regarding allegations that I have been guilty of misconduct, to wit:
That I misappropriated $4,600 of funds belonging to Florence Matthews, without
her knowledge or consent.
That I made false representations to Audrey M. Cooper about the status of her
child support action, neglected her case and failed to return the unearned portion of the
$1,095 fee which she paid to me. I also failed to respond to formal inquiries of the N.C.
State Bar and the local grievance committee respecting Ms. Cooper's grievance.
That I permitted the statute of limitations to expire in a medical malpractice case
which I was handling for Mildred Ingram. In July 1994, I told Ms. Ingram that the
malpractice claim was on appeal and that a decision could be expected shortly, when I
knew that I had not perfected the appeal. In August 1994, I entered a settlement
agreement with Ms. Ingram in which I agreed to continue to defend the lawsuit pending
against Ms. Ingram by the hospital. I did not reveal that summary judgment had been
entered against Ms. Ingram in favor of the hospital in January 1994.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which these complaints are predicated
are true. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation I could not successfully defend against them.
This the/~ day of January. 1996.

Sworn to and subscribed before me
This the

:DJJla

2/'

p.

d

day of January, 1996.
WJJ--'-------=--"Q.)..=-.::=-u

_

Notary Public
M) commission expires:

3/2SJQq

