1'7 103~·
NORTH CAROUNA
WAKE COUNTY

I

TH~NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )

Plaintiff

v.
MARK T. TERRELL, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER OF
. DISCIPLINE

This matter was heard by a Hearing Comrnittee of the Disciplinary .Hearing
Commission composed of Richard T. Garnmon, Chair, Elizabeth Bunting, and
l3etty Ann Knudsen .. Margaret Cloutier represented plaintiff.. Defendant
appeared pro se. Defendant has agreed to waive a formal hearing in tne above
teferen<;:ed matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the fihdings of fact and .
conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed.
Defendant also stipulates that he waives his right to appeal this consent order .or
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings by consenting to the entry of
this order..
.
.
BaSed On the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enfers
the following

I

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), isa
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
.
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Mark T. Terrell (hereafter "Terrell"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1990 ,andis, and was at all times referred
to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules, regUlationS, ahd Revised' Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

I

3. During the relevant times referred to herein, Mark T. Terrell actively
e'hgaged hi the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a
law office in the City of Wilmington, New Hanover County, North Carolina.
: 4. During the relevant times referred to herein, AmeriEstate Legal Plan,
Inc. (hereinafter "AmeriEstate") was a foreign corporation conducting business in
North, Carolina under a certificate of authority issued by the North Carolina
Secretary of State. Such certificate of authority was for a general business
corpo'ration and not a professional corporation of attorneys at law.
IS. On or about August 14-15, 2002 and December 3-6,2002,

Ameri,Estateand/or its agents conducted seminars 'for the purpose of selling a
specific legal service, to wit: a living trust package. Each seminar was advertised
to the·pUblic as a "Living Trust Seminar." At these seminars agents of
AmeriEstate described the purported benefits of revocable living trusts relative to
wills as a preferable means of estate planning and promoted the sale of liVing
trust packages offered by AmeriEstate.

I

6. PClrchasers of living trust packages entered into contracts with
AmariEstate to become members of the AmeriEstate Legal Plan. The contracts
provided for the following specific, limited legal services~ preparation of a
revoc~ble living trust docUment, wills, powers of attorney, deedS, and other legal
docurllents related to the revocable living trust, and phone consultation with a
licensed "provider' attorney related
. to the specific legal services provided by
AmeriEstate.
[

I

,7. AmeriEstate provided the legal services purchased pursuant to such
contraGts described above, incJUdi'ng but not limited to preparation of the
revocable living trust and related legal documents. The provision of legal
services by AmeriEstate constitutes the unauthorized practice of law under
N.C.G.~. §84-2.1 , 84-4, and 84-5.

e. At all relevant times referred to herein, Terrell participated in the plans

I

sold by AmeriEstate by contracting with AmeriEstate to provide, and by
providirrg, telephone consultations with purchasers of such plans. Terrell's
particip:atioli aided AmeriEstate in the unauthorized practice of law by allowing
purchasers to infer that AmeriEstate could legally offer and provide all of the legal
service~ contemplated in the cbntracts.
9. Despite purporting to sell memberships in AmeriEstate Legal Plan as
described iii Paragraph 6 above, at no relevant time did ArneriEstate register with
the North Carolina State Bar as a prepaid legal service plan as provided by
N.C.G.S. §84-23.1and N.C.A.C. §.0300.

to.

At no relevant time did Terrell contact the North Carolina State Bar to

determi~e Whether AmeriEstate was qualified to operate a prepaid legal' service

2

I

plan in North Carolina or had registered a plan qS provided by statute, nor did
Terrell notify the North Carolina State Bar in writing before ,participating in a
purported prepaid legal, services plan.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters tile
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. All parties t;:Ire properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over defendant and the subject matter dHhis
proceeding.
2. Terrell's foregoing actions constitute grounds for ,discipline pursuant to
N.C,G.S. §84-28(b)(2) in that he violated one or more of the Revised Rule$ of
Professional Cond~ct in effect at the time of the actions as follows:
a. by participating in the sal'e of legal services by ArneriE:state, Terrell
assisted another in the unauthorized practice of law in violt;:ltion of Rule 5.5(d);
b. by failing to sufficiently investigate a purported prepaid legal plan to
develop a good faith belief that the plan was being operated in compliance with
the Rules of. Professional Conduct, T ~mell violated Rule 7 .3(d)(2)(D); and
c. by failing to notify the State Bar In writing before participating in a
purported prepaid legal plan, Terrell violated Rule 7.3(d)(2)(C).
'
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the .
Hearing Gorrwnittee also enters the following

I

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a) substantial experience in the practice of law.
2. Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a) absence of a prior disciplinary record;
(b) abs$nce of a dishonest motive, and
(c) full and free disclosure to the Hearing Committee and
cooperative attitude toward proceedings.
3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

3

I

4,. Assisting non-lawyers in wholesaling legal documents that mayor may
not benefit purchasers of the estate packages and failing to sufficiently
investigate the entities offering such services threatens harm to the pubiic and
the integrity and standihg of the legal profession by undermining the public's trust
and :confidence in lawyers anti the legal system. However, the Hearing
Committee finds .and concludes that under the circumstances of this case the
public will be adequately protected by admonishing defendant not to continue or
repeat such conduct.
, Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, ConClusions of Law, and
Find,ings Regarding Discipline, and upon consent of the parties, the Hearing
Committee enters the following

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I
1. The discipline to be imposed in this matter is an Admonition. The
Admonition, of even date herewith, accompanies this Order.
I

: 2. Terrell is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Sec~etary and shall be paid within thirty days of service of the notice of costs

upon him.
,

Margaret CI utier, Deputy 'Counsel
Attorney fbr Plaintiff

ttfd(~
T.

Mark

Terrell, Defendant

-4

I

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

. THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
v.
)
)
MARK T. 'fERRELL, Attorney,
)
Defendant )

AOMONITION

Pursuant to §§.0109, .0114, and.0123 of the Discipline and
Disability Rules of the Nor:th Carolina State Bar, the Hearing Committee of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered a Consent Order of Discipline
of even date herewith. After considering the information available to it
contained hi the pleadings and within the findings. of facts, conclusions of
law and findings regarding discipline of the Order of Discipline, the Hearing
Committee has determined that an admonition is an appropriate diSCipline
.
given the circumstances of this actidn.

I

The tule$ provide that after a finding of misconduct, the Hearing
Committee may 'issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating dr
mitigating factors. The Hearing Committee may issue an admonition,
reprimand, censure, suspension or qisbarmeht.
An admonition, yvhich is the least serious form of disCipline
authorized, is imposed in cases in which an attorney ,has committed a minor
violation Of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
During a period of time inCluding August 14 through December 6,
2003 an entity dperating under the name AmeriEstate Legal Plan, through
seminars, offered for sale to the public legal services relating to estate .
plans. The seminars and legal services were provided by non-lawyers. You
participated in the sale and performance of legal services by non-lawyers by
allowing AmeriEstate to offer to purchasers of the plans telephone contact
with a "provider" attorney, thereby inferring to the public that AmeriEstate
could legally offer and provide such legal services. This was in violation of
Rule 5.5( d) of the Revis~d Rules of Professional Conduct.

.
. F'urther, hefore participating in AmeriEstate's legal plans, y6u did not
. contact the North Carolina State Bar to determine whether AmeriEstate was
qualified to operate a prepaid legal service plan, nor did you notify the State
Bar in writing before partiCipating in a purported prepaid legal services plan.
This Was in violation of Rule 7.3(d)(2)(D) and (C) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
'You are hereby admonished by the North Carolina State Bar for your
professional misconduct.

: Signed by the undersign.ad Chair Y:'ith the ful!.«Jll~ and consent of

I

the other members of the HearIng Committee, thl~of September,
2004.,
._
,..;;

7: ~.~-

RICHA D T. GAMMON, CHAIR
HEARING COMMITTEE

I

,

.

I

