---~-----~

"

I

,

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

r

THE NORTH CAROLINA STA·I~~

I

Plaintiff

v.

FINDiNGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

ROGER W. RIZK, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter came before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair, M. Ann Reed, and M&rguerite P.
Watts. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff,. the North Carolina State Bar. Alan
M. Schneider represenjed the Defendant. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings
of fact and conclusions of law recited in this cons,ent order and to the discipline imposed.
Further, by entering into this consent order of discipline, Defendant freely and volun~arily
consents to the order of discipline, waives a fotmal hearing in this case, and waives all
right to appeal this order or challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings, 'the
conclusions, or the discipline imposed. Based ~pon the consent of the parties, the hearing
..
committee hereby enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North CarQlina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Roger W. Rizk ("Defendant"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1995 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorneY ~t
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North ' . .
Carolina, the Rules and Regq1ations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct. Defendant was admitted to the Florida Bar in 1970 and
represented Florida clients through approximately 1998.
3.
During all or part of the relevant perIods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice bf law in the State ofNoIth Carolina and maintained a law office
in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
'
4.
Defendant was properly served with process and a hearing in this matter
was set With due notice to all parties.

I

.,

\.

5.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant
operated his law practice as a professional association, holding the law practice out as
"Roger W. Rizk, P.A." Defendant was the principal responsible for filing all returns and
paying all taxes on behalf of the ~ssociation.
: 6.
Defendant's law practice, operated as a professional association, employed
.
personnel other than himself from 1995 through April 2002.
I

•7.
Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely file the state
withholding tax returns on behalf of Roger W. Rizk, P.A. for the third and fourth quarters
of 2002 and for all quarters of2003 .

I

. 8.
Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely pay the state income
tax withheld from his professional association's employees' wages as required by N.C.
Gen. Stat. §§ 105-163.2 and 105-163.6, from 1995 through 2002.
19.
Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely file the federal
withholding tax returns on behalf of Roger W. 'Rizk, P.A. for the third and fourth quarters
of~OOt and for all quarters of2003.
:10.
Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely pay the federal income
tax withheld from his professional association's employees' wages as required by 26
U.s.C. !§§ 3402 and 6151 from 1995 through 2002.
!11.
Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely pay state individual
income!taxes for some or all of the tax years from 1996 through 2002 as required by N.C.
Gen. St,at. §§ 105-152 and 105-157.
:12.

Defendant owed the North Carolina Depaitment of Revenue
$13,000.00 in past due withholding taxes and owed the Internal Revenue
Serviceapproximately-$87,000 in past due withholding taxes.
apptoxi~ately

13.
Defendant owed the North CaroHna Department
approximately.$2,000.00 in past due individual income taxes.

of Revenue

I

14.
Defendant failed to pay his federal individual income taxes during -this
same time period and owed the Internal Revenue Service $83,000.00 for unpaid personal
income taxes through the year 2002.
,

is. Willful failure to file a state tax return or pay state income tax
withholdings when due is a Class 1 misdemeanor under N.C. Gen~ Stat. § 105-236 (9).
~ 6.

Willful failure to' :file .a federal tax return or pay federal income tax
withholdings when due is a misdemeanor under 26 U.S.C. § 7203.

-2-

I

597

17.
Willful failure to file or pay a state income tax when due is a Class 1
misdemeanor under N.C. Gen. Stat. § J 05-236 (9).

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

,
1.
All the JYarties are properly before the hearing' cOInmittee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Roger W. Rizk, and the subject matter.
2.
The Defendant's conduct,as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (3) as
follows:
(a)
By unlawfully and willfully failing to timely file and/or pay state
income tax withholdings when those taxes were due, Rizk committed
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness in other respects in violation of Rille 8.4 (b) and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation 'in
violation of Rule 8.4 (c).
(b)
By unlawfully and willfully railing to timely pay state individual
income taxes when those taxes were due, Rizk committ~dcriminal acts
that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fimess in other
respects in violation of Rule 8.4 (b).
.

(c)
By unlawfully and willfully failing to timely file and/or pay federal
income tax withholdings when 'those taxes were due, Rizk committed
critninal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4 (b) and engage~ in'
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit ot misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4 (c).

I

,.,~

Based upon the co~sent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby makes
additional
."

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendants' misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Prior discipli~e, to wit:
1. Reprimand, North CamIina State Bar, 2001 (reCiprocal with
Florida)
2. Reprimand for client neglect, Florida, 2001 .

-3-

I

-----------------------------------------------

3. Suspension for 10 days, North Carolina State Bar, 2000
(reciprocal with Florida)
4. Suspension for 10 days for client neglect, Florida, 2000
5. Censure for client neglect and filing a frivolous lawsuit, North
Carolina State Bar, 1999
6. Reprimand and probation, Florida, 1999 (reciprocal with North
Carolina)
7. Suspension stayed for 4 years for commingling funds, North
Carolina State Bar, 1998
8. Reprimand for filing a frivolous lawsuit, North Carolina State
Bar,1997;
,
b.

Pattern of misconduct;

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

Dishonest or selfish motive; and

e.

Substantial experience in the practice of law.

------- ---

I

i

2.

The befendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

Personal or emotional problems;

b.

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution;

c.
Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings; and
d.

3.

Remorse.

the aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
-,'

4.
The Defendant has significantly partiCipated in voluntary bat, civic,
church ap-d community organizations for many years, including during the time period at
issue in this case.

I

5.
Although Defendant does not state that depression cClused him to engage
in the misconduct stated above, Defendant feels depression he suffered during this time
period signifiCaIitly impaired his ability to appropriately prioritize and honor his
responsi~ilities in this area. Defendant hCls had a mental health evaluation performed by
a psycho~ogist, who diagnosed depression. Defendant also consulted with Don Carroll of
the Nortl). Carolina State Bar Lawyer Assistance Program. Defendant has entered into a
LAP contract and is following Mr. Carroll's recommendations. Defendant is currently
being treated by Ii therapist.

-4-

I

6\
' Defendant feels he could not afford to pay the withheld taxes to the
appropriate state andfeqeral ,authorities because of his financial problems, which
ultimately resulted in personal bankruptcy, foreclosure of his home, and changes to his
office location to cheaper alternatives.,
'

7.
From the income taken in by his law practice, Oefendaht paid the business
rent, utilities, and employee salaries minus withholclings. The remainder Was his
p.~rsonal income. '
' .

I

8.
From his personal income, Defendant paid'alimony, mortgage or rent,
utilities, food expenses, car expense!), and entertainment expenses.
9.
In conjunction with failing to pay the withheld iricome taxes to the North
Carolina Department of Revenue ahd the Internal Revenue Service, Defendailtfailed to
pay withholdings for Medicaid and -SoCial Security for his employees. Defendant has
significant experience with disability and social security claims, and Was aware during
the time frame at issue that to qualify for social security disability benefits a claimant
must have had quarterly contributions paid into the system for a specified time frame.
10.
Defendant was aware during the time period at issue in this case that
failure to pay the withheld income taxes to the appropriate authorities might result in the
credit an employee would take for the amoUl).t of withheld taxes not being allowed.
Defendant was further aware that failure to pay Medicaid and Social Security
withholdings created a risk that his employees' ability to qualify for certain benefits
might be compromised.
Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspehsion would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would be
inconsistent with orders of discipline entered by this body in,similar cases and would
send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the
Bar in this State.
11.

I

12.
Discipline of a level no less than suspension is also necessary in light of
the fact that Defendant engaged in this misconduct despite, and contemporaneO\lsly with,
being disciplined by North Carolina and Florida for other disciplinary violations.

. Based upon the foregoing factors and the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
The license of the Defendant, Roger W. Rizk, is hereby suspended for fiv,e
years, beginning 30 days from the date of service of this order upon the Defendant.
1.

-5 ..

I

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon'
Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & bisability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
he has ,complied with the wind down rule.
'
'4.
Within IS days of the effective date of this order Defendant shall provide
the State Bar With an address at which clients seeking return of files can obtain such files
and shall promptly return all.files to his clients upon request.

I

After serVing two years of the active suspension of his license, Defendant
: 5.
may apply for reinstatement upon filing a petition with the Secretary of the North
CaroliJ)a State Bar demonstrating the following by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence:
a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Cod~ Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

h.

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs 'Q.pon him;

c.

That not less than 60 days before seeking reinstatement Defendant
was .evaluated by the Lawyers Assist~ce Program or by a mental
health professional approved by the State Bar at his own expense,
and that he complied and continues to comply with any and all
treatment recommendations of the LAP program or the psychiatrist
.. and that he is not under any disability at that time. The medical
..- evaluation and treatment shall be obtained at Defendant's expense;

d.

That within ten days of obtaining the evaluation described above,
Defendant signed the appropriate releases and medical
authorizations and provided the releases to the North Carolina _~
State Bar Office of Counsel, authorizing counsel to speak with his
mental he~lth professional or the LAP personnel and obtain copies
of his medical records from the mental health professional andlor
other records from LAP. Defendant shall not revoke these'
releases;

e.

That Defendant complied and continues to comply with any and all
requests by the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel for any
reports, medical records, LAP evaluations or mental health
evaluations at his expense;

I

-6-

I

&01

f.

That Defendant complied with and continues to comply with the
tenns of all agreements with th~ Internal Revenue Service and the
North Carolina Department ofReveilU~ in existence during the
stay;

g.

That Defendant provided the State Bar with documentation from·
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)' showing compliance with the
tenns of any agreements with the IRS, documenting compliance
from the date of the entry ofthis order through sixtY (60) days
prior to applic~tion for any stay of remaining suspension or for
reinstatement and filed' with the State Bar with any application for
stay or reinstatement;

h.

That Defendant filed and paid all taxes in a timely inanner during
the period of suspension (whether active or stayed);
.

i.

That Defendant provided the State Bar with copies of all tax
,returns filed during the suspension (whether active or stayed) and
proof of payment of taxes due during the suspension (whether
active or stayed), filed with the State Bat contemporaneously with
filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the North Carolina
Department of Revenue;

j.

That he nas kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home address;

k.

That he has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar received after the effective date of this order
within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;

I

I

1.

,That he has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
'-"or the laws of the United States or any state; and

m.

That he paid all Membership dues and 'Client Security Fund
assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education.
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice durilig
the suspension.
f

6.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay Will continue in force only as long as he continues to comply with the
conditions set out in paragraph 5.
; 1.
If an or4er staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions referenced in
Paragraphs 5 and 6, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
pr9vided in § .Ol14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.

-7-

I
:

.'

I.

8.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of
his law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must comply with the conditions set out in paragraph 5 above before
seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law.
9.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter ptu-suartt to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .OI14(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
I

I

$igned by the ~ODsent of the other hearing cortl1nittee members,
I

this the

IS::day of lA

i

.

, 2004.

Stephen . Culbreth
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Committee

CONSBNTED TO ,BY:
,

~.

Je . er·. ····er
. Deputy tou:nsel
Attorney for Plain.tiff "

-=::::::

I

~%t/~~

Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

Defend~t

-8-

I

