'1\\, •

I ~o'7lo
NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY
~

THE NORTH CAROLINA S

Plaintiff

I

·v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENI' ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

. PHlLLlP R. BATTEN, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter came before a hearing 'co1lllllittee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of the Chair, Charles M. Davis and members Karen EadyWilliams and JohImy A. Freeman. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff, the North·
C~olina State Bar. Defendant represented himself. Both parties stipulate and agree to
the findin~ of fact and concluSiol1$ of law recited in this consent order and to the··
discipline iJ)1posed. Further, by entering into this consent order of discipline, Defendant
freely aJ;ld voluntarily consents to the order of discipline, waives a formal hearing in tp,is .
case, and waives all right to appeal this order or challenge in any way the sufficiency of
the findings, the conclusions, or the discipline imposed. Based upon the consent of the
parties; the hearing committee hereby enters the followjng
FINDINGS OF FACT
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper'party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and R~gu1atiol1S of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
1.

I

'2.
Defendant, Phillip R. Batten ("Defendant"), was adplitted to the.North
Carolina State Bar in 1991, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State ·ofNorth
Carolina, the R1,l1es and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar 'and the ReVised
Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
suspended from the active practice of law pursuant to Disciplinary Hearing Commission
Disciplinary Order issued incase number 01 DRC 19 dated December 20,2001.
4.
Defendant was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was
set, and the matter came before the hearing committee with due notice to all pames.

I

--~-----------------------------------------------------------------------

-

5.
On February 27, 2002 the State Bar received a Petition for Resolution of
Disputed Fee from Joanne Dancy regarding Defendant's representation of Cecil
Wadkins.
:6.
On or about Apri124, 2002 Defendant received rtotice of the Petition for
Resolution of Disputed Fee. Defendant was required to respond in writing within ten
(10) days of receipt. Defendant did not provide a written response to the Petition for
~es~lution of Disputed Fee as required

7.

As a result of Defendant's failure to participate in the fee dispute process;
a grievance file wasopeIied. A letter of notice was sent to Defendant in that file, to
which Defendant timely responded. A request for additional infonnation was made to
Defencfunt regarding his representation of Cecil Wadkins., Defendant did not supply that
additioI).a1 infonnatiort.

I

8.
Consequently, on July 16, 2D03 the Secretary of the North Carolina State
Bar issued a subpoena duces tecun1 to Defendant, commanding him to appear on July 31,
2003 before The North Carolina State Bar and to bring specified documents relating to
his repr~sentati6n of Cecil WadkiIis.
9.

Defendant was personally served with the subpoena at his residence by
sheriff on July 22, 2003.

to.

Defendant failed to appear at the North Carolina State Bar on July 31,
2003 and did not comply with the subpoena or the State Bar's request for infonnation.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

i.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Phillip R. Batten, and the subject matter.

,

~.

.

The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact ahove,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (3) as
follows:'

I

,a.
By failing to respond to the notice of a petition for fee dispute
resolution by Dancy, Defendant failed to participate in good faith with the fee
dispute resolution process of the North Carolina State Bar in violation of Rule
f.5(f); and
b.
By failing to appear in: response to the State Bar's subpoena,
Pefendant failed to respond to a lawful demand forinfonnation from a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b) and engaged in contempt of the
State Bar in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3).

-1-

I

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing cOmpUttee hereby makes
additional
FlNDJNGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

I

Defendants' misconductis aggravated by the following factors:

a.
Prior discipline, to wit: Defendant's license was suspended for
three years by an Order of Discipline in 01 DHC 19 for misappropriation, failing
to keep a client reasonably informed, knowingly making a faise statement of
material fact to a tribunal, engaging in conduct involving dish,onesty, fraud,
deceit, or misrepresentation, and counseling a witness to testify falsely. The
effective date of the prior discipline was January 27, 2002, before the misconduct
in the cutrent matter;

2.

b.

Pattern of misconduct;

c..

Multiple offenses; and

d.

Substantial experience in the practice of law.

The Defendant's misconduct is. mitigated by the folloWing factors:
a.

AbseI)ce of a dishonest or selfish motive;

b.
Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
.
3.

I

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.
The Order or Discipline imposed in 01 DRC 19 requited DefendaI)t to
comply with the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Defendant has failed to do so.
S.
Defendant's failure to participate in mandatory fee arbitration and failure
to comply with the subpoena from the State Bar interfered with the State Bar's ability to
regulate attorneys and undermined the privilege of lawyers in this State to remain selfregulating;
6.
Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses corn.mjtted by Defendant, would be
inconsistent with orders of discipline entered by this body in similar cases and would
send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected ofmeinbers of the
Bar in this State.
.
.

-~-

I

..
'.::

6~?
,..
~"

Based up.on the f.oreg.oing fact.ors and the c.onsent .of the parties, the hearing
c.ommittee hereby enters the f.oll.owing
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
•1.
Defendant, currently suspended from the practice .of law under the Order
.of Discipline in 01 DHC 19, is hereby further suspended fr.om the practice .oflaw as
f911.ows: the law license .of Defendant, Phillip F. Batten, is suspended thr.ough July 31,
20'06.
I

2.
Defendant shall pay the c.osts of this proceeding as assessed by the
SecreUu'y within 30 days .of service .of the statement .of c.osts up.on him.

I

;3.
Defendant shall c.ontinue t.o c.omply with all pr.ovisi.ons .of27 N.C. Admin.
C.ode Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 .of the N.orth Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
14.
T.o be eligible f.or reinstatement at the end .of the suspensi.on imp.osed in
this Oider, Defendant must satisfy the requirements .of 27 N.C. Admin. C.ode Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0125(b) .of the N.orth Car.olina Discipline and Disability Rules, must
have satisfied the tenns f.or reinstatement listed in 01 DHC 19, and must c.omply with the
f.oll.owjng"conditi.ons f.or the duration .of the suspensi.on imp.osed in this Order:
a.
Defendant shall n.ot vi.olate any .of the Revised Rules .of
•Pr.ofessi.onal C.onduct;
b.
Defendant shall not violate any laws of the State .ofN.orth Carolina
·.or ".of the United States;
c.
Defendant shall have paid all c.osts .of this pr.oceeding as assessed
:by the Secretary within 30 days ".of service .of the statement .of c.osts upon him;
d.
,Defendant shall keep the N.orth Car.olina State Bar Membership
Department advised .of his current business and h.ome address;

I

e.
Defendant shall resp.ond t.o all c.ol11111unicati.ons fr.om the North
Car.olina State Bar received aftet the effective date .of this .order within ~p days .of
'receipt .or by the deadline stated in the c.ommunication, whichever is s.o.otier;
f.
Defendant shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
:assessments and c.omply with all C.ontinuing Legal Education (CLE) requirements
!.on a timely basis as if still in practice during the suspensi.on;

g.
Defendant shall participate in the N.orth Car.oli~ State Bar's fee
:dispute res.oluti.on pr.ocess f.or any subsequent petiti.on received after the effective

I

_4_

I

date of this order, participate in good faith and refund all fees. that are detetmined
to be subject to refund by the mediation process; and
h.
Defendant shaU refund Joanne DanCY the $1,500 advance fee she
paid Defendant for Defendant to represent Cecil Wadkins prior to any application
for reinstatement.

I

5.
The Disciplinary Hearing COmniission will retain jurisdiction of this
111atter pursuant to 21 N.C. Admin~Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Ru1es throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Si~9 by the Chair
~h9 consent of the other hearing committee members,
this the ~ day of
." I1y-: .
. 2004.
.

I

CR~ ..*,Q~

Charles M. Davis·
.
. .
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Co1nmittee
CONSENTED TO BY:

I

.~
.
Deputy Counsel
"
Attorney for Plaintiff

Y~Q~~
Phillip R. Batten
Defendant

-,,-

