--

-

----~

-----

-

----~

-~

,----

WAK,ECOUNTY

BEFORE THE
COMMISSION
CIPLINARY HEARING
-l
_.
co
OF THE
(£)
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04DHC24

NORTH CAROL

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.
W. KELLY ELOER, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT
)
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)
)

I

THIS MAtTER came on to be heard and was heard on Oct. 13,2004 before a
duly asSigned committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of M. Ann
Reed, Ghair; John M. May and R. Mitchel Tyler. Carolin Bakewell represented the N.C. .
State Bar. The Defendant, W. Kelly Elder, did not appear nor was he represented by
counsell. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at trial, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following:
,

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body dilly organized tinder the
laws oft'Jorth Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authoritY granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Rlegulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant, W. Kelly Elder (Elder) was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1977, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney fat law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bat
and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all of the periods relevant hereto, Elder \vas engaged in the
practice <i>flaw in the City of Burlington, North Carolina.
,

4.: In 1991 Derek C. Trucks (Trucks) retained Elder to provide general
legal guidance, estate and trust planning services to Trucks and his business
entities, including The Derek Trucks Band.

I

5. Trucks is a musician and spends a sub~tantial amount of time away
from home. At Elder's suggestion, Trucks executed a power of attorney which
authorized Elder to pay billsfor Trucks and his various business concerns. The
power of attorney did not authorize Elder to use any funds or property belonging
to Trucks or his businesses for Elder's personal benefit.
6. ·At various times, at Elder's suggestion, Trucks signed blank checks for
Trucks' "CAP" checking account # 9070135524 at First Union Bank (CAP
~c~ount) and Trucks' Medallion account #41831875770 at Triangle Securities
(Medallion account). Elder was authorized only to use the checks to pay
.
legitimate obIlgations of Trucks and his business entities.
7. Between January 2001 and April 2002, Elder withdrew approximately
$62,600 from Trucks' "CAP" checking account using blank checks previously
signed by Trucks. Elder mi~appropriated all or a portion of these fund$ for his
own use and benefit without Trucks' consent.
8. Between Janu.ary 2001 and April 2002, Elder withdrew at least $6,800
from Trucks' Medallion account using blank checks previously signed by Trucks.
Elder misappropriated all or a portion of these funds for his own use and benefit
without Trucks' consent.
.
9. Between Jan. 1,2001 and April 2002, Elder withdrew apprmdmately
.$21,310.34 from the Derek Trucks Band merchandise bank account
#2080000744782 at First Union Bank. Elder misappropriated all or a portion of
these funds for his own use and benefit without Trucks' consent.
10. On or about Aug. 2,2001, Eldet withdtew $40,000 from aline of
credit account # 4386550320069099 at First UnionlWachovia Bank (line of credit
account). Elder misappropriated all or a portion of these funds for his own use
and benefit withQut Trucks' consent.

I

11. On or after Aug. 2, 2001, Elder acknowledged to Trucks that he had
used the money taken: from the line of credit ·account for personal expenses.
Although Elder promised to replace all of the money, he failed to do so.
12. In or prior to April 2002, Elder opened a First Union Bank credit card
accQunt # 42642985 5323 2300' in Trucks' name. Elder used the card to obtain
more than $5,000 in cash advances, all or part of which he misappropriated for his
personal use and benefit without Trucks' consent.
l3, Prior to June 2002, Trucks obtained a payment 0f $35,000 from the
Allman Brothers Band. These funds represented an advance payment of salary
and fees to be earned by Trucks while on tour with the Allman Brothers Band in
2002.
.
..

2

. 14. Trucks agreed to permit Elder to borrow the $35,000 advance on the
express condition that the money was to repaid on or before Dec. 31, 2002.
, 15. Elder did not advise Trucks in writing to consulf independent courtsel
before Trucks agreed to lend the $35,000 to Elder, nor did Elder adequately
disclose to Trucks that Elder was experiencing financial difficulties and that there
was a substantial risk that he would not repay Trucks on a timely basis.

,16. Elder did not tell Trucks that Elder had previously made unauthorized
withdrawals of funds belonging to Trucks.
I

.

'17. Trucks would not have agreed to the loan had he been aware that
Elder hFld misused funds belonging to Trucks and that Elder was experiencing
substantial financial difficulties.

I

18. Trucks did not give informed .consent in writIng to the terms ofihe
loan traps action.
~9. Elder did not repay the $35,000 loan.

20. Prior to March 19,2003, Trucks retained the services of Philip H.
Goodpasture (Goodpasture), then a partner in the law firm of Christian Barton in
Richmond, Va., to assist in resolving Trucks' concerns over the manner in which
Elder had handled funds and property belonging to Trucks.
!
~1. On March 19,2003, Goodpasture wrote to Elder on Trucks' behalf
arid demanded that Elder produce various financial records relating to funds and
property: belonging to Trucks.

42. Elder did not respond to Goodpasture's letter, nor did he provide the
requested financial records or otherwise account for the funds belonging to
Trucks. :
. 23. On April 24, 2003, Trucks discharged Elder as his attorney and
directed Elder to returrl to Trucks his client files and all personal property in
Elder's possession.
.

I

~4. :Elder has failed and refused to return Trucks' client files and items of

personal ;property to Trucks.
25. On or about Aug. 18,2003, Trucks filyd a grievance against Elder
with the N.C. State Bar.

26. On Oct. 14,2003, the N.C. State aar personally serVed Elder with the
letter of notice and substance of grievance regarding Trucks' grievance. The

3

I

letter of notice directed Elder to file a written response to the letter of notice no
.
later than Oct. 29, 2003.
27. Elder did not respond to Trucks' grievance.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee hereby
makes the following:
' .
.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. The DiSCiplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over the person
of the Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.

1.

By withdrawing approximately $62,600 from Trucks' CAP account #
9070135524 and misappropriating all or a portion of the proceeds for his own use
and benefit without Trucks' consent, Elder c01l1l11itted criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violatjon of
Rule 8.4(b), engagdd in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation pfRule 8.4(c); engaged in a conflict ofintetest in
violation of Rule 1.7 and used entrusted property for his personal benefit in
violation of Rule 1.15-20).
2. By withdrawing at least $6,800 from Trucks' Medallion, accoUnt
#41831875770 at Triangle Securities and misappropriating all or a portion of the
funds for his own use and benefit without Trucks' consent, Elder committed
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a
lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b), engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); engaged in a conflict
of interest in violation of Rule 1.7 m1:d used entrusted property for his personal
benefit, in violation of Rule 1.15-20).

I

3. By withdrawing approximately $21,310.34 from the Derek Trucks
Band merchandise bank account and misappropriating all or a portion of the funds
for his own use and benefit without Trucks" consent, Elder cOll!ll1itted criminal
acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitnesS as' a lawyer in
violation of Rule 8.4(b), engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
mi$representation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); engaged in a conflict of interest in
violation of Rule 1.7 ahd used entrusted property for his personal benefit in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(j).
4. By withdrawing $40,000 from a line of credit account #
4386550320069099 at First UnionfWachovia Bank In Trucks' name and
misappropriating all or a portion of those fw;lds to 'his own use and benefit without
Trucks' consent, Elder committed criminal acts that reflect adVersely on his
honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b), engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of

4

I

Rule 8A(c); engaged in a conflict of interest in violation of Rule 1.7 and used
entrusted.property for his personal benefit in violation of Rule 1.15-20).
5. By obtaining more than $5,000 in cash advances from First Union
Bank credit card# 4264 298553232300 in Trucks' name and using all or a
portion of the proceeds for his own use and benefit without Trucks' consent, Elder
committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or
fitness ~s a lawyer in violation of Rule 8A(b), engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8 A(c); engaged
fn 'a COIl.t1ict of interest in violation of Rule 1.7 and used entrusted property for his
personal benefit in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j).
I

'

.

6. By inducing Trucks to lend him $35,000 without revealing that he had
previou:sly misused funds belonging to Trucks, Elder engaged in cOl)duct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Revised
Rule 8.4(c).

I

I

By obtairting a: $35,000 loan from Trucks without first advising Trucks
in writing of the advisability of seeking independent legal counsel, without
adequat~ly disclosing the risks a~sociated with the transaction and without
obtainirig informed written consent to the transaction from Trucks, Elder engaged
in a conflict of interest in violation of Revised Rule 1.8(a).

.7·

8. By failing to account to Trucks regarding all funds entrusted. to and
handled1by Elder, Elder failed to provide a written accounting to his client, in
. violatiol) of Revised Rule l.I5-3(d) and (e).
I

9. By failing to deliver all client files and property belonging to Trucks
upon being discharged in Aprjl2003, Elder failed to surrender all papers and
property to which his client was entitled, in violation of Revised Rule 1.16(d).

to. By failing to respond to the letter of notice and substance of grievance
regarding Trucks' complaint Elder failed to respond to a lawful demand for
information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1(b).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
hearing committee enters the follOWing
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
L Elder's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a) Selfish and dishonest motive
b) Indifference to restitution

5

I

c) Prior discipline
d) Pattern of misconduct
e) Multiple rule violations

f) Substantial experience in the practi~e of law

I

g) Bad faith obstruction of the State Bar's investigation by failing
to comply with the Chair's order compelling responses to the
State Bar's interrogatories and requests for production of
documents.
h) Refusal to acknowlege wrongful nature of conduct.
2. There are no mitigating factors present.
3. The aggravating factors substantially outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. Elder's misconduct has caused substantial actual harm to his cljent,
Derek Trucks and has also harmed the standing ofthe n~gal profession in the eyes
of his former client.
5. An ordeJ;' of discipline short of disbarment would not sufficjently
protect the public for the following reasons:
a) Elder engaged in multiple violations of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct over a substantial period of time. His conduct therefore was
not the result of an abeqation or mistake, but is the product of a serious
personality flaw that is not readily changeable.
'

I

b) Elder has offered no evidence that he has addressed the
problem or flaW that mativated his criminal conduct and other violations of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Indeed, he has ignored and obstntcted
the State Bar's attempts to investigate this matter. Conseqqently; the Committee
finds that there is a substantial risk that Elder would continue to engage in
misconduct ifhe were permitted to retain his law license.
c) Elder Was disciplined by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
in May 2000. The prior order of discipline, which suspended Elder's law license
and stayed the suspension, apparently faile,d to prevent Elder from engaging in
additional, more serious violations of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Indeed, most of the misconduct mentioned in this Order occurred while Elder was
"on probation" as a result of entry of the May 2000 order.

6

I

i

•

i

d) If Elder's law license was merely suspended for a term certain,
he would be permitted to resume the practice of law without first having to
demoristrate'that he has reformed and is no longer a threat to the public. Only an
order of disbarment shifts the burden of proof to the attorney to demonstrate
rehabilitation and good character before reinstatement occurs.
e) Entry of an orde,r imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses which Elder committed, would be'
inconsistent with orders of discipline entered by the Commission in similar cases
and. would, send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
conduct expected of lJlembers of the Bar of this State.

.
:f) Elder's misconduct has jeopardized the profession's ability to
remain self regulating. Lawyers cannot continue to enjoy thIs privilege if
memb~rs of the Bar do not respond to lawful inquiries of the regulatory authority.

1

!

•BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, there hearing committee hereby enters the
followlng:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
:1. The Defendant, W. Kelly Elder, is hereby DISBARRED from the
practicy of law in North Carolina.

days

;2. The costs of this action are taxed to Elder. He must pay the costs within 30
ofllie statement of costs by the Secretary.

o~ service
,

3. Elder may not seek reinstatement of his license to practice law until he
submits written proof to the Counsel of the N.C. State Bar that he has made full
restitution to Derek Trucks and the business entities mentioned in this order. If any or all
of the losses incttrred by Trucks and his business entities are reimbursed by the Client
Security Fund of the N.C. State Bar, Elder must present written proof that he has made
restitutIon of all amounts paid by the Fund before filing a petition for reinstatement of his
law license.

I'

4. Elder shall provide to the Counsel of the N.C. State Bar copies of all
documt':nts described in the Plaintiffs First Request for Production of Documents within
20 days of the date of this ordet.

7

1

'.:.

This the

~ay of October, 2004.

Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the knowledge and consent of
all Committee members.

~

I

~Ree~}~

Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I

.,

8

I

/J~.

.~

..

--

