)3/~O
BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION

STNfE 'OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff

v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

I

ELIZABETH KOHLER BLEVINS a.k.a.
ELIZABETH GAREE KOHLER, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was heard on the 15t day of October, 2004, before a hearing committee
of the Di~ciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, F. Lane Williamson,
and members Tommy W. Jarrett and Marguerite P. Watts, pursuant to North Carolina
Administ,rative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .Ol14(h). The plaintiff was
represented by Jennifer A. Porter. The Defendant did not appear and was not represented.
An Order: of Default had been entered.in this case on August 31, 2004 and the facts as
stated in the Complaint were taken as adniitted and considered as evidence by the hearing
committe:e. Based upon the pleadings, the admissions described above and the other .
evidence :introduced at the hearing l , the hearing committee hereby enters the following
Findings of Fact

1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws 6fNorth,Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, an4 the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

:

2. ,
Defendant, Elizabeth Kohler Blevins, also known as Elizabeth Garee
Kohler (hheinafier "Blevins"), was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August
24, 1996, ,and is, and was at all time~ referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules
and Regu~ations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
3:: During all times relevant herein, Blevins actively engaged in the practice of
law in the: State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of Raleigh,
Wake County, North Carolina.

I
,

"

<-;:

& 3 f·

...

4. On or about July 19,2001, Bernadine Olive (hereinafter "Olive") hired
Blevins to represent her in matters pertaining to a domestic violence order, separation,
divorce, child custody and child support.
5. For a period of time in the fall of2001, Olive did not want to move forward.
with her case. In or about December 2001, Olive notified Blevins that she was ready to
move forward with her case. From January 2002 through May 2002, Olive tried
repeatedly to contact Blevins and left numerous messages for 13levins. Blevins did not
retlun her calls.
.
.

I

6. DUring this same time frame, Olive requested an itemized bill and an
accounting for work billed against the retainer she had paid Blevins. Olive made this
request several times. Blevins did not provide her with an itemized· bill Qr any other
accounting of the money Oliv~ paid Blevins. .
7. Olive requested her file in approximately July 2002. Despite repeated calls.
from Olive and from the State Bar, Blevins did not make a copy of Olive's file for Olive.
8. In response to Olive's request for her file and the State Bar's contact
regarding providing Olive with a copy of her file, Olive instructed Carol Malcolm, a
member of her staff, to falsely state that the file had been copied and given to a courier
named Legal Wheels for delivery to Olive. Olive's file had not been copied and had not
been given to Legal Wheels for delivery to Olive.
9. ,On or about March 25,2002, Olive filed a fee dispute with the State Bar anc,l
on or about August 8, 2002, Olive filed a grievance against Blevins with the North
Carolina State Bar.

I

10. In or about May 2002, Deborah Sandlin, an active member of the North
Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "Sandlin"), began representing Ryan Wells, a client in a
domestic matter. The spouse of this client, Vannessa Sakowski (hereinafter '~Sakowsl~i"),
was represented by Blevins.
11. In May 2002, Sandlin spoke to Blevins and obtained an oral agreement to
expedite mediation, When it appeared Blevins' client was not going to appear at the
, mediation, Sandlin attempted to contact Blevins. Sandlin left s·everal messages but
Blevins did not return Sandlin's calls ..
12. In June 2002, Sandlin began.attempting to get in touch with Blevins to
schedule a deposition of Blevins' client and to disCllSS a trial date. Numt;':rous messages
were left with Blevins' office. Blevins did not respond to any of Sandlin's messages.
Sandlin continued to try to contact Blevins in July and August and left several messages,
none of which were returned by Blevins.

13. On August l5, 2002, Sandlin talked with Blevins' paralegal, Carol Malcolm,
who set the deposition of Sakowski for August 29,2002. Sandlin prepared the notice of
deposition and had it hand delivered and mailed on August 15, 2002.

- 2-

I

14. On August 28,2002, Blevins called Sandlin and stated no attorney would be
availabTe for the deposition on August 29, 2002. Sandlin offered two alternatives,
includil1g rescheduling the deposition with Blevins paying expedited transcription costs
or continuing the hearing date if Blevins' client would sign a temporary consent order
granting visitation. Blevins refused these alternatives. At approximately 10:00 p.m. that
night, Blevins faxed Sandlin a letter stating that she had just opened the notice of
depoSition that day and that neither she nor her client would be at the deposition.
15. On August 28, 2002, Blevins indicated to Sandlin that she was not the
attorney for Sakowski and that her partner Mr. Bradley Tharp was. Sandlin had
previously asked Tharp about this case and Tharp had indicated he did not know anything
about it ,and that Sakowski waS Blevins' client.

I

I

16. On August 29,2002, Sandlin trjed to contact Blevins regarding the deposition
schedul~d for that day, and at approximately 9: 15 a.m. Sandlin was informed that Blevins
was on her way into the office.
17. In an attempt to determine Blevins' availability for August 29,2002, on that
day Sandlin had a private detective contact Blevins' office and try to obtain an
appointment with her that day. The private detective was given an appointment with
Blevins ;on August 29, 2002 for the same time that the deposition had been scheduled.

i 8. Subsequently, Sandlin filed a motion to compel the deposition and a motion
for attorhey's fees.
19. In response to opposing counsel's motion to compel the deposition of
Salwwski, Blevin.s falsified correspondence to opposing counsel and backdated her
postage machine to falsify envelopes to create false file copies of correspondence.
20. Sandlin learned Blevins did not intend to attend the hearing on the motion to
compel.· Upon being informed that Blevins did not intend to attend the hearing, Sandlin
issued a, subpoena for her appearance, which was properly served.
21. Blevins filed a motion to continue the hearing and attached several pieces -of
correspondence. One of the attached documents was a letter dated August 14,2002,
which Blevins claimed to have sent to Sandlin. This letter stated that she was traveling
out of town, would not be back for a week, and that no one would be available for a
depositipn until later. Sandlin never received this letter. Furthermore, this letter is dated
the day hefore any deposition had been set in the c,ase.

I

22. Blevins failed to appear at the hearing on the motion to compel on September
9,2002 at 10:00 a.m. On that date, Blevins' paralegal was informe~ by the court that
Blevins must appear on September 11, 2002 or else be arrested. Blevins appeared on
Septem1?er 11, 2002. She stated she had had a doctor's appointment on September 9,
2002. When asked by the court, Blevins admitted she had not tried to reschedule the
appoin$ent and had not contacted Sandlin regarding this conflict. The Court asked for
supportfng doctunentation from the doctor's office. Blevins provided documentation of a
doctor's; appointment at 11 :30 a.m., for which she arrived at 11 :00 a.m. The judge'

-."

.)

-

I

ordered Blevins to pay all deposition costs, to conduct the deposition that day, and to pay
Sandlin's attorney fees for the prosecution of the motion to compel.
23. On or about October 3, 2002, Sandlin filed a grievance against Blevins With
the North Carolina State Bar.
24. On or about August 2002, Betty Ural (hereinafter "Ural") hired Blevins to
represent her in a domestic matter.

I

25. On Or about September 11 and 12, 2002, Blevins filed documents with the
court iIi pral' s domestic matter, including a Custody Mediation Cover Sheet, aNotice to
Attend CustodyNisitation Orientation with Certificate of Service, an Affidavit for
Judicial Assignment with Certificate of Service, a Domestic Civil Action Cover Sheet,
and a COJ;nplaint for Absolute Divorce, Custody, Motion for Emergency Ex Parte Relief,
and Attorney's Fees with Certificate of Service. Blevins placed Bradley Tharp's name
each of these
and/or signature block on each of these documents, and signed for him
documents, without his knowledge or consent.
.

on

26. Iuthe course of this representation, on September 13, 2002, Blevins contacted
the District Court Judges office, and spoke with Judge Monica M. Bousman. She
represented to Judge Bousman that an ex parte re~training order was needed to prevent
Ural's husband from leaving the state with Ural's children. To support her request,
Blevins knowingly and falsely stated that Ural's husband had not returned the children
from a lunch visitation and still had the children at that time; several hours later.
27. Ural did not tell Blevins that her husband had the children ot that they were
overdue to be returned to her. In fact, on that date the children had attended school and
YMCA.programs as normal, and at the time Ural met with Blevins and Blevins spoke to
Judge Bousman Ural's children were at home with her brother.
.

I

28. On Monday, September 16, 2002, Ural hired another attorney, Laura Bre11I!an
(hereinafter "Brennan") to represent her in her domestic matter. Prior to this time she had .
asked for an account~ng of the advance fee she had deposited with Blevins for this matter.
Blevins did not provide an accounting.
29. On September 17, 2002, Judge Bousman saw Blevins in court and asked
Blevins if the children had been returned to Ural. Blevins stated that the order Judge
Bousman signed did prevent Ural's husband from leaving with the children. -..
30. On September 19,2002, Judge Bousman held a hearip:g in the Ural matter, on
the ex parte order and on the related custody matter. During the hearing, Blevins again
knowingly and falsely claimed that Ural's husband had failed to return Ural's children
and thai they had been overdue for several hours when she spoke to Judge Bousman and
Judge Bousman entered the ex parte order.
31. After the hearing on September 19,2002, Ural notified Brennan of Blevirts'
misrepresentations; Brennan then notified Judge Bousman.

-4-

I

32. On October 2, 2002, Judge Bousman reported this matter to the State Bar.
·33. On or about September 17,2002, Ural filed a fee dispute with the State Bar.
I

34. On ot about December 14,2001, Ms. Lisa W. Mayfield (hereinafter
"May:t1eld") hired Blevins to represent her concerning separation, child custody, and
child support issues. Ms. Mayfield paid Blevins $1,200.00 for these services. Over the
course of the representation, Mayfield paid Blevins advance fees totaling $6,200.00 for
legal services.
.35. Blevins drafted a separation agreement for Mayfield in February 2002.
Blevins failed to resolve the separation, child custody, and child support issues during the
cOurse of her representation of Mayfield. Blevins failed to appear at any of the court
proceedings in Mayfield's case.

I

36.

Mayfield repeatedly left messages for Blevins. Blevins did not respond to
most of the messages.
37. During the course ofthe representation and after consultation with Blevins,
Mayfield left North Carolina with her minor children. Mayfield notified Blevins prior to
leaving ;and upon leaving. Mayfield's departure with her minor children led to an ex
parte oider being entered against her, ordering her to bring the children back to North
Carolina, and leading to child custody arrangements which were not consistent with
Mayfield's wishes in the matter. Blevins did not warn Mayfield about the risks that
might be associated with such a move.
$8. In October 2002, Blevins ended her representation of Mayfield without having
resolved the issues for which she was hired. Blevins did not refund any of the $6,200.00
Mayfield paid her on this matter.
39. On or about March 17,2003, Mayfield filed a grievance against Blevins with
the'North Carolina State Bar.
40. On or about February 27,2002, Olivia Stovell (hereinafter "Stovell") hired
Blevins to represent her in her domestic matter. At that time she paid Blevins a
$5,000.QO deposit. The contract Stovell signed stated that the deposited money would be
used to pay the stated hourly rate for attorney work.
41. Blevins did not place Stovell's $5,000.00 into any trust account for"Stovell.
42. Nothing was filed in Stovell's case until June 2002. When a complaint was
filed on Stovell's behalf in June 2002, it had to be returned to Blevins because she had
failed to:sign it. Blevins did not return it to the Court until approximately a month later,
in July 2:002.
4:3. In August 2002, Stovell ttsked Blevins for a copy of her file. Blevins
promise4 to provide a copy but never did.

- 5-

I

44. in September 2002, Stovell wrote Blevins a letter requesting information
about her case. Blevins never responded to this letter.
45. in or about November 2002, Blevins was no longer working:at the law firm
formerly called Tharp Kohler Blevins. Blevins had not resolved Stovell's domestic
matter prior to leaving the finn. Blevins did not contact Stovell to discuss this change
nor to discuss the future handling of Stovell' s case. Stovell has not b~en able to contact
~levins sinc~ November 2002.

I

46. On or about November 18,2002 Stovell filed a grievance' with the State Bmand on or about February 7, 2003 Stovell filed a fee dispute with the State Bill'.
47. On or about June 2002 Lelia D. Pretty (hereinafter "Pretty") hired Blevins to
represent her in a child support matter.
48. Pretty paid Blevins a flat fee to resolve the child support matter. Pretty's fee'
was collected and retained by Blevins.
49. Blevins did not resolve Pretty's case.
50. In or about November 2002 Blevins ceased practicing law with the law finn
of Tharp Kohler Blevins and ceased representation of Pretty.
51. Blevins did not discuss Pretty's case With Pretty on a regular basis. Blevins
did not notify Pretty of the discontinqance of her representation of Pretty.
52. Blevins did not return the unearned portion ofPretty , s prepaid fee to Pretty
when she ceased representation of Pretty.
53. On or about May 21,2003, Pretty filed a grievance with t):1e State Bar.

I

54. On or about November 20, 2000, Mr. and Mrs. Keith Schroeder (hereinaft¢r
"Schroeders") hir~d BI~vins to represent them in a debt collection matter. On that date
they paid her $40;00 for a consultation fee, and $200.00 to send a demand letter. The
demand letter was sent that day. The demand letter did not resolve the matter.
55. On or about December 11, 2000, the Schroeders paid Blevins an additional
$1,500.00 to pursue litigation of the debt collection matter. .
.
56. From December 2000 to March 2001, the Schroeders heard nothing from
Blevins, .despite repeated calls to the firm.
57. On or about April 11, 2001, Blevins' law partner, Bradley Tharp, filed.a
complaint for the Schroeders. The complaint and summons were sent to the Johnston
County Sheriff s Office for service.
58. Despite repeated inquiries from the Schroeders from April 2001 through
November 2001, Blevins did not communicate a correct status regarding service bfthe

- 6-

I

complaint to the Schroeders and did not take any further action to pursue the Schroeders'
lawsuit.
59. On or about November 29,2001 the Schroeders discharged Blevins.
: 60. Qn or about September 17,2002, Robert 1. Fish (hereinafter "Fish") hired
Blevins to represent him in a child custody and visitation matter and paid her $3,000.
I

61. Blevins filed a complaint on Fish's behalf.
, 62. Blevins failed to notify Fish of mediation dates subsequently set in the action
and failed to attend the mediations.

I

'63. From mid October 2002 through December 2002 Fish attempted to contact
Blevins and left a number of messages for Blevins. From mid October through
December 2002 Blevins did not return Fish's calls.
I

:64'. In or about November 2002 Blevins ceased practicing law with the law firm
of Thar:p Kohler Blevins and ceased representatioil ofFish.
:65. Blevins did not resolve the legal matter for which Fish,hired her and has not
refunder unearned fees'.
I

66. On or about December 23, 2002, Fish filed a fee dispute with the State Bar.
Blevins was notified of the fee dispute by certified mail through counsel Davidson on
February 4,2003. Blevins failed to respond or participate in the fee dispute program.
67. On or about December 23,2002, Fish filed a grievance with the State Bar. On
or abou~ February 4,2003, the Letter of Notice from the Chair·ofthe Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the grievance fil~d by Fish against
Blevins :was received by her attorney at that time, Davidson. Blevins was required to
respond within fifteen (15) days of receipt pursuant to the terms of the letters of notice
and Ruly .0112(c) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar
(27 N.C. Admin. Code~'lB § .0112(c)), but failed to do so ..

I

68. During the time of her representation of Olive, Mayfield, Stovell, Pretty,
Schroeder, and Fish, Blevins was out of the office for significant periods of time for
surgery, vacation, and/or family matters. Blevins did not discuss the impact of her
absencei on her clients' cases with her clients nor did she discuss her clients' options
regarding obtaining other representation.
69. Blevins was served with notifications offee disputes, was obligated to '
respond to such requests within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the requests pursuant to the
terms ofllie notice and Rule .0112(c) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina;State Bat (27 N.C. Admin. Code, 1B § .0112(c)), and failed to respond or

-7 . .

I

participate in the fee dispute program as required, as follows:
FEE DISPUTE FILED BY:
Christopher King

I

I

DATE NOTICE SERVED ON
DEFENDANT
November 20, 2002

DATE OF RESPONSE
No response

Bernadine Oliv~

December 4, 2002

No response

.t\.m:y Nelson

December 4, 2002

No response

D~iela Prqcacci

December 4, 2002

No response

Paul T. Sutherland

December 4, 2002

No response

Seren,~ Crumpl~r

December 4, 2002

No response

Molly Em~i1Uel$

December 4, 2002

No response

Sue Ellen Butcher

December 4~ 2002

Justin Lieberman

December 4, 2002

No response

Hisham I. Akhal

January 15,2003

No response

Aimee Bridges

January 15,2003

No r<:,lsponse

Tracy Cogswell

January 15,2003

Vernon L Hofer

January 15, 2003

No re~ponse

Betty Ural

January 24, 2003

No response

John Gavin

January 28, 2003

No response

Elizabeth Grant

February 4,2003

No response.

Rick D. Medlin

February 5,2003

No response

Olivia Stovell

February 11, 2003

No response

Agos!inho C. Antunes'

February 13,2003

No response ,

Nichole J. Bennett

March 4, 2003

No response

Gary Ackley

March 10, 2003

No response

,

'"

No response

"

No response

,
70. Blevins was served with letters of notice from the Chair of the Grievance
Committee of the North C!lfolina State Bar requesting information, was obligated to
respond to such request~ within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the requests putsuant to the
terms of the letters of notice and Rule. 0 112(c) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of
the North Carolina State Bar (27 N.C. Admin. Code, IB §,.OI1Z(c)), but failed to' do so,

- 8-

I
..

..

<,:

,'

as follows:
GRIEVANCE
FILED BY:
Bemadine Olive

DATE LETTER OF
NOTICE SERVED
ON DEFENDANT
November 8, 2002

DATE RESPONSE
DUE FROM
DEFENDANT
November 23,2002

No response

Debor~ Sandlin

November 8, 2002

November 23,2002

' No response

Judge Monica
Bousman

November 8, 2002

' November 23, 2002

No response

Carol S: Malcolm & ' November 8, 2002
Angela :Souchard

November 23,2002

No response

November 8, 2002

November 23,2002

No response

State Bat

DATE OF
RESPONSE

I

,

Olivia Stovell

December 17, 2002

January 1,2003

No response

AmyN~ison

December 17, 2002

January 1, 2003

No response

Stamnn:L. Yox

January 3, 2003

January 18,2003

No response

State Bar

May 15,2003

May 30, 2003

No response

Lisa MaYfield

May 28,2003

June 12, 2003

No response

Mary E., McLean

May 28, 2003

June 12,2003

No response

Bradley,W. Carter

May 28, 2003

June 12,2003

No response

Lelia Pr~tty

August.27,2003

September 11, 2003

No response

71. Blevins was served on Mar~h 4,2003 with a subpoena to appear and produce
documents signed by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Ba,r regarding grievances
filed by Olive Bemadine, Debbie Sandlin, Carol Malcolm, the State Bar, Yox Starann,
Amy Nelsen, Olivia Stovell, Bradley Carter and Robert Fish.
'

I

712. Blevins was required by this subpoena to appear at the State Bar on March 21,
2003.
I

73. Blevins failed to appear as commanded by the subpoena.
,

.

74. In addition to as stated above, between 1998 and 2002 various clients paid
advance :fees to Blevins pursuant to contracts for representation containing language
stating that the money would be used as a fund from which to pay the stated hourly rate
for attorr;i.ey work. Such clients include but ate not limited to the following: Hi~ham 1.
Akhal, Agostinho C. Antunes, Karen Kimrey, Christopher King, Justin Lieberman, Rick
D. Medlin, Daniela Procacci, Paul T. Sutherland, and Starann L. Vox.
7~.

Blevins failed to place these cliertt funds into any trust account for the'clients.

- 9-

I

Based upop the foregoing Findings of Fact~ the hearing committee enters the
following
Conclusions Of Law

1.
All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee
has jurisdiction over the Defendant and the subj ect matter of this proceeding.

I

2.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in th~ stipulated Findings of Fact
above, constitutes, grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) as
follows:
a. By failing to respond to the letters of notice issued by the Chair of the
Grievance Committe,e within the deadline established by the rules,
Defendant failed to timely respond to inquiries by the Bar in violation
of Rule 8.1(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and N.C.,
Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(3);
b. By failing to appear in response to the State Bar's subpoena, Defendant
failecl to respond to a lawful demand for information from a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1(b) of the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct, and engaged in contempt of the State Bar in
violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3);
c. By failing to deposit and maintain the money provided by clients as a
deposit for attorney fees in 'a trust account, Blevins failed to identify,
hold, and maintain client funds separate front her own and failed to
promptly deposit client funds in atrust account, in violation of Rule
1.1S-2(a), (b) and (n);
.

I

d. By failing to respond to the notices of petition for fee dispute
resolution, Blevins failed to participate in good faith with the fee
disp,ute resolution process ofthe North Carolina State Bar in violation
of Rule l.S(f);
e. By hot withdrawing from the representation of Olive, Mayfield,
Stovell, Pretty, Schroeder, and Fish when she was absent from the
office for extended periods of time for medical andlor family matters
while her clients cases remained unresolved, Blevins failed to
withdraw from the representation of a client where her physical or
mental condition materially impaired her ability to represent the client
in violation of Rule 1.16(a)(3);
f.

By failing to respond to the calls and questions of Olive, Mayfield,
. Stovell, Pretty, Schroeder, and Fish and by failing to discuss the effect
of her absences from the office with her clients and her client.s' options
in light of Blevins' absences, Blevins failed to keep clients reasonably

- 10-

I

informed about the status of her case and failed to promptly comply
with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule I.4(a);
g. By failing to provide requested accounting information for Olive and
Ural, Blevins failed to render a written accounting of the receipts and
disbursements of these trust funds to a client p.pon those clients'
reasonable request in violation of Rule l.I5-3(d);
h. By instructing her staff to knowingly make false statements regarding
a copy of Olive's file having been made and given to a courier for
delivery to Olive, Blevins engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
1.

By producing a fabricated document as evidence in support of a
motion before the Court in the Sakowski case, Blev:ins offered
evidence she knew to be false in violation of Rule 3.3 (a)(4), engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in
Violation 0fRuie 8.4(c), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

j.

By falsely telling opposing counsel in the Sakowski case that she
would be unavailable for a schedUled deposition and thereby causing
delay of that deposition and the case, Blevins engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c);

k. By avoiding contact with opposing counsel in the Sakowski case, by
failing to follow through with an agreement to expedite mediation, by
failing to make herself available for necessary proceedings such as
depositions, and by failing to attend properly noticed deposition and
hearing dates, Blevins engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

1. By knowingly and falsely misrepresenting facts to Judge Bousman to
obtain an order for a client and by repeating the false statement at the
SepteIllber 19,2002 hearing, Blevins engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
3.3(a)(1) and Rule 8.4(c) and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
m. By playihg Bradley Tharp's name and/or signature block on pleadings
filed with the court and signing for him without his consent or
knowledge, Blevins engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4(d);

- 11 -

'.;'

I /J 0.
tI 'f 0

.

I

n. By retaining and failing to refund any unearned portion of the fee paid
to her by Mayfield, Pretty, and the Schroec{ers, Blevins collected a
clearly excessive fee in violation ofRule 1.5 and failed to return the
unearned portion of a fee in violation of Rule 1.16(d);

I

o. By failing to file the appropriate documents and pursue Mayfield's
separ~tion and child custody and support issues, Blevins neglected a
,
client matter in violation of Rule 1.3;
p. By failing to advise Mayfield of the proper procedures for leaving the
state with her minor children and of the risks involved, ,Blevins failed
to explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit th~
client to make informed decisions in violation of Rule l.4(b);
q. By failing to file all appropriate documents and pursue Stovell's
separation, divorce, and child custody and support i~sues, Blevins
neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 1.3;
r.

By failing to deposit and mf!.intain the money provided by Stoven for
attorney fees in her domestic matter in a trust account, Blevins failed
to identify, hold, and maintain StovelFs funds separate from her Own
and failed to promptly deposit client funds in a trust account in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(a), (b) and (n);

s. By failing to refund any of Stovell's $5,000.00 deposit when She
ceased representation of Stovell, Blevins failed to return uneanled fees
in violation of Rule 1.16(d);

t.

I

By failing to draft the documents needed to'resolve Pretty's child
I')Upport matter, Blevins neglected a client matter in violation of Rule
1.3;, '

u. By not filing a complaint to pursue the.schroeden~; debt collection
matter fro I11 Nov~mber 20,,2000 through April 11, 2001 and by failing
'to pursue the collection matter after the complaint Was filed, Blevins
failed to act with re~sonable diligence and promptness in representing
a client in violation of Rule 1.3; and
'

v.

By not appearing at Fish's mediations and failing to otherwise resolv~
his legal matter, Blevins failed to act with r~asonable di1ig~nce and
promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.

- 12 -

I
.

'

,

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and ConClusions of Law and upon the
evidence admitted at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby makes additional
Findings Of Fact Regarding Discipline
· 1.

.

The Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.

f.
: 2.

Dishonest or selfish motive;
A pattern of misconduct;
Multiple offenses;
Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of her conduct;
Vulnerability of the victims, not only of her clients but of her clients'
children who were affected by her misconduct in Defendant's family
law cases as described in more detail below; and
Indifference to J?aking restitution.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.' Absence of a prior disciplinary record; and
b. Inexperience in the practice of law.

: 3.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating fac~ors.

: 4.
Defendant's law practice included a significant number of family law
cases. The evidence before the hearing committee showed that th~ children of
Defen4ant's clients were negatively affected or at significant risk of being negatively
affected by the misconduct found above, inCluding but not limited to as follows:
a.
Lisa Mayfield testified that she consulted with Defendant about
moving out. of state and asked Defendant for legal advice and help to
properly move out of state with her children. Defendant failed to advise
Mayfield about what was required before Mayfield moved out of state
with the children and failed to file the requisite documents to obtain the
requisite court orders to allow Mayfield to properly move out of state with
her children. Mayfield testified about the effect Defendant's failure to
advise her of requirements and. proper procedure for movipg out of state
with her children and Defendant~s failure to file the requisite documents
and obtain the requisite court orders had on her children. Deborah Sandlin
testified that h,ad Mayfield not moved out of state with the children in the
way that she did Mayfield most likely would have received primary
physical custody of the children. Instead, because Mayfield moved out of
state with the children without having first obtained the proper documents
from the court, Mayfield lost physical custody of her children for a
number of years.
b.
The testimony ofJudge Bousman, Laura Brennan, and Betty Ural
revealed Defendant used Ural's children as a pawn to obtain a court order
based upon false representations to the Court about Ural's children.

- l3-

'.'

~50

I

.

c.
Bradley Tharp testified that when he took over Defendant's cases
as described in further detail below, he was able to settle many cases soon
after taking them over. This was consistent with other testimony at the
hearing reflecting that Defendant would, p.ot typically ~ooperate with
opposing counsel and settle cases for her clients.

I

5.
Defendant was ordered by Judge Donald Stephens in file number
02CVS14173 to cease practicing law under the name of the firm Tharp" Kohler, Miller
PL1C (d/b/a Tharp Kohler.,Blevins PLLC) and not act as an agent of the finn. As a
result, Defendant's representation of clients she had undertaken while with the firm
ended. Defendant had taken the funds paid by the clients for the representation and did
not provide those funds to the firm to fund those representations. When Defendant left
the law firm, the remaining partner, Bradley Tharp, took over representation of any of
Defendant's former clients who chose to have him do so, at no additional expen~e to
those clients even though he had not received and did not have access t6 any of the funds
these clients had given to Defendant. As a result of his representation of Defendant's
former clients; Mr. Tharp has suffered severe financial hardship, has had to file
bankruptcy, and has hot been able to maintain his own separate 'practice oflaw.

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee makes the fonowing
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

I

1.
. Defendant's conduct has caused significant harm to the profession. Her
deception to Judge Monica Bousman by telephone and in COll.rt strengthened in the mind
of one client, Betty Ural, the perception that attorneys will make false, statements to
obtain results, a perception at odds with the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and a perception that is harmful to the profession. Her
deception with her client, Bernadine Olive, regarding whether Olive's file had been
copied and its location fed the stereotype that attorneyscarrnot be trusted. Furthermore,
Defendant's conduct in failing to respond to the State Bar's letters of notices, notices of .
fee disputes, and subpoena jeopardized the privilege oIthe profession to remain selfregulating. Defendant's conduct also harmed one particular member of the profession,
her former law partner Bradley Tharp, who has tindert&ken to represent Defendant's
clients without compensation and to his signi~~ant financial detriment.
. 2.
DefeIldant's conduct has ~aused significant harm to the administration of
justice. Defendant made false statements to the Court on mote than one occasion and
fabricated documents that she presented to the Court. Defendant made false statements to
opposing counsel and obstructed opposing counsel's attempts to de.pose Defendant's
client, causing opposing counsel to file a Motion to Compel and taking Court time.
3.
Defendant's conduct caused significant. harm to h~r Clients, as described in
paragraph 4 above under the heading of Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline.

- 14 ..

I

4.
The hearing committee is particularly concerned by the overall pattern of
misconduct, which distinguIshes this case from prior cases decided by the DHC that it
review$d, none of which had the wide range and pervasiveness of misconduct that has
been shown in this case.
5.
The hearing committee is further concerned by the Defendant's repeated
failures to respond to the Bar and by Defendant's lack of cooperation and lack of
response during the this case, which indicates that imposing a discipline of suspension
stayed ~pon compliance with conditions will not be effective in altering Defendant's
conduct.
6.
An order of discipline imposing discipline less than disbarment would not
sllfficiently protect the public fbr the folloWing reasons:

I

a.
Defendant engaged in mUltiple violations bfthe Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct over a lengthy period of time, as opposed to an
isolated act or mistake, and it therefore appears that her misconduct is the
result of some problem, outlook, or other source that is not readily
changeable;

h.
Defendant has been willing tb mal(e false statements to the Court
to obtain an order in a case, has been willing to make false statements to
the Court and fabricate evidence which she presented to the Court to
defend herself, and has been willing to make false statements to opposing
counsel to avoid responsibilities in a case, which indicates a lack of
integrity that is not readily changeable;
c.
Defendant has failed to provide any assurances that she has
addressed the problem or other source of her misconduct and therefore
there is a substantial risk that her misconduct would be repeated if she is
permitted to practice law;
d.
Defendant's failure to respond to the State Bar repeatedly over the
course of time as she received requests for information from the State Bar
and during the COurse of these proceedings indicates that Defendant's
conduct is not is not readily changeable by less severe discipline;
e.
Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant and
wbuld send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in this State; and
f.
The protection of the public requires that Defendant not be
permitted to resume the practice of law until she demonstrates that she
linderstands her ethical obligations to her ciients and demonstrates that she
is not suffering from any addiction or mental illness or condition that
prevents her from practicing law competently.

- 15 -

I

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and ,conclusions of law and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, the hearing committee enters the following
Order Of Discipline
~ohler,

I

1.
The Defendant, Elizabeth Kohler Blevins, also known as Elizabeth Gare~
is hereby disbarred.

2.
The Defendant shall pay the costs in this matter within 30 days of service
upon her of a statement of the costs.

Signed by the undersigned hearing committee chair with t4e consent of the other
hearing committee members.

This theM?; of

~

2004.

F. Lane ilhams6n, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I

1 Pl~intiff's counseLoffered 75 exhibits for admission at the hearing. The hearlng committee admitted and
considered only the following exhibits:
•
Exhibit 1
Affidavit of Bernadine Olive
Exhibit 5
Order, Wake County District Court, 02CVD~ 164
Exhibit 6
Letter from Deborah Sandlin, Esq.
Exhibit 7
Affidavit of Judge Bousman
Exhibit 8
Order ofEmergency Ex Parte, Wake County District Court, 02CVDI2229
Exhjbit 10
Complaint, Wake County District Court:, 02CVD12229
Exhibit 14
Affidavit Of Lisa Mayfield
Exhibit 69
Contract...,. Betty Ural
Exhibit 71
Litigation filed by Bradley Tharp for Judicial Dissolution offirm and injunctive relief
"Transcript of September 11, 2002 session, Wake County District Court, 02CVD3I64
Exhibit 73
Exhibit 74
Envelopes with handwritten note

The hearing committee received testimony from the following witnesses:
Lisa Mayfield, Bernadine Olive, Betty Ural, Judge Monjca Bousman, Laura Brennan, Carol Malcolm,
Deborah Sandlin, and Bradley Tharp.

- 16-

I

~63

