BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION

WAKE COUNTY

The North Carolina State Bar,
. Plaintiff

v,

Order of Discipline

I

David F. Hoke and
Debra C. Gr~ves, Attorneys,
i Defendant's

This matter was heard on the 23 rd and 24th days of September 2004 before a hearing
committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair;
Karen Eady-~i11iams, and Marguerite P. Watts. The defendants, ,David F. Hoke and. Debra C.
Graves, wen~ present and represented by James B. MaxwelL The plaintiff was represented by
,

David R. Johnson and Margaret Cloutier, Deputy Counsels. Based upon the stipulations offact
and evidence introduced at the hearing and the arguments of counsel, the hearing committee
hereby enters the following:
Findings of Facts

1.

!

The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State B~, is a body duly organized under the

I

laws ofNor1:P. Carolina and is the proper patty to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in ,Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations
i

of the NorthCaroliria State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.

: The Defendant, David F. Hoke (hereafter "Hoke"), was admitted to the North

Carolina State Bar on 21 March 1987, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney
I

at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Ru1es of

.:.

"

I

',',

Professional Conduct o,fthe North C~rolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.

The Defendant, Debra C. Graves (hereafter "Graves"), was admitted to the North

Carolina State Bar on 23 August 1986, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, anattotney
at law licensed to pr~ctice in North Carolina, subJect to the rules, regulations and Rules of

I

Profel:lsiona). Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
4.

During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, both Hoke and

Graves were actively engaged in the practice of law in Wake COlinty, North Carolina as
attorneys with the North Carolina Attorney General's Office in the Special Prosecutions
Division. At present, David F. Hoke serves as Assistant Director of the North Carolina
Admil1istrative Office of the Courts and Debra C. Graves is a Senior Assistant Federal Public
Defel1der for the Eastern District of North Carolina.
5.

On 14 Apri11995, the decomposing body of Allen Ray Jenkins (hereafter

"Jenkins") was discovered in his home in the Town of Aulander, Bertie County, North Carolina.
Upon discovery of Jenkins' body, investigators from the Aulander Police Department, the Bertie
County Sheriffs Department and the State Bureau oflp;vestigatiQn began an investigation into the
circumstances 'of the death of Jenldns as a homicide. The lead investigator for this' effort was

I

Senior Agent Dwight Ransome (hereafter "Ransome") of the State Bureau of Investigation.
6.

In the three to four weeks immediately after discovery of Jenki;ns' body, law

enforcement officers interviewed individuals about lenldns as to when he might last have been
seen and in whose comp~y, if anyone. Notes of these interviews Were made by the
investigating officers and these notes were ultimately transcribed into official SBI reports.
Copies of all these SEn reports were distributed to Ransome for his file and to David Beard ,
(hereafter "Beard"), District Attorney for Bertie County. The SBI records center retained a copy
of each report as well.

04 DHC 15 Order ofDiscipline

I

:.

"

Page20f12 .

7.

Among the witness interview reports prepared by investigators were 16

transcribed reports of 18 individuals (two husband and wife interviews were reported in one
report each) in which the individuals interviewed had indicated to law enforcement officers that
they had last seen Jenkins alive at some pOint in time after 3 April 1995. The dates on which
these partic~lar witnesses said they had seen Jenkins alive ranged from

6 April 1995 through 10

April 1995. i
8.

Relatively early in the investigation, Crystal Morris (hereafter "Morris") and

I

Shanna Hall (hereafter "Hall';), ages 15 and 16, became a focus of interest of law enforcement
I

officers. Morris and Hall were reported to have been frequent visitors to Jenkins" home a:nd they
!

were interviewed by law enforcement officers on numerous occasions. At one point, Ransome
i

arranged fot Gary Scott (hereafter "Scott"), the boyfriend of Morris, to record telephone
conversations with her discussing Jenkins and his murder. At least one such conversation was
taped on 17'May 1995 ..
9.

Morris and Hall first implicated and later identified James Alan Gell (hereafter
,

"Gell") as the individual who had shot and killed Jenkins with Jenkins' own shotgun. They told
I

law enforcement officers that they were present at Jenldns' house and one of them indicated that
she witnessed the murder take place. According to Morris and Hall, the murder occurred on 3
April 1995. ;
10.:

On 20 July 1995, Dr. M. Go F. Gilliland of the Medical Examiners Office in

Greenville, f'Torth Carolina, informed investigators that she had concluded, based on maggot

I

larvae size, that the date of Jenkins' death was more consistent with a date of death of April 3
I

than April 1O.
11.

The reports of sightings after April 3 conflicted with the Medical Ex:aminers'

conclusion and, if the murder occurred after 3 April 1995, Gell could not have been the
perpetrator as he was.either out of state Or in jail.
Thereafter, Ransome re-interviewed 7 of those individuals he, personally, had

12.

previously i~tetviewed who had given a date of last seemg Jenldns alive after April 3. Ransome
I

04 DHC 15 Ofder ofDiscipline

•

Page 3 ofi2

I

·.

,':.

;

also re-interview one witness, the wif~ from one of the couple interviews, who had been
origip.ally interviewed by another officer. In each oftho~e 8 r~-interviews, the witnesses
indicated that they eQuId have been mistaken in their original stat~ment or that they could have
seen Jenkins last alive on or before April 3.
13.

On 31 July 1995, Gell was arrested and charged with first degree murder in the

death of Jenkins. Hall and Morris were also arrested and charged in connection with the .same
murder.
14.

Two local attorneys Were initially appointed to represent Gell for what Di~trict

Attorney Beard had designated as a capital case. By the Fall'qf 1995, ,at least one of the
origina11y appointed attorneys had withdrawn and the appointed attorneys representing Gell were
Teresa Smallwood and Charles Moore. In November and December 1995, Beard's office h~d
provided some voluntary discovery to the defense, including lab reports, test results, and reports
of interviews and statements from Gell, Hall, and Morris.
15.

On 2 January 1996, Beard requested that the N orfu Carolina Attorney General

assume the prosec1Jtion of Gell. On 16 January 1996, the Attorney General, through WilliamN ..'
Farrell, Jr., notified Beard that the Attorney General would accept the responsibility for the Gell
prosecution. At some time between 16 January 1996 an~ 13 February 1996, Boke was assigned
by the Attorney General's Office to represent the State of North Carolina in the Gell prosecution.

I

Beard retained responsibility for prosecuting Morris and Hall.
16.

At ~0111e time shortly after 15 February 1996, Beard fqrwarded a copy of the

prosecution file from his office to the Attorney General's office and it was delivered to Hoke.
This file became Hoke's "working file" that he used up to and throughout the trial of Gell in
February 1998. At some point after February, 1996, Hoke requested a copy of the completeSBi
file from the SBI Records Division and received that file on 21 May 1996. At no time after 21
May 1996, up to and through the date of the trial cOlll11iencing on 2 February 1998, did Hoke
ever compare the SBI file that was received on of about 21 May 1996 with the file that he had
previously received from Beard's office to see if the contents differed.

04 DHC 15 Order o/Discipline

I

~

Page 4 of12

.,

'.(P~~,"
I

17.

At some time between May 1996 and January 1997, Graves was assigned by the

Attorney General's Office to serve as co-counsel with Hoke. As such, Hoke and Graves jointly
as~umed the

role of prosecutor in a criminal proceeding and both appeared on behalf of the State

and were equally respo.nsible for the conduct of the prosecution on behalf of the State.
18.

On 1 May 1996, Gell's then current defense counsel, Teresa Smallwood, filed a

motion in the matter seeking to obtain any exculpatory ot favotable material~ frorb. the State
,

pursuant to the constitutional requirements first established in the case of Brady v. Maryland,
373 U.S. 83 (1963). Such material is commonly referred to as "Brady" material. Hoke did not

I

provide an¥ materials to Smallwood in response to that motion.

19.

1

Both Hoke and Graves understood that Beard had what IS commonly referred to

as an "opeh. file policY," in his office. If such a policy existed, it would have meant that defense
counsel fot Gell would have had aCcess to any and all law enforcement notes of interviews, lab
reports an4 other documents developed in the course of the investigation before Hoke and
Graves had. become involved in the prosecution. However, the Attorney General's Office did not
opserve an: open file policy and, accordingly, Hoke and Graves did not provide such access to the
investigatory file to defense counsel after they were assigned to the case. Neither Hoke nor'
Graves

ev~r personally

confirmed with David Beard that he had an open file policy in this case

not did they ever confer with any of Gell' s defense counsel to determine if they had, in fact, had
access to the file before Hoke and Graves were assigned to the case.
,I

20..

The taped telephone conversation between Morris and Scott, which had been
•
recorded in May 1995, was not transcribed until November 1996 and a copy of that typed

I

transcript -Was ptovided to Hoke and Agent Ransome. While Hoke and Graves never heard or
listened to the actual tape of that telephone conversation,. they did review the transcript of that
telephone conversation. Although Hoke and Graves admit that they thought that the transcript
could have ipotehtial impeachment value for cross-examination of the state's eyewitnesses, they
did not believe that it constituted Brady material. They concluded that neither the transcript nor
the tape ne~ded to he provided to defense counsel before trial and did not provide it at any time
,

before or dl;rring the triaL

04 DHC 15 drder ofDiscipline

.:.

"

Page 5 of12

I

21.

On 7 September 1997, there was a hearing before the Hon. Cy Grant involying

approximately 16 motions that had previously been filed by Smallwood and rulings were made
on each. Included in those motions was Smallwood's 26 May 1996 Btadymotion and an order
was entered by Judge Grant requiring the State to produce all exculpatory evidence "to the extent
that the State ,of North Carolina is required to comply with the statutory requirements of North
Carolina law, as well as with the U. S. Supreme Court in the case of Bradyv. Maryland arrd

I

u.s.

v. Agnew. [sic] To that extent, they are required to provide exculpatory evidence that they have

in their files or in their possession." In that same hearing, the Court appointed Maypard Harrell
(hereafter "Harrell") as substitute lead counsel, replacing Smallwood.
22.

Before 7 September 1997 and the entry of the various orders issued by Judge

Grant referred to above, both Hall and Morris had entered pleas of guilty to Second Degree
Murder. They were expected to testify. against Gell at his trial.
23.

The Gell trial was scheduled to begin on Monday, 2 February 1998. On 30

January 1998, Harrell~ filed a second request for eXCUlpatory
evidence and specific~ny requested
.
.
the st~tel}lents of all known witnesses who had said they saw Jenkins alive after 3 April 1995, the
alleged date of the Jepkin's death.
24.

When Judge Meyer informed Hoke and Graves of Harrell's motion dated January

30, 1998, Graves advised the court that the State was aware' of some statements in the SBl files
from individuals who had at one time indicated that they thought they had last seen Jenkins alive
after 3 Apri11995, but she further advised Judge Meyer that accQrding to her information when
they were re-interviewed, they could not be specific, and the State, did not feel the statemellts
Were eXCUlpatory.
25.

At tp.e conclusion of the hearing on Harrell's motion, the Court ordered Hoke and .

Graves to produce for in camera inspection "the statements of any witness who allegedly saw the
deceased after the date of the 3rd day of April, 1995, and let me review them. If there are
multiple statements of the same witness, I want to read all of the statements."

04 PHC 15 Order ofDiscipline

I

Page 60f12

--------:----------------------------

26,.

-

- ----

At the time of the court's order, the SBI files in Hoke and Graves' possession and

control of Defendants contained 24 reports of interviews with 18 witnesses who had on at least
one occasIon said that they had seen Jenkins alive after 3 April 1995. Sixteen of the 24 SBI
reports of these 18 witnesses were made between 14 April 1995 and 8 May 1995. The remaining
8 reports were of intervieWs of8 of these same witnesses conducted in July 1995.
27.

Defendants- conferred with Agent Ransome in the courtroom during a recess and

located 8 reports describing the initial interviews with 9 witness and 8 aClditional reports of re-

I

interviews with 8 of those same individuals in July. Defendants provided those 16 reports (out of
24) to the' court
for an in camera inspection during the lunch break on the first morning of trial.
,
There were 8 additional statements attributed to witnesses from interviews conducted by law
,

emorcemeht officers other than Agent Ransome in the SBI file that were not produced.

28.1

111 discussions that Defendants had with Agent Ransome before 2 February 1998,

both Hoke ,and Graves were aware that Agent Ransome had interviewed some individuals who
,

ha4 initially reported seeing Jenkins alive after April 3. They were also aware that according to
Agent Ran$ome, when he re-interviewed these witnesses, they had changed their mind or
equivocateJi, on the date. Graves recalled reading reports of such witness interviews involvingpatrons and personnel of a restaurant.
29.'

Defendants did not personally review the witness statements in either th_e original

SBI investi~atory file in possession or control ?f Agent. Ransome or the duplicate in their
possession b determine which statements would be'producedunder the court order. The

I

Defendants idid not personally verify that the 16 reports produced were the only witness reports
or statements that should have been produced by examining the file themselves.
I

30.

While Hoke and Graves produced the 16 reports of interviews and re-interviews

to_Judge M~yer in response to his order to submit "any and all statements" of witnesses who
i

might have $aid they saw Jenkins alive after 3 April 1995, Hoke and Graves failed to comply
I

with-Judge Meyer's order by failing to produce the 8 additional reports of interviews with 9
additional individuals in the SBI files.

04 DHC 15 Order ofDiscipline
I

.. :. ':

Page 70f12

I

31.

Two days, into the jury selection? February 4, Agent Ransome located another

statement of a 10th witness and Graves voluntarily provided it to defense counsel on that date
and so advised Judge Meyer. Agent Ransome assured Hoke and Graves that all of the reports of
the witnesses whose statements were subject to Judge Meyer's Qrder had b~en produced when, in
fact, they w~re not. Hoke and GrC!ves did not instruct Ransome to conduct a thorough review of

I
~

the SBl file to identify the statements that were required to be produced nor did they review the
SBl file themselves.
\

32.

Gell was convicted and the jury sentenced him to. death. On or' about 11 October

2000, after Gell's appeals were conducted, new lawyers Were appointed tQ handle the
investigation into and preparation of a motion for appropriate relief.. At that time the Attorney
General's office provid~d a copy of the entire file which included the "working file" from
Beard's office that Hok~ and Graves used during trial, as well a$ the entire SBl file that had been
delivered to the Attorney General's office· on 21 May 1996. The prosecution file contained the
additional witness statements or reports ITom the SBl that Hoke and Graves had not produced to
the court or the defense and the transcript of the taped telephone conversation between 'Scott and
Morris.
33.

Gell filed a motion for appropriate relief with the court alleging, in part,. that the

State had failed to comply with the order of the court to provide all exculpatory evidence to the

I

defense by failing to provide the other witness statements and the tape recording of the telephone
conversation between Scott and Morris. On 16 December 2002, the Court awarded Gell a neW
trial based, in part, on Defendants' failure to produce the witness statements and the tape
recording.
34.

Despite having the complete SBlfile, at no. point before, during, or after the tri~ll

did ~ither Defendant compare the contents of the file received from Beard's office with the SBI
file.
35.

During Hoke and Graves' preparatioil for trial, they learned that the file they

received from Beard was incomplete when Agent Ransome referred to an individual whose name
was not familiar to either Hoke or Graves and Whose transcribed interview they had not read or
04 DHC 15 Order 0/Discipline

.:. ':.

Page 8 of12

did not remember. When they returned to their offices in Raleigh, they went to their duplicate
SBI file, located the statement of that witness, reviewed it, and concluded that it was irrelevant
for any P1ll'Poses thereafter, but they did not then compare the contents of the file received from
Beard with the SBi file to determine if there were any other reports that they had not read.

36.

After Judge Grant's Order of September 1991 to furnish all Brady material to

Gell's coUnsel, Hoke and Graves did nothing to determine whether Judge Grant's Order had
been or w,ould be complied with. Hoke and Graves did not ask defense counsel what materials,
if any, thety had received from Beard befote Hoke and Graves' involvement in the case after the

I

order had, been issued.
37.

Defendants relied on Agent Ransome to assist them in complying with Judge

Meyer's drder of2 F~bruary 1998 to produce all such witness statements, but such reliance was
misplaced. At no time after 2 February 1998, and during the continuing trial, did either Hoke or
Graves p~rsonally and independently examine every ip.terview in the SBI file.
B~sed

upon the foregoing Fin,dings of Fact, the hearing comniittee enters the following:
Conclusions of Law

1. .

All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has
jurisdiction over the Defendants and the subject matter.

2. i

The Defendapts' conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes

I

grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to produce all exc1:llpatory witness interview reports when the
Defendants had a duty under the Rules of Professional Conduct and
existing case law to know the contents of the investigation files in the
possession of the State and its agents, Defendants failed to make timely
disclosure to the defense of all evidence or information known to the

04 DHC j 5 Order ofDiscipline

Page90f12

I

p,rosecution that tends to negat~ the guilt of the accused, in violation of
. Ru1e 3.8(d);

(b)

By failing to verify the accuracy of the assertion of SBI Agent Ransome .
to be produced were in fact
that all of the witness statements that needed
,
produced, Defendants failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that a

I

nonlawyer? s conduct over which Defendants .had direct supervisory .
authority was compatible.with'Defendants' professional obligations, in
violation of Rule 5.3(b); ~d
. (c)

By failing to produce all ex:cu1patory witness statements as required by
both the Rules of Professional Conduct and by the order of the court,
·Defendants engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice,
in violation pfRule 8.4(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclu,sions of Law and upon the .
(

evidence and arguments of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee her~by makes these additional

Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

I

1.

'The Defendants, through the office of the Attorney General of North Carolina,
fully and freely provided all SBI and Attorney General files to Mr. Gell's posttrial attorneys and exhibited a cooperative attitude to and with the State Bar
throughout these proceedings.

2.

The Defendants have both established reputations for honor and integrity .,
throughout their professional careers as was attested to by present and former
Judges of the North Carolina Supreme Court, Court of Appeals, Judges of the .
Superior Court, past officers of the State Bar, former members of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission and their peers.

04 DHC 15 Order ofDiscipline

I

Page 10 of12

3.

The failure of Defendants to locate all 24 recorded interview transcripts and
deliver them to Judge Meyer was a failure on their part to personally and carefi:J.lly
review the entire SBI file and supervise Agent Ransome in his efforts to locate all
statements.

4.

Defendants have 110 prior discipline. The conduct in this matter occurred more
than six years before this hearing with no known misconduct during that interval.
This appears to be an isolated. violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct with

I

little chance of repetition.
.

I

_

_

Based
, on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional

Findings of:Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee makes the following:
Conclusions with Respect to Discipline
1.

2.

There were no aggravating factors.

! Defendants' violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct are mitigated by the

following factors:

I

(a)

Absence of prior disciplinary record;

(b)

Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;

(c)

Timely and good faith efforts to rectify the consequences in that they

I

cooperated with the counsel in the motion for appropriate relief;
: (d)

Full and free di::;closure to the Hearing Corntilittee and a cooperative
attitude toward this proceeding;

I

(e)

Inexperience in the prosecution of capital cases;

(f)

Excellent character and reputation;

04 DHC ]5 Order ojDi~cipline
t

.. :.'

·'

Page]] 0/12

I

"

,

','

I

(g)

Delay in the disciplinary proceeding through no fault of th~irs; and

(h)

Remorse.

3.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

4.

The Defen.dants' conduct caused harm Qr potential harm to the profession, to the,

administration of justice, and to the public, but a censure is not required based on the mitigating
factors.
Based upon Fi~dings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Findings of Fact Regarding
Discipline, and the Conclusions with Respect to Discipline, the hearing committee hereby

enters the following:

.
Order of-Discipline

1.

The Defendants are hereby reprimanded in the attached Reprimand.

2.

The Defendants shall pay all costs of thi~ proceeding permitted by law, inclUding

the costs of their depositions, within thirty days of service of notice of the amount of costs as
assessed by the Secretary.

I

Signed by the undersigned hearing committee ch~ir with the con$ent of the other hearing
committee members.

This the

M

day of _December, 2004.

Steph E. Culbreth, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

04 DHC 15 Order ofDiscipline

Page 12 of12

BEFORE THE
ISClpLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
~
OF
......
::::' HE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
c.n
04 DHC 15

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

the North Carolina State Bar,
'Plaintiff
v.

Reprimand

I

David F. Hoke and
Debra C. Graves, Attorn~ys,
i Defendants
I

Following a hearing on the 23 rd and 24th days of September 2004, a Hearing Committee
of the Discipl:inary Hearing Commission issued an Order of Discipline imposing a Reprimand
against yOU based on your conduct as found in the above captioned matter.
i

A Reprimand is a formal, written form of discipline issued in cases in which the attorney
has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused harm or
potential harril to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public,
but the hearirtg committee has determined that the misconduct does not require more serious
discipline.
I

'

As Cq.ait of the hearing committee that heard this matter, it is my duty to issue this
Reprimand to you. I trust that you will fully understand the spirit in which this duty is performed.
,

'

I

For pilrposes of this Reprimand, I am summarizing the Findings of Fa9t in the Order of
Discipline asJollows:

I

You were both assigned to conduct the Sta~e' s prosecution of capital murder charges
against James Alan Gell in Bertie County in 1996. Shortly after that assignment, yoU were
provided with a copy of the' investigative file from the District Attorney for Bertie County. You
were also provided with a complete copy of the SBI file directly from the SBI office. You
decided to use the material you received from the District Attorney as your working file even
though you ~ade no effort to compare the files to verify that your working file was complete.

l.

.;.

The $131 file contained 16 reports of interviews with 18 witnesses who said that they had
seen the victjm alive after the alleged date of death of April 3, 1995. These interviews had been
conducted cqntemporaneously with or soon after the discovery of the victim's body on Apri114,
1995. The S~I file also contained 8 reports ofre-interviews with 8 of these same witnesses in
July, 1995 specifically concerning the question of when they had last seen the victim alive. Ms.

':

I

i

I

Graves admitted that she had read and knew of at least some of these witness statements before
the start of trial.
:
. .
You were both aware that the Brady rule required you, as prosecutors, to produce to th~
defense exculpatory information from your files. In September 1997, you were ordered by the
court to produce all exculpatory or Brady information to the defense. You admit that you did 110t
produce 'any information to the defense in response to that order. You had a duty under both the
Rules of Professional Conduct and the established case law to know the contents of your file,
which should have contained the Witness jnterview reports. This duty cannot be avoided by a
failUre on your part to become knowledgeable of what your file contains. These interview reports
obviously reflected information that the victim may have been alive after the alleged date of
death ot at a time when Gell was known to be in j ail or out of state and these witness statements
were clearly Brady material.

I

Gell's trial began on 2 February 1998. 011 the morning trial began, you were informed by
the Court that Gell's attorneys.had filed a motion to compel you to tum over any statements of .
witnesses who had said they had seen the victim alive after April 3, 1995. The Court then
ordered you to produce ~l such. statements for in camera inspection. You and the SBI agent went
through the SBI file in a side room adjacent to the courtroom during a breal<:, reviewed the SBI
file with the agent, and then produced to the Court only those reports involving those witnesses
who the agent had re-interviewed in July 1995. As' a result, you produced 8 reports or 9
witnesses plus the re-interview reports of 8 of those witnesses to the Court before the lunch
recess that first day of trial. The judge reviewed the produced statements during the lunch r¢cess
and ordered them to be provided to the defense when Court resumed. Despite the order of the
Court to produce all statements, you did not instruct the agent to conduct a more thorough review
of the file after that initial production of statements to mal<:e sure that all of the statements had
been produced. Two days later, the Agent produced aI+other report of a witness interview that
you furnished to the defense, one of a witness who had not been re-interviewed, and reported it
to the Court. Despite this disclosure of another witness statement, you did not instruct the agent
to conduct a complete review of the file. Further, you did not conduct your own review of the file
for ~uch statements at any time.
The Hearing COllllfiittee concluded that your conduct violated three of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. By failing to produce allot the witness statements when you had a dlity to
do so, you failed to make timely disclosure to the defep,se of all exculpatory evidence or
information known to the prosecution in violation of Rule 3.8(d). By failing to verify the
accuracy of the assertion by the SBI agent that all Witness statements that l1eededto be produced
were in fact produced, you failed to mal<:e reasonable efforts to ensure that a nonlawyer's conduQt
over which you had supervisory authority was compatible with your professional obligations i~
violation of Rule 5.3(b). Finally, by failing to produce all exculpatory witness statements as '
required both by the Rules·ofProfessional Conduct and by the order of the Court, you engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d).
The Hearing Committee found that there were a number of mitigating factors in deciding
the level of discipline to be imposed, especially your reputation for excellent character and your
lack of any prior discipline. The Hearing Committee also believed that your misconduct in this
case was out of character and an aberration. As a result, the Hearing Committee believed that

04 DHC 15 Reprimand

Page 2 oj3

I

&, 73·

more serious discipline was not warr~ted. The Hearing Committee was mindful that other
prosecutors have received stayed suspensions for failing to disclose exculpatory evidence, but
concluded that the aggravating circ'Q1TI.stances of those cases were not present here. The Hearing
Committee felt that you had learned from this experience and would not repeat your mistakes.
The. Hearing Col11inittee alsQ believes that there was no clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence th;at your conduct Was intentional even though it violated your statutory, Constitutional,
and ethical ;duties. The Committee was mindful that this view was shared by one of Mr. Gell' s
counsel, who prior to the new trial granted to Mr. Gell informed you in October of 2002 that "it
was not now, nor has it ever been, our theory that ... you ... engaged in any form of Prosecutorial
misconduct." The Committee also knows that Mr. Gell's counsel then filed a motion to dismiss
for prosecutorial misconduct in the Bertie County Superior Court in June 2003 concerning your
failure to disclose the witness statements and that Judge-Grant, who had earlier granted Mr. Gell
a new trial based on your failure to disclose the witness statements, denied the defense's motion
in Deceh1b~r 2003.

I

Altliough the Hearing Committee believes the mitigating factors precluded more serious
discipline, the Hearing Committee reminds you that attorneys must conduct themselves with
honesty and integrity at all times, especially in assuring that direct orders of the court are
complied with. As officers ofthe court, it is your responsibility to obey the court's orders. The
Hearing Committee trusts that you will take this Reprimand to heart, benefit from it, and never
again violate the Rules of Professional Conduct.

Signed by the Chair with consent of all committee members, this the

d

day of

December, ;2004.

~~£·I-epI1eRCUlbte ,Ch
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

04 DHC 15 Reprimand

Page 3013

I

