.----------------~~

NORTH CAROLINA

. BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G1705

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
,

DIEDRA WHITTED,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On Thursday, October 21,2004, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bat met
and considered the grievance filed against you by S. H.
Pursuant tb section .01 13 (a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance COimnittee found probable
cause. Probable cauSe is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina Stat~ ~ar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committe.e may iS$ue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct and has cl:l,used
signi ficant harm 9r potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice~ the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.'
.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I am certain that you will .
ul1derstand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You undertook to serve as the attorney for the estate ofE. G. E., who died early in the year
2000. The value of the entire estate was approximately $42,000. During the course of your serVice as
attorriey, you paid yourself a fee of at least $11,415.80. This fee was not approved by the Clerk of
Court and, when the Clerk asked you to provide a notarized statement from each ofthe heirs confirming.
that they had agreed to this fee, you failed to respond. It also appears that you did not reveal to aU of
the heirs that the Clerk had questioned your fee. You also failed to provide information to the Clerk
setting out the time you spent working on the estate, despite a specific request for an affidavit

I

;.

"

,

..

--------------~--------------------------------------------------------

I

When the State Bar sent you a letter of notice about this matter, you failed to respond. As a
result, the Bar was forced to subpoep.a you to Raleigh to Provide your account of the matter.
The Grievance Committee determined that you paid yourself an illegal or excessive fee in this
matter, in violation of Rule 1.5 and that you also ignored lawful orders of the Clerk of Court and thus
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d). Finally, the
Committee foUnd that you failed to timely respond to lawful inquiries ofthe N.C. State Bar, in violatioIl
of Rule 8.1. Your misconduct is aggravated by the fact that you have previously been disciplined by the
State Bar in other matters and by your continuing failur~Jo make restitution or otherwise comply with
,.
the Clerk's orders in this case.
You ate hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional ~onduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you ,have made; and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement fqr you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the cotrrts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession w~ose conduct may be relied upon without question.

I

,

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the admiIlistrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

i

J

G~day of

~, 2004.

I

I

