.~.,l11}l::!~\'1-:;1J:~·',l.· ....

&\\\'2:131475/6'

O)~
'q-,
. NORTH CAROLINA' '"

WAKE COUNTY

I

/;;>

•

~

DEC20D4

~

BEFORE THE
<D
F'ILfPJ.jcl :NARY HEARING COMMISSION
~
N'
OF THE
~~
N:
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
Z
04 DHC 43

ON"

C

THE: NORTH CAR.OLlNA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)

v.

)

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

)
FREDERICK SIMON LUTZ, Attorney, )
.
Defendant)

This tnatter came before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair, John M. 'May, and H. Dale
Almond. Margaret Cloutier represented Plaintiff and Defendant appeared pro se.
Defendant waived a formal hearing on the above referenced matter. The parties
stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and' conclusions of taw recited in this
consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant also stipulates that he
waives his right to appeal this consent order or challenge in any way the sufficiency
of the findings by consenting to the entry of this order.
.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters .
the following
.

I

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organiZed
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Cha,pter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar(Chapter.1 oftitle 27 of the North Carolina Administrative
Code ("NCAC").
2. Defendan't was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1980,
and is, and was, at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to .
practice .in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina,.
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State· Bar and the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

3. During the times relevant heretO' Defendant was activelyehgaged
in the practice cf law in the State cf Ncrth Carclina and maintained a law
cffice iii High Pcint, Guilford Ccunty, Ncrth "carolina.
4. On February 20,2004, Defendant was indicted cn nine felcny
ccunts,including the crimes cf mcney launderirig,defrauding lenders through
interstate ccmmerce and the U.S. Mail, and making material false statements
to' agents cf the Federal Bureau cf Investigaticn.

S.

On April 30, 2004, Defendant was ccnvicted by a jury in the United
States District Ccurt fcr the Middle ,District bf Ncrth Carclina cf the nine
felcnies charged in the criminal indictment arising frcm real estate
transac,icns in which .he was the clcsing attcrney. Defendant was ccnvicted
of the..ioUowiif;!ig· crimes:

I

(a) Defrauding mcrtgage lenders to' cbtain mcr1gage Icans by
submitting materially false infcrmaticn by means cf wire ccmmunicaticn in
interstate commerce in viclaticn cf 18 U.S.C., §§1343 and 1342,
(b) Mcney laundering the prcceeds cbtained by virtue cf wire fraud in
the scheme to' defraud mcrtgage lenders in viclation cf 18 U.S.C., §§1956
(a)(1 )(A)(i) and (2),

.::....'

(c) Defrauding mcrtgage lenders to' obtain mcrtgage Icans by
submitting materially false informaticn by means cf the United States mail cr
ccmmercial interstate carriers in interstate ccmmerce in viclaticn cf 18
U.S.C., §§1341 and 1342, and
(d) Kncwingly and ,willfully making material false statements to' agents
cfthe Federal Bure~u cf Investigaticn in viclaticn cf 18 U.S.C., §1001(a)(2).
Based cn the fcregcing Findings cf Fact, the Ccmmittee enters the
fcllowing

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly befcre the Hearing Ccmmittee, and the
Committee has jurisdicticn cver Defendant arid the subject matter of the
prcceeding.
2. The certified ccpy cf the indictment tcgether with the certified ccpy
O'f the jury verdict attached to' the ccmplaint and made a part cf the reccrd in
this acticn are ccnclusive evidence cf Defendant's guilt cf the crimes listed
therein fcr purpcses cf impcsing discipline pursuant to' N.C.A.C.1 B §.011S.

-2-

I

3, The crimes of which Defendant Was convicted are criminal offenses
showing professional unfitness as defin,ed in 27 NCAC 18, § .0103 (17).
4. The crimes of which Defendant was convicted constitute
professional misconduct and demonstrate unfitness to practice law for which
Defendant may be di$ciplined as provided in N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(1) and Rule
.0115 of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar,
N.C.A.C. 1B §.0115
.
.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee also
enters the following

I

. FINDINGS REGP,RDING DISCIPLlN~
1. Defendant's conduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a} rl)ultiple offenses;
b) a pattern-of misconduct; and
c) .substantial experience in the practice of law.
2. Defendant's conduct is mitigated by the following factors:
..
"

Cl) absence of a prior disciplinary tecord;
b) cooperative attitude toward this proceeding; and
c) good reputation within the legal community.
3. Defendant's criminal conduct has caused significant harm to his
clients and the administration of justice.

I

4.~ Defendant's criminal convictions have harmed the standing of the
legal profession by undermining the public's trust and confidence,in lawyers
and the Jegal system.

5. An ·order of cHscipline less than disbarment would ,not sufficiently
protect the public because Defendant's federal convictions were based on
frqudulent conduct and material misrepresentations and were felonious
crimes involving moral turpitude and violations of the public trust. Entry of .an
order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of
the offenses that Defendant committed and Would send the wrong message
to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the
Bqr in North Catolina.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and
Findings Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the following

-3-

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Frederick Simon Lutz is hereby DISBARRE:D from the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina effective 30 days, from th~ date of service of
this order upon him.
2. Defendant shall surrender his law license and bar membership card
within 30 days after service of this order upon him.
3. Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary of the State Bar, including the costs associated with the
depositions conducted on October ~7 and November 29, 2004, within 90 days
of service
of the . statement
J.~;1on nilT1.
.
. of costs
. .....
,

I

,~:

4. Defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0124
of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the full knowledge
~nd consent of the other Hearing Committe'e members, ~his the 1.3~ay of

ob«t_'" ~004.
"

"

,~

...

Stephen E. Culbreth,
Hearing Committee

'I:'.

I
~
12~
Margaret CI utier, Deputy Counsel
The North Caro'lina State Bar

-4-

I

