I

5Yle3

,f

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE.
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0400

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF

) .

Clawson L. Williams,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)

REPR1;MAND

On Thursday, October 21, 2004 the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar
met and considered the, grievances filed against you by M. M.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee c9nducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
inforination available to it, including yotir'response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable caupe to
.believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable caupe, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
disCipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual' or potential injury caused, aI').d any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a: censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued .in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of ProfessIonal
Conduct and has caused hann or potential hann to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require a censure. '
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this Case
and issues this reprimand to you. A.s chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bat, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you wHl
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You filed a complaint on behalf ofM. M. in October 2002 in an effort to have a mobile
home removed from land owned by Ms M. The defendants filed an answer and counterclaim. In
August 2003, Ms M. sent you $900 to be offered to defendants to settle the case, which Suq! yoU
deposited into your trust account, then sent a settlement offer to defendants, which was rejected.

I

In October 2003, Ms M. instructed you to cease all activity, send her file to her, and
return the funds belonging to her in your trust account.
In response, you obtained an order allowing your withdrawal as attorney of record and
prepared a bill for $120 in fees and $80 for the filing fee you advanced, You deducted those
amounts from Ms M. 's funds held in trust for settlement purposes and sent her the remaining
$700 without obtaining hetpermission to do so. This was in violation of Rule 1.15-2. In
addition, the grievance committee found that you neglected Ms M.' s case by not filing a response
to thecountercIaim and not advising her of the consequences of the failure to respond to the
counterclaim when you withdrew from her case. This was in violation of Rules 1.3 and 1.4.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by yOu, that it will be beneficial to y()U, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence. to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the

RBIlr

J l day of '12~.

,2004.

I

I

