jI.

,.'

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORETE:E
GRIEV ANCECOMMITTEE
OF THE.
NORTH CAROLiNA STATE BAR
04G0439

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

Robert 1. Lane, ill
Attorney At Law

REPRIMAND

On 'thursday, October 21,2004 the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bat
met and considered the grievances filed against you by C. B,
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, inciuding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
. The rules provide that after a finding of probable 'cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Comrtlittee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or .potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

a

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has ,caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue th.is reprirnand, and I am certain that you will
. understand :fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You represented C. M. B. in a personal injury matter. You filed suit' on Mr. B.' s behalfiil
Apri1 or May 2003, then associated another attorney to handle the prosecution of the case' without
consulting with or obtaining Mr. B.'s permission. Further, the other attorney took ,a volW1tary
dismissal of Mr. B. 's action and neither you nor the associated attorney notified Mr. B. of the

I
;

.... ".

dismissal. These actions were in violation of Rules 1.3 and 1.4 and threatened pot~ntial harm to
.

Mr. B.

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance. Committee t11.lsts that you will heed thi~ reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered,

~his the t try

day of

~~

I

,2004.

RB/lr

I

I
.: .....

.

