NORTH CAROLINA
WAKECOVNTY

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.

)
)
)

)

ARMINA SWITTENBERG,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS
OF LAW AND ORDER
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter came on for hearing on November 23, 2004, befor~ a (july appoipted Hearing
Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Richard T. Gammon, Chair;
W. Steven Allen, Sr., and Marguerite P. Watts. Thomas F. Moffitt and Carolin Bakewell
represented the plaintiff (the "State Bar"). Eric C. Michaux is the attorney of record for the
defendant, Arrrlina Swittenberg ("Swittenberg" or the '.'Defendant"). Neither Michaux nor.
Swittenberg appeared at the hearing.
. Based on the pleadings, exhibits to the pleadings, and other evidence presented during the
the Hearing Committee finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, as follows;

he~ing,

FINDINGS OF Jtn.USDICTIONAL FACTS AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. the State Bar is a body dilly organized under the laws of North Car.olina to regulate the
practice of law and enforce the laws and administrative ru1es relating to attorney misconduct
under the authority granted to it in Chapter 84 of the Gen~ral Statutes of North Carolina, and
pursuant to the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar codified in Chapt~r 1 of .
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code, 27 NCAC 1 §§ .0201 et seq.). The State Bar
is the proper party to bring this action predicated on attorney misconduct.

2.. Swittenberg was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1998, and is, and was at
all times referre4 to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to
the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State
Bar and the Revised Rilles of Professional Conduct.
3. During the times relevant to this Complaint, Swittenberg actively engaged i:nthe'
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and practiced law in the City of Thomasville, .
Davidson County, North Carolina.
.

I
.. :',

"

•

4. On August 19,2004, the State Bar filed the complaint commencing this action alleging
attorney misconduct by Swittenberg, and she accepted service of the sUmmons and complaint
that same day.
. 5. Swittenberg did not file an answer or other pleadings in response to the complaint.
Instead, on October 26, 2004, she filed an affidavit in which she waived her right to a
disciplinary hearing and attempted to sUrrender her l~'w license.
6. The attempted surrender did not meet the requirements of Rule 27 NCAC IB § .0117
(a) & (d.) of the State Bar's Discipline and Disability Rules for two reasons: (A) Swittenberg
failed to acknowledge in her affidavit that the material facts upon which the State Bar's
complaint is predicated are trUe, and (B) Swittenberg failed to state that she was surrendering her
license because she could not successfully defend against the charges against her. Both
ackno~ledgments are required by Rule 27 NCAC IB § .0117 (a) (3) & (4).

I

7. The State Bar moved for entry of default on October 27,2004, and default was entered
on October 28, 2004.
8. Swittenberg's attempt to surrender her law license did not deprive the. Discipiinary
Hearing Commission or this Hearing Committee of jurisdiction to adjudicate this case; nor did it
moot this case.
.
9. Swittenberg was properly served with notice of the hearing herein.
10. All parties are properly before the Hearing COnimittee, and the Committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
11. The pleadings have closed, the facts are not at issue, and the matter is ready for
disposition.
Based on the pleadings, exhibits to the pleadings, and other evidence presented to the
Hearing Committee finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, as follows:

I

FINDINGS OF FACT
12. On August 12, 2002, Bank One ("Bank One") acquired ownership of property
located at 4718 Andrew Link Street in Charlotte, North Carolina (the "Link Street property")
through foreclosure of its own deed of trust, which was a first lien on the property. As a result,
Bank One owned the Link Street property free of liens.
13. At some time between August 12, 2002 and October 18, 2002, Bank One entered
into a contract to sell the Link Street property to Gregory E. Scales ("Scales"). The contract sales
price for the property"was $475,000.
14. First Franklin Mortgage Company ("First Franklin") agreed to provide a loan to
Scales in the amount of $403;750 for the purchase of the Link Street property from Bank One.

Page 2

I
:: .....

15. Swittenberg was engaged as the closing attorney for the ,purchase by Scales of the
Link Street property, including the closing ·of the' First Franldin loan to Scales ..The closing was
scheduled for October 18, 2002. First Franklin sent $403,750 in loan proceeds ("Link street loan.
proceeds) for the Scales loan to Swittenberg on or before that date and the funds were depo~ited
into Switttenberg's attorney trust account no. 6895-0036p66 at Wachovia Banle ("Wachovia trust
~ccount.").

I

16. After receiving the Link Street lo~ proceeds from First. Fr~lin, Swittenberg held
those funds in a fiduciary capacity and was required to mmntain a balance of at least $403,750 in._
her Wachovia trust account at all times for the benefit of the lender 'or the borrower pending'
completion of the transfer of the prop~rty in accordance with the lender's closing ins1;ntctions or
until $he returned the money to First Franklin.
:

or

17. The transfer of the Link Street property did not actually tak¢ place and no deed'
deed of trust Was signed or recorded on or after October 18, 2002.
.

18. Despite the fact that _no closing had :6ccurred and in violation of the closinginstructions, Swittenberg disbursed $64,209.68 of the Link Street loan proceeds to Glynn P.
Hubbard ("Hubbard"), an individual who was not authorized Iby First Franklin or Bank One _to
receive any of the proceeds of the loan or sale. The unauthorized disbursement is memorialized
in a documeht, dated October 18, 2002 and signed by Hubbard and Swittenberg's p.on-laWyer
assistant, Mavis Swittenberg~
.
19. Thereafter, Swittenberg misappropriated an of the remaining Link Street loan
proceeds for the benefit of herself or third parties without the knowledge or consent of First
Franklin or Bank One.
.

I

20. After discoverip,g that the property transfer did not take place, First Franklin
demanded that Swittenberg account for and return the Link Street loan proceeds. Swittenberg
falsely told Steve Barnett ("Barnett"), a F4"st Frankljn representative, that she had, approximately
$300,000 'of the loan ptoceed~ remaining in her trust account that she would return. Despite First
Franklin's repeated demands, Swittenberg never returned any of the money.
21. Swittenberg prepared a HUD-l closing statement, dated October 18, 2002, in which
she falsely stated that $323,000 of the closing proceeds had been disbursed to payoff a pre;.
existing mortgage to a lender (that was not identified on the HUD-1) even though Swittenberg
knew or should have known that there was no pre-existing mortgage loan encumbering the
property. The HUD-I also failed to reflect that Swittenberg disbursed $64,209.98 of the proceeds
to Hubbard.
22. On January 22, 2004, a State Bar subpoena for cauSe audit was issued and served on
Swittenberg, and on February 11, 2004, Superior .Court Judge Donald W. Stephens entered a
Consent Order of Preliminary Injunction freezing all bank accounts belonging to SwittelJ,berg
into which' she may have deposited client or fiduciary funds. Examip,ation of Swit,tep,berg's
attorney trust accounts showed a balance of $3,904.23 in Swittenburg's attorney trust account nQ;

Page 3

::

,:','

52127-88564 at Branch Banking & Trust Co. and a negative bll1ance in the Wachovia trust
account at the time the preliminary mjunctioll was entered.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, and any mixed findings of fact and
conclusions of law howsoever designated, the Hearing Committee makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Swittenberg's foregoing acts and omissions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant
to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Swittenberg violated the Revised Rules as follows:

I

(a) By failing to disburse the $403,750 for the Link Street closing as required by the
lender's closing instructions, Swittenberg failed to disburse and pay entrusted funds in
violation of Rules 1.15-2 (a) and (m).

(b) By intentionally using the funds she received for the closing on the Link Street
property and disbursing the money for purposes other than the closing:
(1) Swittenberg used entruSted funds either for her oWn benefit or for the benefit
of someone other than the legal or beneficial owner of the funds in violation of
Rule 1.15-20);
(2) Swittenberg fraudulently or knowingly and willfully misapplied Or converted
money belongin.g to another person that was in her possession as a fiduciary to the
use of herself or another, thereby committing criminal act(s) of embezzlement,
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-90, that reflect adversely on her honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness as laWyer.in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4 (b); and

a

(3) Swittenberg engaged in conduct .involving dishonestY, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4 (c).
-(c) By preparing a false HUD-1 closing statement that did not reflect how entrusted
money was disbursed at closing and submitting the BUD-1 to First Franklin:

I

(1) SWittenberg knowingly made a false statement(s) of material fact to a third
person in violation of Rule 4.1;
(2) Swittenberg knowingly made false statements to· obtain· a loan from a lending
institution, thereby committing criminal a~t(s), 18 U.S.C. § 10lD, that reflect
adversely on her honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects
in violation of Rule 8.4 (b); and
(3) Swittenberg engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4 (c).

Page 4

I

(d) By falsely telling Barnett that she had approximately $300,000 of the loan proceeds
remaining in her trust account that she would return~ Swittenberg knowingly made a false
statement(s) of material fact to a third person in violation of Rule 4.1.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and any mixed
findings of fact and conclusions of law howsoever designated, the Hearing Committee makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1. Swittenberg misappropriated funds that should have been held ih a fiduCiary capacity .
in her BB&T attorney trust account, including funds relating to the Tumer/Lama closing, the
Katie HarrisonIFlick Mortgage closing, the Eri<; EvanslFlick Mortgage closing and the Penigraft
closing.
.
.
.
2. Swittenberg misappropriated funds that should have been held in a fiduciary capacity
in her Wachovia attorney trust account, including funds belonging to James Carter, :fu.nds
relating to the closing of property at 2908 Triangle' Lake Street and funds relating to the closing ,
of property at 1312 Edgedale Street.
.

3. Swittenberg's conduct is aggravated by the following facts:
a)
b)
c)
d)

I

She was motivated by a dishonest or selfish motive.
She engaged in a pattern of misconduct.
She failed to show remorse or acknowledge any wrongdoing.
She engaged in bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary process by giving
false information to the State Bar's investigator, Ed White.
e) She failed to timely comply With the consent order of preliminary injunction
entered in the Wake County Superior Court.
±) She' engaged in multiple violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
g) She has failed to make restitution.

4. The Hearing Committee found no evidence of any mitigating factor.
5. Swittenberg's dishonest conduct has caused significant harm to her client, a third party
lender and the aclministration of justice.
'
6. Swittenberg's misconduct has also harmecl the standing of the legal profes'siQn by
undermining trust and confidence in lawyers and the legal system.
7. Disbarment is the only sanction that can adequateiy protect the public for the followihg
reasons:
(a) An order of discipline less than disbarment would hot sufficiently protect the pub~ic
because Swittenberg committed misdeeds involving moral turpitude and violations of the

Page 5

I
.:',.',

..

public trust. The dishonest and fraudulent conduct, material misrepresentatio:us and
misappropriation of money involved surreptitious theft of money belonging to others and
which she had a fiduciary obligation to protect.

(b) Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses thatSwittenberg committed and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the
Bar in North Carolina.
(c) The protection of the public requires that Swittenberg not be ,permitted to resume the
practice of law unless and until she demonstrates that she has reformed, that she
understands her obligations to her clients, the public, the courts and the legal profession,
and that reinstatement would not injure the standing of the legal profession. Disbarred
attorneys must show reformation among other things, before they may resume the
practice of law, whereas no such showing of reformation is reqUired of attorneys whose
licenses are suspend~d for a term certain..

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and any mixed findings of fact and conclusions of law howsoever
designated, the Hearing Coh1mittee hereby enters the follOWing:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Armina Swittenberg is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law.
2. Swittenberg shall surrender her law license and membership card to the Secretary of
the State Bar no later than 30 days from service of this order upon Swittenberg.
3~

SWittenberg shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary Bar no
later than 30 days from service of this order upon Swittenberg.

4~ Swittenberg shall comply with all provisions of 27 NCAC IB § .0,24 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Di~ability Rules ("Djscipline Rules')

I

5. Prior to seeking reinstatement of her law license, Swittenberg must present evidence
·to the Office of Counsel that she has made restitution of the $403,750 misappropriated from the
'Link Street closing funds. She must also make restitution as required by 27 NCAC IB § .0125
of the Discipline RUles.

Page, 6

I
:',,',

"

Signed by the undersigned chainnan with the full knowledge and consent of the other
Hearing Committee members, this

the~~fNovember 2004.

I

an, Hearing Committee

I

Pa~e7

-.,

I

