4

f3rJ1 I.?

~{,
OJ
NORTH CAROLINA ~
~~+. ~
,
~ A~~~~ DI
WAKE COUNTY ' '('~ v~'~
OJ

~

~

~

v~.1
(/ 91 ~

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE
BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.
PATTIE S. HARRISON, Attorney,
Defendant.

•

~

"'\\''::;.~

t\ v'

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

lOOtIl [,·

:
I

--SEFORET-HE-- - ------IPLINARY HEARING, COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04 DHC 12

. FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

THIS MAnER came on to be heard and was heard by a Hearing
Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the State Bar composed of
Richard T. Gammon, Chair; Richard KanE! and Betty Ann Khudsen on November
4-6, 2004. Anita Smith represented the defendant, Pattie S. Harrison. Carolin
Bakewell and Thomas F. Moffitt represented the State Bar.
Based upon the record, evidence presented herein and the arguments of
counsel, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the follOWing:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the prope'r party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the 'Gene'ral Statutes of
North Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolilia State Bar.

2. The Defendant, Pattie S. Harrison ("Harrison"); was admitted to the
State Bar in 1983, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
'laW licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct' of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of
the State of North Carolina.

I

3. DUring all of the periods relevant hereto, Harrison was a citizen and
resident of North Carolina.
4. In 1985, Harrison became an assistant District Attorney in what was
then the 9th Judicial District. She served in this position for approximately six
years. During this ~eriod, Harrison got along well with the members of the
defense bar in the 9t Judicial District, including the lawyers in Person County.

,."

I
::

.. :'.'

.

5. In 1991, then-Governor James Martin appointed Harrison to the District
Court bench in the 9th Judicial District fo fill a vacancy created by the death of the
incumbent judge. Harrison was the first African American female to hold a judicial
.
.
position in the district.
6. HarriSon ran for the District Court judgeship in 1992 and was elected.

I

7. In 1994, the North Carolina General Assembly split Judicial District 9
and joined Person County with Caswell County (formerly in Judicial District 17A)
to form Judicial District 9A, and Chief Justice Exum of the North Carolina
Supreme Court appointed Harrison as the Chief District Court Judge of the new
Judicial District 9A.
8. In 19~4, Mark Galloway was elected to the other Oistrict C,ourt
judgeship in Judicial District 9A.
9. Between 1985, when Harrison joined the District Attorney's' Office, ~ind·
1994, when she became Chief District Court Judge in District 9A, Harrison
enjoyed the political support of many of the members of the Person County bar,
including James Ramsey, Charles Hubbard, James Tolin and Walter Cates. She
also enjoy.ed the support of attorneys in Caswell County in 1994 when it joined
Judicial District 9A, including George Daniel, J. Lee Farmer and Michael' Gentry.
10. After Harrison became Chief District Court Judge, howev~r, sne began
to have confrontations. with many of th$se lawyers, including Walter Cates,
George Daniel and others in various legal matters over which she presided.
11. In November 1996, Harrison was re-elected to another term as District
Court Judge and remained as Chief District Court Judg~ for JLldicial District 9A.

I

12. In approximately 1996, Harrison presided over the initial stages of a
domestic relations case in which George Daniei and Carolyn Woodruff, a
Greensboro attorney, appeared as co-counsel. After a pre-hearing meeting
concerning the equitable distriblJtion matter that was to be heard, Woodruff and
Daniel became convinGed that Harrison was biased against their client and had
prejudged the merits of the matter at issue before hearing any of the evidence.
They filed a motion to recuse Harrison. The motion was denied by another judge
after which Harrison voluntarily recused herself from the case. After this incident,
the relationship between Harrison and Woodruff and Daniel soured.
. 13. Meanwhile, Harrison and Judge Galloway had numerous disputes
over matters such as use of a lap top computer sent to the district by the
Administrative Office of the Courts, calendaring of District Court matiers and the
day-to-day operation of the District Court in District 9A. These incidents sourecf
the relationship between Harrison and Judge Galloway.

Page 2

-I

14. Ultimately, many of the members of the Judicial District 9A bar also -,
had unpleasant incidents with Harrison in matters over which she presided in her
court. The- attorneys became convinced that Harrison was biased against men,
imposed overly harsh sentences in criminal matters, refused to follow the law and
had become dictatorial and unreasonable in her treatment of lawyers and their
clients in her court. As a result, political support for her among the lawyers who
regularly appeared before her in court in District 9A waned. The decline in
support for Harrison was a c9n~equence of her perceiv~d ill treatment of the
lawyers and their clients in court and was not based on her race or gender.
15. On September 26, 1998, Lawrence Southern, an inmate in the
Caswell County Jail, told a sheriff's deputy that a drug dealer, -Eddie "Big E"
Allen, had offered a reward to anyone who would kill Harrison and Caswell
County Sheriff's Deputy Steve Perkins. Sowthern was facing serious felony
charges at the time and sought to barter information about the alleged murder
plot for sentence concessions.

1

16. In October 1998, then-Casweil County Sheriff J. I. Smith told Harrison
about the alleged "contract" on her life although Smith was skeptical about the
credibility of Southern's statements.
17. The Caswell County Sheriff's Department and the State Bureau of
InVestigation investigated the alleged threat and reported their findings to Joel H.
Br~wer (Brewer), the elected District Attorney of District 9A. Brewer Was a former
colleague of Harrison when they both were assistant district attorneys in Judicial
District 9A and they are close personal friends.
'
18. Brewer met with Harrison after the investigations concluded and
summarized the results 'of the SBI investigation for Har~ison. He told her that, in
his opinion, there was no credible evidence supporting the alleged plot to murder
her. Brewer also told Harrison that nQ charges would be filed and that the
investigation was closed.

I'
,

19. In 1998, Galloway ran for re-election and was opposed by Tom
Fitzgerald, a candidate whom J\Jdge Galloway believed Harrison supported.
Galloway was elected in November 1998.
20. In 2000, Harrison ran for re-election, and Michael Gentry opposed
Harrison, in the Republican Party primary. Many of the attorneys in District 9A,
including Ramsey, Daniel, Hubbard, Tolin, and Farmer, had become
disenchanted with Harrison and supported Gentry. Harrison was aware of this
and that Judge Galloway alsO supported her ouster.

Page 3

1

21. Harrison lost the Republican Party primary that Spring, and Gentry
was elected in November 2000 to the Di~trict Court judgeship. At that time,
Galloway became the Chief District Court Judge.

I

22. On October 3, 2000, shortly before leCilving the District COllrt bench, .
Harrison fileo a complaint with the United States Department of Justioe.ln her
complaint, Harrison contended that Judge Galloway had conspired with a group
of white lawyers and others to file~more than 10 frivolous grievances against her
With the Judicial Stanqards Commission between 1995 and 2000. She claimed
Galloway had organized this effort to "racially intimidate her into leaving" the
bench. The individuals identified in the October 3, 2QOO complaint were Daniel,
Farmer, Judge Gentry, Tolin, Cates, Woodruff, John Lee, Richard Anderson and
Adriane Reesey.
23. The Department of Justice took no formal action as a result of the filing
of the October 3, 2000 complaint by Harrison.
24. In 2001, Judge Harrison began serving as an Emergency District
Court Judge.
.
25. In early 2002, Harrison filed to run against Judge Galloway in the
November 2002 election in an attempt to regain a judgeship in Judicial District
Court 9A. Due to a change in the law,' this was a non-partisan election.
26. On March 8, 2002, shortly after filing as a candidate for election,
Harrison filed a second complaint with the United States Department pf Justice,
In her second complaint, Harrison stated that Judge Galloway, Judge Gentry,
Daniel, Farmer, Anderson, Cates, Tolih, Ramsey, Woodruff and Hubbard had
conspired to intimidate her and remove her from the bench by filing more than
200 false complaints against her with the Judicial Standards Commission.
Harrison also represented that the State Bureau of Investigation and the Judicial
Standards Commission had effectively joined the conspiracy against her by'
continuing to inVestigate and accept grievances against her that these agencies
.
knew or shOUld have known were false.

I

27. The United States Department of Justice took no formal action as a
result of Harrison's March 8, 2002 complaint.
28. In the summer of 2002, Harrison met with 'Ron Bradsher, an attorney·
from Caswell County who was running against Brewer for the position of District
Attorney of JUdicial District ~A. Harrison told Bradsher that she intended to file a
grievance against Judge Galloway, Daniel and others with the State Bar.
Harrison told Bradsher that the grievance "needed to be made public" before the
November 2, 2002 general election to boost her campaign.

Page 4

I

..J"

·1..o.. t

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

-

29. On or about September 26, 2002, Harrison filed grievances with the
State Bar against Judg,es Gentry and Galloway and attorneys Daniel, Ramsey,
Tolin, Farmer; Hubbard Cates and Woodruff.
30. Harrison represented that the judges and six of the attorneys had hired
Woodruff to draft and file more than 200 false complaints against Harrison with
the Judicial Standards Commission. Harrison also represented that the same
group had solicited one or more persons to kill her in 1998. Harrison attached
copies !of the two complaints she had made to the United States Department of
Justice,to support her State Bar grievance.

31. In her State Bar complaint, Harrison falsely stated that Bradsher had

I

told her about the conspiracy to file the false grievances against her on March 3,

2002. :

32. There was no credible evidence of any conspiracy by the named
attorneys and judges to file false grievanoes against Harrison with Judicial
Standards Commission,nor was there any credible evidence of any conspiracy
by any :attorneys or judges to have Harrison killed. The statements in Harrison's
grievance concerning these alleged conspiraCies were untrue.

:33. Harrison testified during the hearing that she based her belief that the
seven attorneys and two judges were engaged in a conspiracy to kill her in part
On these facts: she had overheard racist remarks directed against her by a
magistrate shortly after she became Chief District .Court Judge, the 1998 alleged
contract on her life; an incident in 1998 in which two teenage women confronted
her in t~e courthouse p~rking lot and an incident ih September 2002 in which
Harrison claimed that Someone had fired a shot at het car. Harrison also testified
ttiat she was informed by Curtis Cates, a former drug court participant, that two
attorney;s had put a ·contract on her life. The Hearing Committee did not find
Cates' t~stimony to be credible and found that there was no credible evidence
linking ~ny these incidents to any lawyer or judge.

34. There was no credible evidence opon which a reasonable attorney

I

could have concluded that there was a conspiracy by any judges or attorneys to
have Harrison killed or a conspiracy to file over 200 false grievances against her
with the .Judicial Standards Commission.

39. Records of the Judicial Standards Commission show that as of
September 2002, when Harrison filed her grievances with the State Bar, a total of
33 complaints had been filed against her with the CommiSSion and she had
received; official notice from the Commission of only 10 of those matters. The
remaining complaints were summarily dismissed without investigation or
notification to Harrison that they had been made.

PageS

I

36. Harrison knew or should have known that the allegations in her State
Bar grievances concerning the two alleged conspiracies were false.
.

I

37. In early October 2002 and shortly after Harrison filed the grievances
with the State Bar, copies of the grievance and attached Justice Department
complaints were released to the news media, which then widely publicized their
contents. There is no credible evidence indicating that the' grievance was
"leaked" to the press 'by employees of the State Bar or any of the judges ·or
lawyers named in the grievance.
38. Harrison testified at the hearing that she gave copies of her grievance
to her sister, Dossie Harrison Goods, and to her form~r secretary and campaign
worker, Sherry Wrenn; both of whom had denied under oath that they released
the grievance to the news media.
39. Harrison gave at least three interviews in October 1998 to the media
following the disclosure of the grievance. In these interViews, Harrison confirmed
that she had filed the grievance with the State Bar, insisted that she believed her
allegations to be true and claimed to have factu~1 information that supported her
belief.
40. Harrison never retracted any of the accus~tions she made against the
lawyers and judges she named.

41. There is no credible evidence that the actions of the two judges and
the seven attorneys in opposing Harrison and working to defeat her in elections
for District Court judgeships were based on her race or gender.
. 42. In May 2004, the Judicial Standards Commission filed a formal

I

complaint against Harrison alleging, among other things, that Harrison had
fals'ely acdused two judges and seyen lawyers of conspiring to kill her and to file
frivolous grievances against her with the Commission.

43. On October 20, ?004, shortly befofe the scheduled hearing on the
Judicial Standards Commission complaint, Harrisoh settled the matter with the
Commission and signed stipulations of evidentiary facts that supported the
settlement. Among other things, Harrison stipulated that she khew or should
have known that there was insufficient evidence to support her assertions against
the lawyers and judges.
Based oli the foregoing Findings of Fact, and any mbced finding of fact and
conclusions of law howsoever designated,. the Hearing Committee hereby enters
the following:

Page 6

I
..

"

..

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the N.C. State Bar has
jurisdiction over the person of the defendant, Pattie S. Harrison, and over the
subje¢t matter of this proceeding.
.
: 2. By filing grievances alleging that two members of the state judiciary had
hired one or more persons to assassinate her in 1998 when s~e knew or should
have known the allegation were false, Harrison made false or reckless
statements concerning the integrity or qualifications of a judge, in violation of
Rule 8.2(a).

I'-

I

3. By filing grieVances alleging that two state judges and seven lawyers
had hired one or more persons to assassinate her in 1998 when she knew or
shoulc! have known the allegations were false, Harrison engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4 (d) of the
Revised Rule of Professional Conduct, engaged in conduct involving
misrepresentation in violation of Rul~ 8.4 (c) and made knowing; false
state~ents of materi~1 fact to a disciplinary authority in violation of Ruie 8.1.

4. By filing grievances alleging that two members of the state, judiciary had
retained another attorney to file more than 200 false complaints about Harrison
with tHe Judicial Standards Commission when 'she knew or should have known
the allegations were false, Harrison made false or reckless statements
concerning the integrity or qualifications of a judge, in violation of Rule 8.2 (a).
,

;5. By filing grieVances alleging that two state judges and seven lawyers

had cqmspired to file more than 200 false complaints against Harrison with the
Judicial Standards Commission; when she knew or Should have known the
allegations were false, Harrison engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
admini1stration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4 (d), engaged in cond4ct involving
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4 (c) and made a kn'owing, false
statem.ent of material fact to a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1.

1

\Based upon the foregoing Finoings of Fact·and Conclusions of Law, and
any mjxed findings of fact and conclusions of law howsoever designated, the
Hearing Committee enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
:1. At least two of the attorneys named in Harrison's State Bar complaint
Charlie Hubbard and Walter Cates, testified that they or relatives were personally
embarrassed and upset by the accusations in the complaint.

Page 7

1

2. Harrison's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a) Pattern of misconduct,
b) Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct,. ano
c) Substantial experience in the practice of law.

3. Harrison's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

I

d) : Imposition of other .penalties and ~anctions by the JUdicial
Standards Commission,
e) Good reputation,

f) Tha defendant was suffering from physical problems at the time
of the miscondllct, and
..

,

g) Absence of prior disciplinary record .

. '4. The aggravating and mitigating factors are equally balanced.
·5~ Harrison's misconduct has caused SUbstantial actual harm to the public,
the jUdiCial system and to the integrity of the political process.

6. An order of discipline ofle~s than a stayed suspension would not
sufficiently protect the public for the following re~sons:

I

(a) Harrison engaged in multiple violations of the Revis$d Rules of
professional Conduct over a substantial period of time. Her conduct,
therefore, was not the result of an aberration 01" mistake, but inste~d is the
product of a serious personality flaw that is ·ncit readily changeable.
(b) Harrison has offered no evidence that she has addressed the problem .
or flaw that motivated her conduct. Consequently, the Committee finds
that there is a substantial risk that Harrison would continue to engage in
misconduct if she were permitted to retain her I~w license without
sufficient safeguards in place,
(c) Entry of an order imposing less serious disolpline wquld fail to
acknowladge the seriousness of the offenses that Harrison committed and
would s~nd the' wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
.
conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.

Page 8

I

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and any mixed findings of fact and
conclusions of law howsoever designated, the Hearing Committee hereby enters
'
the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.

The' Defendant, Pattie S. Harrison, is hereby suspended from the
practic~ of law for a period of one year. The suspension of Harrison's law license
is stayed for three years LlPon the following conditions:
Ca) Within 3 months of the date of this order, Harrison shall under€lo an
$xamination by a psychiatrist approved by the State Bar and shall present
(i' written report to the State Bar Office of Counsel from the psychiatrist
verifying that she is not disabled within the meaning of 27 NCAC 1B §
.0103 (19) and does not suffer from any mental, or physical, condition that
would prevent her from practicing law in a competent, ethical manner.
Itfarrison shall execute a release permitting the Office of Counsel to
qiscus$ her evaluation with the examinjng psychiatrist no later than 3
months, from the date of this order. The examination shall be performed at
Harrison's expense. All documents provided by the psychiatrist shall be
~ealed and are to be made available only to the parties hereto and the
Oisciplinary Hearing Commission, pending further orders of Chair ·of the
e6mmission.

I

(:b) Harrison shall not violate the laws of this state or the United States.
(p) Harrison shall not violate any provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

4.

The costs of this action are taxed to Harrison. The costs shall include
the expenses incurred by the State Bar for the depositions taken by the' State
Bar, which the Hearing Committee finds and concludes were reasonable and
necessary in the litigation of this case. Harrison must pay the costs, as calculated
by the Secretary of the State Bar, within three years of the date of this order.

I

i

~. If the stay of the suspension of Harrison's law license is lifted at any

time, sHe must comply with Paragraph 1 (a) above' prior to seeking reinstatement
of her law license.

Page 9

I
:, .,:'.

Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the knowledge and

consent of all Committee members, this is the

2005

3~day of ~~

'

I

I

Page 10

I
,

,
"

,

1-1),7

, <, \

~

