------~--

..-- - -

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
ROB.ERT J. HVME, In,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

-~---

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0699 & 04G0742

NORtH CAROLINA

)
).
)

CENSURE

)
)

I

On Thutsday, October 21,2004, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met
and considered'the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
I

Pursum~t

to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the infonnation
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probabl~ cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bat is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Comrhittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the: actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Com~ittee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a cet;-sure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
art attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm, or potential significant harm to a client, the ad~in:istration of justice, the profession or
a member ofthe public, but the lhisconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.

I

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required i~ this case and issues this censure to you. As chairm~ ofthe Grievance Committee of
the North Carolipa State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I am certain that you will
understand fullY,the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In Septeq1ber 2002 you undertook to represent H.M. to seek an increase in child support
payments. Ow~ng to a mistake by your office, the case was dismissed and H.M. ultimately
discharged you and asked you to refund the fee. You did not respond to her request, in violation of
Revised Rule 1.16. When H.M. filed a petition for resolution of a disputed fee with the N.C. State
:Bar, you failed to respond or participate in the fee dispute process, in violation of Revised Rule 1.5(f).
I

Meanwhi!le, in January 2004, client LM. retained you to handle a domestic case for which he
paid you a $500 retainer. Thereafter, you failed to communicate with LM. or take effective action to
assist him, in violation of Revised Rules 1.4 and 1.3, respectively. LM. discharged you in March

I
"

2004 and demanded a refund of the $500 fee. You offered to refund $175 but later indicated that
you believed that LM. in fact owed you money. The Committee found that you retained an excessive
fee in violation of Revised Rules 1.5 and 1.16.
On April 14, 2004, LM. filed a petition for resolution of a disputed fee with the N.C. State
Bar. You failed to file a response to the notice of the petition. The Committee detertnined that your
conduct in this regard violated Revised Rule I.S(f).

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolin~ S_tate Bar for your violation of the Rides ()f
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will p011-der this cenSure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself'to depart from adherence to the
,
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve a,s a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your client~, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
p:rofession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North C~olina

State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative .and investigative costs to any attorney issueq a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount.of$50.00 are herebytax~d
to you.
Done and ordered, this

,I

11

day

Of~ 2004.

He
,Chair
Grie
e Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

-,

