WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04 DRC 48

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE: BAR
Plaintiff

v.
WALTER T. JOHNSON, JR., ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
Fn~DINGS OF FACT
) 'CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)

I

TIns. MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on the 14th day of january,
2005 before a duly assigned hearing committee composed of Karen Eady,.. Williams,
Chair; John M. May and Marguerite Watts. The Defendant, Walter T. Johnson, Jr.,
. represent~d himself. Carolin Bakewell appeared for the N.C. State Bar. Based upon the
pleadings, stipulations and the evidence presented at trial the hearing committee hereby
enters the: following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. ; The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bat, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the huthority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, ~nd the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.

I

'.

2. The Defendant, Walter T. Johnson, Jr. ("lohnson,"),was admitted to
the North CatQlina State Bar in 1964, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an ,attorney .at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules, regUlations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar arid the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all of the periods relevant hereto, Johnson was engaged in the
practice of law in Greensboro, North Carolina.

I
. ..
.

4. laooson-was properly served with the sumnions and complaint in this
matter and the bisciplinary Hearing.Commission ha~ jurisdiction over his person
and the subject matter of the State Bar's complaint filed herein.

I

5. In 1996,. Douglas DIck ("Dick,"), was' convicted of second degree
sexual offense in Dare County Superior Court and ~entenced to 37 year$ in prison.
Dick was represented at trial by counsel other than Johnson.
6. In November 1998, Johnson undertook to pursue post-conviction relief
on Dick's behalf. Dick"s mother, Nancy Dulaney ("Dulaney,"), paid Johnson a
$3,800 fee to represent Dick.
.

7. On at shortly after the date on which Johnson undertook to represent
Dick he was aware that the state court had denied one or more motions for
appropriate relief filed by Dick on his own behalf prior to November 1998.
8. Between November 1998 and mid.,.2000, johnson filed no pleadings
for ])ick. Although Johnson, Dick and Dulaney discussed the possibility ,of
retaining an expert witnes~ to challenge medical eviden<;e presented at Dick's
1996 trial, johnson did not attempt to locate an expert witness. The only action
taken to locate an expert was done by Dulaney, Who is a school teacher with no
medical dr legal background.
9, On Aug. 2,2000, .Tohnson filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the
N.C. Court of Appeals in Dick's case. The petition Was denied on Sept. 27~ 2000because Johnson's petition did not include a copy of the order respecting which
he sought revi~w, in violation of the North Carolina Rules of Appellate
ProcedUre.
'

I

10. On March 12,2001, Johnson filed an amend,ed petition for writ of
certiorari with the N.C. Court of Appeals for Dick. The petition Was denied on
March 21 ; 20(}L
.
11. In late 2001, J obnson filed a petition for habeascotpus pursuant to 28
U.S.C. Section 2254 with the Eastetn District of North Carolina on Dick's behalf.
12. 'On Match 1, 2002, the petition was denied by the federal court on the
ground that it Was untimely.
13. Johns'on agreed to appeal from the' federal court order, but failed to do
so.· He failed to file 'any other pleadings or take other effective action on Dick's
behalf.
14. On a number of occasions between 2001 and 2004, Dick asked
Johnson to, provide him with copies of documents from his file, including medical

2

I

reports .relating to bis step-dau hter th
,..
,'",
.
1996 trIaL Johnsonpro:mised ~o se~c~ ;~~t:h: ~hlef Wltiless agaInst Di7k at his
never produced them to Dick.
.
eports on sev~ra~ occaSIOns but

:16. Although Johnson wrote some letters to Dick, most were form letters
that w~re unresponsive to Dick's questions about the facts and status of his case.

,11. In mid-2003, bick discharged Johfisorr and demanded that he refund
at least half of the '$3;800 fee. 10hnson failed to refund any'portion of the fee.

I

18, Johnson failed to produce time records, work product or other
convincing evidence establishing that h y in fact was entitled to keep the entire
!

$3,80~ fee paid to him ort Dick's behalf.
1 - ·
I

•

•

I

; 19. On January 30, 2004, Dulaney filed agrievarrce against Johnson with
the North Carolina State Bar.
20. On March 25,2004 the Forsyth County Sheriffs Department
personally served Johnson with the letter of notice and substance of grievance
concerning Dulanei s grievance. The letter of'notice directed Johnson to respond
in writing to Dulaney's grievance within 15 days.

21. Johnson neVer responded to the State Bar's letter of notice concerning
Dul~ey's

grievance'.

, 22. On Oct. 22, 1979, Jatnes W. Brown ("Brown") was convicted in
Sampson County Superior Court of second degree murder and sentenced to life in
prison. He was represented at trial by counsel other than Johnson.
.
1

'

23. In early 1999; Johnson und~rtook to pursue parole and post
conviction relief on Brown's behalf. Johnson was paid a $3,80'0 fee to represent

I

Brown,
I

24,. Although Johnson knew or should have known that Brown was in
medium custody and that he had incurred more than 40 infractions while in
prison, Johnson failed to timely warn, Brown that it would be difficult, ifnot
impossible, to achieve Brown's direct release on parole; under the circumstances
of his case.
25. JoMson failed to take timely, effective action to pursue parole or post
conviction relief for Brown. There is no evidence that he ev~r filed any

3

I
:' .,

7&0

pleadings ot petitions on Brown's behalf or that he even obtained the transcript of
the trial in Brown's case.
26. Johirson failed to keep Brown advised of the. status 'Of his case or.
respond to Brown's inquiries about the matter.
.
27. Johnson failed to' return the unearned portion of the $3,800 fee that he
had been paid 0!l Bro'Wn;s behalf, despite Brown's demands for a refund.

I

28. Ott Nov. 19, 2003, Brown filed a fee dispute petition with the North
Carolina State Bat concerning Johnson.

j

29. On Dec. 5,2003, Johnson was served with the State Bar's notice of
Brown's fee dispute petition by c~rtified mail and was directed to respond in
writil1g within 15 days.
30. Johnson failed totespond to the notice ofBtoWit's fee dispute
, petition.
, 31. Thereafter, the N.C. State Bar sent JohnsQn a letter reminding him
that his answer to Brown's fee dispute petition had not been filed. Johnson Was'
served with the letter by certified mail on Jan. 8,2004.
32. Johnson did not respond to the follow up letter or otherwise
participate in the fe'e dispute process.
33. Thereafter, the State Bar opened a grievance file against Johnson,
based upon his fMlure to participate in the fee dispute process in Brown's case.
On April 12, 2004, Johnson responded to the grievance. In his response, he
indicated that had not intentionally ignored the State Bar's notiGes regarding
Brown and had mistakenly believed that the case was being mediated by the local
district bar. 10hnson offered to participate inm~diation to resolve the dispute.
34. On April 19,-2004, Luella Crane, Assistant Director of the State Bar's
fee dispute mediation program, wrote to Johnson and asked him to provide
.
,information she needed to conduct the mediation procesS.
35. 10hnson did not respond to Ms. Crahe'sAptill9, 2004 letter, nor to a
. follow up letter that she sent to him by certified mail in mid-May 2004. Johnson
never partiCipated in the State Bar mediation process respecting Brown nor did he
return any part of the fee paid for Brown.
36. On Aug. 23, 2003, following a hearing at which Johnson was present
and represented by counsel, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission (hereafter,
DHC), of the North Carolina State Bar entered ap order suspending Johnson's law
license for three years. The order provided that the suspension could be stayed

4

I
.

...

after a period of one year if Johnson complied with certain conditions set out in
the order:
31. As of Aug. 23, 2003, therefore, Johnson was on notice th'!-t his law
license was about to be suspended for at least a year and that, pursuant to the State
Bar's DisCipline &, Disability Rules, he was required to wind down his law
practice.
I

3S. The DHC's disciplinary order was never amended, stayed or vacated.
The order Was served on Johnson on Jan. 12,2004 and'became effective on Feb.
11,2004.,

I

39.

On Oct 27, 2003, during the period In which Johnson should have
been winding-down his law practice pursuant to the DHC's disciplinary order,
Johnson \lhdertook to represent Herbert E. Caviness ("Caviness") respecting
charges df first degree rape and indecent liberties with a child then pending
against Caviness in Guilford and Durham Counties.
I

4~. Johnson waS paid a fee of$14,500 by Cavines~s and others on his

behalf.

'

4i. The criminal cases were in the very early stages at tile time Johnson
agreed to:tepresent Caviness and Johnson knew or should have known that it was
virtually impossible to finish the caseS before the suspension of his law license
went intol effect.

42.

As of October 2003, Johnson had tax liens exceeding $500,000
'pending against him and had been late on,!- number of occasions paying rent due
to his lail~:llotd. Despite, this fact, there wa,s l}0 evidence that Johnson held any
portion of the $14,500 fee paid to him by or for Caviness, in trust, to ensure that he
could refund the unearned portion of the fee if the cases were not concluded
before the suspension· of his law license became effective.

I

43. Johnson did not warn Caviness that he had been disciplined by the
DHC or tpat his law license was about to be suspended and that there was a
substantial risk that Johnson would be unable to conclude Caviness' cases before
the suspension took effect. Johnson withheld this infortnation for the purpose of
inducing Caviness to pay him the fee at a time when Johnson was in bad financial
circumstap.ces' and when he knew or should have known that the State Bar
disciplinary rules did not permit him to take on new caSes.
44. Caviness would not have employed Johnson had he known that
Johnson 4ad been disciplined by the DHC and that his law license was about to be
suspended.
'

, 5

I

45. Johnson Was served with the DHC order of discipline on or about Jan.
12.,2004 and the suspension of Johnson's law license became effective en Feb.
11,2004.
46. In January 2004, Caviness learned that Jehnson'S.law license ,had
been suspended when he saw an article abeut the case in the Greensbere
newspaper.

47. Johtrsen was unable te cenclude the cases against Cavihess befere
Feb. 11,2004 ahd indeed'; as of that date, substantive hearings had been held and
ne trial date had been scheduied for Caviness.
48. Johnson f'ailed to refund the unearned portion ofthe $14,500 fee to
Caviness, despite Caviness' demands fer a refund.
49. Caviness was ferced te borrew money to retain new counsel te handle
,the criminal cases against him. He testified that this circumstance added to the
stress neceSsatilyassociated with the criminal' charges.
50. On Febl 2'0, 2004, Caviness filed a grievance against Johnson with
the North Carolina State Bar.
.
51. Johnsen was served with the State Bar's letter efnetice and
substance of grievance concerning Caviness' grievance by certified mail on
March 6, 2004. Although Johnson was directed to respond in writing to the
grievance within 15 days, he failed to do so.
.
52. On March 22, 2004, the State Bar sent Johnson a follew up letter,
reminding him that he had not responded to Caviness' grievance.
53. On f\prilI4, 2004, Johnson filed an untimely response with the State
Bar to Caviness' comphiint.

I

54. In, June 1998; Sherrall Parker ("Parker") was convicted 'Of breaking
and entering, larceny and ether feleny charges in Guilford County Superior Court.

55., On Oct. 21; 1998, Jehnson agreed to file a motion for appropriate
relief on Parker's behalf'. Parker paid Johnson a $3,800 fee for his services.
56. Johnson did not file the motion fer appropriate relief for Parker until
April 28, 2000. The motion was based on trial counsel's failure to file a motien te
join charges against Parker ort a timely basis, an issue ofwhichJ6hnson had been
aware since early in his representation of Parker.
57. The motion: for appropriate relief was denied by Judge Catherine
Eagles en July 19,20'00.

6

I
"'

. :..

... ,

58. Johnson did not seek appellate review or Judge Eagles' 'Order until
Feb. 13,2001, when he filed a petition for discretionary review on Parker's behalf
with the N.C. Court of Appeals.
59. the petition for discretionary review WaS denied on March 8, 2001.
I

60. johnson did not take other timely, effective steps to obtain review or
telieffrdin the criminal conviction fot Parker.
61. On Jan. 22,2004, Parker filed a grievance against Johnson with the
North Caroliria State Bar.

I

62. On Feb. 18, 2004, Johnson was served with the letter of notice and
substanc.e of grievance regarding Parker's grievance by certified mail. He was
directed 'to file a written response to the letter of notice within 15 days.
63. On Match 17,2004, the State Bar sent a foiIow up letter to Johnson,
reinindirtg him that his ansWer to Parker's· grievap.ce was overdue .
•

I

64. On April 10, 2G04, Johnson filed an untimely response to Parker's
•
i
grIevance.
Based upon the fotegoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee hereby
makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

11 .. By failing to take timely, effective action to pursue post-conviction
relief for DiCk and Parker, Johnson neglected client matters in violation of former
Rule 6(b)(3)
and/or cUrtent Rule 1J.
I
2. Bylailing to· respond to· requests f6t information from Dick, Dulaney,
Brown and Parker, and by failing to keep them informed of the status of their
cases, Johnson failed to communicate with clients in violation offornier Rule
6(b)(1) and/or current Rule 1.4.

I

3. By faiiing to return the unearned portion of the fees paid to him for
Dick, Parker, Caviness and BroWn, Johnson tetained excessive fees in violation of
Rule 1.51 and failed to refund the unearned portion of fees in violation of Revised
Rule 1.1~.
4. By railing to respond to the State Bar's letter of notice concerning
Dulaney,'s grievance and by filing late responses to the letters of notice
concerning grievanceS filed by Parker and CaViness, Johnson failed to respond to
I

\

7

I

a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary. authority in violation of
Revised Rule 8.1.
5. By failing to Warn Brown in a timely fashion that that it would be very
difficult, if not impossible, to achieve Brown's direct release on parole under the
circumstances ofthe case, Johnson engaged in condllct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in vIolation offotmet Rule 1.2(c) and/or
current Rule 8.4(c) apd failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonably
necessary to perrrtit the client to make informed decisions regarding the
representation in violation of former Rule 6(b)(2) and/or current Rule 1.4(b):

I

6. By failing to respond to the State Bar's notice·ofBrown's fee 'petition,
Johnson failed to participate in good faith in mandatory fee dispute resolution, in .
violation of Rule 1.5(f}
7. By accepting $14,500 from Caviness when he knew or should have .
known that the State Bar disciplinary rules reqUired him to wind down his law
practice and by failing to warn ,Caviness that johnson was about to lose his law
license arid that there was a substantial risk that Johnson would be unable to
complete the representation before the suspension ofhis law license went into
effect for the purpose of inducing Caviness to pay the fee, Johnson engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Revised Rule 8.4(c) and engage<:i in a conflict ofinterest in violation of Revised
Rule 1.7.

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Johnson's conduct is aggravated by the following facts:
a) He was motivated in part by a dishonest or selfish motive.
b) He -engaged in a patterrrof misconduct.
c) He engaged in multiple violations of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
d) He has failed to make restitution.
e) He has substantial experience in the practice of law. He has had
substantial prior ·discipline.
.

I

2. The Hearing Committee found no eVidence of any mitigating factor.
3. Johnson's dishonest conduct has causedsignifi-cant harm to his clients.
4. Johnson's misconduct has also harmed the standing bfthe legal profession by
undermining trust and confidence in lawyers and the legal system.

s.

Disbarment is the only sanction that cali adequately protect the public for the
following reasons:

8

I
:.

"

'(a) An order of discipline less than disbarmeht would not sufficiently protect the
public because Johnson committed misdeeds involving moral turpitude and
violations of the public tnlst. He effectively obtained property by false pretenses
from Mr. Caviness, a person whom he had a fiduciary obligation to protect.
(b) Johnson has been the subject of four previous orders of discipline involving
lesser sanctions. Although he has been given several chances to demonstrate that
4e will abide by the Rules of Professional Conduct, he has continued to violate
the Rules of Professional Conduct and has failed to demonstrate that he has taken
any steps to refotfil.

I

Gc) Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses that Johnson committed and would send the wrong
Ihessage to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members
<!)fthe Bar in North Carolina.
(d) The protection of the public requires that Johnson not be permitted to resume

the practice of law unless and until he demonstrates that he has' reformed, that he
hnderstands his obligations to his clients, the public, the courts and the legal
profession, and that reinstatement would not injure the standing of the legal
profession. Disbarred attorrteys must show reformation among other things,
before they may resume the, practice of law, whereas no such showing of
reformation is required of attorneys whose licenses are suspended for a term
'certain.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of
Fact R~garding Disc'ipline, and any mixed findings of fact and conclusions of law
howsoe,ver designated, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
:1. Walter T. Johnson, Jr. is l1ereby D1SBARRED from the practice oflaw.

'2. Johnson shall surrender his law license and membership card to the Secretary
of the State Bar no later than 30 days from service ot this order upon him if he has not
already done SO in connection with his prfor orders of discipline.
'
I.

I

"

3. Johnson shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of
the N.C. State Bar no later than 30 days from service ofthis order upon Johnson.
I

·

.,

4. Johnson shall comply with all provisions of27 NCAC 1B § .0124 of the North
Caroliti-a State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules ("Discipline Rules").

!5.

Prior to seeking reinstatement of his law license, Johnson must present
evidence to the Office of Counsel that he has made restitution in the following amounts:

9

I

a) $14,500 to Herbert Caviness.
b) $1,900 to Dougas Dick
c) $3,800 to James Brown
d) $1,900 to Sherrall Parker

Signed by the underSigned chairman with the full knowledge and consent of the

I

other Hearing Committee members, this the

I~y of telorl!l!' ~ .

."

I

10

I
'

..

',.

2005 .

