·,f

BEFORETHE .
GruEVANCECGNlliflTTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G1858

NORTH'CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Savanah R. Bowie,
Attorney At f-,aw

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMANJ)

I

On Thursday~ January 20,2005 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
met and con~idered the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committe'e conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your reSponse to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee f0und probable cause. Probable pause is detined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member <?f the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifyi1.lg
disciplinary action."
The lilIes provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine th~t the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission :are not required, and the Grievance Committee may iSsue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
ag~avatidng dr mitigating f1act?rs. Thde Grievap.ce Committee may issue an admonition, a _
repnman ,or a censure to the respon ent attorney.

I

I

A reprimand is a written fotrn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused har'ltL or potential hanh to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does nbt-require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
ahd issues thik reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina Stat~ Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
!

In May 2003, you joined Leon Orr's law finn as an associate and began handling a
number of real estate closing matters. You maintained a separate trust account during this period
of time but di~ not reconciie the account at least quarterly. Moreover~ although you were advised
during a State' Bar audit that the trust account was "short" by.$318.52, you failed to take prompt

I

action to cure the problem. Further, it appears that on at least one occal)ion; you commingled
personal and client funds. Next" the HUn-I statements relating to transactions that you handled
did not always match the checks actually disbursed for the closing and it ,appeared that you failed
to appreciate the seriousness of this discrepancy. Finally, although you did communicate wIth
and provide some bank records to the State Bar's auditor, your responses were not prompt, whi9h
delayed the conclusion ofthe Bar's investigation. Your conduct in this matter violated Rules 1.1,
1.15-2(f), 1.15-3(c) and (g) of~he Rules of ProfessibnaI Conduct.

I

,
Although the violations of the Rules of Professional ~01iduct in which you engaged were
potentially serious, the Grievance Committee wished to give you the benefit of the doubt and
concluded that your mis90nduct was the result of inexperience and lack of preparation, rather
than int~ntional dishonesty. The Committee also took into account that you are no .longer
handling client fqnds in your current position.
The Grievance Committee intends this reprimand asa very strong warning to you that any
, future violations of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct regarding the handling of client
funds could likely result in much more serious discipline.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for yOlJr professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this repri:Q1and, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence t6 the high ethical standards bfthe legal profession.'
In'accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1,981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Gbmmittee, the costs of this action iIi the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ,5
,.

I
HB/Ir

daYOf~

; 2005

