NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE
- THE
,

WAKE COUNTY

OF THE
NORTRCAROLINA STATE BAR
04DHC 53

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

I

)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT,
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF D1SCIPLINE
)
)

v.
DEWEY R. BUTLER, Attorney;
Defendant
.'

,

,~, '

On March 4, 2(>05, this matter came on to be heard before a hearing comjnittee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Copll~ission composed of Carlyn G. Poole, Chair; Karen Eady-Williams,
and Johnny A. Freeman. A., Root Edmonson represented the North Carolina St.ate Bar and the
Defendant did not appear and was not represented by counsel. Based upon the facts allegeq in'
the Con;tplaint that are deemed admitted by the Defendant's default, the hearing committee fincts
the following has been established by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
, 1. Theplaifitiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. The defendant, Dewey R. Butler ("Butler"), was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar on August 19, 1979 and is, and was tlt all times referred to herejn, an Attorney at LaW
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the' North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
-

-

I

- .

-

...
3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Butler actively engaged in the private
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of Dunn,
Harnett County, North Carolina.
4. During the times relevant to this complaint, Butler maintained an attorney trust
account at Fidelity Bank, account number 009100017'6 ("trust account'S) and an attorney
operating account at Fidelity Bank, account number 0095204432 ("operating account").

I

777

5. On February 4,2004, Buder closed a refinance loan for Don and Kathy Strutz ("the
Strutzes"). Butler deposited $77;000.00 received from the Strutzes' lender into his trust account
on that date.
6. Prior to the deposit ofthe Strutzes' loan proceeds, the balance in B~tler's trust account
was $4.56.!
,

)

'

7. :6utler was directed by his clients to disburse their loan proceeds according to the
Strutzes' HUD-l Settlement Statement (" Strutz Hud-l").
.

"

8. On February 4, 2004, Butler wrote trust account check number 3578 to himself for the
$600.00 th~ Strutz Hud-l showed· he was to" receive.

1

'i

9. On February 4, 2004, Butler wrote trust account check number 3620 to himself for
$7,500.0Q that was paid with the Strutzes' funds without the Strutzes' knowledge or consent.
,

10. 'On February 9, 2{)04, Butl~r wrote trust account check number 3621 to himself for
.$5,600.00 that was paid with the Strutzes' funds without the Strutzes'knowledge or consent.

,,
"

11. :Butler appropriated funds the Strutzes had entrusted to him in a fiduciary capacity to
his own use in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-90.
12. On or after June 18,2004, "Butler closed a refinance loan for Sylvia Rose Lee
("Lee"). Op June 23,2004, $103,702.87 from Lee's lender was deposited int() Butlet's
trust accouQ.t
. 13. :Priorto the deposit of Lee's loan proceeds, the balance in Butler's trust account was
$2,564.13.
14. Butler was directed by his client to disburse her loan proceeds according to Lee's
HUD-I Settlement Statement (" Lee Hud-l ").

I"

15. On June 23, 2004, Butler wrote trust account check number 3665 to himself for the
$475.00 the'Lee Hud-I sp.owed he was to receive.
I

".

16. Also ort June 23, 2004, without Lee's knOWledge Or consent, Butler wrote trust
account check number 3669 to Lee for $26,972.62 although the Lee HUD-l" showed that she was
only to receive $972.62.
17. On the same date, without Lee's knowledge or consent, Butler forged Lee's
endorsement on trust account check number 3669 and deposited it into his operating account.
18. Thereafter, Butler paid loans and other personal obligations from his operating
account with Lee's funds without Lee's knowledge or consent.

1

71r

19. Butler forged Lee's endorsement on trust account check number J669 in viohltion,of
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-120. Butler appropriated funds Lee had entrusted to him ina fi4uciary
capacity to his own use in violation of N.C.· Gen. Stat. § 14-90.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings ofFa~t, the hearing committee makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I,

1. All parties ate properly before the hearing committee of the bisciplinary Hearing
CommIssion and the hearing committee has"jurisdiction over Butler and the SUbject matter.
2. Butler's conduct, as set out above, constitutesgrqunds'for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) as Jollows:
.
(a)

,.'"

(b)

I

(c)

by appropriating the Strutzes' ~ntrusted funds to his own use without
their knowledge and consent, Butler committed a criminal act that reflects
adversely on his honesty, trustworthine$s of fitness as a.lawyer in
violation of Rule. 8.4(b); engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation' in violation of Rule 8.4{c); and failed to
ml:1intain the Strutzes' entrusted.property in his trust account separate
from his property in violation of Rule 1J 5-2(~).
by forging Lee's endorsement on trust account check number 3669,
. Butler committed a criminal act th4t reflects adversely on his honesty,
trustWorthiness or fitness a~ a lawyer in violation of Rule 8A(b) and
. engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud~ deceit or
.
misrepresentation in violation ofRule SA(c)
by appropriating Lee's entrusted funds to his own use without he'r
knowledge or consent, Butler committed a criminal act that reflects
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in .
violation of RUle 8A(b); engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or.misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); ,and failed to
maintain Lee's entrusted property in his trust account separate from his
property in violation of Rule l.I5-2(a).

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Conclusions of Law, and the evidence
presented at the hearing, the hearing comIhittee hereby makes the follOWing:

I
:', .
"

'77f

FINDiNGS OF FACT REGARDiNG DISCIPLINE
1.• Butler's misconduct is aggrayated by the following factors:
(a)

dishonest or selfish motive;

(b)

a pattern of misconduct

(c)

multiple offen~es; an<,i

Cd)

substantiai experience in the practice of law.

I

2 .. Butler's miscondllct is mitigated by the following factor:
(a)

absence of a prior disciplinary record.

3. 'The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigation factors.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
,,'-

1.. An order calling for discipline short of Butler's disbarment would not
sufficiently protect the Rublic for the following reasons:
(a)

An attorney's duty to preserve a client's funds entrusted to the attorney is one of
the most sacred duties that art attorney undertakes. An attorney should never '
violate that d'llty or the trust the client has in the attorney to honor that duty.

(b)
:

On two different occasions Butler violated that duty and his clients' trust. In
d.oing so, Butler caused significant harm to his clients.

(c),

Butler's violation of his duty to preserve his clients' entrusted funds caused
significant harm to the legal profession. ,

(d):

Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses that Butler committed and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of
the Bar in this State.

(e) i

The protection of the public requires that Butler not be permitted to
resume the practice of law until he demonstrates that he has reformed, that
he understands his obligations to his clients and that r~instatement would
not injure the standing of the legal profession. Disbarred attorneys must
show refotrnatioh, among other things, before they resume the practice of
law, whereas no such shOWing of reformation is required of an attorney
whose license is merely suspended f()r a term certain.

I

I

70 0

BASED U:PON the foregoing Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and the argument of
counsel, the hearing committee hereby enters, the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, Dewey R. Butler, is hereby DISBARRED.
2. Butler shall ,surrender his license and membership card to the Secretary .within 30 days
of the effective date ofthi~ order.
.

I

3. Butler, shall cOl11plywith the requirements
6f 27 NCAC IB, §.OI24.
. '
4.- The cqsts of this proceeding are taxed to.Butler and shall be paid as assessed by the
Secretary With 90 days of the effective date of this order.
Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee member~, this
the

,,. .

-!i-

day of March, 2005.

I

I

7fl

