--

--

~

--

~~ ~---

- -----

~---~

~--

BEFORE THE
GruEVANCECONlliflTTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0920

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

"

)
)
)
)
)

IN THE MATTER OF
Gustavus L. ponnelly, Sr.
Attorney At Law
I

REPRIMAND

1

On ThUrsday, January 20,2005 the Grievahce COl.11l11ittee ofthe North Carolina State Bar
met and considered the grievances filed against you by Sarah Stevens.
I

,

Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information l!tvailable to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee f9und probable cause; Probable c~use is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplillaIY ~ction."
The l1.lles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission :~e not required,;ahd the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injUry caused, and any
aggravating qr mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an adnionition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I'

A reprimand is a written form. of discipline more serious than an achn,onition issued in
cases in whi~h an attorney has Violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and :has caused hannor potential harril to a client, the a~stration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
-, The Grievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a censure is hot required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman ofthe Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand ~l1y the spirit in which this duty is performeq..
!

-

-

•

At some point before Match 2004, you 'began r~presenting Tracy Oakes, the mother in a
child custody:matter. At the time, the father of the minor child, Joe Simpson, had custody
through a prior consent order. YOil filed a motion on behalf of the moth~r to change the custody
arrangement~. Mr. Simpson Was represented by counseL A hearing Was held in March 2004, but
I

1

your client's motion to award het custody was denied at .that time. Another hearing, on support,
was scheduled for June 10, 2004, but was continued to June 30, 2004. Mr. Simpson was still
represented by counsel on the matters scheduled for the June heari:ng.

I

On or about June 16,.2004, your client informed youofafiother change in circUIilstances
affecting the custodyofthe minor child. In a series .oftelephone calls over the next.coupleof
day~, your client asked you to' prepare a consent custody order granting her custody of the child.
On Friday, June 18, 2004, you prepared such a consent custody order. Although you knew that
the father was stilI represented by counsel, you made arrangements directly with the father to
meet him at the courthouse on Monday afternoon to enter the consent order prepared at your
client's direction. You also kriew at the time ofthis conversation that opposing counsel was on
.
vacation that week and you did not discuss the matter with her.
On Monday, June 21, 20Q4, you met with the opposing party, the father, at the
courthouse. You presented him with the proposed consent order. He reviewed and signed.it.
Although you contend that he iufonhed you that he did not want his counsel's review of the
proposed order, you made no effort to communicate with opposing counsel on Monday even
though you knew that she should have returned from vac~tion. You then left the signed consent
order with the judge for entry by the court without juforming opposing counsel ot the court that
there was opposing counsel ofrecord in the case. After the judge entered the order, you served a
copy on opposing counsel. Opposing counsel contacted you immediately upon receipt of the
order and a$ked that you have it withdrawn. You did not and opposing couns~l was forced to file
·a motion to set aside the order. A hearing was held and the court ordered the consent order set
aside.

I

The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct. Rule 4.2 prohibits an attorney from communicating with the opposing
party when the attorney knows that tbat party is represented by counsel. At the time you met with
the opposing party, you knew that he was represented by counsel. Even ifhe told you that he did
not want his counsel to review the order before he signed it, youshoulcl not have met with or
presented the consent order to him without opposing counsel's prior authorization. Further,
opposing counsel Was still counsel of record in the coUrt proceeding. You left the signed consent
order with the court for entry without any prior notice to opposing counsel. That act violated the
Rule :3.5, which prohibits ex parte communications with the coup:. Finally, because you failed to
take appropriate steps to rescind the consent order after opposi:ng counsel protested its entry, you
forced opposing counsel to file a motion with the court and the court to conduct a hearing on this
matter. By requiring a court hearing to set aside th~ order for which you had inappropriately
obtained the opposing party's consent, you violated Rule 8.4(d), which prohibits an attorney from
engaging i:n conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice.
.
In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee considered the following aggravating
and mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered your substantial experience in
the practice of law, that you failed to.recognize the wrongful nature of your conduct, and th4t
your act had the potential for significant harm to the public and the reputation of the professjon.
In mitigation, the Committee considered your lack of prior disciplinary record.

I

You are hereby reprimand~d by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. ,The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In acqordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North

Carolina Stat¢ Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issu~d a reprimand by th~ Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done Imd ordered, this the

)?

day or

~.

~

2005

I

.~
....

,

..

~"

HB/lr

I

