~lll
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
Noittlf CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0532

WAKECOPNTY

I

IN THE MAtTER OF
Christopher B. Godwin
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

..
On Thursday, January 20,2005 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
met and considered the grievances filed against you by David Senzaquen.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hear-jng. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the leiter of nbtice,the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is'defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
St~te

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable c~use, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury c~used, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprl,mand is a written form of discipline more serious than an ~dmCinition issued ~n
case,s in Which an attorney has violated one or more provisions offue Rules of Professional
Conduct, and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration 'of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct doeS not require a censure.
:;n~e,'drievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this 9ase
and i~sq,es this reprimand to you. As ch~iI'maIl of the Grievance Committee of the North

Carolina State Bar., it is now my duty' to issue this reprimand, and lam certain that you wUI
understand fully the spirit in which this' d\lty is performed.
In July 1998, you represented a client (whose initials are DJB) in a real est~te closing in
which your client would acquire pro.perty in the downtown area of Fayetteville and us~ the
property to secure a loan. The sellers of the property were two individuals who each owned
partial interests in the whole property. As part of the closing transaction, you were to provide a

I

-final opinio~ oftitle for both an owner and lender policy of title insurance. You collected the
premium for1the policy at.closing.
One <;>f the two own~rs had a quarter interest in the property. the plan was to have that
owner convey to the owner of the rest of the property and have that party convey the whole
interest in the property to yoUr client. You prepared the deeds for the transfer of ownership by
each of the p3rtiesaccording to this pian. However, instead of properly describing the property in
the deeds, each of your deeds described a different property aitogether. In fact, the description on
the deeds yo~ pr~pared conveyed a 16-acre tract outside of the city limits rather than the
p~operty. You also used that description for the deed of trust executed by your client.
downtown
,

I

i

You conducted the·closirtgand recorded the erroneous deeds in August-1998. After
closing and r¥cording, you did not follow-up and prepare the requisite final title opinion
necessary fodhe issuance of the title insurance policy required by the lender and for the benefit
of your client..
In April 1999, yout-client learned about your error in the property description and asked
you to correct it. Although your error was not a minor typographical error, but the description of
an entirely different property, you chose to simply re-record the original deeds with new property
descriptiops ~s correction deedS even though it was not clear under the statute that your original
error could be -corrected in that mailnet. However, you failed to record any correction deed from
the owner onhe Qne-quarter interest in the property, the first deed in the chain oftitle that you
prepared. Ad4itionally, even after recording the correction deeds, you did nothing more to secure
the !itle ins\lf~ce policy for your client or the lender.
In June 2003, your client discovered your failure to properly draft and record the deed to
the one-quart~t interest in the property and again asked you to correct the title to his property. By
this time, the owner of the one-quarter interest had-died leaVing two heirs as owners of the
. property. You!I then attempted to have the owner's heirs execute correction deeds, but were
unsuccessful. ;You then re-recorded' the original deed with an amended property description for
the correct prqperty. At this point, August 2003, you finally submitted a final title opinion for
title insurance and tendered the premium. It was noW five years after the original closing. The
title policy wa~ not issued and you did not follow-up to determine why at any time. Your client
finally consulted with other counsel and in October 2004, proper correction deedS were prepared
..
and filed by other counsel.

I

Rule 1;3 requires an attorney to act on behalf of a client with reasonable diligence and
promptness. By failing to follow-up on the original closing to prepare a proper final title opinion
within ~. reaso~able time after the closing, by failing to prepare a proper final title opinion after .
recording the "correction" deeds about 8 months later, by failing to, review the original record to
find that your error extended to the first deed of the one-quarter interest, and by failing to followup on the title insurance application you filed in August 2003 Within a reasonable time, you
neglected your client's legal matter in violation of Rule 1.3. Your lack of diligence created a
cloud on the ti~le to the property that should have been corrected no later than April 1999 and
jeopardized the lender's security on its loan to your client.

I

I

Additionally, Rule 1.15-3 requires you to reconcile each client's balance of funds in your
trust account on a quarterly basis and provide art annual accounting to each client who has a
balance in that account for'more thail a y'ear. Had'you been properly reconciling your trust
account, you would have discovered that the title premium had, not been paid over the five-year
period after the original closing. It is clear that you failed to make a proper reconciliation of your
client's balance in your account over that period. The CO!Qrnittee is aware Of your statement that
you d,id not believe you woulq have discovered the outstanding balance ip' your accoQn,t for this
client because of the other client balances. That is precisely why the trust account rules require
you to reconcile the cliept ~alances, not just the account as a whole.
The Committee believes that the aggravating circUlllstances in this matter include your
substantial experience in the practice of law and your failure to take appropriate 'steps to rectify
this matter even when given several opportunities before the grievance was 'filed. The Com~ittee
believes the mitigating circumstances include you cooperation and disclosure to the Committee
and your lack of any selfish or dishonest motive. This began. ~s a simple mistake th~t blossomed
into a disciplinary matter because of your failure to t~e appropriate corrective action on a timely
basis.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will neVer again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of th¢ legal profeSSion.
In, accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 198J by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs'to any
attomey issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount
" of$5O'.O'O' are hereby taxed to you.
'
Done and ordered, this the

I

J~

~...-100---'

H

HB/lr -,

,

20'0'5

