BEFORE THE
iSCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OPTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04 BCR 1 & 00 DHC 3

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE MATTER OF
THE REINSTATEMENT.oF
WILLIE D. :GILBERT II; Attorney

.'\

)

)
)
)
)

ORDER DENYING REINSTATEMENT
AND MODIFYING THE ORDER
OF DISCiPLINE IN 00 DHC 3

I

On January 28, 2005, a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Com'mission
composed tif F. Lane Williamson, Chair; .Charles M. Davis, and MargUerite P. Watts heard the
petition for'reinstatement filed by Willie D. Gilbert, II, pursuant to 27 NCAC 1B, § .0125(b)
ba~ed upon ,the olJjection filed by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar. Eric C.
Michaux represented the petitioner and A. Root Edmonson represented the North Carolina State
Bar.
Bas¢d upon the evidence presented and the arguments of counsel, the hearing c01111.11ittee
enters the following:

Findings of Fact
1.
The license to practice law of Willie D. Gilbert, II (hereafter "Gilbert") was
suspended for five. years by an Qrder of discipline entered in case file number 00 DHC 3 on
N ovember ~, 20UO. The order of discipline provided that ·the last three years of the suspension.
would be stayed upon Gilbert's compliance with ce'rtain conditions. One of the conditions
precedent to Gilbert's reinstatement under the order of discipline was reimbursing th$ Client
Security FUJ:?d for any amounts disbursed as a: result of Gilbert's misconduct.

I

2. i Gilbert gave notice of fi-ppeal of the order of discipline to the North Carolina
Court of Appeals and 'sought a stay of the order of discipline from that Court.
.

.

3.
By orders dated December 4 apd 18, 2000, the Court of Appeals granted a partial
stay of the 0rder of discipline subject to two cOIiditions: (1) that Gilbert abide by a preliminary
injUnction consented to by the parties concerning his handling of client funds and (2) that he not
accept any new clients or engage as attorney' for another in any new case or legal matter of any
nature durinp the period of the stay.
1

4.
The Court of Appeals a:f:firmed the order of discipline by a split deciSIon. Gilbert
appealed th~ decision to the Supreme Court of North Carolina and sought a stay of the judgment
of the Court ofAppeals in the Supreme Court.

I

.

V'

5.
By Qrders dated August 22, 2002 and February ';.7, 2003, the Supreme Court
stayed the judgment of the Court of Appeals that affirmed the order ofdiscipline.
6.
On October 2, 20U3, the Supreme Court affirmed the order of discipline. Because
the effective date of the order of discipline was stayed by the orders of the appellate courts, and
based upon the Supreme 'Court's October 22, 2003 'mandate, the effective date of the order of
di~cipline was October 22,2003.

I

7.
Gilbert is not eligible for reinstatement from the active portion of his s-qspensio1l.
until two years after the effective date of the order of discipline, October 21,2005.
8.
From the entry of the order of discipline until its effective' date after affirmation
by the Supreme Court, a period of three years, Gilbert was allowed to represent only a limited
number of existing clients through the completion of their existing cases. Gilbert actively
represented the last of those existing clients thro-qgh at least May 13, 2003, when he filed an
appellate brief on behalf of two clients for whom he had obtained a judgment at trial during the
partial stay of the order of discipline. The judgment was upheld on appeal, and payment orr the
judgment was made in September of2003 .
.,

9.
At its meeting on January 18, 2001, the ,CHent Security Fund (i~Fund"), 'after
notice to Gilbert and an opportunity to be heard in accordance with its rules, reimbursed
Gilbert's former client Michele Munavalli ("Munavalli") $4,627.43 for a loss caused by Gilbert.
1O.
The Fund then made demand on Gilb¢rt for repayment to the Fund of th~
$4,627.43 paicl to Munavalli shortly thereafter ~
11.
On April 18" 2002, the North Carolina State B~, on behalf of the Fund, filed suit
against Gilbert in Wake County District Court, file number 02 CVD 4961 (hereafter "civil
case"), seeking a judgment against Gilbert for double the amount the ,Fund paid to Munavalli.

I

12.
Gilbert filed an Answer to the civil case contesting the authority and decision of
the Fund's payment to Munavalli.
On March 11, 2004, Judge Jane P. Gray entered judgment in favor of the North '
13.
Carolina State Bar in the civil case.
..
l4.
Gilbert fil~d notice of appeal of Judge Gray's judgment to the Court of Appeals
and the appeal is currently pending.
15.
any amount.

As of the date of the hearing in this matter, Gilbert had nbt reimbursed the Fund

2

I
'"

',.

..

--------------------------------------~---------------------------------------

--

--

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following: ,
Conclusions of Law
1.:
Pursuant to 21 NCAC 1B, § .0125(b)(3), the petitioner had the burden of proVing
that he had satisfied all of the elements qualifying him for reinstatement by clear, cogent and
convincing,evidence. Those elements include satisfaction of all conditions precedent to
reinstatement set forth in the order of discipline.
',

2.
Because the orders that Gilbert secured from the appellate courts during his
appeal of the order of discipline in 2000 DHC 3 stayed the effective date of that order of
discipline, and because Gilbert was actively representing a limited number of clients during'most
of the stay period, the active portion of Gilbert's suspension began on October 22,2003.

I

3., The three years that Gilbert Was only able to represent such a limited number of
clients shOl.).1d, as a matter of equity, be counted as the three years that the order of discipline
allowed Gilbert to practice l~W subject to the stay provisions of the order of discipline.
4.
As a matter of equity, the Hearing Committee treats Gilberts petition for
reinstatemeht as a modon to modify the order of discipline.in 00 DHC 3 pursuant to 27 NCAC
lB, § .0114(z)(3)(A) and N. C. Civ..Pro. Rule 60(b)(5) & (6). The order of discipline entered in
00 DHC 3 should be modified by striking the portion of the order requiring Gilbert to serve three
years under! a stayed suspension at the conclusion of his active suspension. However, Gilbert is
required to pomplete the two years of active suspension from- the effective date of the order of
discipline, October 22,2003.
1

5.
Subject to his complyil1g with the procedures set out in 27 NCAC 1B § .0125(b),
and the conditions set forth in this Order, Gilbert will be eligible for reinstatement to the active
practice ofliiw on or after October 21,2005.
I

.

.

.

6.
When allowed by 27 NCAC IB, § .0125(b), Gilbert ~ay file another petition for
reinstatement from the active portion of his suspension. Because Gilbert has shown herein that
he has satisfied the conditions for reinstatement, except as specifically set out below, Gilbert will
only have to prove that he has not engaged in any conduct that would preclude his reinstatement
between the; date of the hearing herein and the date he is eligible for reinstatement pursuant to
this Order.

I

7.
Although the order of discipline enter~d on November 1, 2000 did not find that
Gilbert engaged in dishonest conduct regarding Mimavalli, the condition contained in the order
of discipline that Gilbert comply with all provisions of 27 NCAC lB § .0125(b), including
reimbursing ~he Fund for any aniounts disbursed by the Fund as a result of Gilbert's misconduct,
requires that Gilbert reimburse the Fund $4,627.43 before being eligible for reinstatement.
Neither the drder of discipline nor the reinstatement rule limits the reimbursement requirement to
miscol}~uct {ound in the order of discipline.

3

I

..
8.
Pursuant to 27 NCAC IB § .0125(b)(3)(F), Gilbert is not permitted to Gollaterally .
attack the decision of the Fund's Board of Trustees to reimburse Munavalli in his reinstatelllent
proceeding.
9.
Pursuant to 27 NCAC IB, § .0114(z)C3)(A) and N. C. Civ. Pro. Rule 60(b)(5) &
(6), if the final result of the civil case is a determination that Gilbert is not liable to the Fund,
then Gilbert should be relieved ;from the obligation to repay the Fund as a condition of
reinstatement.

I

10.
If Gilbert wishes to seek reinstatement prior to a fmal determination of the civil
case, he must deposit $4,627.43 with the North Carolina State Bar before filing a petition for
reinstatement to satisfy the condition that he reimburse the Fund prior to reinstatement. If the
civil case is ultimately resolved in his favor, the 'North Carolina State Bar' shan refund the
deposit.
11.

Gilbert $hould be taxed with the costs of tbi$ proceeding.

. NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:
1.
The o.rder of discipline entered in 00 DHC 3 is hereby modified by striking the
portion of the order requiring Gilbert to serve three years under a stayed suspension at the
conclusion of his active suspension.
,
~

2.
Gilbert will not b~ 'eligible for reinstatement to the active practice of law until
October 21,2005.

I

3.
Except as set out in paragraphs 5-8 below, when Gilbert files a subsequent
petition for reinstatement pursuant to 2iNCAC lB § .0125(b), the only issu~s for considemtion .
should be: (1) whether Gilbert has engaged in any conduct that would preclude his reinstatement
between the date of his hearing herein and the date of his subsequent petition,. (2) whether
Gilbert has reimbursed the Fund as set out herein, .and (3) whether Gilbert has paid the CQstsof
this proceeding.
4.
Gilbert must file his petition for reinstatement 30 days before eligibility fOr
reinstatement in accordance with 27 NCAC IB § .0125(b).
As a condition of his reinstatement on ot after October 21~ 2005, but subject to
5.
paragraphs 6-8 below, Gilbert tnust reimbur$~ the Fund the $4,627.43 the Fund paid to
MunavalJi
6.
If the final result of the ·civil case is a determination that Gilbert is not liable to the
Fund, then Gilbert is relieved of his obligation to repay the Fund as a condition ofreinstatem~nt.
7.
If Gilbert wishes to seek reinstatement prior to a final determination of the civil
case, he mllst deposit $4,627,43 with the North Carolina State Bar prior to filing a petition in
order to satisfy the condition that he reimburse the Fund prior to reinstatement.

4

--------:---------------..,......--------------------------

---

8. ,
If Gilbert deposits $4,627.43 with'the North Carolina State Bar as set out in
paragraph 7 above and the civil case is ultimately resolved in his favor, the North Carolina State
'
Bar must tefund the deposit:
9. :
Gilbert is taxed with the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary, and
must pay these costs prior to petitioning for reinstatement..
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other members of the Hearing Committee this

I

,

the 8th day of March 2005.

F. Lane Williamson, Chair
Hearing Committee

I

•

I
...

5

I
:-:

'1 qr!
'1

