.,

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GlUEVANCE COMMJTTEE
OF THE
NORTHCARotINA STATEBAR
03G0559

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

)
)
)
)
)'

LISA N. ROGERS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

CENSURE

~-.---------~-.,----,.-,-----~~-'~-~-,..-,,--

Op October 23, 2003, the Grievance Cotnn1ittee·ofthe North Carolina State Be+r met and
considered the grievance filed again~t you by John Bas's.
P\lfSuant to section .Ol13{a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After consideril1g the inf.onnati0l1
a\'iailable to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grieva,nce Committee found probable
cause. Probahle Catlse is defined in the rules as "rea$oIiable Cause to believe that a 'member of the l\j'orth
Carolina State Bar is guilty. of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
B~r,

The rules provide that after ,a finding ofprobable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearingpefore the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are.
not requited and the Grievance Comm,ittee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actUal or potential injury caused, and any aggravatin~ Or mitigating factors .. The
Grievance Committee may Issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censUre.

I

A censure isa written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in case& in which
all attorney has violated Ol~e or more provisions of the I<.ules ofPtofessional Conduct and has caused

significant harm or potential significant harm to a' client, the administration of justice, the profession oi'
a member.ofthe public, but the-misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
. . The Grievance Committe~ believes t.hat a hearing before. the Disciplinary Hearing .C0i11111jssion
is not required in this'case &nd issues this censure to you. As chainnan of the Griev.ance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar. it is now my·duty to issue this censUre. I am certain that you wili
understand fully the spirit in wl:rich this duty is perfonned.
.
When your former husband infonned you of his intention to ~nd your marriage, you told him
that you would not resist a divorce and would waive'allY and allmterest in marital property and
alimony. After the one-year period of separation had passed, you told him tbat YOll could handJe the
divorce proceedings for both of you so that the prpc~ss ~ould be quick, sirp.ple, private and less costly
for both of you. You also told Wrn that thefe would be no need for him to consult another lawyer about
it.
On June 17. 2002~ you filed' a· complaint for nbs.olute divorce as your husband's attorney and
namingyot;n;~lfas the defendant. The complaint was styled "John Ralph McLellan Bass, PlaintiffV'.

I
: ::.: ,,'.

..

'

Lisa Rogers Bass, Defendant." You signed the complaint "Lisa N. Rogers, Esq. Counsel for Plaintiff"
You then serVed the complaint on yoUrself as Lisa Rogers Bas~. On September 27,2002, you filed an
answer in your individual capacity in which you stated that "the Plain~iff, having been adviSed by the
Defendant th~t a Complaint for Equitable Distribution will be filed in the near future" is entitled to his
divorce. You' served the answer upon yourself by mail as counsel for the plaintiff.
When: your former huspand learned about your intent to file a potential claim for equitable
distribution, contrary to the representation you had made to him and upon which he relied, he consulted
another attof11.ey for assistance. That attorney contacted you. You responded to that attorney by letter
stating that you were your former husband's attorney arid that you could handle preparation of the .
divorce judgn:,'1ent. You signed the letter to the otner attotney in you dual capacity as "Lisa N. Rogers
(Mrs. JoQn R., Bass)." {'rior to entry ofthe divorce decree, which Was obtained by the other attorney,
you filed a mqtion for equitable distribution and a separate action for post separation support, alimony,
equitable distribution and attorney's fees. fu the second action, you represented yourself and sued your
former husband~ who by that time Was your former client. .

I

!

You h~teby are censured for violating several of the Revised Rules pfProfessional Conduct and
causing poten#a1 sigIiificant harm to your former husband and purported client, the administrati9n of
justice, and the profession of law. Representing,Your fortner husband as his attorney in an action in
which you had a materially adverse interest, and subsequently filing an action against him that was
: substantially te1ated to the one in which you served as his attorney, constituted a flagrant conflict of
interest-in violation of Revised Rules 1.7(a)~ 1.8(b) and 1.9(a) and (c). You also violated Revised Rule
1.4(b) by failirig to explain to your fprmer husband the legal matters for which you provided legal
services to the!extent reasonably necessary to permit him to make informed decision regarding the
repre~entation.i Your acts also constituted professional misconduct involving dishonesty, deceit or
misrepresentation to your fOinler husb~d, conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice, and
.;.conduct prejudicial to your fortner husband's legal rights in violation of Revised Rules S.4(c) and (g).
I

Yoq are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar lor your violation of the Rules of
Professional Condqct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will portder this censure, recognize the
errors that you have made, and that you will neVer again allow yourselfto depart from adherence to the -high ethical standards of the legal profession. This cenSUre should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorney~ and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected memb~r ofthe legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.

'1

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Caroli:J;la
State Bar regarding the taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount or$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you. '.
Done arid ordered, this

12 1;-day of _ J),e..~~ _, 2003.

i

!"

. McMillan, Cllair
Griev' . ce Co:rnrnittee.
The North Carolina State Bar

I
.....
..

,',',

