-----------------------------------------~1
_~~'t")
~v

NORTH

CAROUNA~::.i

WAKE COUNTY

12 J i
_"S .

...

6i

APR 2005 _ _..J

, _

_~EF(JRE !HE .

. _

~

FILEE)lSCI@ NARY

riEA~ING COMMISSION

'1-:'':)

,

OF THE

~~p

D-' He

C$

N~-- -H CA~C?~INA StATE BAR
~4>£ _
:\~
05 DHC 9
~QfJ.i ~lS\'\

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
,

-

Plaintiff)
)

v.

.)
)

,,

LAURIEiA. BAKER, Attorney,
.
Defendant

CONSENT ORDER Or::
DISCIPLINE

I

)

)

This matter was heard by a Hearing Comtn'ittee of 'the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair, Karen Eady-WiHrams, and
Marguerite P. Watts. Margaret Cloutier represented plaintiff. Defendant was
represented By Douglas E. Kingsbery. Defendaht has agreed to waiVe a formal
hearing in the above referenced matter. The 'parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fad and conclusions of law reCited ih this cotlsent order and to the
disciplin~imposed. Defendant also stipulates that she waives her right to appeal
this c()I1$ent order or challenge in any way thesLiffiCiency of the findings by
consenting to the entry of this order.
Bas-ed on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters
the followilig
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. ~ Plaintiff, the North Carolina State s'ar (he'reinafter "State -Sar"), is a
body dUly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring thiS, proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations. of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. Defendant, Laurie A. Baker (hereinafter "Defendant or Baker"), Was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 29; 1998 and is, and was at
all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North
Carolina,: subject to the rules, regulations, and Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Ca'rolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
I

Carolina~.

I

3.

Defendant was admitted to the South Catolina State Bat in August

1998.

4. DUring the times relevant herein, DefertdE\nt actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of South Caroiiha and was employed in a law office in
Rock Hili, SOuth 'Carolina.

I

'$,. When-Defendant Was admitted to the North Carolina Bar hi August
1998, Defendant was employed as an associate by the firm of Forquer & Green
in Ch~rlotte, North Cprollna. Shortly thereafter Defendant was admitted to the .
South Carolina ear a'nd began working in that firm's Rock Hill, South Carolina
office.
',-

6. On September 1, 1999 Forquer & Green rilerged with the firm of Brock
& Scott. 'In South Carolin~, the new firlli operated as Green, Brock, Forquer &
Scott. At the time of the merger, Defendant beQa~me an employee onhe new firm
and continued to work in the Rock Hill offiCe as the sole licensed attorney .in that
office.
With the merger, thre'e hon-Iawyer emp-Ioy~es moved -into the Rock Hill'
office. The' three' employees included an, 1:1hlicensedlaw school graduate named
Bryclnt BrdWn (here'inafter referred to a.s "srown") and two legal assistants.
Defendant $upervised all three of these employees.

1.

I

8. While employed at Green, Brock, Forquer & Scott and under the
supervision of Defendant, Brown conducted real estate closings,potb inside and
Outside of the office, without Defendantbr another attorney being present.
.
Brown signed Defendant's name on real estate closing documents withQut
indicating he was signing for Defendant. This was done with Defendant's
knowledge ahd, in somei.nstances, in h'er presence.
9. After conducting real estate closings, it was Brown's practice to have
other firm employees sign as witness and/or notary on the documents even
though they were not present at the elosillgS. Brown also routinely signed ·as
witness and notary to documents related to closings at.which he was not pres~nt. .
.Defendant was not specifically aware of these practices; however, Defendant
was responsible for Brown's supervision.

10. From September 1999 until January 2000 Defendant and Brown
handled allproximately sixty to eighty teal estate closings p~r month. During that
time, although Defendant conveyed concerns to the ownerS of the firm,
Defendant made no meaningful inquiry into the propriety of hdn-Iawyers
conducting real estate closings. Defendant -did not conduct any legal research,
constJlt with an attorney outside her firm,or seek, guidance from the South
Carolina Bat concerning the propriety of a non-lawyer conducting real estate

2

I

9Jq-

closings. At the time, it was not permisslbie in ,South Carolina for non-lawyers to
conduct real estate Closings.

11. On January 17,2000 Defendant left the employ of Green, Brock,
Forqu~r &, Scott. On February 25, 2000, as a favor to that firm, Defendant
conducted areal estate closing in Greenville, South Carolina. Following the
closing':, Defendant left the closing documents at the Rock Hill office of Green,
,Brock, Forquer &Scott and took no ,further action in regard to the closihg.
Defend.a'rtt did not explain to the clients for whom the closing was held her limited
role in connection with the closing.
'
!

,
12. Defendant 'failed to sign her name on So'l'lte of the closing documehts
for the ~Iosirtg referred to in the preceding paragraph. Brown signed Defendant's
name Where she' failed to, including on an affidavit and a certification. On one
docum~nt, Brown notarized Defendant's signature when Brown had signed
Defendant's hame himself. Brown signed his own' name as witness on the
docum~nts even though he was not present when the documents were executed.
Brown notarized the cli~nts' signatures in two places. Some of the documents
were incomplete or left blan~ at the time of the closing, and BroWn completed the
docurhemts and filled in the blanks. The mQrtgage and deed were not recorded.

I

eased on the foregoing Findings of t=act, the Committee enters the
followihg
CONCLUSIONS

OF LAW

All parties ~re properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Commi~ee has Jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.

1.

. 2.I Defendant's
foregoing
actions constitute
groLinds for disCipline
.
.
,
.
pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(2) in that she violated one or more of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as
follows:

I

.

a. by ailowihg Brown to conduct real estate Closings, sign Defendant's
name on documents, and witness and notarize documents improperly,Defendant
failed t6 make all rea,sonable efforts to ensUre a non-lawyer's conduct was
compatible with the professional obligation of Defendant in violation of Rule
5.3(b); i
b. by, ailowi'ng Brown to conduct real estate closings and failing to make
meaningful inquiry into the propriety Of such conduct under South Carolina law or
rules, ,Qefendant assisted another person engaged in the unauthoriZed practice
of iaw in Violation of Rule 5.5(b); and
1

3

I

I

c, by failing to take further steps to complete the loan Closing documents.
fo!lowing' the F~bruary25, 2000 real estate transaction without telling the clients
of her limited role in the transaction, Defendant failed to keep the clients
reasonably ihfbrmed about the status of their matter in violation of Rule 1.4.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
Hearing Committee also enters the following

I

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. NQ factors exist that tend to aggravate Defendant's misconduct.

2.

Defendant'S misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

(a) the absence, of a disciplinary re'cord prior to the act$ of
misconduct set forth herein;
(b) the issuance of discipfine by the South Carolina state Bar
based on the same conduct;
(c) the absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
(d) cooperative attitude toward these proceedin'g's';
(e) delay in disciplinary proceedings in thl$ state through no fault of
Defendant; and

(f) inexperience in the practice of law at the time of the misconc!\.Ict

I

3,. The mitigating factors ol;ltweigh the aggravating factors,
4. Defendant's conduct caused potential harm to clients of the firm and
actual harm to the clients for whom the February 2000 closing was held, and
Defendant violated one or more rule of professional conduct.
5, Sased on the mitrgating factors', Defendant's recognition of the ethical
prohibitions to her conduct" and Defendant's commitment to refrain from such
flJtut.e conduct, ehtryof an order imposing a censure is unnecessary to 'protect
the public from potential future transgressions by Defendant. However, entry of
an order of less than a reprimand would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of
the offenses committed by Defendant and would send the wrong message to
attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
The Hearing Committee finds and concludes that under the circumstances of this
Cqse the publiC will be adequately protected by issuing a reprimand to Defendant.

4

I

•

'

f

•

,

,

.

,Based upon the foregoing Findiil'gs of Fact, ConclUsions of Law, and
Findings Regarding Disciplin~, and uponcon'sent of the parties, the Hearing
COrhmittee enters the following
ORDER OF DISCipLINE
1. The discipline to be imposed in this matter is a Reprimand. The
Reprimand, of even date herewith, accompanies this Order.
2. Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary and shall be paid within thirty days of service of the notice of costs
upon tme Defenda'nt.

I

. Sighed by the undersigned Chait With the full ~no~ledge' and consent of
the other members of the Hearing Committee, this. 3l s day of JVl;:n.~ ,

2005.

•

a:~6L(

STEPHE E. CULBRETH, CHAIR
HEARING COMMITTEE

I
LAURIE' A. BAKER, Defendant

5

I

NORTH CAROLIN

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
F'-Iaintiff
)
)
. v.
)
)
)
LAURIE A. BAKER', Attorney,
Defendant )

REPRIMAND

Pursuant to §§.0109, .0114, and .0123 of the Discipline and
Disability Rwles of the North Carolina State Bar, the Hearing Committee of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered a Consent Order of Discipline
of even date herewith. After considering the information available to it .
contained in the pleadings and within the findings of facts, conclusions of
law and findings regarding discipline of the Order of DisCipline, the Hearing
Committee has determined that a reprimand is an appropriate discipline
given the circumstances of this action.

I

, Theruies provide that after a finding of miSCbhduct, 'the, Hearing
Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon'the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggr.avating or
mitigating factors. The Hearing Committee may issue an admonition,
reprimand, censure, suspension or disbarment.
.
A reprimand is a written form of disCipline more s~rious than an
admonition issued in cases in which an attotney has viQlated one or more
proviSIons 'Of ihe Rules of Professional Conduct and has ca~sed harm or
potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a
member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a c<?nsure.
While employed as an associate at Green, Brock, Forquer & Scott at
its Rock Hill; South-Carolina office between $'epternber 1999 and January
2000, you afiowe'd a hon-laWyer under your supervision to conduct real
estate closings, sign' your name on documents, and witness and notarize
documents improperly. You made no meaningful inqui'rY into the propriety
of the non-laWyer's conduct, thereby failing to make all reasonable efforts to
ensur~ the non-lawyer's conduct was compatible with your professional
obligations. These acts were in violation of Rules 5.3(b) and 5.5(b) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

~

,

'Furthet, shottly after you left the employ of that firm, you conducted a
real estate closing in Greenville, South Carolina on behalf of the firm. After
the closing', you left incomplete closing documents at the firm, creating a
situatiQn that allowed the same non-laWyer staff person to sign your name
on affidavits and certifications and notarize those documents. You did not
explairl to the Clients for whom the closing was held your limited role in
conducting the closing, and the clients were therefore unaWare that no one
~t the firm thereafter completed the processing of the transaction. These
acts w<3re hi violation of Rule 1.4 of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.

I

,

you are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Ba'r for your
professionai mfsconduct. The Hearing Committee trusts that you will heed this
reprimand, that it will be remembered by you; that It wHI be beneficial to you, and
that you will never ag'ain allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high
ethical ~tai1dardS of the iegal profe~sion.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of
the oth~r rflSmbers of the Hearing Committee, this
$'Taay of I(;o=~ ,

31

2005. :

~~~.. ?Cg~C
STEPHEtiE. CULBRETH, CHAIR
HEARING COMMITTEE

I

2

I

