WAKBCOUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
)
)

)

CECELIA LEWIS, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING ATTORNEY
to DISABILITY INACTIVE
STATUS

THIS MATTER came before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
CommissIon composed of Richard T. Gammon, Ann Reed and Dale Almond pursuant to
an orqer issued by the Chair of the Disciplinary Bearing Commission on Dec. 6,2004,
cpmmanding the Defendant, Cecelia Lewis (Lewis), to appear and show cause why her
law license should not be suspended fot railing to compfy with terms of a disciplinary
order entered herein on Jan, 7,2004. Carolin Bakewell represented the N.C. State Bat.
Lewis represented herself. Based upon the consent oft4e,p~rties, the-Hearing Committee
hereby enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

I, Lewis is a comp~tent adult over the age of 21. She Understands the
consequences of this order and has agreed to its terms .voluntarily and freely.
2. On Jan. 7, 2004; th~Discip1inary He'aring C0mmission entered an order
finding that Lewis v~olated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduclin several
respects.
.
3. The Order of Discipline suspended Lewis' law license fot five years but stayed
the suspension for five'years provided that Lewis complied with certain conditions set out
in the·order.

4. On ot'about Nov. 23, 2004, the Office of Counsel filed a motion for order to
show cause in which it was alleged that Lewis failed to comply with several conditions of
the stayed suspension order,

I

·5.. the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. entered an order directing
Lewis to appear on Feb. 9,2005 and show cause, if any, why the suspel1sion of her law
license: should not be activated.
,6. Prior to Feb. 9; 2005, Lewis contacted Plaintiffs counsel and sought transfer
to disability inactive status.
:7. On February 15,2005, the Chair of the Rearing Committee entered an interim
consent order transferring Lewis to disability inactive status until the conclusion of the
Committee's hearing on her disability transfer petition, The Feb. 15,2005 order also.
, stayed further proceedings on the show cause motion.
,

I

"8. Lewis provided evidence that she has is in recovery from addiction to cocaine
and other substance, abuse. She currently suffers from bipolar disorder, anxiety,
depres$ion, panic disorder and social phobias. Lewis' bipolar disorder has improved with
medication but her condition has .not yet stabilized.
,

i9. Lewis' conditions significantly impair her professiqnaljudgment,
perfonrtance,or competence as an attomey.
~1 O. Lewis has applied for permanent Social Security disability benefits and her
treating psychiatrist, Dr. Thomas Fitzgerald, ,has opined that she is unable to be employed
'
.
in any qapacity.

:11. LewiS has completed her out-patient course of treatment with her counselor,
TammY, Bell, but continues to see Dr. Fitzgerald monthly Or as often as her finances
permit. i

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
~.,

I

All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee has

jurisdiction over Lewis' person and the subject matter of this proceeding.

I

2. Lewis is disabled within the meaning of27 NCAC.1B .0103(19) and should be
transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 NCAC 1B .0118.
I

3.

The disciplil).ary charges against Lewis as set out in the State Bar's motion to
show cause should be abated until Lewis demonstrates that she is no longer disabled and
is reinstated to the active praytice of law in this State by the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission.
I

4. Prior to seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law, Lewis should
undergo an independent meqical examination (IME) from a physician approved by the
N.C. St~te Bar and present evidence that she no 10hger suffers· from any condition or
disorder that impairs her professional judgment, performance or competence as an

I

attorney. Lewis should provide a written copy of the results of the 1ME to the Office of
Counsel contemporaneously with her reiIistatement petition and should execute ff written
releasepen'nitting the Office of Counsel to communicate with the physician who
conducts the 1ME. The 1ME should be conducted at Lewis' sole expense.

I

5. Not less than six months next preceding her petition for reinstatement, Lewis
should contact the Director'ofthe State Bar Lawyer Assistance Program and should
comply with all treatment recommendations of the LAP Director at Lewis' expense. She
should provide a written release permitting the Office of CouIisel to communicate with
the Director of LAP contemporaneously with her reinstatement petition.

ORDER
1. rhecJ?dendant; Ceceli~ Lewis, is hereby transferred to disability inactive
status.
2. Lewis shall refrain from practicing law 'in North Carolina until reinstated to
.active status pursuant to 27.NCAC IB .0125(c).
3. AU pending disciplinary actions agaip.st LeWiS by the State Bar are hereby
abated until such time as Lewis is reinstated to the active practice of law.
4. Prior to seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law, Lewis shall
undergo an independent medical examination (IME) from a physician approved by the .
N.C. State Bar and shall present evidence that she no longer suffers from any condition or '
disorder that impairs her professional judgment, performance or competence as an
attorney. Lewis shall provide a written copy of the results of the 1MB to the Office 6f
Counsel contemporaneously with her reinstatement petition and shall execute a written
release permitting the Office of Counsel to communicate with the physician who
conducts the 1ME. The 1ME shall be conducted at Lewi~' sole expense.

I

5. Not less th~ six months next pteceding her petition for reinstatement, L~wis
shall contEtct the Director of the State Bar Lawyer Assistance Program and shalf comply
with all tteatm,eJ..1t recomme~dati9ns oqhe LAP Direc;totat Lewis' expense. She shall'
provide a writteri release permitting the Office of Counsel to communicate with the' .
Director Of LAP contemporaneously with het reinstatement petition.

6. The terms and conditions of the order 6f discipline entered herein on Jan. 7,
2004 ate hereby extended for a period of 4 years from the date on which Lewis is
reinstated to the active practice of law.

I

Signed by the. Uhdersign~d chai~ with t~w,.full knowle ge a~ . consent of the other
members of the Heanng CommIttee, thIS the ~day o f :
,2005.

Richard . Gammon, Chair
Disciplina Hearing Committee

I

Seen and agreed to:

~~~

Carolin Bakewell
Plaintiff's attorney

~.
Cecelia Lewis
Defendant

I

"

I

