NORTH CAROLINA
J

: BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE

WAKE COUNTY

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0136

I

IN THE MATTER OF

)

Samuel Richardson, III
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 20,2005 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by Melissa A. Welch.
.
PurSllaIlt to Sectiofl.0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Cotnm.'ittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, inclUding your'response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
Qelieve that a memher of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct Justifying
disciplinary action,"

I

, The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the GrieVailceCommittee may
determine that the filing of it complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing .
Commissio:n are ndt requited, and the Grievance Committee' may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual 'Or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigatmg factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, 'Or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hatm or potential harm to a client, the a,dministration of j1lstice, the
profession, or a memher' of the public, but the misconduct does not requite a censure.
·The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carblina State Bar, it is nOw my duty to isslle this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You prepared a deed of trust securing interest in property owned by Melissa A:, Welch
and her ex-husband, Steven Brandon Welch. Cheryl E. Cutlip, an emplbyee in youtoffice,
notarized the deed of trust, attesting that complainant and Mr. Welch personally appeared before
her and acknowledged the execution of the deed of trust on October 26, no year stated. Ms. .

....

,.

. ~.

Cutlip notarized the docUinent based upon your representation that complainant and Mr. Welch
had signed the document. You caused Ms. Cutlip to place a false and fraudulent
lacknowledgement on the deed of trust. As a result of her misconduct, the North Carolina
.secretary of State's office revoked her commission as a notary. The Grievance Committee found
that your.actiQns as it related to Ms. Cutlip's conduct, violated Rule 8.4(b) and (c).
Anoth~r deed of trust was recorded in August 2'0'02 with respect to the same property
owned by complainant and Mr. Welch. You notarized Mr. Welch's signature and complainant's
purported sign~tute. You attested in the notary acknowledgement that both complainant and Mr.
Welch persona~ly appeared before you and acknowledged the execution of the deed of trust on
October 26,2'0'01. Instead, it appears that you not~zed a copy of a deed with complainant's
original signat&e and Mr. Welch's original sigmttUte. You put the date of the signing of the
original deed oitrust, October 26,2'0'01, on the document. On October 26, 20''01, you were not
commissioned ,as a notary. You were not commissioned as a notary public until December 27,

2'0'01.

.

I
I......;/'

'

I

,

.

•

You notarized the deed of trust while making a ~tatement in the acknowledgement that
you knew to be false or fraudulent, in violation of North Carolina General Statute Section 1DA12C. The N orth Carolin~ Secretary of State revoked your notarial commission as a result of your
misconduct. Your conduct in notarizing a document while making a stateinent in the
acknowledgment you knew to be false or fraudulent, not only violated the General Statutes, but
violated Rule 8!.4(b) and (c) of the Revis'ed Rul'esof Professional Conduct.
You are. hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina Sta~~ Bar for your professional
misconduct. the Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered bY; you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself"
to depart from ~dhereilce to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
'In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Car.olina State ~at regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the a:mount
of$5D.DD are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the 2.2 day of
I

2?1

~

I

,2'0'05.

Henry;
b, hair
Grievance Committee

HB/lr

I

