NORTH CAROLINA
I

I

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLlNA StATE BAR
0401013

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

James 1. Goldsmith, Jr.
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRiMAND

On January 20,2005 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the Nortp Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to 'Section :Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your respOl1S~ to the letter. of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
' .

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cal,lse, the Grie:vance Committeehlay
determine tha~ the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplil1ary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a Written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hafm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is·not req\lired in this case
and issu~s this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the NQrth
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will .
unqerstand fuIiy the spirit in whlch this duty is performed.
You ran a newspaper ad,: wherein you stated as follows: "I can GUARANTEE that you
will pay NO CLOSING COSTS! When you Finance Through the Mortgage Lawyer".

I

,

I

I

_ ,

The Grievance Committee found that your advertisement was misleading, as even you
adinitted in yoUr response to the Grieva~ce Committee that buyers in some instances will pay
closing costs. :
The ~ievalice Committee found that your advertisement violated Rule 7.1(a)(I) of the
Revised Rules ,of Professional Conquct.
I

'

.

. ,

.

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bat for your professional
misconduct. T;he Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
rememberec:1 by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from :adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I'

In accotdance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of th~ administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued, Ii reprim~d by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done ai).d ordered, this the ~ day of

,2005.

HB/lr

1

1

