NORTH CAROLINA

-

-------~--~-~------- ~ --~

I

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
GRlliVANCECOMlliflTTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA stATE BAR
04Gl187

./
iN THE MATTER OF
L. Keith Hanbe,
Attorney At J1.,aw

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

i

On January 20,2005 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered' the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pur~uant to

Section .01 13 (a) ofthci Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information ~vailable to it, including your response to the l~tter of notice, the Grievance
COilllnittee fqund probable caUSe. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "rea$onable cause to
believe that a: member of the North Carolina ,State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinarya;ction."
The ~les provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing-,of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission rare not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Gri~vance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

'I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and ihas caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
i

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman bfthe Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina Stat¢ Bar, it is how my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand wIly the spirit in which this duty is performed.
The North Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee issued a letter of warning to you on
April 22, 2004 regarding your advertisement in the teleph()ne book's yellow pages. This
advertisemen,t listed a telephone number for your law firm in Shelby, North Carolina. You did
not have a la.w office in Shelby, North Carolina at the time the yellow pages advertisement was
I

.

I

publishe<;l, The Grievance Committee found that your advertisement violated Rule 7, 1(a)(l) of
the Revise4 Rules of Professional Conduct. You received a letter of warning relative to your
violation of Rule 7.l(a)(1) by certified mail on May 17,2004.
As of September 29,2004, you had neither removed the advertisement from the yellow
pageS, nor had the Shelby telephone number been disconnected.
The Grievance Committee took into consideration that you asked the telephone company
to discontinue the advertisement. in the yellow pages, but the ad could not be removed until the .
new telephone books were published for 2005.
However, the Grievance COminittee was concerned that you .did not have the Shelby
telephone number disconnected expeditiously. The Grievance Committee was concerned that the
Shelby telephone number was still in service four months after you had received the letter of .
warning regarding the yellow pages advertisement.
The Grievance Committee believed that you failed to comply with both the letter an<;l
spirit of the letter ofwaming, in violation of Rule S.4(d) of the Revised Ru1es of Professional
Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this repril11and, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will neVer again allow yourself
to depart frqm adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Coundl of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative cost$ to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the ~ount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

I

Done and ordered, this the:;!.

3-

dl!yof."?11

He

HB/lr

I

'

~

,2005.

