I

- ----

NORTH CAROLtNA
r

.-~-----------

..

--

-

~--

-

BEFORE THE
'-J DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
~
OF THE
NORTH C.AROLINA STATE BAR
04 DHC 22
0")

WAKE COl.JNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
BOBBY G. MARTIN, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
CONSENT
)
FINDINGS OF FACT,
)
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)

This inatter comes before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Richard T. Gammon, Betty Ann Knudsen and Carlyn G. Poole upon the consent of
the parties as to th~ findings, conclusions and discipline to be imposed. A. Root Edmonson
represents the North Carolina State Bar and Randolph M. James represents the Defendant. Based
upon the con$entof the parties, the hearing C01ll1nittee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Caroli~a and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promuigated thereunder.
2. The defendant, Bobby G. Martin (hereinafter, Martin), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 12, 1965 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney
at Law licens¢'d to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules; regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

I

3. DUring the times relevant to this complaint, Martin actively engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of Winston-Salem,
Forsyth Coun;ty, North Carolina; however within the last two years Martin no longer has a law
office in which he regularly sees clients. Martin represents himself to be semi-retired,
occasionally ],"reparing powers of attorney, livmg trust agreements and wills.
4. Martin and his:--':'~Winston-Salem called Sal
investment options for its!

=:t~ __1 _ _ _ .n. :~··~--:-'·-llso

owned and operated a company in
~ (hereinafter, Salem) that offered
ts.

5. In:1994, Marti
referred to as C-CF) in N(

rith Cross. . Cotmty Funding, (hereinafter,
(vould receive a 5% commission on any

I
---

..

/

..

-~--- --~---~-~.--j

..

investment Salem's clients made in short-tenn private fir~t mortgages!1) New York through CCPo
.
6. In these first mortgage investments, an individual investor would agrecHo. provide his .
or her money to serve as a short-tenn private loan for property located in NeW York. An
individual investor' ~ money would then be pOQled together with other investors In return for his
or her money, the investor received an .interest in a mortgage note secured by real property that
paid interest anywhere from 10-16% of the value on the face of the note.

I

7. Bylate 1997, Martin was aWare that many ofSalem's clients' mortgage investments
through C-CF were in default.
8. In late 1997; ¥artin met with Anthony Anderson (hereinafter, Anderson) and Ira
Zimmennan (hereinafter, Zimmerman) in New York at Priority Funding, Inc. who held
themselves out as "Work out" specialists that could assist Salem's clients' whose investments
were in default.
9. After the meeting with Martin, Anderson and Zimme1111an fonned A/Z Partnership
Group, Inc. (hereinafter, A/Z Partnership) to work out Salem's clients' sixty-six failed C-CF
mortgages.
10. AlZ Partnership subsequently asked Salem's clients to assign their mortgages to A/Z
Partnership and asked Martin to assist it in that effort.
11. Some ofS'~eln's·clients, including Mildred. Miles (hereinafter, Miles) and Betty
Whitman (hereinafter, Whitman), asked Martin for legal advice concerning whether they should
assign their mortgages to NZ Partnership. ,

I

.
ii. Martin advised Miles and Whitman to assign their mortgages to A/Z Partnership
even though the assignments provided no consideration to them for the assignment and provided .
no other legal protection for their investment.
13. Martin allowed his concern for Salem's potential civil liability for the failed

investments in first mortgages with C-CF, and his potential persoml1liability for having advised .
Miles alld Whitman in 1996 to hun down an offer from their mortgagor ofa deed inlieu of
foreclosure, to conflict with the interests of Miles and Whitman.
14. Also in late 1997, Martin's long time client, Dr. Lucia R. Kafl1.es (hereinafter, Dr.
Karn¢s), met with Martinfor Martin to review her estate plan and prepare a new will for her.
Martin knew from his representation of Dr. Kames that she bad approximately $61,000.00 in an
IRA.
.
,
15. Dr. Kru.nes s011ght Martin's advice regarding an investment for her lRA funds that
would produce a greater return. Martin thereafter advised Dr. Kames to invest her IRA ina
short-term private first mortgage through AlZ Partnership without fully disclosing to her the
problems the other Salem clients had with first mortgage investments in New York.

16. On February 16, 1998, Martin wrote to A/Z Paltnership advising it how to pay the
5% commission that Salem would he entitled to for cHents who invested in first mortgages
through A/Z Partnership.
17., Martin failed to advise Dr. Karnes that he would get a 5% commission from All
Partnershl~ for her investment.

18.' Martin allowed his interest in getting a commission from AlZ Partnership to conflict
with Dr. Kames' intetests when he advised Dr. Kames to invest in a short term mortgage through
AlZ Partnership, particularly given Martin's knowledge of the risk of such an investment learned
from Salem's other clients' experience in failed short tetm mortgage investments through C-CF.

I

,

19. 'Martin also advised other Salem clients who had askec:l for his advice to invest in first
mortgage i~vestments with A/Z Partnership. In doing so, Martin failed to advise those Salem
clients of~e risks known to him as a result of the losses suffered by earlier Salem clients in first
mortgage investments in New York.
i

20. ,AlZ Partnership misapplied Dr. Karnes' investment, and the investments of other
Salem clients.
21. The evidence is not clear and convincing that Martin was the cause of the loss of Dr.
Kames' and other Salem clients' funds invested with A.Z. Partnership.
22. After Martin learned that AlZ. Partnership had not invested his clients' money as
they had represented that they would, Martin failed to disclose this fact to his clients. Instead, for
a period oftime, Martin reassured his clients the investments were safely invested and secured by
first mortgages.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings ofFact~ the hearing committee makes the
following: ,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. Ail parties ate properly before the hearing committee of the Disciplinmy Hearing
Commission, and the hearing committee has jurisdiction over Martin and the subject matter.
2. Martin's conduct, as set out above, con$titutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. oTe 84-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Martin violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:

(a)

by urtdertakhlg to advise Miles and Whitman concerning whether to assign their
, mortgages to A/Z Partnership when his and Salem's interests conflicted with the
•i interests of Miles and Whitman, Martin represented clients when representation of
i

I

.

I

those clients was materially limited by his own interests in violation of Rule
1.7(b);

,
(b)

by advising Miles and Whitman to assign their mortgages to AJZ Partnership for
no consideration or other legal protection, Martin prejudiced or damaged his
cli~nts during the course of the professional relationship in violation offormet
Rule 8.4(g);

(c)

by advising Dr. Kames t() invest in a short,..tenn private mortgage through AJZ
Partnership when his interest in receiving a commission from A/Z Partnership for
that investment w~s in conflict with Dr. Karnes' interests, Martin represented a
client when representatiol1 of the client w~s materially limited by the laWyer's
own interests in violation of Rule 1.7(b);
.

(d)

by failing to advise Dr. Kames and the oth~r Salem investors who invested in AfZ
Partnership of the risk known to him as a result of tbe losses suffered by earlier
Salem clients in first mortgage investme~ts in New York, Martin failed to explain
a rn,atter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit his client to make informed
dedsions reg$"ding the representation in violation of Rule l.4(b); and

(e)

by reassuring his clients that their investments were safely invested and secured
by first mortgages when he knew A/Z Partnership had not invested the funds as
they had represented that they would, Martin engaged in condu¢t inVolving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in viola~on offormer Rule 8.4(c).

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Conclusions of Law, and with the
.
consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby makes the foliQwiJ:lg:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE .

I

1. Martin's misconduct is aggravated by the follOWing factors:
(a)

substantial experience in the practice oflaw;and

(b)

the vulnerability of Martin's victims.

2. Martin's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

I

(a)

Martin's clients were substantially reimbursed for their investment losses
from third party insurance companies;

(b)

Martin's investment advice to his clients was not given in the scope of his
practice of law;

(c)

the absence of a prior disciplin~ record; and

(d)

a' cooperative attitude toward these prQceedings;

3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
4., T4e protection ofthe public, however, does require a suspension of Martin's
license; buttl).at suspension may be stayed for a period of three years on the following
terms and conditions:
1

(a)

Martin shall provide no investment advice to clients;

(b)

Martin shl:!-ll disclose to potential clients that he is semi-retired, and
is not actively practicing law on a full time basis;

; (c)

Martin shall maintain his CLE minimum requirements;

• (d)

Martin shall comply with the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct; and

!

(e)

I

Martin shall not violate any local, state or fe4etallaw.

I

BAS:gD WON the foregoing Findings ofEact Regarding Discipline and the consent of
the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the follOWing:
!

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Martin's license to practice law in North Catolina is suspended for eighteen months.
2. Th¢ suspension of Martin's license is stayed for three years upon the following tenns
and conditions:
(a)

Martin shall provide no inve~tment advice to clients;

(b)

Martin shall disclose to potential clients that he is semi-retired, and
is not actively practicing law on a full time basis;

,(c)

Martin shall maintain his CLE minimum requjrements;

: (d)

Martin shall comply with the Revised Rules etProfessional

I

Conduct; and
,(e)

Martin shall not violate any local, state or f~derallaw.

3. Martin is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary.

I

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this
r

the

%~ of April, 2005.

.r?"
RiCh~air

I

Heari.ng Committee

CONSENTED TO:

A. Root Edmonson
Deputy Counsel.'
North Carolina State

I

I

TA--.

