BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION

WAKE C0tJNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

THE NOR;TH CAROLlNA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.
MAYUR FI. AMIN, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDERTRANSFERRJNG
DEFENDANT TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

I

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on April 22, 2005 before a
hearing cotnmittee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Richard T.
Gammon, Chair; Charles M. Davis and Donald Wilhoit.Carolin Bakewell represented
the North ~arblina State Bar. The Defendant, Mayur H. Atnin, did not appear and was
not represented by counsel. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence presented at
trial, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the i~ws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant, Mayur H. Amin was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1999, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice iIi North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules ofPtofessional Conduct of the No~h Carolina State Bar and the laws of the
Carolina.
State of North
;
I

3. During a portion of the periods relevant hereto, Amin was engaged in
the practice of law in Charlotte, North Carolina. In mid-2003, Amin moved to
the state ofJexas, where he noW resides.
,

4. On May 21, 2004, the North Carolina State Bar filed a formal
complaint against Amin, alleging that he is disabled or, alternatively, that he
engaged in :Violations of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
,

.
1

I

5. On. JUne 14,2004, Amin filed a timely answer, denying the allegations
in the complaint.
6. ()n Sept. 14,2004, on motion of the State B~ and pursuant to N.C.
Civ. Pro. Ru1e 35, the Chair entered an order directing Amin to subtriit to
psychiatric evaluation and to direct that the written report of the evaluation be
sent to the State Bar under seal.

I

7.

Amin willfully failed to comply with the Chair's Sept. 14 order.

8. On April 1, 2005, on motion of the State Bar and pursuant toN,C. Civ.
Pro. Ru1e 37, the hearing committee entered an order striking Amin's answer.
9. On April 11, 2005 the Executive Director of the State Bar entered
Amin's default.
10. Ami!1 had proper notice of the di~ability hearing herein.
11. On or about Sept. 12,2000, Amin appeared in Union County District
Court in an action entitled Leake v. Brewer, 96 CVD 12 (hereafter, Leake).

12. Hon. Lisa Thacker (hereafter, Judge Thacker), presided over the trial
of the Leake case.
'
.
13. During the trial of the Leake case, Amin argued repeatedly with Judge
Thacker's rulings. On one occasion, he accused Judge Thacker of being "co..,
counsel for the plaintiff' in the presence of the jury.

14. On another occasion during the Leake trial, Amin accused opposing

I

counsel, Tim Bwch, in open court of participating in a conspiracy aga~nst Amin
.
and his client.
15. Judge Thacker ultimately found Amin guilty of direct criminal,
contempt forhi~ conduct in the Leake case.
16. In April 2002, while appearing as counsel for a deftmdant in a Civil
action in Gaston Coupty, Amin accused the plaintiffs attorney of colludirig with a
witness to present false testimony. Amin told the court that he had seen the
plaintiff s attorney and the witness conversing during a break and therefore could
draw the conclusion that they were conspiring with one another, although he
conceded that he had not overheard their conversation.' The accusation was lTIade
in open court and an order of. mistrial was entered.

2

I

, ,

"

.

17 i In May 2002, while appearing as counsel for another defendant in a
civil action in Gaston County, Amin caused a mistrial by making improper
remarks hi his opening statel1lent.
18; During the week of Jan. 27, 2(}03, Amin represented the plaintiffs in
an action captioned Coleman v. Flanders in Mecklenburg CoUnty District Court.

17.: Ron. Nancy Norelli presided over the Coleman trial.

1S:, During the course of the Coleman trial, Amin repeatedly argued with
Judge Nor~lli's rulings and us~d an abrasive tone of voice when addressing the
Court.
-

1

19" On ~other ,occasion during the Coleman trial, Amin referred to
Flanders' attorney, Alec Rogers as "a chicken."
20. On March 4,2003, Amin wrote a letter to Hon. Fritz Mercer, the
Chief District Court Judge in Mecklenburg County, concerning the Coleman case.
21.' Amin demanded that Judge Mercer investigate what he claimed to be
a conspira4Y between Judge Norelli and Rogers to sabotage the Coleman trial. ln
his letter~ Amin complained that Judge Norelli and/or Rogers may have:
a) instructed the court reporter to turn off the courtroom tape
recorder during jury selection.
b) replaced the African American bailiff originally assigned to the
hearing with a Caucasian bailiff.
c) Induced two bailiffs to question Atnin about a locked brief
case that had been left in the courtroom in an attempt to
intimidate Amin and make him look bad in front of the jury.
d) caused a jwor-named Stigler-to discl,lsS the facts of the
Coleman case with his fellow jurors while the trial was
ongoing.

-I

22. Although the March 4, 2003 letter Was addressed to Judge Mercer, it
also listed ~number of "potential recipients" of the letter, including the N.C.
Judicial St$clards Commission, the NAACP, local media, counsel to the
Governor ahd several attorneys in private practice. Amin indicated that the letter
would be rdleased to the "potential recipients" if Judge Mercer did not "place
certain safeguards in place to at least preserve the appearance of propriety in
Judge Noreil's courtroom."
<

I

-

3

I

23. In July 2003, Amin was charged with driving while impaired. That
charge has liot been resolved.
24. Amin has been treated for depression and aI1Xiety.

I

25. In June 20Q4, Amiil wrote a letter to U.S. Attorney General John
Ashcroft, in which Amin suggested that his phone had been t~pped, his computer
sabotaged and that he was being followed. Amin posted the letter on the website
of the N.C. Academy of Trial Lawyers an.d sent a copy to the State Bar.
26. Amin paid a private detective $500 to investigate his suspicions that
two Commission members originally c;lssigned to heat his case had "resigned"
lipop. "discovering unprofessional conduct" by Bar counsel.
27. On Oct, 17, 2004, Amin filed an affidavit in this proceeding in which,
al110ng things, he repeated his complaints and accusations about theCol~man trial
and accused the Judicial Standards Commission of "ratifying the misconduct" of
Judge Norelii.
28. Amin filed numerous pre-:trial motions in this proceeding, many of
which had no basis in law or fact.
29. Other than handling his own legal matters, Amin does not appear to
have engaged in the practice of law in North Carolina since mid 2003.
Based -qpon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters
the follOwing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over the person
,of the DefendaIlt and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Amiri suffers frolTI a physical or mental' condition that significantly
impairs his professional judgment, performance or competence as a laWyer within
the meaning of27 NCAC 1, Subchapter B, Section .0103(19) of the State Bar's
Discipline & Disability Rules.
WHEREFORE, the Defendant, Mayur H. Amin, is hereby transferred to
disability inactive status until such time t;hat he demonstrates by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence that he is no longer disabled within the meaning of the State
Bar's Discipline & Disability Rules. 'The disciplinary charges pending against
Amin are hereby ABATED until such time that Amin is transferred to active
status in this state.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of all hearing committee members.

4

I

\.

'

23. In July 2003, Amin was charged with driving while impaired. That
charge has not be~n resolved.
24,. Amin has been treated for depression and anxiety.
25:. In June 2004, Amin wrote a letter to D.S. Attorney General John
_ Ashcroft, in which Amin suggested that his phone had been tapped, his computer
sabotaged: and that he was being followed. Amin posted the letter on the website
of the N.C. Academy of Trial Lawyers and sent a copy to the State Bar.
26~ Amin paid a private detective $500 to investigate his suspicions that
two Commission members originally assigned to hear his case .had "resigned';
upon "discovering unprofessional conduct" by Bar counsel.

I

27~

On Oct. 17, 2004, Amin filed art affidavit in this proceeding in which,
among things, he repeated his complaints and accusations about the Coleman trial
.and accusyd the Judicial Standards Commission of "ratifying the misconduct" of
Judge Notelli.
"
28i Amin filed numerous pre-trial motions in this proceeding, many of
which had: no basis in law or fact.
.
29; Other than handling his own legal matters, Amin does not appear to
have" engaged in the practice of law in North Carolina since mid 2003.
Based upon the foregoing Fihdings of Fact, the hearing committee enters
the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over the person
of the Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Amin suffers from a physical or· mental condition that significantly
impairs his professional judgment, performance or competence as a laWyer" within
the meanillg of27 NCAC 1, Subchapter B, Section .0103(19) of the State Bar's
Discipline & Disability Rules.

I

WHEREFORE, the Defyndant, Mayur H. Amin, is hereby transferred to
disability inactive status until such time that he demonstrates by clear, cogent and
convincing: evidence that he is no longer disabled within the meaning of the State
Bar's Disc~pline & Disability Rules. The disciplinary charges pending against
Amin are hereby ABATED until such time that Amin is transferred to active
status in this state.

4

I

Signed by the Chair with the consent of all hearing committee members.

This the

I

(J.z1.y

of April, 2005.

Richard T. ammon, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I

5

I
,

,

