, ,
,

-

/(pOl5

------- -"-"----~-------

BEPORETHE
ISCIPLtNARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04DHC45

, NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)

MICHAEL L. UNTI,
Defendant

I

)

, This matter came on for hearing on March 11, 2005 before a hearing committee
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofF. Lane Williamson, Chair, John M. May,
and Donald: G. Willhoit; with A. Root Edmonson representing the North Carolina State Bar and
Jeffrey M. Young representing the Defendant. Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing
COminittee'makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The defendant, Michael L. Unti (''Unti''), was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar on August 19, 1988 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law .
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and the Rules of
Professional: Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

I
,--

3. DUring the times rylevant to this complaint, Unti actively engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of Raleigh, Wake
County, North Carolina.
4. In 1996, Unti agreed to represent Richard H. Lamere ("Lamere"), a client who also
Was a practicing attorney in Connecticut. The representation involved a civil claim against an
attorney and ,,that attorney's former firm ("the defendants") for alleged breach of fiduciary duty,
constructive fraud and fraud. The claims arose out of the defendants' representation of
Lamere's grandmother, Ruth L Goodnow, and the trustees of the Goodnow Trust in a collection
,

I

action involving a 'corporate reorganization bankruptcy in the 1970's. Lamere was and remains ,~
beneficiary of the Goodnow Trust.
'
5. On November 30~ 1998, Unti filed a civil action op Lamere's behalfin the United
States District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina, file number 98-CV-1039.
6. The defendants filed motions to dismiss the claims and, on June 2, 2000, those
motions were granted in part and denied in part. The Court's order allowed Laniere~s fraud
clajms against the defendants to proceed to discovery,

I

.

'

7. On June 5, 2000, Unti assured Lamere that he would promptly commence a course of
discovery by drafting interrogatories and produ9tion requests for Lamere's review alid
supplementation. He also agreed to notice the depositions of key witnesses as soon as a Local
Rule 26 scheduling order was entered. Unti advised Lamere that fonn~l discovery could not .
begin before that scheduling order was entered.
8. Lamere told Unti that he would like to attend the pre-trial conference during which
the scheduling order would be negotiated.

9. Unti negotiated a scheduling order with opposing counsel, but no pre-tri'al conference
was held. However, Unti failed to promptly send Lamere a copy of the scheduling order after it
was entered.
10. On July 18, 2000 and July 20, 2QOO, the defendants served Unti with two set~ of
interrogatories and document production requests ("discovery requests"),
11. Unti attempted to mail the discovery requests, but the mailing was returned on
A1.Jgust 3, 2000.

I

12. Lamere called Unti on August 3, 2000. During the telephone conversation, Lamere
told Unti that he would be on a long-planned family vacation from August 11-21, 20'00, and he
instructed Unti to send the discovery requests to him by overnight mail and to move ror an
extension of time for him to, respond.
,, 13. On August 4, 2000, Lamere received the discovery req\iests from UntLHe didJ.'lot
receive the scheduling order.
14. On August 4, 2000', Lamere telephoned tJnti and told him that, due to the
burdensome nature of the discovery request~ and his travel schedule, and because of the delay in
receiving the discovery requests, Laniere would need Unti to req1.Jest a 30.,.day extension oftime
for him to respond.
IS,
extension.

On August 4, 2000, Unti advised Lamere that he would file a motion to obtain an

I

.'

16. After reviewing the discovery requests over the weekend of August 5, 2000 and
considering the size of the task involved, Lamere faxed Unti an instruction on August 8, 2000 to
request a 60-day extension rather than the 30-day extension they had discussed.
17., After sending the fax, Lamere attempted to call Dnti, but was told that he was
unavailable. Lamere Was referred to another attorney in Uhti's office, Margaret Lumsden
. ("Lumsden"), who advised Lamere that counsel fOf one of the defendants had indicated that he
would not consent to ail extension of more than ten days. LUIIlsden further advised Lamere that
it was Unlikely that the Court would grant a 60:.day extension in the face of opposition. Lamere
instructed Lumsden to moVe for a 30-day extension because his circumstances required it
18.' On August 16,2000, Lumsden served defense counsel with a motion for extension
of time to respond to the discovery requests that was filed with the Court on August 21,2000.
Lumsden slated in the motion that defense counsel consented to the granting of the niotion. The
motion only asked for a 10-day extension oftime allowing Lamere until August 28, 2000 to
respond.

I

1

19. Unt! did not send Lamere a copy of that niotion, nor did Unti or Lumsden tell him
that he had only until August 28, 2000 to respond to the discovery requests.
20. ' When Lamere returned to his office on August 21,2000, the only document he had
received from Unti was a copy of the scheduling order. That order set a deadline for joining
additional p'arties or amending pleadings that had already passed, and an October 31, 2000
deadline fo( completion of general discovery.
21. ' On August 22, 2000, Unti told Lamere that the motion for an extension of time had
been timely filed, but no order had yet heen'received. Unti explained that illness, pending trials,
and staffproblems had prevented him'from preparing drafts ofplaintiffs discovery. Unti di4 not
tell Lamere that only a lO-day extension had been requested for Lamere to respond.
22. ,On August 24, 2000, Magistrate Judge Russell A. Eliason ("Eliason") granted an
extension of time for Lamere to respond to the discovery requests until August 28, 2000. Unti
did not send,Lamere a copy of that order, nor did he tell him about it.
'

I

23. :On August 28,2000, Lumsden served a motion for a second extension of time until
September 18, 2000 for Lamere to respond. Neither Unti nor Ltimsden called Lamere to tell bini
of the secon4 I\1otiort for extension that was filed that day.
24. ~On August 29,30 & 31,2000, Lamere le~ messages for Dnti requesting that Unti
return his caU, but Unti failed to promptly return any of these calls.
25. Un August 30, 2000, the law firm defendant's attorneys served Unti with an
objection to ~ second extension oftin1e. In that motion, they told the Court that they would not
have consentrd to a 10-day extension if they had known that the plaintiff would seek additional
time. Defense counsel also complained about not being consulted about th~ request for an
I

I

extension prior to plaintiffs motion being served. Unti failed to send a copy ofthat objection to
Lamere, and he did not prqmptly tell him about it.

.

On August 30, 2000, Lamere sent a fax to Unti advising him that he would be
sending aIlswers to the discovery requests to Vnti piecemeal for his revjew and comment.
L.amere also a~ked Unti to send him the drafts of plaintiffs discovery Unti had repeatedly
represented that he was preparing.
26.

On September 7, 2000, Eliason entered an order denying Lamere's request for an
extension to September 18, 2000 and ordering Lamere to file his responses by September 1,
21.

I

2000.

.

28. On September 10, 2000,. unaware of what had transpired, Lamere faxed and mailed
to Unti his request that Unti file another Illotion for an extension of time.
.

On September 12,2000; Unti's paralegal responded to Lamere''S request for what
he believed would have been a second motion for extension of time with a faxed copy of
Eliason's September 7,2000 order that Unti's office had received on September 9,2000. Unti'$
paralegal advised Lamere that, because Eliason's September 7, 2000 order had ruled that
.. Lllll1ete's discovery responses were due retroactively, Unti would seek clarification from.
Eliason.
29.

30. On September 15,2000, Lamere sent Vnti by FedEx three ~ets of his responses to
the defendants' reque'sts for production of documents that included over 900 pages of paginated
production in bound volumes, one for Unti and each of the defendants, for immediate service
upon the defendants.
31. On September 20, 2000, Lamere sent Unti by FedEx verified responses to the
discovery requests. Lamere. sent additional responses and amended responses to the discovery
requests over the next ten days.

I

32. On September 25, 2000, pur~uant to Local Rule 26.1 (c), the attorheys for the law
firm defendant initiated a telephone conference concerning discovery that included Lumsden.
. Lumsden promised to send the discovery responses to defense counsel. All parties also agreed to
file a joint motion to extend the discovery schedule.
33. Unti sent Lamere's document production to defense counsel on September 25,2000
and sent Lamere's responses to the discovery requests to defense counsel on September 26~
2000.

.

34. On September 27,2000, defense counsel served Unti with the defendants' joint
motion for discovery sanctions based on the late delivery of Lamere's responses to the discovery
requests. The joint motion asked the Court to consider dismissal of Lamere's sole remaining
cause of action as an appropriate sanction.
.

I

35., Also on September 27,2000, defense counsel served a joint motion to extend the
deadline i~ the Rule 26 Report for the completion of discovery for 60 day~ due to the late receipt

ofLamere',S discovery responses.
36.: On September 29, 2000; Lamere faxed a memo to Unti inquiring about the status of
his draft of the plaintiff's discovery and reminding Unti of the October 31, 2000 deadline for

completion of discovery.
37.! When Unti did not respond to his memo, Lamere prepared two sets of

interrogatoties, production requests and requests for admissions and sent them to Unti for service
upon the defendants.

1

38.: On October 2 & 3, 2000, Lamere was able to speak with Unti for the first time since
August 22, 200Q. Unti told Larp.ere that there Was an agreement among the parties for an
extension oIthe discovery deadline. Unti told Lamere that he had served Lamere's discovery
requests oil'the defendants. Unti did not ten Lamere of the defendants' motion for discovery
sanctions, n;or did Utiti send Lamere a copy of the motion.
.
39. i On October 20,2000, Unti filed a ReSponse to the Joint Motion for Discovery
Sanctions ('~response").
40. : Uhti failed to send Lamere a copy of the response and failed to tell him about it.
41. ; On October 24, 2000, pursuant to Local Rule 26.1 (d), a telephone hearing was

conducted 0;11 the joint motion of the defendants for disCOVElry sanctions and the joint request to
extend the discovery de~dline.
.
42. ,On October 25, 2000, Unti told Lamere that the Magistrate had called a telephone
conference to consider the joint request to extend the discovery deadline and had entered severe
sanctions ag~inst Lamere.
43. :Also On October 25, 2000, Unti sent Lamere a letter describing the sanctions that
the Court had announced in the telephone conference, including, among other things, limiting
Lamere to tWo fact-witness depositions to be completed by the end of November and relieving
the defendan,tsfrom answering any of Lamere'S discovery.

I'

On November 1, 2000, Lamere called Unti's office and spoke with Mathew Slotkin
("Slotkin"). :Lamere' asked Slotkin to send him copies of all documents from his file from and
after June 2, ~OOO.
.
44.

45. 'On November 2, 2000, Lamere flew to Durham to investigate court documents and
land records and to meet with Unti. Lamere spoke with Slotkin to set up a meeting with Unti for
3:00 p.m. on November 3,2000. Lamere asked Slotkin to have the requested documents copied
and ready fot him and asked him to attend the meeting Lamere had just scheduled with Unti.

1

46. On November 3, 2000, Lamere met with Unti and Lumsden, but Slotkin was not
p:resent. Unti advised Lamere that Slotkin was elsewhere and th;:t.t he did not know whether
Slotkin had made copies of any documents for Lamere. Lamere did not receive the requested
documents at that-meeting, but did receive them thereafter..

I

47. Unti believes that he did infonn Lamere ofthe discovery deadlin¢ set forth in
paragraph 19 and the motion set forth in paragraph 39, and would have testified to that effect if
this matter had proceeded to hearing. However, since there is no telephone record or other
contemporaneous document to support Unti's belief, Unti accepts these fmdings offact to the·
contrary fot the purposes ofthis Consent Findings of Fact and OrderofDiscipHne.
THEREFORE, the plaintiff alleges that Unti' s foregoing actions constitUte grounds for
discipline pursuant to NCGS 84-28(b)(2) in that Unti violated the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct as follows:
(a)

By failing to promptly ensure that Lamere received a copy of the scheduling
order, Unti failed to keep Lamere reasonably infonned in violation of Rule 1.4(a).

(b)

By failing to tell Lamere that the motion for extension of time filed on his behalf·
on August 21, 2000 only sought a 10-day extension and that Lamere would only
have until August 28, 2000 to respond to the discovery requests if the extension
was granted, Dnti failed to keep his client reasonably informed in violation of
Rule 1.4(a).

(c)

By failing to send Lamere a copy of Magistrate Eliason's August 24,2000 order.

or otherwise advise Lamere of the deadline for his discovery responses, Und
failed to keep his client reasonably informed in violation of Rule 1.4(a).

I

(d)

By failing to tell Lamere of the objection defense counsel served on August 30;
2000 to the motion for a second extension of time for :Lamere to respond to the
discovery requests, Unti failed to keep his client reasonably informed in violation
ofR-ule 1.4(a).
.

(e)

By failing to prepare plaintiff s discovery for Lamere.' s review and
sUpplementation, Unti failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing Lamere in violation of Rule 1.3.
.

(f)

By failing to promptly send Lamere a copy" of the defendants' joint motion for
discovery sanctions or otherwise tell Lamere of the joint motion, Unti failed to
keep his client reasonably info:rmed in violation of Rule 1.4(~).

(g). By failing to tell Lamere of the response he filed on Lamere's behalf Or send him
a copy of the response, Unti failed to keep his client reasonably informed in
violation of Rule 1.4(a).

I

(h).

By failing to tell Lamere of the telephone hearing that was held oil the joint
motion for discovery sanctions prior to the hearing, Unti failed to keep his client
reasonably infonned in violation of Rule 1.4(a).

(i):

There was insufficient evidence to support a finding off~ct or a conclusion ofiaw
that Unti intentionally made any misrepresentation to Magistrate Eliason in the
October 25, 2000 telephone hearing.

, BASED UPON the foregoing Findings ofF~ct, the Conclusions of~aw, and the evidence
presented at the hearing, the hearing conunittee hereby makes the following:
FINDlNGS AND CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1. Dnti's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

Multiple,offenses; and

(b)

Substantial experience in the practice of law.

2. U,nti's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
(a)

Absence ofa dishonest or selfish motive;

(b)

No prior history of discipline; and

, (c)

Reimbursement made by Unti to Lamere for a portion of the legal fees and
'costs he subsequently incurred in pursuing his civil case.

mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
3. the
I
I

4. aecause Unti contributed to the imposition of sanctions in Lamere's civil.
case, Unti's conduct caused hann to Lamere. However, the protection of the public
doesn't require a censure in this case.

I

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings and Conclusions Regarding Discipline and the
consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The discipline to be imposed in this matter is a Reprimand. The Reprimand, of even
date hereWith, accompanies this Order.
2. Unti is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary, including travel
and hotel costs the State Bar paid for Lamere of$I,065.

I

.

f?t~

Signed this the ~ day of~ch 2005 with the kriowledge and consent of the other
members of the hearing committee.

F. Lane Williamson, Chair
Hearing Committee

I

CONSENTED TO:

A. Root Edmonson
Deputy COUilsel

I

I

'if7!'

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OPTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04DHC45

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
.MICI1AEt L. UNTI, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On Match 11,2005, this matter came on to be heard before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofF. Lane Williamson, Chair, John M. May, and
Donald G. Willhoit. The hearing committee's Consent Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law
and 'Order dfDiscipline are entered contemporaneously herewith.
The hearing committee found that you had violated some of the Revised Rilles of
:Professional Conduct, and ordered that you be reprimanded. A reprimand is a written form of
discipline more serious than an adhionition issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one
or more provisions of the Revised RUles of Professional Conduct and has caused harm or
potential hahn to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public,
but the misconduct does not require a censure. This document constitutes that reprimand.

Whi~e representing Richard Lamere in a civil action in federal court, you failed to prepare
discovery to serve on the opposing parties in violation of Revised Rule 1.3 . You also failed to
keep Mr. Lainere reasonably informed at several important stages of the litigation in violation of
Revised Rule 1.4(a)..

I

The :p.earing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission hereby reprimands you
for yourptbfessional misconduct. The hearing committee hopes that you will heed this
repriraand; that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will
never again\illow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal
profec sion. :

;tJv'

Issue,d this the ~ day of April 2005.

~

.

.
z:L~~,

F. Lane WIlliamson, Chair
Hearing Committee

I

