BEFORE THE
OF THE
05 DHC 8

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
v.
)
)
JON S. JOHNSON, Attorney,
)
,
Defendant )

ORDER OF DiscipLINE

I

This matter was heard on Thursday, April 21, 2005 by a Hearing
Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Elizabeth
Bunting, ,Chair, John M. May, and R. Mitchel Tyler. Margaret Cloutier
repres~nted Plaintiff. Defendant did not appear and was not represented. After
Defendant failed to file responsive pleadings to the complaint duly served upon
him, Defendant's default was entered by the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar on March 10, 2005 and evidence Was introduced by Plaintiff in support
of its Motion for Order of Discipline.
Sased on the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the
Hearing Committee hereby enters the following
,

'

FINDINGS OF FAC,
1. Plaihtiff, the North Carolina State Bar; is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the autmority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina;
and thei Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title
27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code ("NCAC;').
I

I

•

2. Defendant, JOh S. Johnson (hereinafter "Defendant or Johnson"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1984 and is, and was at
all time~ referred to herein, an Attorney at Law.licensed to practice in North
Carolina, ' subject to the rules, regulations, and Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
.

1

I

3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Matthews, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
4. Defendant was suspended from the praCtice of law for a period of five
y~ars by a committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the North

I

Carolina State Bar by Order of DisCipline dated November 3, 2000 and was
served with the November 3, 2000 Order of Discipline on Janua'ry 11 ,2001. The
effective date of the suspension under the Order of Discipline was February 12"
2001.
5. Pursuant to the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0124, Defendant was obligated to promptly notify all
clients with pending matters of his suspension and advise them to seek legal
advice elsewhere.
'
'6. On February 12, 2001, at least fifteen clients of Defendant had pending
matters in that Defendant still held money in trust on behalf of those Clients.
Those clients were Paul Wolfe, Billie Watson, Julie Griffin, Debbie Brooks, Berit
McRae, Tina Caldwell, Crystal Caldwell, Shodi Ashtari, M~ndairra Roekle, Ruth
Dunlap, Martin Williams, Paul Murray, Pavel Boldt, Lenora Scott, and Dorothy
Morris.

7. Defendant did not send letters to, or otherwise communicate with,
these 15 clients notifying them of his suspension.

I

8. Pursuant to the DiSCipline and Disabiljty Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0124, Defendant was prohibited from transferring
active client files containing confidential information or property to another
attorney without prior written permission from the client and was obligated to take
reasonable steps to avoid foreseeable prejudice to the rights of his clients,
including promptly delivering all file materials and property to which the clients
were entitled to the clients and/or their new attorneys.
9. After entry of the November 3, 2000 Order of Discipline, but before it
was served on him, Defendant sold the assets of his law practice to attorneys
Deanne M. Coan and Ricbard S. Farris. Defendant left files of clients being
represented by Defendant in pending matters at the office then occupied by
attorneys Coan and Farris without the prior written permission of those Clients.
10. As of February 12, 2001, the effective date of the suspension of
Defendant's law license pursuant to the November 3, 2000 Order of Discipline,
Defendant held $1:5,566.32 in his trust account on behalf of the following clients:

2

I

?75

$5,315.08
50.00
4,166.69
20.00
48.00
65.00
25.00
50.00
65.00
660.00
108.60
62.00
164.63
555.26
1,147.01
215.00
693.05
50.00
100.00
2,006.00

Billie Watson
Berit McCrea
Julie Griffin
Crystal Caldwell
Tina Cal~well
Abdirahman IQrahim
Martin Williams
Paul Murray
Pavel Boldt
Carol Evers
Lenora Scott
Darrell Rivers
Christopher Chambers
Derrick Chambers
Debbie Brooks
Dorothy Morris
Aana Whatley
Shodi Ashtari
Mendairra Roekle
Ruth Dunl~p

I

1, 1. After being served with the November 3, 2000 Order of Discipline
Defend~nt did not promptly deliver the property of his clients itemized in the
preceding paragraph to his clients or their substituted attorney, if any, nor did
Defendant disburse such property or funds to the appropriate parties on behalf of
hjs clients.
1:2. On or about April 3, 2001 Defendant was properly served with a
subpoena properly issued by the Seoretary of the North Carolina State Bar
requiring Defendant to produce for the six years preceding the date of the
subpoena for hiS trust account(s) and business accounts(s) all bank statements,
all original cancelled checks, all original deposit slips and items of deposit, ail
client le~ger sheets, all check registers, all other records of client receipt and
disburs~ments, including any cash receipt and disbursement journal( s),
settlement statements, and trust account reconciliations.

I"

13. Accompanying the subpoena identified above was a letter addressed
to Defendant from Reginald T. Shaw, Investigator with the State Bar, identifying a
smaller number of documents to be produced to comply with the subpoena than
described in the subpoena.

14.

Defendant did not provide to the State Bar all of the documents listed
on the sl;Jbpoena or in the letter of Reginald T. Shaw.

15. State Bar Investigator Reginald Shaw conducted an interview with
Defendant on or about April 11 , 2001 in which Shaw questioned Defendant about
3

I

specific client files and funds remaining in Defendant's trust account on behalf of
those clients. Defendant informed Shaw that he had agreed with some of the
clients to retain in his trust account funds earmarked for payment of medical care
providers until the stCltute of limitations prevented the mediccll care providers
from claiming the funds at which time Defendant and the client(s) would split the
funds. Defendant also told Shaw that Defendant did not send letters to any of
his client$ informing them of his suspension because he had sold his practice
before he was served with the Order of Suspension and therefore had no clients
and no obligation to inform ?lnyone of his suspension.

I

16. One of the clients for whom Defendant was holding funds was Billie
Watson. Defendant had settled a personal injury claim on Ms Watson's behalf
prior to 2001 and was holding funds in his trust account for payment of a
potential Medicare lien. In early 2001 Ms Watson was notified she had to
reimburse Medicare but she was unable to reach Defendant to obtain her funds
with which to pay the lien. As a result, Ms Watson had to borrow funds from a
bank to pay the Medicare lien.
.

"
"

17. On or about October 16, '2001, The Honorable Shirley L: Fulton,
Senior Resident Superior Court Judge for tlie 26th Judicial District, issued an
Order of-Disbursement Of Funds, authorizing the transfer of all remaining funds in
Defendant's trust account to the North Carolina State Bar and ordering that
.
Defendant (a) identify and provide a list of the persons or entities and amounts
owed for all funds remaining in his trust account, and (b) produce all dOCl.,Jments
and records for his trust account Defendant was required to keep under Revised
Rule 1.15 of the Revised ~ules of Professional Conduct for the six years
immediately preceding his Fet>ruary 12,2001 suspension. Defendant was
personally served by Sheriff with a copy of Judge Fulton's October 16, 2001
Order on January 7,2002.

18. Defendant did not provide the documentation as ordered by Judge

I

Fulton.

19. After the entry of Judge Fulton's Order of Disbursement of Funds
dated October 16, 2001, the State Bar learned that some of the 'information
provided by Defendant and relied upon by the State .Bar in applying to .Judge
Fulton for the Order of Disbursement, and upon which Judge Fulton relied in
issuing the Order of Disbursement, was incorrect. As a result, on or about
February 18, 2002 the State Bar moved the court to modify the October 16, 2001 .
Order of Disbursement based on accurate information the State Bar had
gathered and on or about April 9, 2002 Judge J. Gentry Caudill entered a
Modified Order of Disbursement reflecting the accurate information provided by
the State Bar.
20. On or about February 18, 2002 the State Bar moved the court to order
Defendant to appear and show cause why Defendant should not be held in

4

I

~77

contempt for failing to provide the documentation ordered by Judge Fulton in her
Octob~r 16, 2001 Orper of Disbursement of Funds. On or about February 18,
2002 Judge Fulton issued an Order to Show Cause ordering Defendant to
appear on April 1, 2002 and show cause why Defendant should not be held in
contempt for failing to comply with Judge Fulton's October 16., 2001 Order of
Disbursement.

i21'. On or about April 1 ,2002, after hearing pursuant to the Order to Show
Cause, referred to in the preceding paragraph, Resident Superior Co'urt Judge J.
GentrY Caudill held Defendant in civil contempt for his failure to provide the
documents ordered to be produced in the October 16, 2001 Order of
Disbur~ement, committing Defendant to the custody of the Mecklenburg. County
Sheriffs Department ahd allowing Defendant to purge himself of contempt by
producing the documents as ordered by Judg~ Fulton in her October 16, 2001
Order 9f Disbursement.

I
.

I

22. Between April 1, 2002 and April 10, 2002, Defendant, through
-

counsel, produced some of the documents and information previously ordered ~ ,
and as~erted' that he could prbduce the remaining information if released and
given access to records available in his home.

23. On April 10, 2002 Judge Caudill issued an order releasing Defendant

from' custody and ordering D~fendant to purge himself of the contempt by
providirng the necessary documentation by April 22, 2002. Defendant provided
the documentation as required by April 22, 2002.

24. On or about March 10. 2003 Superior Court Judge Albert Diaz
ordereq the disbursement of a" remaining funds previously contained in
Defendant's trust account and at that time in the possession oUhe State Bat.
The funds were subsequently disbursed pursuant to the March 10, 2003 order.

25. the North Carolina State Bar expended we" in eXcess of 196 manhours hi its efforts to disburse the funds remaining in Defendant's trust account
as of the effective date of his suspension.

I

,

Sased on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the
following
;

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1 ~ A" parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committe'e has jurisdiction over defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.

5

I

.

2. Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for- discipline
pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(2) in that he violated. one or more of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as follows:
a. by failing to promptly notify his clients that his license to practice
law had been suspended as required by 27 N.C.A.C.1 B §.0124, Defendant
failed to keep his clients' reasonably informed about the status of their matters
and failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the '
clients to make informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of
Rule 1.4(a) and (b);
,

I

b. by delivering confidential client files to other attorneys without
the permission of his clients, Defendant knowingly revealed confidential
information of his cli~nts in violCitipn of Rule 1.6(c);
c. by failing to promptly deliver the property of his clients itemized
in paragraph 10 to his clients or their designated attorneys, and Oy failing to
disburse such funds as appropriate on behalf of his clients, Defendant did not
promptly Payor deliver to the clients, or to third persons as directed by the
clients, entru$ted property belonging to the clients arid to which the clients were
currently entitled in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);

,~;,:

d. by failing to produce documentation pursuant to a duly served
subPoena issued by the State Bar, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a
lawful demand for'information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule
8.1 (b) and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
'violation of Rule 8.4(d); and

..

e. by failing to comply with Judge Fulton's October 16, 2Q01 Order,
and by engaging in conduct contemptuous of a judicial authority, Defendant
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in viOlation of Rule
8.4(d).
.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
Hearing Committee also, enters the following
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. A lengthy and significant prior disciplinary history. Defendant
received the following discipline:

6

I

.'

,
~

"

~,

.

.-

i. November 12, 1989, Public Reprimand for failing to
zealouply represent his client and repeatedly failing to respond to inquiries of a
disciplinary
authority;
,
'

ii. November 6, 1992, Reprimand for failing to communicate
with hi~ client and repeatedly failing to respond to inquiries,of a disciplinary
authority;
iii. December 1, 1999, six month suspension, stayed for two
years for failillg to participate in good faith in fee dispute arbitration and
repeatedly failing to respond to inquiries of a disciplinary authority; and

I'

I

iv. November 3, 2000, five year suspension, three years
active for failing to file and pay federal and state employee withholding taxes.
b. A dishonest or selfish motive;
c. A pattern of misconduct;
d. Multiple Qffenses over a period of numerous years;
e. Substantial experience in the practice of law;
f. Bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by failing to
comply:with the rules or orders of the disciplinary authorities;
,
g. Submission of false statements or other deceptive practices
during the diSCiplinary process in his state,ments to Investigator Shaw and in
providin:g erroneous information to the Bar;
h. Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;

i. The vulnerability of at least one victim, Billie Watson, and
potentia'lly those clients that appear in paragraph 10 of the Findings of Fact
above.

I

2~ Defendant's misconduct is mitigated only by a delay in the disciplinary
process through no fault of Defendant.

3;

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4; An order imposing discipline short of disbarment would not sufficiently
protect tre public for the following reasons:
a. Defendant's condUct significantly and actually harmed his
clients, qS shown in the record and as shown in the list of the clients in

7

I

paragraph 10 of the Findings of Fact whose money he held for some length of
time;
b. Because of Defendant's multiple offenses over a number of
years and a pattern of misconduct which is likely to continue, significant potential
harm exists to future clients;
c. The number of clients harmed or potentially harmed and the
extensive period of time over which, the harm to his clients has occurred despite
priOr sanction$ indicates that Defendant has not reformed or does not understand
that his conduct is in need of reformation in order to continue practicing law;

I

d. Defenqant's'multiple violations over a sl!bstantial period of time
caused harm to the legal profession. Defendant has been sanctioned four times
before and yet he continues to refuse to follow the rLlles of The State Bar.
Defendant's most recent misconduct culminated in a public contempt proceeding,
which is particularly egregious in light of the fact that no factual contentions
'
justified withholding the information sought; it appears he simply did not want to
comply. Defendant's conduct is a poor reflection on the reputation of the legal
professfon as a whole such that the public trust in attorneys would tend to be
eroded, if not permanently damaged.
}I,;;'.
,

I

.'

e. The evidence tended to show that Defendant colluded With
some of his clients to avoid payments to creditors, engaged in potential fraud'in
his attempt to sell his practice to avoid notifying his, clients about his impending
discipline, and attempted to retain property, i.e. client files, by false pretenses,
These activities harmed the public. In addition, Defendant poses a potential
future :risk of harm to the public should he continue to practice law and engage in
multiple violations 'of the Rules of Professional Conduct in the handling of his
clients' records as he has in the past.
f. An Order of Discipline imposing any sanction less than
disbarment would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of these offenses and
would send the wrong message to attorneys and potential clients, as well as the
public, regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar ih this state.
g. The protection of the public requires that Defendant not be
permitted to resume the practice of law until he demonstrates that he has
reformed, that he understands his obligations to his clients, and that
reinstatement would not injure the standing of the legal profession, future clients
or the public in general. Disbarred attorneys must show reformation, among ,
other things, before they resume the practice of law, whereas no such showing, is
necessary for an attorney whose license is merely suspended.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclu~ions of Law, and
Findings Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the follOWing

8

I

ORDER OF DISCiPLINE
. 1. Jon S. Johnson is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in this
state, effective 30 days from the date of service of this order upon him.

2.

Johnson shall surrender his law license and Bar membership card
within 30
, days of the service of this order upon him.
3. JohnSon is tax~d with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary which shall pe paid within 90 days of service of the notice of costs
upon hi~.

I

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and con~ent of
the oth~r members of the Hearing Committee, this J. tJJ./J... day of

2005. .

_

~ .

t1fuV. ,

I

9

I

