",
<-

.'
NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

The North Carolina State Bar,
Plaintiff

v.

Final Order of Discipline

Deborah B. Koenig, Attol?ley,
Defendant

This matter was heard on the 28 th and 29th days of April,2005, before aHearing
Committee of the Disciplinary Hearin~ Commission composed of the Chair, M. Ann Reed,anq
members Tol111b.y W. Jarrett and Donald G. Willhoit, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative
Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § :Ol14(li). The plaintiff was represented by David R.
, Johnson. The defendant was represented by M. Travis Payne~ Based upon the p1eadings, the
stipulated facts, and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters
the following

I

Findings of Fact
1.

The Plaintiff, th~ North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the

laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authori~y
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulatiol1s
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.

The Defendant, Deborah B. Koenig (hereil1after Defendant), was admitted to the

North Carolina State Bar on August 14, 1984, and i~, and Was at all times ,referred to herein~ an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subjectto the rules, regulations and Rules
of Professional Conduct of the North Caroliha State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

I

------------------------------------

-

---

r

3.

During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was

actively eng~ged in the practice oflaw in the City of Fayetteville, Cumberland County, North
Catollna.
4.

aeginning in the spring of 1995, Defendant contracted with the Sheriff of

Cumberland County (hereafter "Sheriff') to provide legal services for the Cumberland County
Sheriffs Office (hereafter '.'CCSOh ). At some point after that, Defendant and the Sheriff entered
into a cOIitim'tal series ofwntten contracts for befendanes services. The last written contract
between Def~ndant and theSheriff covered the year beginning July 1, 2000 and ending June 30,
I

I

.

2001.
5.

The Sheriff was legally the highest authority within the CCSO on all matters

concerning the Office, including personnel matters.
6.

Pursuant to her contract with the Sheriff, Defendant was required to provide "such

I

expert and tedmicallegal services as required" by the Sheriff.
7.

'When first engaged by the Sheriff, the focus of Defendant's responsibilities was

I

Qn training officers and responding to issues arising from the field. Over her tenure, the nature of
Defendant' s r~sponsibilities broadened to handle a wider range of legal issues for the Sheriff and
the CCSO as they arose. In addition to her training and field work, Defendant drafted and/or
reViewed many of the internal policies and procedl.ires of the CCSO for legal sufficiency and
compliance, iticluding the policy on sexual harassment and investigation of professional
!

standards, conpnonly known as "internal affairs."

I

8.

:Defendant routinely subQ.litted monthly invoices to the Sheriff for payment under
•
the coIitract during her tenure. Deft:ndant categorized the types of services she provided for the
,

I

CCSO in' thos~ invoices and identified a percentage of time devoted to each category. In the last
,

year of service~, Defendant reported some si~ficant percentage of time. every month devoted to
personnel issu~s on every invoice.
,

9.

Sometime around Labor bay, 1999, Defendant was a victim of inappropriate

physical contact or a sexual nature by the Chief of Detectives of the CCSO, Major Ray Davis,
while the two of them were alone in a conference room in the office building.

I
:

"

,

10.

~

"

•

I

Shortly after the incident, Defendant orally infonned the Sheriff about her

experience·whll~ one or both of them were exercising in the workout room ofthe,CCSO.

Defendant did not offer any legal advice or guidance to the Sheriffon how to respond or
appropriately handle the incident at that time. Defendant then left the workout room ..
11.

I

The Sheriff informed his, Chief Deputy of Defendant's report the next day and

~sked the Chief Deputy to speak to Davis. Although Davis denied anyinappropriate conduct

toward the Defendant to the Chierpeputy, he .agreed to apologize. No formal inve~tigation into
the'matter was initiated by either the Sheriff or the Chief Deputy.
12.

Defendant did not make any fonnal oral or written request for investigation into

the incident with either the ChiefPeputy or the Sheriff. Defendant did not discussthe'incident
~gain directly to the Sheriff either orally or in writing, ask the Sheriff to take any action agaitist

Major Davis, or offer any legal advice or guidance to the Sheriff on how to appro:{,riately handle
the incident at any time.
13.

Beginning in the summer and continuing through the fall of 2000, Defendant,

while on the CCSO premises and perfonning her responsibilities as legal advisor for the Sheriff,
was infonned by at least two fem~le deputies of their oWn experiences involving inappropriate
conduct, both by physical contact and by oral comments of a sexual nature, by Major Davis.
During this same time period, Defendant also indirectly learned through other sources in the

I

CCSO, including an internal affairs investigator, ofother inappropriate incidentS by Major Davis
with several other female officers and civilian personnel. The persons who made these
disClosures to Defendant knew that Defendant was the legal advisor for the CCSO. Defendant
did not infonn the Sheriff of ~y of this information in any l1lanner nor did she advise the Sheriff
of any actions he should take to .pro~ect himself in his official capacity or the cCSO from any
liability for the actions of Major Davis. Defendant did not suggest or request to the Sheriff or the
head -ofintemal affaits that any investigation should be undertaken.
14.

In late November or early December 200D, Defendant was a participant in a

meeting with an assistant County Attorney and the head of internal affairs for the CCSO

..

con'ceming t)Ie necessity of disclosing internal affairs' reports in the personnel files of officers-of
-

.

the CCSO. Defendant and the head of internal affairs had a he~ted discussion duriIlg ~e meeting.

:",

At the end of the meeting, the assistant County Attorney infonned the befendant that he would

.

review the:issues and get back to her the following week.
. 15.

On Tuesday or Wednesday oithe following week, the assistant County Attorney

j

had a telephone conference with Defendant on the matter involved in the earlier meeting. At the
end of that conversation, Defendant revealed to the assistant County Attorney her' concerns about
the conduct of Major Davis. Defendant then met with the assistant County Attorney at a
restaurant a;nd told him what she knew about Major Davis and his conduct. The assistant COUl)ty

I

Attorney th¢n met with one of the female deputies who was a victim of inappropriate conduct by
Major Davi~, Lt. Deborah Crain. Following these meetings, the assistant County Attorney met
with the COllllty Attorney and advised him of the concerns. They decided that the Sheriff needed
to be infortiied of the seriousness of the matter and the need for an investigation.
16.

The Sheriff Was then infonned of the seriousness of the matter and the need fot an
I

investigatioI?- by an o~tside attorney who the County Attorney had already consulted on the
matter. Eve~tuaI1y,the Sheriff, with the concurrence of the Courtty Attorney, decided to engage
his personal :attorney, Ronnie Mitchell, and his fum to conduct the investigation into the matter.
17. ' Before she had met with the assistant County Attorney, Defendant, without the
I

knowledge or authority of the Sheriff or the County, Attorney, discussed the incidents involving
Major ~avis land complained that the Sheriff had failed to act on her reports of these matters with
State Senator Tony Rand, and Judges Ed Pone and Jim Ammons. None of these individuals had
any supervisQry authority over the Sheriff or the CC~O or any authority concerning personnel
issues within !the CCSO. None of these per~ons were iA a position to give Defendant, the ~herift:
or the CCSO
. ;any legal advice.

I

I

,

18.

: On Friday, Decemb'er 15, 2000, the Sheriff asked one of the victims, Delores

Nichols, to attend ali interview on Monday, December 18, 2000 as part of the investigation into
Major Davis' conduct. At the time of the request, Nichols was unaware of any investigation into
I

the conduct of Major Davis or that she had been identified as a victim. Nichols asked the Sheriff
What she had done wrong. The Sheriff infonned her that she had done nothing wrong; but she
had been identified as a person who had infortnation about the matter they were investigating.

I

19.

Despite the Sheriff's assurances that she had done nothing wrong, Nichols was

upset at the prospect of being interviewed on the matter. Nichols called another employee of the
CCSO, Gail Rose Boyd, and conveyed her concerns. Boyd;in tum, called Defendant about
Nichols. Defendant met with Nichols the following day, Saturday, December 16, 2000, to
discuss her scheduled interview. Both Boyd and Nichols knew that Defendant was the legal

I

t.

advisor of the Sheriff and/or the ccso.
20.

Without the knowledge or authorization ofthe Sheriff, Defendant spoke with

Senior Resident Superior Court Judge for.Cumberland County, E. Lynn Johnson, on Saturday,
. December 16, 2000 ~fter her meeting with Nic40ls and Boyd. In their' cOhversation, Defendant
.complain~d

to Judge Johnson that there was a problem with sexual harassment at the CCSO, that

the Sheriff had been infonned of the matter and had done nothing, and that the Sheriff Was now' .
intimidating victims and witnesses. Defendant told Judge Johnson that she believed the Sheriff
was attempting to suborn perjury by wItnesses. At the time Defendantmade these revelations to
Judge Johnson, Defendant Was relying solely on the statements made to her by Delores Nichols
about the scheduled interView session and Defendant had hot discussed the matter with either the
Sheriff or the County Attorney. Judge Johnson had no supervisory authority over the Sheriffor
any apthoritywith respect to the,intemal affairs oftheCCSO.
21.

Judge Johnson infonned Defendant that he would consider the matter and respond .

to her later. Judge Johnson called Defendant on Sunday, December 17,2000 and advised

I

Defendant that he believed she had three options: talk with the Sheriff, report the matter to the
.

District Attorney if she believed that there was criminal conduct, or consult with outside counsel
with regard to her PC!sonal circumstances.
22.

Defendant did not talk with the Sheriff or the County Attorney or report the

matter to the District Attorney after her conversation with Judge Johnson.
23.

Lt. Crain Was also interviewed by the Sheriff and Ronnie Mitchell ()n December

18, 2000. During the course of the interview, Crain became upset. Mitchell asked her why she
was hostile. Crain infonned Mitchell that she wasn't hostile, but was concerned that she might
lose her job. The Sheriff told Crain that her job was not in jeopardy.

I

.::-

24.

Despite the statement by the Sheriff that her job Was not in jeopardy, Crain

. contacted the Defendant and expressed her concerns about the ongoing investigation to the
Defendant. Defendant infonned Crain that she [referring to herself, the Defendant] needed to
protect Nichols, Crain, and others and would go see Judge J ahnson. Defendant did not confer or
inform the Sheriff of her opinion that she needed to take action to protect Crain and Nichols or to
see Judge Jehnson.
25.

Shortly after this conversation with Crain, Defendant met with Judge Johnson in

his chambers. Judge Johnson ag~ advised Defendant to speak: with the Sheriff. Defendant did

I

not cOnlniunicate with the Sheriff.
26. i On or about December 20, 2000, with knowledge that the Sheriffs investigation
was still ong(>ing, Defendant, along with Lt. Crain and her husband, prepared a letter to the Equal
EmploYQ1ent OppOrtwllty Commission (EEOC) formally complaining of employment
discriminatiort, including sexual harassment, at the CCSO and requesting an investigation by the
EEOC.
27.

: Defendant did not inform the Sheriff or the County Attorney of her intent to send,

her letter of December 20,2000 to the .EEOC. Defendant sent the letter ofOecember 20, 2000 to
the EEOC on :or about December 21, 2000.
28.

: Defendant stated in the lettetthat she was filing the EEO complaint on her own

behalf and on behalf of other victims at the CCSO" The letter accuses the Sheriff ahd the County
Attorney of failing to take action after being informed of the inCidents. The letter also alleges
other discrimina~ory employment acts 'on the part of the CCSO, inclUding racial discrimination

I

and disparity dftraining and assignments on the basis of gender. None of these issues were ever
presented to th~ Sheriff or the County Attorney by the Defendant before Defendant filed the
letter with the EEOC.
!
29.

Defendant attached a list of persons she identified as victims, witnesses, and

knowledgeable,persons to her December 20, 2000 letter to the EEOC. Defendant did not infonn
or request authqrization from any of these people to be identified in the letter.

I
•

.
30.

Even though Defendant was aware that the SheriffwaS conductjngan

investigation, Defendant wrote in her December 20, 20bo letter to the EEOC that "[t]here has
never been any investigation undertaken into his [Major ba:vi~'] conduct." .
31.

Defendant admits that she mew that there was an investigation ,being conducted,

but contends that she did not believe that it was an ''unbiased'' investigation. She further

I

contends that she believed that Mitchell was not the appropriate person to conduct the
investigation. Defendant did not convey her opinion to the Sheriff, the County Attorney, the
aSsistant County Attorney, or Mitchell at any time before sending the letter to the EEOC.
32.

Defendant did not resign or terminate her contract or relationship ~ith the Sheriff

or the CCSO either before or after sending the December 20, 2000 letter to the EEOC.
33.

hl early January 2001, the Sheriffleameq of Defendant's letter to the ,EEOC

through the neWs media. Defendant had not informed or advised the Sheriff that she had filed the'
December 20,2000 letter with the EEOC before its disclosure to the news media.
34.

By letter dated January 22,2001, after learning of her letter to the EEOC, the

County Attorney asked Defendant to consi~er whether she had ~ irreconcilable conflict between
",:ber ethical obligations as an attorney for the Sheriff andlor the CCSo. and her filing her ,personal
.claim against the Sheriff and/or the CCSO with the EEOC thatrequired her withdrawal from her
position as legal advisor.

I

'35.

On January 24, 2001, the Defendant filed a charge with the EEOC on1ier own

personal behalf. Defendant reiterated some of the issues raised in the December 20,2000 EEOC
letter in her January 24, 2001 ,EEOC charge. Defendant alleged that the Sheriff was engaged in
retaliation against her for her prior. filing with the EEOC and specifically asked for damages as a
remedy. At the time Defendant filed this charge with the EEOC, she had not resigned or
Withdrawn as the legal advisor for the Sheriff and/or the CCSO.
36.

Simultaneously with her filing with ~e EEOC ,on January 23,2001, Defendant, '

through her counsel, notified the Sheriff of that filing.
37.

By written correspondence dated January 26,2001, Defendant refused to resign, or

withdraw as the legal advisor to the Sheriff and/or the CCSO.

I

"

38.

By letter dated January 25,2001, the Sheriff terminated Defendant as the legal

advisor.
Approximately one year after her termination, Defendant, along with two other

39.

fOrnier employees of the CCSO, sued the Sheriff, both individually and in his official capacity
a,nd the CCSO in federal court based on the matters related to these Findings of Fact in this
!

cause.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing COnllnittee enters the following:

I

Conclusions of Law
1.

All parties are properly before the hearing conimitteeand the committee has

jurisdiction qver Deborah Koenig and the subject matter.

2.

: The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Ge~. Stat. § .84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

• 'By tlsinginformation received in her capacity as legal adVIsor to the Sheriff to

support het perl?onal claim of sexual harassment against the Sheriff and/or the CCSO without the
Sheriffs knoWledge or consent, Defendant Used confidential information of a client to the
disadvantage:ofthe client in violation of Rule 1.6(c)(2) and used confidential infonnation ofa
I

.

client for her own
advantage and the advantage of a third party in violation of Rule
1.6(c)(3);
!
.

(b)

• By revealing information received in her capacity as legal advisor to the Sheriff to

persons not aSsociated with the CCSO and with no supervisory authority over the Sheriff or the

I

CCSO, Defen4ant revealed confidential information of a client in violation of Rule 1.6(c)(1);
I

(c)

i By continuing to act as the Sheriff's legal advisor after having filed an EEOC

complaint on her own behalf against the Sheriff and/or the CCSO, Defendant represented a client
when her own! personal interests conflicted with those of her client in violation of Rule 1.7(b);
(d)

,By failing to pursue the legal issues related to the allegations of sexual harassment

to a final decision by the highest authority within the CCSO, the Sheriff, and by not resigning
"

before filing the EEOC charge
on her own behalf, Defendant failed to act in the best interests of
, . .
~

the organization and work within the organization in violation of Rule l.13(b) and (c);

I

(e)

By failing to fully coun~el the Sheriff on her concerns and his obligations.

regarding the allegations of sexual harassment, Defendant failed to explain a legal matter to the
extent reasonably necessary to pennit a client to make aninfonned decision on his legal
-" .
obligations in vi01ation of Rule l.4(b);
,

(f)

I

By filing an EEOC complaint against her client on her own behalf while still

representing the client and by not informing the Slieriffthat she had filed the.EEOC complaint,
befendant intentionally prejudiced her client's interests during the COurse ofllie professional
relationship in violation of Rule 8.4(g); and
(g)

By refusing to resign her position upon notice·ofher conflict of interest with her

client, Defendant failed to withdraw as attorney as requited in violation of Rule 1.16(a).
BaSed upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
;
.
eVidence and argutllents of the parties concerning the appropriate discipline, the hearing
coinmittee hereby makes these additional

Findings of Fact Regard~g DiSCipline

1. The Defendant has no prior disciplinary record.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law a,bove and the additional

Findings of Fact.Regarding Discjpline, the Hearing Committee makes the following:

I

Conclusions witb Respect to Discipline

1.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

2.

•

Substantial experience in the practice ofla,w.

Defendant's misconduct i$ mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

No prior disciplinary record; and

(b)

Defendant was herself a victim of the inappropriate behavior of Major
Davis.

3.

I

11ie mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

.:

4.

Although there was the potential for hartn to the client, the Committee concludes

that, based on the mitigating factors, discipline greater than an admonition is not required for the
protection of the public.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the Findings of.
I

Fact Regar(Jmg »iscipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee enters

the following:
Order of Discipline

1.
2.

i

I

The Defendant is hereby admonished.
The Defendant will pay all costs of this proceeding pennitted by law within thirty
days of service of notice of the amount of costs as assessed by the Secretary.

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Committee.

This the

~

~ day of_-'.:::::~f-_"'-"-~_ _

---J

2005

M. Ann Reed, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I

I

