I () 353

r

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0744

WAKE COUNTY

IN RE:

LEROY R. CASTLE,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

.)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On 14 Apr 2005, th~ Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to section.Oll~(a) of the Discipline an,d Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
,Committee found probable cauSe. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reason,able cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance COminittee may
determine that the filing ofa complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent attorney.
A Reprimand is a written form of discipline more seriolls th@ an Admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofProfessiolial
,Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a: client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censu,re.
The Grievance 'Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case
and issues this Reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committ~e of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed. '
On March 23, 2004, you were informed by certified mail of a petition ror resolution ofa
fee dispute filed with the State Bar by your former client with the initials AW. As stated in the
letter informing you of the petition, you had 15 days under the rules of the North Carolina State
"'Bar to respond to 'the petition. Further, YOll were requil'eaunder Rule 1.5 of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct to participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process.

I
..

'. ..

"

,

'

·,
Afterreceipt of the notice by the Bar, you tequreste4 an extension of time to respond after'
the initial deadline had passed. Your request was granted. More than 10 days after the second
deadlined had passed, you still had not responded. The Bat sent you a second notice, which you
received on June 3, 2004. That notice directed your responSe within 10 days. You did not
respond.
As a result of your failure to respond, a grievance was opened. You were issued a Letter
of Notice on the grievance, which you received on July 21, 2004. As stated in the Letter of
Notice, you had 15 days under the rules of the North Carolina State Bar to respond to the
grievance Letter of Notice. You did not respond in a timely manner. The Bar sent a follow-up
letter to which you did not respond. A Bar Councilor contacted you and told you that a response.
waS needed. You advised that one would be sent, but you did hot respond. Finally, a subpoena
was issued to compel your response.
.

I"

Your response to the Letter of Notice was sufficient to resolve the underlying questions
with respect t6· your representation of and fees paid by AW. However, your excuse that you failed
to respond to the various notices of the Bar because of health iss\les and a heavy court schedule
was not satisf~ctory.
I

The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules and
Revised Rilles of Professional Conduct. By failing to respond to the notice offee dispute, you.
faile4 to parti¢ipate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process in violation ofRcle 1.5(f).
Further, by failing to respond to the Letter of Notice issued as a result of the grievance for failing
to respond to the fee dispute notice, you vloiated Rule 8.1.
In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee considered whether there were any
aggravating arid mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee foUnd that you have previously
been admonished for failing to respond to the Bar. The Committee found ho mitigating factors.
You ar~ hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from 'adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
regarding the taxing of the admi~istratlve and investigative costs to any
Carolina State lBar
I
"
attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 ·are hereby taxed to you.

Done alu! ordered, this

.2,>f day of

1/1~. ' 2005.

~

H
abb
CHair, Grievance Committee

: I

.

',

..

1

