NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03Gl'570 & 04G0527

• WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

DOUGLAS L SUTTON,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

I'

i'

On April 14,2005, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar m.et and
considered the grievance filed against you by Patrick Raum and Jerry Cole.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Cotnmittee conducted a prelhninary hearing. After conSidering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable,cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commissionat~
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels ofdiscipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. 'The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.

I

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued incases in which
an a,ttorney has violated one or mote provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a, client, the administration of justiCe, the profession o,r' ,
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I am certain that you will .
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You closed a real estate locin on June 28, 2002 in which Coastal Federal Credit lJnion Was the
lender. You also closed a real estate loan on October 12,2001 in which Wells Fargo Home Mortgage was
the lender. You o1;>tained title insurance commitments and collected the appropriate amounts for the
premium at each closing. You took no steps to obtain the title insurance policies until mid-August2004,
after numerous contacts by Coastal and Wells Fargo and the filing of grievances with the Nqrth Carolinl;l. .
State Bar.
)
.
In issuing this discipline, the Grievance Committee noted prior discipline issued to YO\l for failing to
obtain policies oftitle insurance after real estate loan closings.

I
<101

You ate hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for yoin' violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession.. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future youtresponsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession wh9se conduct may be relied upon without question.
In acco:rdance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the 'Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done ~ ordered, this

r05.,

I

'i?' day of ?72

, Chair'
ce Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

