i3<J5
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE 11IE
GRJBVANCE COMMITTEE.
OF THE
NOR'q:I CAROLINA-STATE BAR
0401074

WAKE COUNTY .... - ....... .

I

IN RE:

JAMES B. WEEKS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRlMAND

. On 14 Apr 2005, the Grievance Committee c>fthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Mark Randolph.
.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Caroljna
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance.'
Commjttee found probable cause. Probable cause is defliled in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misco~duct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that a.fter a finding of probable Cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commi:;sion are pot required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injwy caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an AchnQnition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent attorney.
A Reprimand is a written-form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued-in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofProfessiol!al
Conduct and ha~ caused hann Qr potential hann to a client, the a<;lmittistration of justice, the _
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does' not requite a Censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a CenSure is not required in this case
and issues this Reprimand to you. As chainnan--ofthe Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am Gertain that you will
understand' fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You regularly repte&ented a residential contracting company. In December 2003, a
materialmen's lien was perfected against your client and became a lien on property your client
was developing. Sometime before August 2004, the company agreed to sell a new residence to a
person with the initial~ S~ ..Mr. ~~P90tph was the c1oshU~ ~ttorney f?r the :tl:ansactionJmd.t~.e .

. :.

"

,--

..' ..

"

,

.-

closing was scheduled for August 13~ 2004. At the time, the perfected materialmen's lien had not
been released from the property to be conveyed to SK. Mr. Randolph provided you with a copy
of the proposed BUD-I for the transaction which showed no payments for the release of the lien.
, You also had COniIIlUnications with the 'attorney representing th,e' supplier who"Ilelct' the
_.,--'.- "
materialmeI':l's lien in advance of the erosing in which ybu advised that you needed a release for
the property. You infonned that attorney that his client would either receive proceeds from the
sale Or a bond covering the lien on the property. Even though you knew that the lien existed but
was not shown on Mr. Randolph's HUD-l, you did not infonn Mr. Randolph of the lien or ask
him how he :intended to resolve it; you simply remained silent. Further, you state that you
prepared a Hen waiver for your client's execution, but did not advise him to $ign it even though it
woUld constitute a false declaration under oath for your client to exec1;lte a lien waiver~ Even if
you had not prepared the lien waiver, you knew yoUi' client would be reqUired to execute one at
closing. However, you chose to remain silent dispite your knowledge.

1

The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Rules and
Revised Rules ofPtofessionaI Conduct. By preparing a lien waiver for your client's execution
knowing that the Waiver could not be executed without ,a false declaration of fact by your client
ot by failing to advise your client that such a waiver could not be executed under the
circumstance~, you counseled or assisted your client in fraudulent conduct in violation of Rule
1.2(d) and represented to Mr. Randolph facts that YOil knew Were false by your silence in
violation of Rule 4.1. As a result of your conduct, your client was unjustly enriched by receipt of
proceeds :fro~ the sale that 'Would have otherwise been paid to the lienholder and the title
insurance cotrtpany was required to rectify the matter to protect the buyer and her lender.
i

In dec~ding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee considered the following aggravating
and mitigating factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered substantial experience in the
, practice of la'Y. In mitigation, the Committee considered the fact that you 'have no prior
discipline.

You ar~ hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to yoUr professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to d~p'~ ~~tp., :adherence to the ~iglt ~thical standards of the legal profession. ,. __ .-'

,I'

,

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State 13ar regarding the taxing 6fthe administrative and investigative costs to any
. attorney issuedtll Reprimand by the Grievl:Plce Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
'

Done ~d ordered, ~is

~

r

day of

:tJ1 p;;r=

.2005.

1

