WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

·v.

)
)
)
)

)
DARWIN LITTLEJOHN, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

TIDS MATTER came on to be heard and was p.eard on June 10, 2005 before a
duly assigned hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of
Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair; Tommy W. Jarrett and Marguerite P. Watts. Carolin
Bakewell appeared for the North Carolina State Bar. The Defendant, Darwin Littlejohn,
did not appear and was not represel1ted by counsel. Based upon the pleadings herein .and
the evidence introduced at trial, the hearing committee hereby makes the following:
.

1. The·Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly orgainzed
under the laws of North Carolina and is 'the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereUilder.

I

2. The Defendant? Darwin Littlejohn (hereafter, Littlejohn), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar in 1987, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolin~, subject to the
nUes, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all of the periods relevant hereto, Littlejohn was ~ngaged in the
practice of law in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
4. 1;be complaint in this action was filed on Jan. 19,2005.
5. Littlejohn was personally served with the Summo;ns and Complaint herein by
the Forsyth County Sheriffs Department Ot:l Jan. 27, 20Q5.
.
6. Littlejohn's answer was due no later than Feb. 16,2005.

I
~-.- .', ••

?

" • ........ _

....... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .... , _....

..,.,..I"'..-...;,......~ • ..,.-...--~'-"- ..........--:.

7:. Littlejohn did not file an answer or other responsive pleading.
8. The Secretary ofthe N.C. State Bar entered Littlejohn's default on March 2,
2005.

9.. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Littlej ohn' s
person abd over the subject matter of this proceeding.
10. Littlejohn had proper' notice of the time, date and place of this
hearing. •

I

.
1;1. On or about Jan. 9,2004, Shirese Moore Adams ("Adams"), retained
Littlejohn to file a divorce complaint on her behalf. She paid Littlejohn $290,
which sum included a $90.00 filing fee and a $200.00 advance fee.

12.

Littlejohn did not file a divorce complaint for Adams or otherwise
take effective action to assist her in the domestic case.
13. Littlejohn did not communicate with Adams or keep her advised of
the statu~ of her case.
14. On May 14,2004, Adams filed a fee dispute petition against
Littlejohn. with the North Carolina State Bar.
1$. On June 9, 2004, Littlejohn was served with notice of Adams' fee
dispute petition by certified mail and was directed to respond in writing within 15
d~.
.

19. Littlejohn did not respond to Adams' fee dispute petition, participate
in mediation or refund any portion of Adams' fee.
17. Littlejohn failed to return the $90 fjling fee to Adams after he was
discharged and applied the funds for his own benefit or those of third parties other
than Adams without her knowledge and consent.

I

I
..... _.~ •.

.:.. '

" ............ _ .... ~ ....... _ _ ...................... ~...... _""'._. '.n.....".""" ...'-..........,..... ·~··~--:'=

·18. On or about March 2,2004, Sharon Philson ("Philson"), and her
sister, Angela Crawford ("Crawford"), retained Littlejohn to represent them in a
will caveat proceeding. They paid Littlejohn a $50 consultation fee and a $200
advance fee.
19. Littlejohn did not take any effective action to assist Philson or
Crawford with the will caveat proceeding.

I

20. Littlejohn did not ~ommunicate with Philson or Crawford about the
status of their case.
21. On June 10, 2004, Philson and Crawford filed a fee dispute petition
against Littlejohn with,the North Carolina State Bar.
21. On June 12,2004, Littlejohn was served with notice of Philson and
Crawford's fee dispute petition by certified mail and was directed to respond in
writing within 15 days.
23. Littlejohn did not respond to the fee dispute petition filed by Philson
and Crawford, did not participate in the mediation process and did not refund any
portion of the fee paid by Philson and Crawford.
24. On April 14, 2004, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the North
Carolina State Bar ("DHC"), entered an order suspending Littlejolni.' s law license
fot two years. Littlejohn was present at the hearing at which-the suspension order .
was ann01111ced and was aware of its terms and provisions.

I

25. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. Section .0124(c) of the State Bar Discipline
& Disability Rules ("Rule .0124(c)"), Littlejohn was forbidden from undertaking
any new legal matters for clients after entry of the order of discipline on April 14,
2004.
.
26. Littlejohn was served with DHC's written order of discipline on April
30,2004 and the two-year suspension of his license became effective on May 30,
2004.
27. On or about April 13, 20{)4, Cynthia Handy ("Handy"), retained
Littlejohn to file a divorce complaint on her behalf.
28. Handy paid Littlejohn a total of$500'in fees between April 13 and
May 11, 2004. She also paid him $90 in court costs on May 20, 2004.
29. Littlejohn did not tell Handy that a disciplimuy order suspending his
law license had been entered by the DHC .

.'

30. Littlejohn intentionally concealed the imminent suspension of his law
license from Handy for the fraudulent purpose of inducing her to pay the $590 in .
fees and co~ts to him, although he knew or should have known that it would be
impossible for him to complete Handy's legal matter before the suspension of his
law license became effective.
.
31. Littlejohn did not file a divorce complaint or take other effective
action qn Handy's behalf.
32. Littlejohn failed and refused to retuni the $590 in fees and costs to
Handy tvhen she discharged him.
33. Littlejohn used the $90 filing fee paid to him by Handy for his own
benefit or that of third parties, without Handy's knowledge and consent.
I

I

.

,

~4. On or about April 29, 2004, Christopher McSw~in ("McSwain"),

retained Littlejohn to represent him in a domestic action. He paid Littlejohn a
$1,000 fee.
35: Because Littlejohn had not previously represented McSwain in his
domestic action, the legal matter that Littlejohn accepted for McSwain on or
about April 29, 2004 was a new legal matter within the meaning of Rule .0124(c).
•

I

36. Littlejohn knew or should have known that he was not authorized to
accept new client matters after April 14, 2004 ..
37. Littlejohn intentionally concealed from McSwain the fact that he was
about t<1> lose his law license for the fraudulent purpose of inducing McSwain into
paying him a fee, despite the fact that Littlejohn knew or should have known that
it would be impossible for him to complete McSwain's legal matter before the
suspension of his law license became effective.
38. McSwain was unaware oithe terms of the DHC disciplinary order
when he retained Littlejohn's services ahq paid the.$T,OOO fee to him.

I

:36 Littlejohn did not take effective action to assist McSwain with his
legal matter and failed to communicate with, McSwain about the status of the case.
37. Littlejohn failedto refund the unearned portion of the $1,000 fee
when l'1cSwain discharged him.
38. On June 22, 2004, McSwain filed a fee dispute petition against
Littlejohn with the North Carolina State Bar.
39. 'On June 26, 2004, Littlejohn was notified of McSwain's fee dispute
petitio~ by certified mail and was directed to respond in writing within 15 days.

I
·:.. -

40. Littlejolm did nqt respond to McSwain's fee dispute petition, did not
participate in the mediation process and did not refund any portion of the fee paid
. to him by McSwain.
41. On or about May 11,2004, Littlejolm undertook to represent Michael
Shane Martin ("Martin"), regarding a criminall1latter.

I

42. On or about May 11,2004, Martin's father, Lawrence Martin, paid
Littlejolm a $1,500 fee on Martin's behalf.
43. The case that Littlejolm undertook for Martin on May 11,2004 was a
new matter within the meaning of Rule .0124. Littlejolm knew or should have
.
known that he was not authorized to accept Martin's case.
44. Littiejolm did not advise Martin on a timely basis that his law license
was aboutto be suspended and that it was impossible for Littlejolm to .complete
Martin's legal matter before the suspension went into effect.
45. Littlejohn intentionally concealed from the Martins ,the factthat he
was about to lose his law license for the fraudulent purpose of inducing Lawrence
Martin to pay Littlejohn a fee, when Littlejolm knew or should have known. he
could not complete the case before the suspension of his law license became
effective.
46. On June 10,2004, the date of Martin's first court appearance,
Littlejohn advised Martin for the fIrst time that his law license had been
suspended and that Martin would have to hire anew attorney.
47. Littlejohn failed to return any portion Qfthe $1,500 fee.
48. On May 24, 2004, Kelly and Robin Roone ("the Roones"), fIled a fee
dispute petition against Littlejolm with the North Carolina State Bar.
49. On May 26, 2004, Littlejohn was served with notice of the Roones'
fee dispute petition by certifIed mail and was directed to respond in writing within
IS-days.

50. Littlejohn did not respond to the notice oftpe Roones' fee dispute
petition, did not return any portion of the disputed fee and did not participate in
fee dispute mediation.
51. On May 27~ 2004, Timothy Lawson ("Lawson"), fIled a fee dispute
petition against Littlejolm with the North Carolip.a State Bar.

I

,.

52. On June 10, 2004, Littlejohn was served with notice of Lawson's fee
dispute petition by certified mail and was directed to respond in writing within 15
days.
53. Littlejohn did not respond to the notice of Lawson's fee dispute
petition~ did not return any portion of the disputed fee and did not participate in
fee dispute mediation.
$4. On June 10, 2004, Charles McClennahan ("McClennahan"), filed a
fee disppte petition against Littlejohn with the North Carolina State Bar.

55.

On JUhe 12,2004, Littlejohn Was served with notice of
McClennahtm.'s fee dispute petition by certified mail and was directed to respond
.in writ~g within 15 days.

I

56. Littlejohn did riot respond to the notice of McClennahan's fee. dispute
petition, did not return any portion of the disputed fee and did not participate in
fee dispute mediation.
.

57. On June 21, 2004, Derek 1. Brooks ("Brooks"), filed a fee dispute
petition :against Littlejohn with the North Carolina State Bar.
58.

On June 26, 2004, Littlejohn was served with notice of Brooks' fee
dispute petition by certified mail and was directed to respond in writing within 15
days.

59. Littlejohn did not respond to the notice of Brooks' fee dispute
petition, did not return any portion of the disputed fee and did not participate in
fee dispute mediation.
,

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters
the folloWing Conclusions of Law

1;. :ey failing to take timely, effective action to assist Philson, Crawford,
. Adams, Handy and McSwain with their cases, Littlejohn neglected client matters
in violation ofRu1e 1.3.

I

,

. i

2. By failing to keep Adams, Philson, Crawford and McSwain informed
of the status of their cases, Littlejohn failed to communicate with clients in
violation of Rule 1.4.
I

•

3:. By failing to return the unearned portion of the fees paid to him by
Adams, Philson, Crawford, Handy, McSwain and Martin, Littlejohn retained
. excessiv fees in violation of Rule 1.5 and failed to refund the Uhearned portion of
fees in v~olation of Revised Rule 1.16.

r

I
:..

4. By failing to respond to the State Bar's notices regarding fee dispute
petitions filed by Adams, Philson and Crawford, McSwain, the Ro<;mes, Lawson,
McClenmthart and Brooks, LittlejoIm failed to participate in good faith ill the
mandatory fee dispute resoJutionprocess, in violation of Rule 1.5(f.).

5. By failing to return $90 filing fees to Adams and Handy, Littlejohn
failed to return client funds as directed by the client in violation of ReVIsed Rule
1.15-2(m). By applying the filing fees to his oWn benefit or'those of third parties
Without his clients' knowledge and consent, LittlejoIm engaged in criminal
conduct that reflects, adversely on his honesty and trustworthiness as an attorney
in violation ofRu~e 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving di~honesty, fraud;
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

I

6. By intentionally concealing the imminent suspension of his law license
from Handy"McSwain and the Martins for the fraudulent purpose of inducing
them to pay legal fees to him, despite the fact that LittlejoIm knew or should have
known that he would not be able to complete the ca~e before the suspension ofhis
law license went into effect, Littlejohn committed criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitne~s as a lawyer in violation of
Rule 8.4(b), engaged in conduct in involving, dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), failed to explain a matter to the .
extent reasonably necessary to .permit the client to make informed decisions
regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b) and engaged in conflicts
of interest in violation of Revised Rule 1.7.

..

7. By accepting fees from or on behalf of McSwain and Martin and by
undertaking to represent them respecting new legal matters after the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission's order had ~een entered in violation of 27 NCAC Section
.0124(c) of the State Bar Discipline & 'Disability Rules, LittlejoIm engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) and
engaged in conduct constituting contempt of the N.C. State Bar within the
meaning ofN. C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3).

I

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. On or about Oct. 10, 2003, Charles McClennahan paid Littlejohn $1,000' in
legal fees and $110 in court costs regarding for two matters Littlej oIm was handling for
McClennahan. Littlejohn deposited the $110 in costs into his attorney trust account at
Southern Community Bank.
2. Littlejohn misappropriated the $110 he received from McClennahan
for his own benefit or the benefit ofthird parties other than McClennahan without his
client's consent.
3. Littlejohn did not take effective action to resolve McClennahan's legal matters
and failed and refused to refund and portion of the fees and costs to McClennahan.

,:.

,.

4.

On March 16,2004, Louinice Motsinger retained Littlejohn to represent her in
a traffic :matter in Forsyth County District Court. Motsinger paid Littlejohn $325, of
which sUm $125 represented the court costs in the case.
~. Littlejohn failed to deposit the $125 in court costs that he received for Ms.

Motsinger into a trust account. Instead, he misappropriated the $125 for his own benefit
or that of third parties other than Motsinger without her consent.
6. Littlejohn failed to appear in court for Ms. Motsinger and she ultimately
handled the traffic matter herself.

I

7~ Littlejohn did not refund any part of the $200 fee or the $125 in costs that he

had received from Ms. Motsinger.
,

8~ In 2002, Terri Stewart paid Littlejohn $850 to represent her in a civil action
filed against Stewart by her former landlord.

9; Littlejohn took little or no effective action to represent Stewart in the civil
action and a $19,000 judgment was entered against Stewart. Stewart's father paid the
judgment and later discovered that the judgment had not been canceled.
,

10. Stewart contacted Littlejohn, who agreed to get the judgment canceled for a
fee of $2;350. He agreed t6 apply the $850 fee that Stewart had previously paid toward .
the $2,350 fee. Stewart also paid Littlejohn an additional $1,500 in three installments.
11. Littlejohn took no action on Stewart's behalf and she ultimately had the
judgtnent canceled without any assistance from Littlejohn.
,

12. Littlejohn failed and refused to refund any portion of the fees paid to him by .
Ms. Stewart.

13. In rid-March 2004, Alan C. Hurlocker and his wife contacted Littlejohn to
represent :them in a custody matter. Littlejohn agreed to handle the tnatter upon payment
of a $1,000 fee.
14. Mr. Hilrlocker paid a total of$890 toward ~e $1;000 fee in several
installments between March 18,2004 and April 23, 2004.
15, Littlejohn did not tell the Hurlockers that his law license was about to be
suspendeq following the April 14, 2004 DHC hearing.
I

•

_

.

16; Littlejohn did hot provide any effective assistance to the Hurlockers and
faiied and refused to refund any portion of the $890 fee he had received.
17; In August 2000, Angela Nellums Byrd paid Littlejohn $1,200 to represent her
son in a criminal matter.
,

!

:.

"

.

-I_

18. Littlejohn did not enter an appearance on behalf of Ms. Byrd's'son and did
not take effective action to assist him.
19. Litt1ejohn refunded $345 of the fee but failed and refused to refund the
remaining tinearned portion of the fee paid by Ms. Byrd.
20. Littlejohn's conduct is aggravated by the following facts:
a) He was motivated in part by a dishonest or selfish motive.

I

b) He engaged in a pattern of miscondu9t.
c) He engaged in mUltiple violations of the Rilles of Professional
Conduct.
d). He has failed to make restitution.
e) He failed to cooperate With the State Bar's investigation into his misconduct
and disobeyed an order of the Chair requiring him to respond to discovery served
upon him by the State Bar.
.
f) Littlejohn has failed to demonstrate any remorse for his misconduct or
acknowledge wrongdoing.

g) Littlejohn has prior dil:)cipline.
h) Littlejohn has substantial experience in the practice of law.
i) Some of the victims of Littlejohn's misconduct were particulaily vulnerable.
20. There are no mitigating factors.
,

.

21. The aggravating factors far outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based on the foregoing findings of fact, the Corru::p.ittee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Littlejohn's dishonest conduct and neglect has caused significant actual harm
to his clients.

2. Littlejohn's misconduct has also harmed the standing of the legal profession by
undermining trust and confidence in lawyers and the legal ~ystem.
3. Disbarment is the oilly sanction that can adequately protect the public for the
following reasons:

I
:.

"

;a) Littlejohn continued to violate the Rules of Professional Conduct after the MOyear suspension of his law license went into effect. It is thus apparent that lesser
sanctions ate insufficient to protect the public and impress upon Littlejohn his obligations
pursuapt to the Rules of Professional Conduct.
'b) Littlejohn's misconduct was repeated and occurred over a substantial period of
time ~d therefore appears to be the result of moral turpitude and/or a serious character
flaw, r~ther than an aberration or mistake.
:c) Littlejohn has failed to show any evidence that .he has addressed whatever trait
or flaW caused his misconduct and therefore the Committee concludes that there is a risk
that he would continue to engage in further misconduct if he were to remained licensed to
practice law. Indeed, Littlejohn failed to anS:wer the State Bar's complaint and failed to
appear at the hearing herein.

I

,

. d) Entry of art order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses iliat Littlejohn committed and would send the wrong message
to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in
North Carolina. An attorney's duty to preserve client funds entrusted to the attorney is
one of the most sacred that an attorney undertakes. ..An: attorney Should never violate that
duty or the trust that the client has in the attorney.
•

e) The protection of the public requites that Littlejohn not be permitted to resume
the practice of law unless and until he demonstrates that he has reformed, that he
understands his obligations to his clients, the public, the courts and the legal profession,
and that reinstatem~nt would not injure the standing of the legal profession. Disbarred
attorneys must· show reformation among other things, before they· may resume the
practice pf law, whereas no such showing of reformation is required of attorneys whose
licenses are suspended for a term certain.

~ased

upon the· foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and any: mixed findings of fact· and conclusions of law
howsoev~r designat~d, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:

I)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Darwin Littlejohn is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law.
2., Littlejohn shall surrender his law license and membership card to the Secretary
of ilie State Bar no later than 30 days from service of this order upon him if he has not
a1read~dbne so in connection with his prior orders of discipline.

3.:Littlejohn shall pay the costs ofthls proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of
the N.C. $tate Bar no later than 30 days from service of this order upon Littlej ohn.

I
«

:-'

.,

9/(,/'.

4. Littlejohn shall comply with all provisions of 27 NCAC IB § .0124 of the
NQrth Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability ~ules ("Discipline l~.ules") ..
5. Prior to seeking ,reinstatement of his law license, Littlejohn must present
satisfactory written evidence to the Office of Counsel that he has made restitution of the
following sums to the clients listed below, or, if appropriate, to the Client Security Fund:
a) $290 to Shirese Adams
b) $250 to Sharon Philson and Angela Crawford
c) $590 to Cynthia Handy
d) $1,000 to Christopher McSwain
e) $1,500 to Lawrence Martin
f) $1,000 to Betty Kelly and Robin Roone
g) $500 to Timothy Lawson
h) $250 to Derek Lee Brooks
i) $1,100 to Charles McClennanhan
j) $325 to Louinice Motsinger <
k) $2,350 to Terri Stewart
1) $890 to Alan C. Hurlocker
m) $855 to Angela Byrd

I

6. Prior to seeking reinstatement of his law license, Littlejohn must present
written evidence documenting that he is neither addicted to nor abusing any illegal clrUgs
or prescription medications and that he is not suffering from any mental or physical
condition that would prevent him from engaging in the practice of law in a competent,
ethical manner.
Signed by the undersigned chairman ~l knowledge and consent of the
other HeGlring Committee members, this the

I

IlL day of June, 2005.

,

Steph n E. Culbreth .
Chair, Discipljnary Hearing COllllllittee

:.. ,

