1~110

'

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

,

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.
MAR.l( F . REYNOLDS, ATTORNEY

Defendant

)
)
) FINDINGS OF FACT
) CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
) & ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)
)

I

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on Friday, May 20, 2005
before a dtly assigned hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed ,of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair; M. Ann Reed and R. Mitchel Tyler. Carolin
Bakewelll,'epresented the N.C. State Bar. The Defendant, Mark F. Reynolds; was not
present nor was he represented by counseI. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence
presented ~t the hearing, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF .FACT
i

1. the Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duIy organized
under the l~ws of North Carolina and is the proper 'party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
' Carolina, aJ;1d the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.

I

I

2. The Defendant, Mark F. Reynolds ("Reynolds"); Was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1985, and is, and was at all times r~ferred to herein,
an attorney 'at law licenseq to practice iIi North'Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar
and the law~ of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all ofthe periods relevant hereto, Reynolds was engaged in the
, practice oflaw in High Point, North Carolina.
I

I

4. The matters alleged in the State Bar's complaint were also the subject
of a disciplinary hearing held before Hon. Carlton Tilley in the U.S. District Court
for the Middle District of North Carolina in February 2004.
,

,

5. Reyn0lds attended the federal disciplinary hearing, offered evidence
and argument on his own behalf and was afforded the opportunity to cross
examine the witnesses called by the N.C. State Bar.
'

I

,6. At the conclusion of the federal disciplinary hearing, Reynolds
tendered the surrender of his license. The court accepted the surrender and
entered an order disbarring Reynolds from practice in the federal court.
'7. Reynolds did not. appeal from the federal ,court's order.
8. Following entry of the federal court order, the N.C. State Bar served

R~ynolds with a notice of reciprocal discipline pursuant to 27 NCAC lB. 0116.

9. Reynolds objected to imposition of reciprocal d.iscipline based on the
federal disciplinary order and this matter was referred to the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission for trial.
,

,

10. On Jan. 24,2005, the N.C. State Bar filed its summons, and complaint
herein.
11. Reynolds was served with the State Bar's summons ~d complaint on
March 9, 2005.
12. On March 23,2005, Reynolds wrote, to the N.C. State Bar concerning
the matters set out in the State Bar's complaint.

I

,

'

13. The March 23, 2005 letter was not styled as an answer and Reynolds
did not file any other responsive pleadings in this matter.
14. On April 20, 2005, on motion of the 'State B~, the Chair of the

Hearing Committee entered an order granting judgment on the pleadings in favor
of the N.C. State )3ar.

, IS. Reynolds was properly notified of the Chair's order and of the time,
date and place of the hearing herein.
16. Reynolds represented the plaintiff in an action in the U.S. Djstrict
, Court for the Middle District of North Carolina ("federal court"), entitled Thomas
v. Alcohol & Drug, Ci;vil Action No. 1:97 CV 918.,

17. Reynolds failed to file jury instructions on behalf of his client as
required by Rule 51.1 (b) of the federal court's local rules.

2

I

i 8. Reynolds rep!esented the 'defendant in an action in the federal court
entitled Washington v~ Slane Mill Hosiery, Civil Action N. 1:99 CV 201.
I

'

,

19. ,Reynolds failed to file jury instructions on behalf of his client as
required by Rule 51.1(b) of the federal court's local rules.
20. On June 20; 2002, Reynolds failed to attend the first scheduled
settleme,nt conference in the Slane Mill Hosiery case, despite the fact that he had
notice t4at the settlement conference would be held on that date.

I

21. Reynolds represented the plaili.tiffin an action in the federal court
entitled Dawson v. Hecht's, Civil Action No.1 :99 CV 720. ,
22.. Reynolds' filed a motion to remand the Dawson case without 'filing the
brief required by Rule 7.3 of the federal CQurt's local rules.
1
'

,

23. Reynolds represented the defendant in an action in the federal court
entitled Springwall Inc. v. Timeless Bedding, Inc., Civil Action No; 1:00 CV
1008.
24. Reynolds failed to comply with various orders of the fed~ral court
regardin$ discovery in the Springwall case.
~5.

On Dec. 12,2001, Hon. P. Trevor Sharp ("Judge Sharp") entered an
Qrder sanctioning Reynolds for violating the federal court's discovery orders.
Judge Sharp found that Reynolds' violations of his orders had been "substantial
and repeated."

1,6. On May 21,2002, the federal court entered an oider granting
sum~ary judgment against Reynolds'

client in the Springwall case.

27. On May 31, 2002 the plaintiff filed a motion pursuant to Fed. R. Civ.
Pro. 59(e) to amend the order granting summary judgment in the Springwall case.
I

'

i

I

'

28. More than a month after his deadline for responding to the'Rule 59
motion had passed, Reynolds sought an extension of time in which to respond to
the motion. In hisfilotion for an extension of time, Reynolds claimed that he had
not been ;served with the Rule 59 motion.
I

29. On April 25, 2003, Judge James Beaty ("Judge Beaty") entered an
order deriying Reynolds' motion for ~ extension of time. Judge Beaty found that
Reynold$' explanation was not offered in good faith and that Reynolds had
engaged in an unacceptable pattern of conduct. He sanctioned Reynolds in the
amount of $944.

3

I
"

I

;,
:.

0'

:

'

,'
f

30. On June 25, 2001, Reynolds filed a complaint in the federal court on
behalf of the plaintiff in a case entitled Bacchus v. Tubular Textile, Civil Action,
" . .
No. 1:01 CV 621.
31. On Nov. 21, 2002, the defendant in Bacchus filed a motiop for'
summary judgment.
.

.

32. Although Reynolds was served with the motion for summary
judgment, he failed to file a timely response.

I

33. When he ultimately did respond, Reynolds' brief supporting his
response to the motion for summary J~ldgment lacked citations to the record, in.
viol~tioil otRule 7.2(a)(2) of the federal court's local niles.
34. On March 19,2003, Judge Sharp entered ail order reco~mending that
the court grant the motion for summary judgment in the Bacchus. case.
.
35. Although Reynolds received a copy of Judge Sharp's order, he failed
to <liscuss Judge. Sharp's order with his client and therefore failed to have realistic,
meaningful settlement discussions with his client before the scheduled prehearing
conference in the Bacchus case.
36. A settlement conference was held in the Bacchus case on March 31,
2003, at which time Judge William Osteen ("Judge Osteen") allowed Reynolds
additional time in which to respond to Judge Sharp's recom:qlendation.
37. Reynolds told Judge Osteen that he would respond to Judge Sharp's
recommendation, but failed to do so.
38. Thereafter, Judge Osteen accepted Judge Sharp's recommendation
and dismissed the Bacchus complaint.

I

39. Reynolds represented the plaintiff in a federal case entitled Goetsch v.
'.
.
Mepla-Alflit, Civil Action No.1 :01 CV 642.
40. Reynolds failed to conduct timely discovery on behalf of his client in
the Goetsch case.
41. On July 10,2001, Reynolds filed a complaint on behalf of the plaintiff
in a case filed in the federal court entitled Dally v. Elizabeth Carbide, Civil Action
.
No. 1:0ICV 667.
i

,

42. On April 30, 2002, Judge Wallace Dixon ("Judge Dixon"), entered an
order recommending that ReYnolds be sapctioned pursuapt to Fed. R. Civ. Pro. 11
for failing to properly research the facts and law supporting the complaint before
he filed it.
'

•
4

I
:..

..'

43. Reynolds received a copy of Judge Dixon's recommendation .
.44. Ort July 10, 2002, Judge Frank Bullock ("Judge Bullock"), entered an
order sanctioning Reynolds in the Dally case pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. Pro. 11.
The order found that Reynolds' complaint contained frivolous claiins for tortious
interference with contract and alleged violations of Title VII and the ~ericans
With Disabilities Act.
,45. Thereafter, the case was remanded to Judge Dixon for proceedings to
determine the appropriate sanction to be imposed against Reynolds .

I

.46. On July 23, 2002, Judge Dixon ordered Reynolds to submit person~l
financial information to the court by Aug. 26, 2002 to enable the court to
detenhine the appropriate sanction in the Dally case.
'47. Although Reynolds was served with the July 23, 2002 order, he failed
to resp<!>nd or provide financial info~ation as directed by the federal court.

'48. On May 15,2003, Judge Bullock entered an order sanctioning
Reynolds in the amount of$10,OOO for his Rule 11 violations in the Dally case.
49. Reynolds failed to pay the sanction imposed in the Da~ly case.
50. Reynolds represented the defendant in a case filed in the federal court
entitled EEOC v. 2M Drywall, Civil Action No. 1:OICV0812.
'51. In 2001, counsel for the plaintiff served Reynolds with requests for
admissions, interrogatories and requests for production of documents in the 2M
Drywall case.
52. On Jan. 7,2002, Judge Sharp ordered Reynolds to file discovery
respons'es no later than Jan. 23, 2002.

I

i

p3. Although he was a,ware of Judge Sharp's order, Reynolds failed to file
discovery responses until Jan. 31, 2002, thereby creating the risk that adverse
admissipns would be entered against his client.
~4. In his answer to the complaiIit in the 2M Drywall case, Reynolds

asserted that his client could not be held responsible for discriminating against a
Native American' because the plaintiff was not a member' of a recognized Indian
tribe. In fact, the plaintiff was a member of the Cherokee Nation, which Reynolds
knew o~ should have known.

$5. Reynolds failed to file a briefin the 2M Drywall case, in violation of
the federal court's scheduling order.

5

I
"

r
j

"
•

!,
56. Reynolds represented the plaintiff in a case filed in the federal court
~ntitled Farris v. Tubular Textile, Civil Action No. 1:0 I CV 984.
57. On March 20,2003, defense counsel filed a mot jon to dismiss the
"
plaintiffs complaiI\t in the Farris case.
i

58. Although Reynolds was served with the motion to dismiss, he faiied
to file a response.
'

I

59. Reynolds represented the plaintiffin a Case filed in thefedetal court
entitled Swaim v. Westchester Academy, Civil Action No. 1:0ICV486 ('~Swaim
I").
60. On March 15,2002, defense counsel filed a motion for summary
judgment in the Swaim I case.
61. Reynolds responded to the summary judgment motion on May 20,
2002, three days after the deadline imposed by the court.
62. Thereafter, Reynold~ failed to abide by the court's order requiring the
parties to engage in mediation. The court sanctioned Reynolds in the amQunt of
$750.
63. On June 21, 2002, the court dismissed the plaintiff's complaint in the
Swaim I ca~e.
64. On Oct. 15,2002, Reynolds filed a second complaint inthe federal
court in th~ Swaim matter. The second case was captioned Swaim v. Westchester
Academy, Civil Action No. I :02CV 880 ("Swaim II'} ""
.

I

65. On April 25, 2003, defense counsel filed a motion for slUllmary
judgment in Swaim II.
66. Reynolds' response to the motion for summary judgment exceeded
the page limits permitted by the federal court's local rules. .
67. Reynolds represented the plaintiff in an action filed in the federal
court
entitled
McMillianv.
Guilford
Juvenile Detention Center, Civil Action No.
.
.
. .
I :02CV 0056.

dismis~

68. Reynolds failed to file a timely response to "the defendant's motioli to
in the McMillian case. " .
.

69. Reynolds represented the plaintiffin an action filed in the federal
court entitled Nieves v. Clear Channel, Civil Action No. 1:02CV 469.

6

I
.:.

"

"
"

70. Reynolds' progress report regarding the status of wbitration in the
Nieves 'case was filed 45 days after the deadline established by the court.

n.

On July 24,2003, during a hearing before Judge Carlton Tilley
("Judge, Tilley"), in which Judge Tilley notified Reynolds of the court's concerns
with hi~ handling, of a nuniber of cases, Reynolds told the federal court tha,t some
of the problems were the result of overwork on his part: He falsely represented
that he ];lad 32 cases then pending before the federal court and that he had as many
as 37 cases at the time the problems cited by Judge Tilley occurred.

72. On Aug.. 7,2003, Reynolds appeared before Judge Osteen in the
Bacchus caSe pursuant to the defendant's motion for an award of attorneys' fees.

I

73. During the Aug. 7,2003 hearing, in response to an inquiry from Judge
Osteen, 'Reynolds falsely denied that Judge Bullock had sanctioned him in the
'
SpringWall case.
74. During the Aug. 7, 2003 hearing in the Bacchus case, Reynolds told
Judge Qsteen that he had not responded to the defendant's motion for summary
judgment in part because of his heavy caseload. Reynolds falsely represented to
the coun that he had 33 cases pending on the federal court"s docket at the time his
response to the summary judgment motion in Bacchus was due.
'
75. On Aug. 25, 2003, during a hearing in the Springwall case to
determine if Reynolds. should be held in contempt for failing to pay the Rule 11
sanction;s imposed against him earlier in the case, Reynolds told the court that his
caseload had contributed to his problems with the court. He falsely represented
that he had 33 cases pending on the federal court's docket.
7.6. Reynolds had 11 cases pending with the Court as of Dec. 31, 2001, he
had 10 c'ases pending as of Dec. 31,2002 and he had only 10 cases pending in the
federal dourt during July and August 2003.

I

77. Reynolds misrepresented the number of 'cases he 'had on file with the,
federal court in an attempt to excuse his failures to represent his clients
adequately and rus failures to comply with the federal court's rules.
I

718. By order dated Dec. 27,2002, Judge Catherine Eagles ("Judge
Eagles")1 entered an order censuring Reynolds for professional misconduct in the
state courts and directed him to obtain a psychiatric evaluation no later than
March 10, 2003.
79. Ort July 24,2003; Reynolds agreed to provide a copy of the
.ev~luation to the federal co~ by July 28,2003.
I

7

I
:.'

"

· 8~. Reynolds failed to provide the evaluation to the federal court.
81. On Aug. 8, 2003, the federal court enter~d an order requiring
Reynolds to deliver a copy ofthe evaluation to the court by Aug. 15,2003.
82. Reynolds did not comply with the federal court's order.
83. On Aug. 18,2003, Reynolds filed a motion requesting additional time
in which to provide the evaluation ..

I

84. The court denied Reynolds' motion.
85. On Aug. 21,2003, the federal court entered an order directing
Reynolds to appear on Sept. 3, 2003 and show" cause why he should not be
sanctioned for violating the Aug. 8; 2003 order.
86. Reynolds was properly served with the Aug. 21, 2003 show cause
order.
87. On Sept. 2, 2003, Reynolds filed a motion to continue the Sept. 3,
2003 show cause hearing. On the same day, John Brubaker, the Clerk of Court,
left a message on Reynolds' office telephone answering )llachine, advising him
that the federal court had denied the motion to continue.
.
88. Reynolds did not appear at the Sept. 3, 2003 show cause hearing.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters
the following:
.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

(a) By failing to ·file timely responses to opposing COUll$el's motions to
dismiss and/or motions for summary judgment in the Bacchus, Fams, McMillian
and Swaim c~ses, Reynolds neglected client matters in violation of Rule 1,3 of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
.
(b) By failing to conduct timely discovery in the Goetsch case and by

failing to file timely discovery responses in the 2M Drywall case, Reynolds
neglected client matters in violation of Rule 1.3 of the Rules of Profes$ional .
Conduct.
(c) -By failing to file jury instructions on behalf <,>fhis client as required by
Rule 51.1 (b) of the federal court's local rules in the Thomas and Washing1:on
.
cases, failing to attend a court-ordered settlement conference in the Washington
case, failing to file the required briefs in the Dawson and 2M Drywall cases, .
failingto comply with the Court's discovery orders In Spri.ngwall, filing a brief in

8

I
.:.

"

q;J~

..

Bacchus that did ,not contain appropriate citations to the record, failing to provide
finand~l information to the Court in the Dally case, filing a late arbitration report
in the Nieves case and by failing to engage in court-ordered mediation and filing a
response that exceeded the ,page .limits in Swaim, Reynolds violated orders of the
federal (;ourt and/or the local rules for the U.S. District Court, Middle District of
North Carolina, in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4) and 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
I

(cl) By failing to tell his client before a settlement conference in the
Bacchus case that Judge Sharp had entered an order recommending that the
client's ,complaint be dismissed, Reynolds failed to keep his client reasonably
informed of the status of the case in violation of Rule I.4(a)(3).

I

(e) By filing a complaint in Dally that Was not well founded in fact or
law, and by asserting a defense in the 2M Drywall case without first ascertaining
Whether the factual basis of the defense was valid, Reynolds violated Rule 3.1.
,

, (f) By telling a federal judge on Aug. 7,2003 that he had hot previously
been s~ctioned by Judge Bullock and by attempting to excUse his neglect of
client matters by telling three federal judges on three separate occasions'in July
and August 2003 that he had 32 or 33 cases on the Court's docket, when in fact he
only had 10 cases on the docket at the time, Reynolds engaged in dishonest
conduct in violation of Rule 8.4(c). ,
(g) By failing to provide 'a copy of his psychiatric report to the federal
court by Aug.' IS, 2003 as ordered by the Court and by failing to appear at a Sept.
3, 2003 !show cause hearipg after being duly notified of the hearing, Reynolds
violated the direct orders of the federal Court and violated Rule 8.4(d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Conclusions of Law and the
presented at the hearing, the hearing committee also makes the following:

evidenc~

,

,

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1. In December 2002 and in December 2003, Reynolds was disciplined by the
, Guilford County Superior Court. The misconduct for which Reynolds was disciplined
occurre<;l in approximately the saple period as the matters cited ip the State Bar's
complaint herein. Consequently, the Committee did not consider the orders to constitute
prior c.liscipline that should be considered in aggravation of Reynolds' misconduct.
~. Reynolds' conduct is aggravated by the following facts:

a) He engaged in a pattern· of misconduct.

If>) He engaged in multiple violations of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

9,

I

c) He has substantial expenence in the practice of law.

d) He faileU to acknowledge wrongdoing.
e) Some of his misconduct involved misleading statements to coUrts.
3. The Hearing Committee found the following mitigating fact:

I

a) Reynolds' misconduct was not motivated by a selfish motive.

4. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based on the foregoing findings of fact, the Committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
L Reynolds' ;misconduct caused actual harm and created a threat of significant
potential harm: to his clients.
2. Reynolds' misconduct harmed the administration. of justice in that the feder(li
court had to devote substantial resources to reviewing cases in which Reynolds failed to
follow the court's local rules or the Rules of Professional Cond1,lct and hi holding show
cause and disciplinary hearings.
3. A substantial period of suspension is the only
protect the pu"blic for the following reasons:

sanctio~

that can adequately

a) Reytlolds' misconduct occurred over a substantial period of time and therefore
appears to be the result of a serious condition ·or character flaw, rather than an
aberration.

I

b) An order of di~cipline less than a five year suspension would not sufficiently
protect the public because Reynolds has failed to show that he has adclressed .
whatever trait or problem that caused his misconduct and therefore there is a risk
that he woul4 continue to violate the Rules of Professional Conduct if he were
allowed to continue ~he practice of law.
c) Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses that Reynolds committed and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members
ofthe Bar in North Carolina.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and any mixed findings of fact and conclusions of law
howsoever designated, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the follC?wing:

10

I
.:.

"

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

t.

Mark F. Reynolds' license to practice law is hereby suspended for a period of
five yeats commencing 30 days from the date of service of this order upon him.
,

'

2. Reynolds shall surrender his law license and membership card to the Secretary
of the State Bar no later than 30 days from service of this order upon him.

3. Reynolds shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of
- the N.CI State Bar no later than 30 days from service of this order upon Reynolds.

I

4. Reynolds

shall comply with all provisions of 27 NCAC IB § .0124 of the
North, qarolina State Bar Discipline' & Disability Rules ("Discipline Rules").

?

Prior to seeking reinstatement of his law license, Reynolds shall present
, written evidence to the State Bar demonstrating that:

, a)

He is not suffering from a mental or physical condition that impairs or
interferes with his judgment, competence or performance as an
attorney.
He has not violated any laws of the United States or any of the States
during the suspension period.

c)

He has paid all dues, late fees and assessments owed to the N.C. State
Bar.
'
He has complete~ a 3 hour course in law office management at his
own expense, offered by a course pr()vider approved by the N.C. State
Bar.

I

;Signed by the undersigned Committee, Chai! with the full knowledge and consent

of the qther Hearing Committee membern,

tlrlZ~~

.r-

~E.Culbr
~
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Committee

11

I

