BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02G1153

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

)
INRE:

Pamela A. Hunter,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

.>
)

REPRIrvfAND

I

)

"

On l~ Jan 2004, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met ahd
considered tIte grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Purstlant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance C()nunittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infolIDation available t() it, including y()ur response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that ~ member of the North Car()lina'State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary ,,"ction."
i

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detelmine that the filing of a COniplaint and a hearing before the Pisciplinary Hearing
Commission1are not required, -and the Grievance Conunittee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or pot~ntial injury caused~ and any
aggravating qr mitigating factors. The Grievance COmnijttee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand, Qr a Censure to the Respondent attorney.
A Reprimand is a written fonn' of discipline more serious than an Admonition .issued in
cases in which an ~ttotney has violated one or ~ore provisions ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct and'has caused harm or potential harm to路a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, ot a mentber ofthe. public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.

I

,

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case
and issues th1s Reprimand to you. As chairman ofthe Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar; it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand and I am certain that you will
understand}'lll1y the spirit in Which this duty is performed.
You regularly appear on behalf of clients before the Industrial Commission on workers
:.;ompensatiol) claims. Dming the course of your representation ofthese clients, there have been
numerous occasions when you have failed to timely comply with orders of the Commissioners,
!

I

failed to comply with opposing counsel discovery requeSts, or otherwise failed to take timely'
action on behalf of your client to avoid <:intry ofa decision prejudicial tq your client's interests~

I

. At least five cases have been identified in which you failed to act in a timely manher. In
one of those five cases; you failed to comply on a timely basis .with an brder compelling
discovery and failed to file a pre-trial order as directed by the Commissioner assigned to the case.
In a secQnd case, the claim was dismissed for failure to prosecute after you failed to comply with
discovery and failed to. respond to a motion to dismiss. In a third case, the Commission dismissed
the claim when both you and your client failed to appear at a scheduled hearing and you did nqt
respond after the Commissioner made the dismissal of your client's claim contingent on giving
YOllan additional thirty days to accept the employer's last settlement 路offer. You then waited
nearly ayear before filing an appeal of the dismissal, which was too late under the Commission's
rules and resulted in an outright dismissal ofy<;mr client's claim-on procedural grounds. In a
fourth case, you 'waited 'more than a year after taking a voluntary dismissal to refile the claim and
the claim was dismissed by the Commissioner on this procedural ground. In the fifth case, you
again failed to reffie the' case within a路year after taking a voluntary dismissal and that claim was
.
similarly dismissed on procedural grounds.
The Committee is mindful that you believe that you had a rationale reason for your
conduct in each'ofthese cases. However, the Committee believes that these rationalizations are
:.:~~not reasonable under any objective standard: As counsel, you are responsible for mowing and
'. following the rules of procedure. While you have pursued at least three of the five cases on .
appeal to either the full Commission or the Court of Appeals without collecting a fee, these
.':' ':appeals would not have been necessary had you been more diligent in responding to the motions
;. and orders before the commission. Further, although you submitted statements from your clients
in which they.indicated that you had reviewed their c~ses with them and they were satisfied with
' k.;; your services, there is no indication that you fully explained to them that your conduct was tlie
'. '. main reason that you had tb pursue appeals on procedural grounds and have failed to collect
anything on their behalf in at least three of these cases.

I

These five~cases exhibit a pattern of cOhduct showing an unprofessional lack of regard for
opposing counsel;. the Industrial Commission as a quasi-judicial hearing body, and the
COinmissioners as .quasi-judicial hearing officers. As such, your conduct has been prejudicial to
the administration of justice and has unreasonably burdened the Industrial Commission and the
courts of this state, It has also forced opposing counsel to file otherwise uri11ecessaty motions,
attend hearings, and defend your appeals that could have easily been avoided had you acted in a
more timely manner, actions that cost employers, insurers, and ultimately-the workers of this
state time and money that could have been used to pay these and other workers' compensation
claims.
The Committee found that your above-describ<:id conduct violated several Ri.lles and
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Your conduct violated Rule 1,3 which requires you to
act with reasonable.diligence and promptness; Rule lA, which require~ you to keep a client
reasonably informed' and to explain a matter so that the client may make informed decisions;
Rule 8A(d) which路 prohibits you from engaging in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice; and 8A(g) which prohibits you from prejudicing or damaging your client during the
coutse of the professional relationship.

I

In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee considered the following aggravating
and mitigatillg factors. ill aggravation, the Committee considered that there was a pattern of
miscond.uct, multiple rule violations, and prior discipline or letters ofwaming. ill mitigation, the
Committee eonsidered the absence of any dishonest or selfish motive and the imposition of other
penalties in the form of sancitions by the illdustial Commission.
You :are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
ill acpordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issu'ed a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the. costs ofthis action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Don~ and ordered, this

L('fI:::. day of F~

I

,2004.

Chair Grievance Committee

I

I

