WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION

NORTI-I CAROLINA

THE NQRTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.

)
)
)
FINDINGS OF FACT
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

)
HOLL Y: SAUNDERS, ATTORNEY
Defendant

I

AND

) ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard by a duly assigned hearing
committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofCarlyn G. Poole, John
M. May and Johrtily A: Freeman. Carolin Bakewell appeared for the North Carolina
State Bat. The Defendant, Holly Saunders, did not appear nor was she represented by
counsel. ,Based upon the pleadings and evidence produced at trial, the hearing committee
hereby e*ters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1; The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the. laws of North ·Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the, authority granted it in Chapter S4 of the Oeneral Statutes of North
Carolina,: and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.

I

2.1 The Defendant, Holly Saunders, ("Saunders"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1997, and is, and was at all times referred to herein,
an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar
and the laws of the State ofN'orth Carolina.
3. ~ At all times relevant hereto, Saunders was engaged in the practice of
law in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
4. i The complaint in this action was filed on March 15,2005.

I

,,

.

5. Saunders was personally served with the Summons and Complaint herein by
the Mecklenburg County Sheriffs Department oh April 18, 2005.
6. Saunders' answer was due no later than May 8, 2005.
7. Saunders did not file an answer or other responsive pleading.
8. The Secretary of the N.C. State Bar ent~red Saunders' default on May 24,

I

2005.
9. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Saunders' perSOll
and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
10. SE},unders had proper notice of the time, dE},te and place of this hearing.
5. In mid-May 2003, Anne B. Johnson ("Ms. Johnson"), retained
SaUnders' services to'represent her, regarding her domestic action and to complete
a qualified domestic relations order ("QDRO").
6. In December 2003, Saunders told Ms. Johnson that a hearil1g in the
case w~>uld be held between Jan. 13 - Feb. 13, 2004.
7. On Jan. 14,2004, the court held ajudicial settlement conference
respectIng Ms. Johnson's case.
8. Saunders did not notify Ms. Johnson about the settlement conference.
9. During or immediately after the settlement conference Saunders signed
a consent order without Ms. Johnson's knowledge or consent.

I

10. Saunders falsely represented to the Court that Ms. Johnson had been
consulted about the terms of the consent order and agreed to them
11. On Feb. 6, 2004, having heard nothing from
court date, Ms. Johnson began calling Saunders' office.

S~unders

regarding the

12. Although Ms. Johnson called Saunders' office at least weekly and
left mesSages each time, Saunders did not return any of Ms. Johnson's calls until
March 6, 2004.
.
13. In the March 6, 2004 telephone conversation, Saunders falsely told
,Ms. Johnson that opposing counsel had offered to settle the case. SaUllders did
not reveal that she had already signed a consent order. ,
14. During the March 6 telephone conversation, Ms. Johnson told
Saunders that she would not accept the "settlement offer" and she followed up the

2

I

:

.

convers!;ltion with a letter in which she again stated that the "settlement offer" was
unacceptable.
J:5. After the March 6 telephone conversation, Ms. Johnson telephoned
Saunder$' office weekly to inquire whether Saunders had received the March 6
letter. Saunders did not return these calls or otherwise respond to Ms. Johnson.
1:6 .. On April 9, 2004, Ms. Johnson again wrote to Saunders, inquiring
about th¢ case..
1:7. Saunders did not respond to Ms. Johnson's April 9 letter or otherwise
communicate with her about the case.

I

, 18. In late April or early May 2004, Ms. Johnson complained about
Saunders to Prepaid Legal Services, a prepaid legal service plan for whose
members Saunders' law fIrm provided legal services.
19. Thereafter, Saunders invited Ms. Johnson to meet with her at
Saunders' offIce to discuss the "settlement offer." Saunders did not reveal that in
fact she 4ad signed a consent order on Jan. 14,2004.
I

20. Saunders met with Ms. Johnson on May 6, 2004. Saunders told Ms.
Johnson that she "had no choice" but to accept the "settlement offer" because Ms.
Johnson was in fInancial straits. Saunders did not tell Ms. Johnson that in, fact she
had signe~d a consent order on Jan. 14,2004. Although Ms. Johnson reluctan.tly
agreed toaccept the "settlement offer," she promptly telephoned Saunders' offIce
upon reMning home and left a message indicating that she had reconsidered and
needed m.ore information before she could make a decision.
21:. Saunders did not provide any: additional information to Ms. Johnson
nor did she ever communicate with Ms. Johnson again.
22. In June 2004 Ms. Johnson learned of the Jan. 14,2004 consent order
from sOurces other than Saunders.

I

23-. On or about July 20, 2004, Ms. Johnson filed a complaint with the
North Carolina State Bar concerning Saunders' handling of her case.
24; On Aug. 8, 2004, the State Bar served Saunders by certifIed mail with
a letter of notice and subst~ce of grievance concerning Ms. Johnson's complaint.
Saunders WI:!-S directed to file a written response within 15 days.
25, On Sept. 7,2004, the State Bar sent a follow up notice to Saunders,
reminding,her that her anSWer to Ms. Johnson's complaint Was overdue.

:3

I

\

.
26. Saunders did not respond to the original letter bfnotice or the Sept. 7,
2004 follow up letter.
28. ill approximately April 20Q3, Saunders undertook to represent Debra
Tunstall ("Ms. Tunstall"), and her husband, Paul E. Mills ("Mr. Mills," jointly,
"TunstalllMills"), respecting their Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition.

I

29. Prior to ~une 13,2003, Ms. Tunstall asked Saunders to include in the
bailkruptcy plan amounts that she and Mr. Mills owed to Wells Fargo for their
May and June 2004 mortgage payments .
.30. Saunders agreed to include the May and June mortgage obligations in
the bankruptcy plan, but failed to file a timely motion to' do so.· Asa result, the
trustee did not send the payments to Wells Fargo, which then filed a motion for a
relief from the stay of bankruptcy.
31. On Nov. 18,2003, Saunders falsely told Ms. Tunstall and Mr. Mills
that the hearing scheduled for Wells Fargo's motion for Nov. 20 would not ,be
held.
32. On or about Nov. 20,2003, a hearing was held regarding Wells
Fargo's motion. S'aunders failed to notify Ms. Tunstall or Mr. Mills of the
hearing.
33. Although Saunders knew or should have known that Ms. Tunstall and

Mr. Mills had made the May and June and August - November payments to
Wells Fargo, she failed to present evidence concerning the payments at the
hearing and consented to entry of an order without their knowledge or consent
that recited that the payplents had not been made.

I

34. Ms. Tunstall and Mr. Mills leamed that a hearing had actually been
held on Nov. 20, ?003 when they received a copy of the order from the
ba.nkn:lptcy court on or about Dec. 9, 2003.
35. Although Saunders agreed to send Wells Fargo proof that the May
and Jurie mortgage payments had been mad~ she failed to do so.
36. In early February 2004, after receiving another notice from Wells
Fargo, Ms. Tuhstall called Saunders to discuss the problem. Saunders failed to
, return Ms. Tunstall's telephone calls or otherwise communicate with her until
Ms. Tunstall complained to Prepaid Legal Services about Sauhders~
37. On Feb. 9, ~004, Saunders falsely told Ms. Tunstall and Mr. Mills that
she had filed a motion to modify their Chapter 13 plan on around Jan. 14,2004.

4

I

38. On March 26, 2004, Saunders obtained permission from the court to
modify the TunstalllMills chapter 13 plan but failed ,to timely draft and obtain a
signed order from the court reflecting the court's decision.
39. Meanwhile, Saunders also agreed to file a motion in the bankruptcy
case to substitute collateral, after Ms. Tunstall's automobile was involved in a
collision.. The motion was' required to enable Ms. Tunstall to obtain a new
vehicle. :,
.
40. Saunders falsely represented to Ms. Tunstall that she had actually
filed the motion to substitute collateral. In reliance up~n this representation, Ms.
Tunstall deposited $2,500 toward the purchase of another vehicle. This deposit
was later forfeited.

I

4 L On or about June 1, 2004, Ms. Tunstall filed a complaint against
Saunders With the North Carolina State Bar.
42. OnAug; 16,2004, the Mecklenburg County Sheriffs Dep~rtment
personally served Saunders with a letter of ~otice and substance of grievance
concerning Ms. Tunstall's complaint. Saunders was directed to file a written
response within 15 days.
43. On Sept. 7,2004, the State Bat sent a follow up notice to Saunders,
reminding her that her answ~r to Ms. Tunstall's complajnt was overdue.

44. Saunders did not respond to the originalletterbf notice or the Sept. 7,
2004 follQw up letter.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee hereby
enters the: following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.: By agreeing to a cqnsent order on Jan. 14,2004 without Ms. Johnson's
knowledge and consent, Saunders failed to explain a matter to the extent
reasonably necessary to permit the client to make an infornied decision about the
represent~tion in violation of Rule 1.4(b) and failed to keep her client reasonably
infotmed about the case, in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to abide by a
client's d~cision concerning whether to settle a matter in violation of Revised
Rule 1.2(a)(1).

I

2.. By telling Ms. Johnson that opposing counsel had offered to settle the
case without revealing that in fact Saunders had already signed a consent order
resolving ;the matter, Saunders engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or inisrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A(c).

5

I

3. By falsely representing to the Court that Ms. Johnson had agreed to the
terms of the Jan. 14,2004 consent order, Saunders engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and made
a knowing false statement of material fact to a tribunal in violation of Rule
3.3(a)(1)..

I

4. By failing to notify Ms. Johnson of the Jan. 14,2004 court date and by
failing to return Ms. Johnson's calls regarding the status of the ca$e, Saunders
failed to communicate with a client in violation of Rule 1A.
5. By effectively abandoning Ms. Johnson's case on and after May 6, 2004
without proper notice to Ms. Johnson and without providing her with the
information she had requested, Saunders failed to take adequate steps to protect
her client's interest ip violation of Rule 1.16.
6. By failing to respond to the State Bar's letters of notice regarding the
complaints filed by Ms. Johnson, Ms. Tunstall and Mr. Mills and by failing to
respond to the State Bar's follow up letters, Saunders failed to respond to lawful
demands for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Revised
Rule 8.1 (b).
.
7. By failing to file a thnely motion to include the May and June
mortgage payments made by Ms. Tunstall and Mr. Mills in their bankruptcy plan,
failing to present evidence at the Nov. 20, 2003 hearing that payments had been
made to Wells Fargo, failing to promptly send proof to Wells Fargo concerning
payments made by Ms. Tunstall and Mr. Mills and by failing to timely obtain a
signed order from the court to modify the TunstalllMills bankruptcy plan,
Saunders neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 1.3.

I

8. By failing to tell Ms. Tunstall and Mr. Mills about the Nov. 20, 2003
hearing in their bankruptcy case, and by failing to respond to their inquiries about
the status ofthe case, SaUllders failed to communicate with her cli(;lnts in violation
of Rule 1.4.
9. By falsely telling Ms. Tunstall and Mr. Mills on Nov. 18,2003 that the
Nov. 20, 2003 hearing would not take place as scheduled, by telling'the clients
that she had filed a motion to modify their Chapter 13 plan in January 2004 and
that she had filed a motion to substitute collateral on their behalf, Saunders ,
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c).
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. In September or October 2002, Saunders undertook to repreSent David
Manigault ("Manigault") respecting a domestic action that Manigault's estranged wife
had filed against him in Catawba County.

I

'.'

2. Saunders failed to file an answer or counterclaim on Manigault's behalf.

3. Counsel for Mrs. Manigault served Saunders with various discovery requests.
4.. Manigault provided Saunders with timely responses to opposing counsel's
discoverY requests.
5~ Saunders did not file responses to discovery and an order compelling
Manigault to file discovery responses was ~ntered.
I

6~

Saunders did not tell Manigault that she had failed to serve opposing counsel
with disc.overy responses, nor did she tell him about the order compelling discovery
responses.

I

7i On April 21, 2003, the Court entered an order requiring Manigault to pay $600
in attorney's :fees for failing to respond to discovery.

8. Saunders did not tell Manigault about the sanctions order. Saunders paid the
$600froJ1l the $3,380 advance fee previously paid to her by Manigault.
9.: Saunders also "failed to appear for a duly noticed deposition in the case.
10. On May 12,2004, the Court entered an order directing ManigaUlt to pay an
additional $2,435.50 in attorney fees, sanctions and costs.
I

Il. On or about March 31, 2002, the Court ordered Manigault to pay post
separation spousal support in the amount of $2,000 per month for a period of 15 months,
ending May 31, 2003.

spou~al

12. In January 2004, counsel for Mrs. Manigault filed a motion to extend
support.

13. Saunders did not respond to the motion to extend spousal support, which was
thereafter: granted by the Court.

I

14. Pursuant to the extended support order, Manigalllt paid post separation
spousal.support.for an additional 41 months. These payments totaled $42,000.,
,

IS:. The Court ultimately dismissed Mrs. Manigault's claim for alimony.
16:. Saunders' conduct is aggravated by the following facts:
a) She was motivated in part by a dishonest or selfish motive.
b) She engaged in a pattern of misconduct.

7

I

c) She engaged in multiple v.iolations of the Rules ofPtofessional
Conduct.
d) She has failed to make restitution.

I

e) She failed to cooperate with the State Bar's investigation into her
misconduct and disobeyed an order of the Chair requiring her to respond to
discovery served upon him by the State Bar.

f) Saunders has prior discipline.
17. Ms. Saunders mailed to the Bar a letter dated June 23, 2005 in which she
apologized for some of her misconduct. This apoiogy cortstiwted a miti~ating factor ..
18. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factor.
Based on th~ foregoing findings of fact, the Committee enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Saunders's dishonest conduct and neglect has caused significant actual harm to
her clients, including Ms. Tunstall, who testified that Ms. Saunders sent her false
documents on two occasions, caused her to worry that her house would b~ for~closed
upon, and caused her to lose a $2,500 down payment on a car and $200 inlot storage fees.
when Saunders failed to file a motion for substitution of collateral in the bankruptcy case.
Ms. Tunstall further testified that the represent~tion by SaUnders WaS the worst
experi~nce of her life.

I

2. Disbarment is the only sanction that can adequately protect the public for the
following reasons:
a) Saunders' misconduct was repeated and occurred over a substantial period of
time and therefore appears to be the result of moral turpitude and/or a serious character
flaw, rather than an aberration or mistake.
b) Saunders has failed to show any evidence that she has adcfressed whatever trait
or flaw caused her misconduct and therefore the Committee concludes that .there is a risk
that she would continue to epgage in further misconduct if she were to remained licensed
t~ practice l~w. Indeed, Saunders failed to answer the State Bar's complaint and failed to
appear at the hearing herein. The only information she provided was received by the Bar
on the morning of the hearing herein and took the form oian unsworn letter, .
unaccompanied by any evidence or supporting documents.

8

I

;

.
c) Saunders failed to take any steps to comply with the order of discipline ep.tered
in August 2004, such as seeking a psychiatric evaluation and paying the costs incurred by
th~ Bar that proceeding.

'in

d) Entty of an order imposing lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses that SaUnders committed, would be inconsistent with
precedent in prior cases and would send the wrong message to attorneys. and the public
regardin& the conduct expected of members ofthe Bar in North Carolina.
,

e) The protection of the public requires that Saunders not be permitted to resume
the practi:Ce of law unless and until she demonstrates th~t she has reformed, that she
understaJi.ds her obligations to her clients, the"public, the courts and the legal profession,
and that reinstatement would not injure the standing of the legal profession. Disbarred
attorneys,tnust'Showreformation among other things, before they may resume the
practice df law, whereas no such showing of reformation is required ofattorneys whose
licenses ~re suspended for a term certain.

I

B;;tsed upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Finclings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and any mixed findings of fact and conclusions of law
howsoever desi~ated, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the follqwing:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Holly SaUl1ders is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law.
2. :Saunders shall surrender her law license and membership card to the Secretary
of the State Bar no later than 30 days from service of this order upon her if she has not
already dqne so in connection with her prior order of discipline.
3. Saunders shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed.by the Secretary of
the N.C; State Bar no later than 30 days from service or'this order upon Saunders.
4. Saunders shall comply with all provisions of27 NCAC IB § .0124 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules ("Discipline Rules").

I

5. Prior to seeking reinstatement of her law license, Saunders must present
satisfactory written evidence to the Office of Counsel th~t she has made restitution of tl1e
following sums to the clients listed below:
a) Debra Tunstall and Paul Mills -- $2,700.
b) David Manigault -- $5,815.50.

9

I

"., '

Signed by the undersigned chairman with the full knowledge and consent' of th~
other Hearing Committee members, this the

Z.I( day of Jl.ttrlb . ,2005.

I

Hearing Committee

I

10

I

