-

NORTH CAROLINA

307 I (
----~

~-~----~------

BEFORE THE
.
ISCIPtIN'ARY HEAR.I:NG COMMISSION

I

WA.K.E COUNTY

v.

Consent Order of Discipline

I

Annette ExUin, Attorney,
Defendant

This,tnatter came before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of P. Lane Williams, Chair, John M. May and Marguerite P. Watts, pursuant to 27
N.C. Ad.mir1;. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B Section .0114 (H) of the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar. The defendant, Annette H. Exum, was represented by Douglas J.
Brocker. The plaintiff was represented by David R.. Johnson. Both parties stipUlate and agree to
the findings 'of fact ahd conclusions of law recited in this COhsent order and to the discipline
imposed. FUrther, by entering into this consent order of discipline, defendant freely, voluntarily,
and with the advice ofcounsel consents to the order of discipline, waives a formal hearing ill the
above refer~nced matter, and waives all right to appeal this consent order or challenge in any
way the sufficiency of the findings, the conclusions, or the discipline imposed. Based upon the
consent of the parties the heanng committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carollna and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84.ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2.
Defendant, Annette H. Exum (hereinafter Exum), was admitted to the North
Carolina Sta~e Bar on April 4, 2003, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed; to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations ahd Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bat and the iaws of the State of North
. Carolina.
3.
During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, Exum was
actively eng~ged in the private practice oflaw in Wake County, North Carolina.
I

:

. .9~C/

.

I

4. Linda. <;arter (hereafter "Ms. Carter';) contacted Exum on or about September 22,
2003, concerning the prospective representatjon of her son, Shan Carter (hereafter "Carter"), on
criminal post-conviction claims, at her son's request.

I

5. At the time, Carter was incarcerated ~fter convictions for three murders followjng two
separate trials. Carter had been convicted for first-degree murder in the death of Donald Bt1,1J1son
(hereafter "Brunson") on or a1;>out JUl1e 15, 2000. Carter was sentenced to life in prison on the· .
Brunson conviction. Carter had also been convicted for first-degree murder in the deaths of
Tyrone Baker and Demetrius Greene (hereafter "Baker" and "Greene") on about March 19,
2001. Carter was given the death penalty upon conviction in the Baker and. Greene murde,rs. One
of the aggtav~ting factors in the Baker and Greene sentencing was Carter's conviction for the
Brunson l11urder..
6. Carter's conviction in the Bruhson mUrder was afnnnedby a unanimoU$ opinion of·
the Court of Appeals on March 18,2003. Attorney Edwin West TIl (hereafter "West")
represented Carter on the appeal of Carter's convictiO'n in the Brunson murder as appointed
counsel.'
.
7. Cl:!11er's conviction in the Baker and Greene murders was affinned by the North
Carolina Supreme Court oil August 22, 2003. West also represented Carter on Carter's appeal Of
his ~onviction in the Baker and Greene murders as appointed counse,l. After the affirnlation of
the Baker and Greene conviction on appeal, the Indigent Defense Services. Commission was
authorize,d to appoint post-conv.iction counsel for Carter on the Baker and Greene conviction.
8.
Exum and Ms. Carter discussed' ail initial consultation with Carter. Exum told
Ms. Carter that she would meet with Carter upon payment of a $600 initial consultation fee and
that part of the purpose of this visit was to decide ifExum would be able to repre,sent Carte,r.
Ms. Carterp1rid Exum the $600 initial consultation fee on or about September 24,2003.
9.

I

Exum and Carter signed a written legal Service agreement on or about September
.

30, 2003 during a visit to Central Prison.

10.
Exum agreed to represent Carter on post-conviction proceedings, which might
include a motion for appropriate relief (MAR), on the Brunson murder conviction for a fee of
$35,000. The written agreement contained language th~t stated that Exum had 11,0 obligation to
refund the retainer fee paid at any time during the course of the agreement because the paid
. retainer was earned in full when paid as consideration for Exum's agreement to provide. legal
servic;es to him,.
11.
At the time she agreed to represent Carter, Exum had been licensed to practice for
approximately six months and had no experience iIi appelI~te or post-conviction proceedings
with respect to first-degree murder convictions. Exum told, Carter that she had no such
experience during their initial meeting.
Both EXlim and Carter were aware that Carter qualified and woilld receive
appointed counsel for post-conviction matters with respect to the Baker and Greene convictions
12.

2

ql

1"- •

. ,~5

at the time the representation by Exum began. No right to appointed counsel existed with respect
to the Brunson conviction, and post-conviction counsel for the Baker and Greene convictions had
not been approved when Carter retained Exum.

13..

On or llbout October 14,:2003, Ms. Carter paid Exum the $35,000 fee.

14.' Exum believed that an MAR or other appropriate court filing had to be made on
Carter's be~alfby March 2004 to preserve the ability to have the matter reviewed in federal
coUrt.

M~garet

15., At some point during December 2003, Exum was contacted by
Ciardella, who stated that she was appointed counsel for Carter in the Baker and Greene matters.

I-

16., Ciardella withdrew from representing Carter at some point during January 2004
and Kristin Parks and Sharon Smith were appointed to replace Ms. Ciardella in February 2004.
Ms. Parks $d Smith subsequently received approval from the Indigent Defense Service (IDS) to
handle posticonviction work on the Brunson matter as part of the death penalty representation.
17.' Around February 16,2004, Carter discharged Exum. At the time of her
discharge, Exum had not prepared or filed a MAR on Carter's behalf or any other motion or
pleading, draft or otherwise, in support of Carter's post-conviction efforts. Exum, however, had
obtained-and re~iewed the extensive trial transcript, appeals files, and other documents. She also
had a series :ofvisitsand communications with Shan Carter and his family members to obtain an
understandijig and context for the evidence and the relationship between relevant witnesses and
parties.
-18.
After discharge, Carter and Ms. Carter both made demands on ExUin for refund of
unearned fees. _Exum has not refunded any portion of the $35,000 fee to date. Exum has made
efforts to resolve the fee dispute with Ms. Carter, which have been unsuccessful to date.
I

-

Based upon the foregoing Firidings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the follOWing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. , All parties are properly before the hearing committee, and the committee has
jurisdiction over Exum and the subject matter.
2. \ : Exum's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds for
discipline pllfsuant
to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
,
_

I

a)
By claiming in the initial fee agreement signed by Carter that she had no
obligation to refund any part of the $35,000 fee at any time because it was earned
on receipt, Exum violated Rule 1.5.
b)
By failing to refund the unearned portion ofthe fee-paid in advance
promptly upon termination of her services; Exum violated Rule 1.16 (d).

3
r

1

c)
By agreeing to handle Carter's post-conviction: claims when she knew or
should have known that she was not competent to handle it without associating a
lawyer who was competent to handle the matter, Exum violated Rule 1.1.
d)
By failing to prepare any court motions, pleadings, or other filings,
whether draft or otherwise, during the period between September 30, 2003 and the
date of her discharge, Exum violated Rule 1.3.

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and argt!l11ents of the parties concerning the appropriate diScipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

After meeting with Carter, Exmn attempted to associate other counsel with

experi~nce in post;..conviction matters to assist her with his case. She ultimately was

unsuccessful in securing such a person to act.as co-counsel in the matter. She also made efforts
during the representation to familiarize herself with post-convjcti.on proceedings.
2.
Exum's representation ofCarter in his post-conviction matter in the Brunson case
did not ultimately cause demonstrated prejudice to his case.
3.
Exum aIid Ms. Carter have attempted unsuccessfully to agree on the amount of
refund due Ms. Carter.
~
.
4.
Ex:umcommunicated with Ethics Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar
concerning the proper handling of the fee she received and attempted to follow the advice given.

I

E~um has attended CLE classes far in ex:cess of the mandatory ·requirement since
5.
being licensed to practice law.

CONCLUSIONS WITH RESPECT TO DISCIPLINE
1.

Exum's misconduct is aggravated by thetollowing factors:
(a)
(b)

Z.

multiple offenses; and
failure to agree on and make restitution of a portion of the fee.

Exum's ~isconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

a,bsence of prior disciplinary offenses;
full and free d~sclosure to the· hearing committee and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings~
inexperience in the practice. of law; and
good character and reputation.

4

I
.

;.

3.

i

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

Ba&ed upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of the
parties, the' hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISClPLINE
1.
The license of defendant, Annette Exum, is hereby suspended for one year,
'effective upon entry of this order. The suspension shall be stayed for a period of two years so
long as Exlim complie& with the following conditions:

I

a.
Exum shall not violate any state or federal laws during the period of the
'stay of the active' suspension;
b.
Exum shall not violate any provisions of
Conduct during the period of the stay;

the Rules of Professional

c.

Exutn shallpay all costs incurred in this proceeding and taxed against her,
inc~uding the costs of deposing Shan Carter, Within 90 days of receipt ofth6 notice 'of
costs assessed by the Secretary;
!

'

d.
No later than July 1, 2005; Exum will contract with a licensed North
Carolina attorney who maintains a private law practice in the judicial district in which
Ex1pl1 maintains her primary, office for her practice, other than her legal counsel in this
proceeding, to Serve as a practice monitor. Exum will first secure the approval of her
proposed practice monitor by the Office of Counsel ofthe North Carolina State Bar,
, wm:ch approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Exum will personally meet with her
pra~tice monitor at least once a month throughout the stayed, suspension of her law
license. ExUlli will keep the monitor apprised of all open and pending client matters and
the istatus of all such matters. Within 15 days after the end of each calendar quarter (Le.,
by January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15) of each year during the stayed
suspension of her law license, Exum will deliver to the Office of the Counsel written
reports signed by the practice monitor confipning that the meetings are occurring and
reporting any problems or potential problems with any of Exum's client matters. Exum
will be solely responsible fa;: all costs associated with the monitoring of her law 'practice.

'I'

By December 31, 2005, Exum will pay Ms. Carter $5,000 as minimum
, e. '
restitution of the unearned portion of the fee paid to her.:ey July 15, 2005, Exum will
conimunicate with Ms. Carter or her counsel that she is willing to submit to arbitration
with rega:t4 to the total amount of the refund of the unearned fee due to the Ms. Carter to
be yonducted under the rules of the 10th Judicial District Bar fee arbitration rules or such
other forum and rules as Ms. Carter or hercoUilsel propose. If Ms. Carter. accepts such
arbitration, Exum agrees to be bound by the result and allow the arbitration award to be
entered against her as a final judgment or otherwise fully comply with the award. Exum

5

I

I

agrees for the arbitration to be conducted before September 15, 2005, unless a later date
is agreed to by Ms. Carter or her counselor required by the arbitrators or the rules of the
arbitration. If Ms. Carter declines such arbitration, Exum will participate in any
negotiations, mediation, or litigation with respect to the amount of restitution in good
faith. Exum will comply with the terms of any settleinent agreement reached with Ms.
Carter in accordance with its terms or comply with any civil judgment entered. Exum will
provide the Offic~ of Counsel with a statement of the final amount of restitution due
within 15 days of its determination. Exum will use her best efforts to satisfy any final
amount of restitution of the fee to Ms, .Carter, whether determined by negotiation,
_mediation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, by making prorated payments of the total
amount due to Ms. Carter on at least a quarterly basis by the last day of ~ach calendar
qt:iarter(Le. March 31, June 30, October 31, and December 31). Exum
provide-the
Office of Counsel with satisfactory evidence of p.ayment each quarter within 15 days of .
the end of the quarter. If any payment is less thin the prorata amount due that quarter,
Exum will provide the Office ofColID.sel with a sworn statement of the reasons the
payment was less than the prorata amount due within 15 days ofth.e end of the quarter
when due. If it is determined by negotiation, mediation~ arbitration, litigation, or
otherwise, that the amount of restitution owed to Ms. Carter is iess than $$,000, then
Exum will pay the entire amount ofrestitution to Ms. Carter by December 31; 2005, will
provide the Office of Counsel with evidence of the amount owed and payment by January
15,2006, and will be released from any further obligation under this provision of the
Order upon payment in full. -

will

f.
During the period of the stay, Exum will p~nnit the North Carolina State
Bar to conduct random audits of her trust account, and any other business and personal
bank accounts necessary to complete such a:udits~ The North Ci:lrolina State Bar will not·
reView any Exum bank account more than four times each year.

I

g.
During the stay period, Exum will pay all mandatory J3ar dues and
assessments, including State Bar and District Bar dues and Client Security Fund
assessments, and will fully comply with all requirements of the State -Bar Continuing
Legal Education Department, and any other mandatory State Bar program tha.t~ay come
into existence during her stayed suspension, on a timely basis throughout the stayed
suspension of her law license.
During the stay period, Exum witl k~ep the North Carolina State Bar
. h.
Membership Department apprised of her current address, will accept all certified m.ail
from-the North Carolina State Bar, and will respond in a timely fashion to all requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar, including Letters of Notice from the .
Grievance Committee, letters from the Office of Counsel, and notices of mandatory fee
dispute r~solutiort requests from clients.
L
During the stay period, Exum will submit for review and approval by
ethics Counsel for the State Bar all standard written. fee agreements or contract!> with
clients and maintain a record of such approvals.

6

2.
If, upon motion by the State Bar, a Hearing Committee of the DHC finds that
"ExUll1 has Violated any of the conditions in Section I (a)-(i) of this Order, the suspension of
ExUni's licepse shall be activated. If the suspension is activated, prior to seeking reinstatement of'
his license, the Defendant must:
a.

comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code ,Chapter I, Subchapter
B, Sec.. 0125(b).ofthe N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules; and

b.

satisfy all the conditions set forth in section 1. (a)-(i) above.

i

Signed by the chair with the consent" of the other hearing committee members, this

I

-t!J;

the

d7

day of June 2005.

/~f/~'

F. Lane WIllIamson
Hearing Committee Chair

By signing below, the parties affirm their consent and agreement to the entry of the
foregoing Consent Order of Discipline in 05 DH( 1:
For the PlaIntiff

David R. J<!>hnson, A
Plaintiff

)

~~{f?,~.
oCker, Attorney for'

I

----I5OUg1asJ.

Defendant

7

I
"

, ,170

.

;.

