~ . ~-.

1l0l5

~2i2Z?J?t

.J ..

.,.

NORTH CAROLINA

./
WAKE COUNTY

",r

<";

..
JUlI!i'\

FD''trLf
nC

Plaintifrf

v.
LENNARD p. TUCKER, Attorney,
Defendant

<3'~"

-------------- .

BEFORE tHE
~ DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
~
OF THE
~
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05DHC17

*

"

)
)
CONSENT
)
FINDINGS OF FACT;
)
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)

I

This Il).atter comeS before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chait, Charles M. Davis, and Marguerite P. Watts upon the
consent of the parties as to the findings, conclusions and discipline to be imposed. A. Root
Edmonson represents the North Caroliria State Bar and the Defendant appears pro se. Based
upon the consent of the parties;the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Th¢ plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding tinder the authority granted it in'
Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina. State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Th~ defendant, Lennard D. Tucker ("Tucker"), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar on August 18, 1990 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law
licensed to pr~ctice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina S,tate Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

I

3. Duting the times relevant to this complaint, Tucker actively engaged in the private
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of WinstonS8:lem, Forsyth County, North Catolina.
4. Pri6r to Octoper 2001, Karen P. Hairston ("Hairston") paid the fee Tucker requested
for Tucker to get Hairston a divorce.
5. On October 11,2001, Tucker filed a Complaint for Absolute Divorce ("Complaint")
on Hairston's pehalfin Forsyth COUhty District Court.

I

6. On January 10,2002, Hairston's Complaint was served upon the def~ndant named in
the Complaint.
,

,

7. Tucker failed to tak~ any action to get Hairston's div6rce ca~e before the Court.
8. After Hairston's Complaint was served upon the defendant; Hairstorimade several
requests for Tucker to g~t the divorce completed.

I

9. Tucker failed to complete Hairston's divorce.

10. Monesia Young ("Young") and three of her minor children were injured in an auto
accident on August 20, 200~.
11. Young retained Tucker to represent her in pursuing personal injmy claims on behalf
of her and her children.
'
12. Prior to July 2, 2003, Young agreed to settle all of the personal injury claims.
13. On July 2,2003, Young signed settlement statements for each of the fout claims
" . settl~d. Each of the settlement statements authorized Tucker to retain funds from the settlement
to pay to medic~l providers, including Dr. Thomas A. Gentle ("Dr. Gentle"), the Chiropractor
who treat~d all of the injured parties.

14. Tucker failed to pay Dr. Gentle until December 16,2003.
15. Tucker failed to pay the other medical providers for Young and her children prior to
December 2003.

I

16. Christine Thompson and her daughter, Dawn Thompson, ("the Thol11psons") Were
injured in an auto accident on July 14,2002.
17. The Thompsons retained Tucker to represent them in pursuing personal injury
claims.

18. Prior to August 29, 2003, the Thompsons agreed to settle both personal injury claims.
19. On August 29,2003, the Thompsons signed settlements that authorized Tucker to
retain funds from the settlements to pay to their medical providers, including the Wright
Chiropractic Center.
20. After being contacted by Dr. Wright about their outstanding bill~' with the Wright
Chiropractic Center, the Thompsons contacted Tucker about paying Dr. Wright.
21. Tucker failed to pay the Wright Chiropractic Center and the other medical providers
on the Thompsons' behalf until April 8, 2004.

I

22. Harrietta Royster ("Royster") was injured in an automobile accident on March 6,

23. On February 12,2001, Royster retained Tucker to represent her i,:l pursuing a
personal injUry claim.
24. On March 5, 2003, Tucker filed a Complaint in Forsyth County Superior Court on
Royster's behalf, designated file number 03 CVS 1484 ("civil action.").
!

25. Tucker's first attempt to serve the defendant in the civil action was returned with the
deputy who attempted service indicating that, according to the defendant's mother, the defendant
was attending college at a university in South Carolina.

1

26. Tucker filed alias and pluries summonses on May 27, 2003 and July 30, 2003 in the
civil action. iDue to staff error, Tucker failed to file another alia~. and pluries summons or have
the Clerk endorse the July 30, 2003 summons in the civil action.
27. Due to his staffs error, the defendant in Royster's civil action was never served with
the Complail).t or with a summons.
28. As a result of Tucker's failure to either hav.e the Clerk endorse the July 30,2003
summons or ;file another alias and pluries summons, Royster's Civil action was discontinued and
barred by the statute of limitations.
I

29. Royster made several attempts to get Tucker to communicate with her about the
status of her fivil action, but Tucker failed to c~mmunicate with Royster.
30. On December 5, 2003, a lawyer served Tucker with a motion to dismiss Royster's
civil action f6r insufficiency of proce$s and insufficiency of service of process. That motion was
filed in the civil.action on December 8, 2003.

I·'.

I
I

•

31. Tucker failed to advise Royster of the motion to dismiss het civil action.

32.

At least between the dates of July 2, 2003 and April 8; 2004, Tucker failed to
reconcile the 'individual client balances shown on the ledgers of his trust account with the current
bank balances for the trust account on at least a quarterly basis.
33. The State Bar dismissed the allegations of the First and Fifth Claims fo~ Relief.
!

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:

1

'9Jtj

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1; AU parties are properly before the hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Com.mission and the hearing committee has jurisdiction over Tucker and the subject matter.
2. Tucker's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
§ 84-28(a) & (b)(2) and §84-28(b)(3) a~ follows:

G~ll. Stat.

I

(a)

by failing to promptly pay the medical provid~rs for YOUl1g and her children,
including Dr. Gentle, as directed by Young, Tucker violated Revised Rule 1.152(m);

(b)

by failing to promptly pay the medical providers for the Thompsons, including the
Wright Chiropractic ,Center, as directed by the Thompsons, Tucker violated
Revised Rule 1.15-2(m);

(c)

by failing to act with reasonable diligence and promptnes~ in paying the medical
providers, even after demand by the Thompsons, Tucker violated Revised Rule
1.3;

(d)

by failing to communicate with Royster in resp'Onse to her attempts to get a status
update on her civil case, Tucker failed to promptly comply with reasonable
requests for infonnationin violation of Revised Rule 1.4(a)(4); and

(e)

by failing to tell Royster of the motion to dismiss filed in her civil action, Tucker
failed to keep Roster reasonably informed about her civil case in violation of
Revised Rule 1.4(a)(3).

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings ofFact, the Conclusions of Law, and the evidence
presented at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby makes the folloWing:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Tucker's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

Multiple offenses;

(b)

Substantial experience in the practice of law.

2. Tucker's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
(a)

Absence of a dishonest or selfish mo!ive;

(b)

Absence of a prior disciplinary record;

(c)

Good character or r~putation.

3. the mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
4. Although Royster's civil claim was discontinued due to Tucker's staffs error,
this was nof a result of intentional conduct on Tucker's part. Otherwise, Tucker's
conduct caused only potential harm and not actual harm to Tucker's clients.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and the consent of
the parties, the hearj,ng committee hereby enters the following:

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

l. The discipline to be imposed in this matter is an Admonition. this order constitutes
that Admonition.
2. rucker is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary.
~ned by the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this

the

'l()~ day

of ~2005.

~:J~

.
tephen E. Culbreth, Chan
Hearing Committee

CONSENTED TO:

Ii .;2~

~.2...,.c....-'-

A. Root Edmonson
Deputy CotP1sel
North Carolina State Bar

I

Defendant'

I

