\'

'.

BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY
HEAR~G COMMISSION OF .
HE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05 DIIC 16

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v. ",

MATTEEW A. BRQMUND, Attorney
Defendant
This matter came on to be heard on June 30,2005 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofCarlyn G. Poole, Chair; M, Ann Reed an4
Johnny A. Freeman; with A. Root Edmonson representing the North Catolina State Bar and
Matthew A. Bromund appearing pro se. Based upo:n the admissions in the Answer, the .
stipulations of fact in the Pre-Hearing Order and the evidence presented at the hearing, the
hearing committee finds that the following facts have been established by clear, cogent ahd
convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper Party to bring this proc~eding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. The defendant, Matthew A, Bromund ("Bromund"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 21, 1999 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney
at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Bromund actively engaged in the private
practice of law in the State ofNotth Carolina and was employed in a law office in the city of
Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.
.
4. In March 2004, Bromund accepted employment as a salaried associate in the law
office of Nestor Capote ("Capote").

.'

5. Pursuant to his employment arrangement with Capote, all fees that Bromund received
from clients were the property of Capote and shoulci have been depos'ited into one of Capote's
,
law office accounts.
6. On or about June 17, 20.0.2, Gary n. Thomas ("Thomas") retained Bromund to
represent him in a matter.
'"

7. Thomas made the check for his $20.0. fee payable to Bromund rather than to Capote's
law office.
paid Bromund his $20.0. fee by check number 1121 dated June 17,20.0.4 made
payable8.to Thomas
Bromund.

I

,

9~ On or before July 14, 20.0.4, Bromund,deposited the Thomas fee check nlimber 1121
into his personal account at USAA Feder~l Savings Bank, account llumber 3140.74269.
1D. Bromund appropriated the $20.0. Thomas fee that was the property of Capote to his
own use in violafi.on of N.C. GEN. STAT.§ 14-90..
11. When confronted by Capote about the Thomas fee matter on July 3D, 20.0.4, Bromund
initially misrepresented to Capote 'that the Thomas check was a payment to his wife and that
Thomas had mistakenly made the check payable to him:
Capote. 12. That same day, Bromund admitted he took the Thomas fee and paid it back to
13. On or about June 15,20.0.4, Jorge Luis Jimenez ("Jimenez") retained Bromund to
represent him in a ;domestic matter in High Point in Guilford County District Court.
14. Jimenez paid Bromund $350. in cash as the attorney fee for the representation.
15. Bromund used a Capote law office receipt book to prepare receipt number 1051 for
Jimenez in the amount of $350.. Bromund gave Jimenez the white copy of receipt number 10.51.

I

16.. Bromtmd destroyed the yellow copy of receipt number] 0.5 I that was supposed to go
in
the
Jimenez
file and the pink copy of receipt number 10.51 that Was supposed to go to the law
office bookkeeper.
17. Bromund then created a new receipt for the Jimenez fee, being receipt number 10.52,
in the amount of$15D. Bromund placed the yellow copy of this receipt in the Jimenez file and
gave the pink copy of this receipt to the law office bookkeeper.
18. Bromunq created receipt 10.52 to conceal the true amount of the fee paid by Jimenez
from Capote and his ~aw office personnel.

2

I
:,

O()O;Z

"

\\t,,'h .......

19. Bromund appropriated $200 of the Jimenez fee that was the property of Capote to his
own use in violation of N.C. GEN. STAT. § 14-90. .
20. On or about June 16, 2004, Francisco Cabrera ("Cabrera") retained Bromund to
represent him in a domestic matter.
.
21. When he retained Bromund, Cabrera paid Bromond $300 in cash as the :attomey fee
for the representation.

I

22" ;Bromund used a Capote law office receipt book to prepare receipt number 1100, the
last,receipt in the book, for Cabrera in the amount of$300. Bromund gave Jimenez the white
copy of receipt number lIDO.
23. Brolhund destroyed the yellow copy of receipt number 1100 that was 'supposed to go
in the Cabrera file and the pink ·copy of receipt number 1100 that was supposed to go to the law
.
office b09~eeper.
24. BrOlnund appropriated the $300 Cabrera fee that was tbe property of Capote to his
own use in violation of N.C. GEN. STAT. § 14-90.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes tbe
follOWing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties were properly before the hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission and the hearing cOIPmittee had jurisdiction over Bromund and the subject matter.

I

2. Bromund's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pur~uant t9
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Bromund violated the Revised Rules ofProfessional
Conduct as foI1ows:
(a)

by appropriating the all or part ofthe fees paid by Thomas, Jimenez and Cabrera
to his own use instead of remitting the fees to. Capote, Bromund committed a
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trUstworthiness, or fitness as
a lawyer in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(b); and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Revised Rule
8.4(c);

(b)

by misrepresel1ting to Capote that the Thomas check was a payment to his wife
that was mistakenly written to him, Bromund engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, de~eit or misrepresentation in violation of Revised Rule
~.4(c);

(c)

by creating the fictitious receipt number 1052 to conceal the true amount .ofthe
fee paid by Jimenez from Capote and his law office personnel, Bromund

3

"

'.

00'03;.

engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Revised Rule 8.4(c); ,
(d) , by destroying the office copies of the Cabrera receipts to conceal the receipt of
the fee, Bromund engaged in' conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
. tnisrep,resentation in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(c).
. ,BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
evidence presented at the hearing and the arguments of counsel, the hearing committee hereby
makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1. At the hearing, Bromund apologized to Capote, the State Bar, and to the hearing
committee. Tlu'ough these apologies, Bromund expressed remorse for his misconduct.
2. -On July 30, 2004, the day that Capote confronted Btomund with his discovery of the
Thomas fee, Bromund went home, got $200 in cash, and returned it to Capote.
3. Bromund didn't tender anything further to Capote at that time because Bromund
assumed that, by Capote not having to pay him any bonus for the last month of his employment,
Bromund had made restitution for the remaining fees owed. However, Bromund's assumption
didn't consider the other economic and pr.ofessionallosses his conduct caused Capote, including
the refunds Capote had to make to Bromund's clients because Capote couldn't handle the
caseload caused by Bromund's sudden departure.
.
4. Bromund's assumption that he didn't have to make further restitution to Capote shows
that Br6mund failed to fully appreciate the seriousness of his misconduct.
5. At the hearing, Bromund tendered a check to Capote for $500 representing the amount
of the Jimenez, and Cabrera fees that he had taken from Capote.
CONCLUSlONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1. Bromund's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

dishonestot selfish motive;

(b)

a pattern of misconduct; and

(c)

multiple offenses.

2. Bromund's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

absence ofa pdor disciplinary record;

4

I

(b)

a cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

(c)

expressions of remorse. through his apologies to Capote' and. others; and

(d)

an attempt to make restitution, although his attempt didn't fully reimburse
Capote for the economic and professional damage caused..
,

3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

I

4. An order c~l1ing for any discipline short of disb~ent would not sufficiently
protect the,public for the following reasons:
(a)
Theft is one of the most serious offenses that an attorney can commit,
whether the th«ft is from a client or from a law firm. Such an offense demonstrates that
the offending attorney is not trustworthy. Clients are entitled to have trustworthy
attorneys. When an attorney violates that trust, it harms the pUblic. No discipline short
9f disbarment can protect the public from an ~trustworthy member of the legal
profession.
.
(b)
In addition to the public harm, an untrustworthy attorney harms the legal.
profession and the administration of justice. No discipline short of disbarment can
maintain the reputation of the legal profession and instill the public's tru$t in the
administration of justice.
(c)
Entry of an order imposing discipline short of disbarment would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses that Bromund committed and would send the
wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected ofmelllbers'of
the Bar in this State.

I

(d)
The protection of the public, the legal profession and the administration of
justice requires that Bromund not be permitted to resume the practice of law until he
demonstrates that he bas reformed, and that permitting him to practice law will npt be
detriment",l to the public or the integrity and standing ofthe legal profession or the
administration of justice. Disbarred attorneys must show reformation, among other
things, befote they resume the .practi<:;e of law, whereas no su~h showing of reformation is
required of an attorney whose license is merely suspended for a term certain.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings pfFact and Conclusions of Law Regarding
Discipline and the arguments of counsel, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant, Matthew A. Bromund, is hereby DISBARRED.
2. Bromund shall surrender his license and membership card to the Secretary witllin 3.0
days of the effective date of this order.
.

5

I

3. Bromund. shall comply with the requirements of27 NCAC IB, §.0124.
4. The costs of this proceeding are taxed to Bromund and shall be paid as assessed by the
Secretary.
Signed with the Chair with the consent of the other members of the hearing committee
this the.

g day of August 2005.

I

I

6

