-.

.

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
)
v.
).
)
R.PATRICK DURKIN, Attorney,
.
Defendant )

CONSENT ORDER

.. '

This matter was heard by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Heating
Commission. Katherine E. Jean represented the Plaintiff. Defendant
represented himself pro se. Defendant has agreed to waive a formal hearing in
the above-referenced matter. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of.
fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order.
Based upqn the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby
elJters th~ follQwing;
.
•

~.f

FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (here,inafter "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina. and is the proper party to
consent to this order under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar.
2. Defendant, R Patrick Durkin (hereinafter "Durkin"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on Augyst 22, 1992, and was at all times until his
license was suspended for failure to pay mandatory.Bar membership fees on
July 2p, 2004, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina. At all
times alleged herein, and at present, Durkin is and was subject to the rules,
regulations, and Revised Rules of ProfeSSional Conduct of the North Carolina·
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During the times relevant herein; Durkin actively engaged in the
practice of l~w in tbe State of North Carolina and maintained a law offic~ in the
Cary,. Wake County, North Car!Jlina.
'.

....

4. Durkin clcsed his law practice and mcved tC'New Jersey in cr befcre
December, 2002.
.

1;5. Durkin's law license was suspended in June, 2004, for failure to' pa.y
mandatory State Bar memberShip fees.
6'. Durkin has nct taken any CLE ccurses since Ncvember, 2001.
1~ Durkin did not file an anSwer to' the ccmplaint in this acticn and allcwed

default to' be

ent~red

in this case.

'8~ Durkin suffers from a mental ccnditicn, depressicn, which significantly
impairs ~is prcfessicnal judgment, perfcrmance cr ccmpetence as anattcrney.

I

9: Durkin ccnsents to' being transferred to' disability inactive status ..

.">

10. There is cne ccunt cf viclaticn cf the Rules 1.15-3(c), 1.3, 1.115-2(m)j
'1.16(d), :1.4(a)(3), 1.4(a)(4), and 8.1 cf the Revised Rules cf Prcfessicnal
Ccnduct ccntained in the ccmplaint filed in this acticn, including but nct limited to'
allegaticns cf neglect, failure to' reccncile his trust acccunt, failure to' deliver
entrllsted funds to' clients, failure to nctify clients when he clcsed his law practice,
failure to ccmmunicate with clients, and failure to appear in respcnse to' the State
.
'
Bar's subpcena.
11. Durkin's disability caused the ccnduct giving rise to' the allegaticns cf
Rule viclaticns ccntained in the ccmplaint.
12. Durkin has sufficient capacity to' understand the ccnsequences cf
ccnsenting to' the terms cf this crder.
Based upcn the fcregcing Findings cf Fact, the undersigned makes the
follcwing:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1. : There is clear, ccgent and ccnvincing evidence that Durkin is disabled
within the meaning cf 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.01 03(19).
2. Durkin shculd be transferred to' disability inactive status with the State
Bar:
3. Durkin has vcluntarily ccnsented to' being transferred to' disability
inactive status.
I

2

I

"

..
4. The other pending claims before the Disciplinary Hearing Committee
and any pending grievances should be stayed during the period of diSClbility
purs~l"ant to 27 N.C:A.C. 1.B §.0118(d)(1).
Based on ·the. foregoing Findings of-Fact and Conclusions:of Law, 'it is
hereby ORDERED:
.
.

I

1. R. Patrick Durkin is transferred to disability inactive status.

2. Durkin shall not practice law in North Carolina until he is no longer
disabled and has been retl/rned to active st(ltus as a member of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to the procedures set out in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§.0125(c).
3. The second claim for relief contained in the cdmplaint filec:i herein is
stayed during the period of disability pursuantto 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0118(d)(1).
This the /.t,dl

day of

~~(/$r-

.,2005.

"

Chair, D' ciplinary Hearing Committee
with consent and approval of other
committee members

"'0"

CONSENTED TO: .

I
~L
~KafniK:a~~e~nn:e~·=E""'.J7e:::::a==n=,:;~;:tto=r=n=ey:';::fo=r~p~la~in~t=iff~---------""

3

I

1.

1'.

·'.OOtR5

