,

;.'

: ;xL/13Q

1'lS{S2 d.

.---.-- ..,-- --.-----.----

~
.A

'\'\,t

~'tJ

..

A~G'

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

FJ

WAKE COUNTY

~a

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE B
Plaintiff

v.

~

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
c...; ,
OF THE
N, '. CAROLlNA STATE BAR
<?,
05 DHC 4

SCW

ftL..iA
WB"1\i

~

.,

~?~Ao
tT",

'~"

at 6 ~

ORDER TRANSFERRING
DEFENDANT TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

1

DAVID S. HARLESS, Attorney,
Defendant
THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard oil August 12, 2005 before a hearing
committee ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofW. Steven Allen, Sr, Chair;
Charles M. 1;>avis and Donald Wilhoit. 'Iennifer A. Porter represented the North Carolina State
Bar. The Defendant, David S. Harless, did not appear. The Defendant was represented by Joel
M. cnlig. Based upon the pleadings and the evidence presented at trial, the hearing committee
. hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2. ,The Defendant, David S. Harless (Harless), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1997, and is, ahd was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in Nbrth Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules ofProfessional Conduct of
the North Carolina Suite Bar and the laws of the State ofNoi'th Carolina.

I'

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Harless did not
practice law in North Carolina and resided in the State of West Virginia.
4.
Harless has been hospitalized in psyChiatric hospitals eight times over the last few
years. He w~ diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 2001. Harless' first hospitalization was, at
Thomas Memorial Hospital in South Charleston, West Virginia in August 2001. His most recent
hospitalization was in March 2005 at Mildred Mitchell Bateman Hospital in Huntington, West
Virginia.
I

5.
Harless has bipolar disorder. As a result of his bipolar disorder, there are periods
of time during Which Harless is in a manic state and displays symptoms of mania. Such
symptoms include delusions of reference, delusions of grandeur, and pressured speech. Harless'

1

./

delusions of reference and delu,sions of grandeur centered on his expression th.at he had a special
connection With God and his suggestion that h~ was Jesus Christ, the Son of God.

I

6.
During the course of the investigation of this matter and through date of trial,
Harless sent communications to the State Bar that displayed symptoms of mania, including; but
not limited to, letters to staff counsel and his answers to the State Bar's complaint. The-letters
and his answers contain delusions of reference and delusions of grandeur manifested in Harless'
statem,ents that he had a special connection with God and his suggestion that he was Jesus Christ,
th~ S~)D of G04.
7.
Harless displayed these manic symptoms in January 2004 in his interaction with
Sherry Goodman, an attorney in West Virginia, in October 2004 in his correspondence with
Scott Segal, an attorney in West Virginia, and in October 2004 in his interaction with David
Fitzwatet, an accountant with the Segal Law Firm in West Virginia.
8.
Harless' treating psychiatrists at the psychiatric hospitals in which he ha$ been
hospitalized'haveprescribed psychiatric medication to treat his bipolar disorder. Dr. Mukesh
Kamdar, the psychiatrist conducting an independent examination of Harless for this proceeding,
also recommends medjcation. Harless generally ref4ses psychiatric medication and is not in
compliance with any treatment regimen. Without such medication and appropriate
psychotherapy, Harless lacks insight to the extent that his professional judgment is significantly
impaired and he cannot practice law.
.
CONCLUSIQNS OF LAW
1.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over the person of the
Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.

I

2.
Harless suffers :from a physical or mental condition that-significantly
impairs his professional judgtJlent, performance Or competence as a lawyerwitbin the
meaning of 27 NCAC 1, Subchapter B, Section .0103(19) of the State Bar's DiscipUne
& Disability'Rules.
ORDER
1,
Defendant, David S. Harless" is hereby transferred to disability inactive
status, in accordance with North Carolina General Statute § 84-28(g) and 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .0118(b)(6).
Harless shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary ofth~
North C~olina State Bar no later than 30 days following service ofthis·or4er upon !lim.
2...

3.
Hatless shall withdraw from any pending client matters immediately ~pon the
effective date of this order and shall foll()w all applicable laws and disciplinary rules regar(ling
withdrawal, in accordance With 27 N.C.A.C. IB, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State B~
Discipline & Disability Rules.

-2-

I
..' -:.

4.
The costs of this proceeding are taxed against Harless and the Secretary of the
State Bar shall send a statement of costs to Hatless. These costs are due upon petition by Harless
for reinstatement to active status. The costs taxed to Harless include but are not limited to:
a.
All costs related to the depositions taken in this case, as reflected in the
DHC file;
b.
The expert witness fee·ofDr. Mukesh Kamdar, the psychiatrist appointed
to conduct the independent medical evaluation in this case and who testified
pursuant to subpoena in .this case; and

I

c.
All fees of Joel M. Craig, the attorney appointed to represent Hatless in
this proceeding.
Upon applicati01i for reinstatement to active status, in addition to complying with
5.
the requirerilents of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0125(c), Harless must show by clear, cogent, and
convincing ;evidence that:

a.

He paid the costs of this proceeding taxed against him by this order, as
contained in the statement of costs sent to Harless by the Secretary of the State
Bat;

b.
He received appropriate medical treatment for his bipolar disorder, has
been under the care of a treating psychiatrist for his bipolar disorder for not less
than a siX mopth period next preceding his reinstatement petition, and has been in
compliance with the treatment regimen prescribed by his psychiatrist, including
but not limited to full compliance with any prescriptions for psychiatric
medication and With psychotherapy for not less than a six month period next
preceding his reinstatement petition;
c.

He is no longer impaired and is competent to practice law;

I

d.
. Permitting him to resume the practice of law within the state will not be
detrimental to the integrity and standing of the b$", to the administration of
justice, or to the public interest;
e.
He has not engaged in the Uilauthorized practice oflaw during his period
of inactive status! and

f.

He has not engaged in any conduct duiing the period of his inactive status
that would constitute grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84·28(b),
, including, but not limited to, not having committed any criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as an attorney, and not having
committed any violent crimes.

-3-

I
." :.

0030

"

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other h~aring committee members, this the

..z~day of August, 2005.

·/~.k'

w. Steven Allen, Sr.

,
Chair, DisCiplinary Hearing Committ~e

1

I ."

-4-

I
....

"

{)03/

