-.-~-~

NORTH CAROLINA

- "~---

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G1413

..
,

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Regina M. Taylor,
Attorney At Law

--

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On July 14,2005 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by T. 1. P.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bat, the ,Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to' the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reaso11able cause to·
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct JUStifying
disciplinary a~tion. ,.
The niles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
.determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing befote the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
disciphne depending upon the mi~conduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. -The Griev~ce Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Ru1es of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to.a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or: a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censw:e.
The Grievance COniinittee was of the Qpinion that a c·ensure is not required in this case
and'issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar. it is now my duty to issue this.repdmand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In 2004 you represented Trent J. Powell in connection with two traffic-related charges.
You failed to appear in court on his behalf on February 13, 2004 and on July 8, 2004~ As a result
DMV notified Mr. Powell that his license would be suspended for failing to appear in court on
February 13 ~d the Court issued an order for his arrest for failing to appear on Ju1y 8. You did

I

check the court file before ;the July 8 date to see if certain documents were contained therein, but
made no effort to contacf Mr. Powell when you discovered the documents were not in the file or
to inform him that you would not appear on his behalf or that he would then have to appear. The
Committee found that you were not diligent in representing Mr. Powell in violation ofRul~ 1.3
and did not communicate adequately with him in violation ofRule 1.4 of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your pr0fessional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself'
to de~art from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a r~'primandby the- Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ~ day of

RB/lr

I

I

~ •• 200S

