j
L _____.._...________.•___ .._. __..

BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROLINA
,

GRffiVANCECO~TTEE

,.

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0757

WAKE COUNTY

INRE~

MATTHEWF. GINN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

I

REPRIIv1AND

On 14 Jul2005, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
. State Bar; the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information av~lable to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable caUSe to
believe that a ~ember of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action~"
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the .filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline deperiding upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injUry caused, and any
aggravating :or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent attorney.

1

A Reprimand is a :vritten form of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued. in
cases in which ap attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Gensure is not required in this case
and issue~ this Reprimand to you. As chairm~ of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand ·and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On or ab9ut February 10, 2004, you agreed to represent a person with the initials DSC on
a speeding ticket in Mecklenburg County District Court. DSC initially communicated with a
legal assistant by the name of Natalie Duke, who received $325.00 in cash from DSC for your
Tepresentation. Of that amount,' $200.00 was to be your fee and the balance was court costs. You

.1
\

accepted the $200.00 for your fee, but did not deposit the $125.00 into a trust account. Instead,
you kept the cash in your .file.
,,

I

l'
"

You had the hearing on the matter continued untii April 14, 2004 and again until May 12,
2004. On May 12,2004, you failed to appear in court on behalf of your client. (Your client
understood that he coulc;l waive his appearance and did not appea,r either.) As a result, the North '
Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles notified your client that his driver's license would be
suspended unless the traffic offense was properly disposed of. Although you may have indicated
to your client that you would take care of the matter after you failed to appear in court, y-Ou asked
another attorney to handle it for you. In the meantime, DSC went to other COUnsel, who handled
the matter before you or the other attorney could. DSC informed Ms. Duke. After you learned
that DSC had retained other counsel to handle the matter, you did not offer to refund either
DSC's fee, which you did not earn, or the amount you received for costs. To date, you have llOt
paid either .the costs or the unearned fee to your former client.
.

'

The Committee foun<;l that your above-described conduct violated several Rules and
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. By failing to promptly deposit the cash you received for
court costs into your trust accOUIit, you violated Rule 1.15-2(b). By failing 'to promptly return the
court costs to your client after another attorney had taken care of his matter, you failed to
promptly deliver property held in trust to your client in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m). By failing to
refund the fee you had collected in advance, you failed to return t4e unearned portion of the fee
upon discharge in violation of Rule 1.16(d) and retained an excessive fee in violation of Rule
I.S(a).
.
You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed, this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you willl1ever again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
..

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amoUnt
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

day of

~5

..

#$

"

l_ . "
.~

".

-

.

",

.

