'r

NORTH CAROLINA

,

,.

BEFORE THE
GRffiVANCECONThflTTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COuNTY

()SG0347

IN THE MATTER OF

)

Robert E. Griffin, .
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)

,

REPRIMAND

I

On July 14,2005 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the North Camlina. State Bat.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grieval1ce Committee conducted a preliminary .hearing.. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
I

'. The rules pro~ide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
disc.ipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a:censure to the respondent attorney.

1

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
caseS in which an attorney has viol~ted one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused liarm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a.member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Gri¢vance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you ,\-\111
understand nllly the spint in which this duty is perforn1ed.
.
In May 2004, a former client of yours named H. B. filed a petition with the N.C. State
Bar for resolutidn of a disputed fee. On July 9, 2004, you agreed to participate in binding
arbitration of thy dispute. In November, 2005, you participated in the arbitration pro.cess and
the arbitrator determined that you should refund $1,120 to Ms. B. You declined to abide by the

·1
(

.

(

award, however and gave;p.otice of appeal of the award. There is no evidence that you took any
steps to perfect the appdal.
.
In response to the State Bar's letter of notice, you maintained that you had never
agreed to binding arbitration and insisted that you were not told that the process was binding,
even when the Bar pointed out that you had signed a written agreement to participate in
binding ru:bitration.
.

I

The Grievance Committee conch;lded that you failed to participate in good faith in the
fee dispute process in violation of Rule 1.5(f)(2) by refu.shig to honorth~ arbitrator's award.
The Committee members also found your response to the grievance to be misleading, in
violation of Rule 8.1 (a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
y ou ar~ hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
mis~onduct.

The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will
be remembered by;you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow
yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards o{the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North
.:. Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative CO$ts to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the)

I
HB/lr

I

day of_~,a£.:.~:...l4~c.......,.___-,

