WAKECOVNTY

The North Carolina State Bar,
Plaintiff

v.

Order of Discipline

I

Thomas M. Tillett, Attorney, .
Defendant

This 'matter was heard on the 21st day of July, 2005, before a Hearing Committee ofllie
Disciplinary' Hearing Commission composed of the Chair; W. Steven Allen, Sr., and members T.
Richard Kane and Donald G. Willhoit, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter 1, Subchapter13, § .0114(h). The plaintiff was represented by David R. Johnson. The
defendant was represented by Gary Murphy and Scott Pollard. Based upon the pleadings and the
evidence intt;oduced at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby makes the following Findings
of Fact by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
Findings of Fact

1.

The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar~ is a body duly organized under the

I

laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations
of the North C~olina State Bat promulgated thereunder.
2.

The Defendant, Thomas M. Tillett (hereafter Defendant), was admitted to the

North Carolina State Bar on August the 21 st of 1982, and is and was at all times referred to
herein, attom~y at law licensed to pr~ctice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules ofProf~ssional Conduct bfthe North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

I

,','-'.-,.

,-

_ ................ ;.r~_,_~~.\ool'.. ,_~.1'

During p~e relevant periods of time, Defendant was actively engaged in the

3.

private practice Qf1aw in the city of Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
4.

On June 30, 2003, Defendant appeared in ForsYth County District Court in .

response to an Order to Show Case why he had not made hi$ personal child support payment~ for
the months of May and June; 2003.

I

5.

At the conclusion of the he~ng, Defendant tendered a check drawn on his law

office operating account to the Clerk of Superior Court's office to pay his' child support
obligation arrearage of$I,300,00. The Clerk of Court's office informed Defendmlt that it would
accept only a certified check. At the time, Def<;lndant knew he had insufficient funds in his
operating account to coveJ; the tendered check or to obtain a certified <;h.eck.
6,

Defendant then withdrew $1,300.00 from, his attorney trust account by way of a

debit memo to obtain a certified check payable to the Clerk of Court for his personal child
support obligation. Defendant then delivered the certified check to the Clerk of Court to pay his
personal child support obligation on June 30,2003. At the time, Defendant was aware that did
not have $1,300.00 in funds in his attorhey trust account to which he was then presently entitled
and thereby used client funds to pay his personal obligation without client consent.
During about November of2001, Phillip and Pamela Br~ntwood (hereafter, "the

7.

Brentwoods") hired Defendant to represent them in closing the purchase of a residence.locat<;ld jn

I

Mecklenburg County from Maria Shinn (hereafter, "Shinn"). The' Brentwoods needed a
... ,

"

-.-.~

~

-..

. . .

~.~

"

mortgage loan to pl,lrchase the' property. At the time, Shinn ·had two mortgages and at least two
liens on the property that had to be paid to provide clear and marketabl~ title to the l3rentwoods
and place the Brentwoods' lender in a first-lien position, The Brentwood~ provided Defend&nt
,

with $3,134.43 in funds to be held in trust to be used in the closing of the purchase andloan.
8.

Over the next few months, there Jlere at least two Closings that were scheduled

but aborted because the lender either declined or failed to fund the loan to the Brentwoods.
Following one of the aborted closings, Defendant refunded the funds he had received from the
Brentwoods, less an amount for his fee.
9.

In early April, 2002, Defendant r~ceived a loan package from a lender, Genesis

Lending, Inc., on beha]f of the Brentwoods and scheduled a closing for April 4, 2002., Defendant
Page 2 of IS

I

......._

prepared a BUb-1 sett~~ment statement to show the receipt and disbursements of t~e funds for

6n behalf of the 13rentwoods.

the dosing transactionr

By law, the HUD-1 settlement statement is

required to reflect an accurate accounting ofthe receipts and disbursements from a real estate
closing.
10.

Defendant provided a copy of the HUD-1 settlement statement to the lender for

approval as; one of the lender's conditions for closing the loan and releasing the loan proceeds.
The HUD-l settlement statement prepared by Defendant and approved by the lender showed that
I

the Brentw<;>ods were providing $26,907.83 in ca:;;h at the closing. The settlement statement also

I

showed that $21,570.20 of the seller's proceeds was being paid to the Clerk of Superior Court for
a release of. a lien,. and that two other seller liens, the Brentwoods' hazard insurance premium of
$642.00, and two prior s~ller mortgages were also being paid from the proceeds collected at the
ciosing~

11. •

The $21,570.20' of the seller's proceeds shown as a payment to the Clerk of Court

was in fact simply a credit against the seller's proceeds and no actual disbursement of proceeds
to the Clerk of Court was made or contemplated.
12.

Further, the BreIitwoods paid no cash to Defendant at the closing. Even after

deducting the $21,570.20 seller credit from the amount due at closing from the Brentwoods,
Defendant was required to collect at least $5,337.63 from the BrentwoOds. Defendant collected
no funds from the Brentwoods at the closing.

13. .

Before closing the loan, DOrendan£ obtained a certified check from his bank on

I

behalf of the Brentw00ds in the amount of $26,907.83 using a trust account check written to his
law firm 011 funds held in hIS trust account. At the time, there were no funds in Defendant's trust
account provided by the Brentwoods or to which the Brentwoods were entitled ... Defendant knew
that the Brentwoods had provided :ho funds at the closing. Defendant then immediately deposited
the certified check backinto his trust account.
14. .

The lender's Closing instructions required Defendant to. pay existing liens on the

property frqm the proceeds collected at closing such that the lender would be in a first-lien
position after closing. The lender's closing instructions also required Defendant to provide a

Page 3 of 15

I
.

'~

coPY of the certified fu~d~, check showing the collection of funds from the Brentwoods as shown
on the HUD-1 settlement statement.
,

15.

.

Defendant closed the loan transaction and paid Shinn'S first mortgage on or abqut·

April 4, 2002. Defendant then recorded the deed and deed of trust in favo:rofGenesis Lending.
I,'"

Defendant did not pay Shinn's second mortgage, the othet seller liens, the buyer's hazard

I

insurance, the title insurance premium, or the mortgage broker's commission of $6,200 at that
time. Defendant paid the mortgage broker's comlJlission before the end of April 20D2.
16;

The Defendant then provided the lender with a copy of the cenifi¢d check he had ..

procured from the bank ustng the check drawn on his ,trust a~count. Defendant did not disclose
the source of the funds used to procure the certified check to the lender. By
- providing the copy of
.

the certified check to the lender and other documentation to the lender as well as recording the
deed of trust on behalf of the lender, the Defendant represented to the lender that the closing
instructions had been followed and he had collected funds from the Brentwoods as shown on the
HUb-1 settlement statement.
17.

Between the time of closing in April 2002 and SeptemberZOD2, the Brentwoods

tried to get the Defendant to make the unpaid disbursements on their behalf, including their
'hazard ins1ll'ancepremium and Shinn's second mortgage. DefendaI)t did not disburse any funds
on their behalf and failed to respond to the Brentwoods on several occasions.

I

18.

By September 2002, Defendant had still not paid Shinn:' s second mortg~ge, the

other'seller'liens, the buyer'~ hazard insura,hc~ or the title insurance premium: Defendant had
still not collected sufficient funds iTom the Brentwoods to cover all required disbursements and '
the lender was not in a first-lien position. At that time, the title. insurance company received a
complaint from the Brentwoods, contacted Defendant, collected the balance of the fluids ,being
held by the Defendant, and completed the closing transaction by making the required
disbursements. The Brentwoods' lender was not in a first lien position until after those
disbursements were made by the title insurance company.
19.

During or about May 2002, Dr. Carolyn Hart (hereafter "Han") engaged

Defendant to represent her in a dispute with tenants who lived on rental property owned by Hart.
Defendant informed Hart that he would require a $2,500 retainer against which he would bill his

Page 4 of15

I

fee at an hourly rate. Hl:\rt paid the retainer to Defendant on or about May 29, 2002 and
Defendant deposited th~ ~~tainer to his trust accQunt. In early June 2002, Defendant prepared
and sent a lease termination agreement to Hart's tenants, but the tenants declined to voluntarily
sign the agreement or remOve themselves from the premises.
20.

Hart repeatedly attempted to communicate with Defendant during July and

August 200i concerning further action but Defendant would not respond. Hart eventually
discharged Defendant on or about September 7, 2002, and demanded a refund of $2;200 from the
initial retainer she paid to Defendant.

I

At the time of discharge, Defendant had already transferred the entire Hart

21.

retainer from his trust account to his office operating account for his business or personal use.
The first transfer was for $1,500 on May 29, 2002, the day the retainer was deposited. Defendant
later transferred $500 on or about June 17, 2002 and the balance of $500 on or about June 20,
, ' 2002. Defendant did not provide any accounting to Hart for these payments. Defendant had not
earned the entire retainer fee before he transferred the funds to his operating account.
Defendant failed to refund any amount from the retainer after he was discharged

22.
by Hart.

During on' or about November 2002, Wendy McLean (hereafter "McLean)

23.

engaged Defendant to close a series of six mortgage loan refinances on six properties she owned
in Gaston CoUnty. Each ofllie properties had an existing mortgage secured by a Deed of Trust
"-

on the property. McLean intended to receive surplus funds from the refinancing of the properties
to pay other debts and receive cash proceeds for her own use from the loans. MCLean and the

I

Defendant prepared a schedule for the disbursement of the proceeds from these loans before
closing.
24.

Defendant conducted four of the six closings on behalf of McLean on or about

Nove~ber 2Q,

25.

2002.

. Defendant prepared the HUD:.1 settlement statements for each of McLean's loan

closings ,on or about November 20, 2002.

Page 5 of 15

I

26.

Defendant received funds from McLean's new lender on 'November 20,2002. The

funds received wert~ short, but were sufficient to cover disbursements to· sati~fy all existing Hens
•

,

f

on the properties, including the prior mortgages. Defendan~ chose to close the loans without
waiting for the balance of the loan proceeds and disbursed 'Some amounts, including his fees, on
November 22, 2002. However, he did not disburse funds to pay the prior mortgages at that tih1~.
The balance of the funds from the lender were received by Defendant on November ?9, 2002.

I

27.

On Or ~bout December 5,2002, Defendant issued three checks and a wire transfer

to McLean' sprior mortgage lenders to pay the prior mortgages on the properties for which the
new loans had been Closed oil November 20, 2002.
28.

The pay-offs tendered by Defendant for two of the prior mortgages from the satne
.

~

-

lender were insufficient ,and the lender rejected the payme:pts without crediting McLean's
account and notified Defendant immediately ,after receipt in December 2002.

29.

Defendant did not take any steps t01l1ak:e the correct payment to the lend(lr until

J anllary 3, 2003, by which time additional interest and charges had accrued because of the delay

caused by Defendant's neglect. Defendant paid the additional charges without collecting or
depositing any additional funds in his trust accOlmt to coyer those charges.
30.

Defendant did not make other payments from the McLean loan proceeds as

required from the clOSing ahd as indicated on the }lUD-I settlement statements, including but ]lot
limited to payments for property taxes, title insurance and for hazard Insurance.

I

31.

In late Januaty 2003, Defendant had insufficient funds in trust to pay the

remaining items due to be paid from these closings for McLean because the funds had, been used
to pay for the additional charges by the prior mortgage holders. Defendant paid the balance of
the funds remaining in his trust account that he had received from the closings to McLean..
Defendant informed McLean at the time that he would cover the shortfall in funds 9aused by his
delay, hut made no further effort to do so.
32.

The North Carolina State Bat conducted an audit of Defendant's trust account in

2004. At the conclusion of the audit, there appeared to be approximately $12,000 in -

llnaccouhted funds in the account. Defendant informed an investigator for the Bar that these
were funds that should'have been disbursed for payment of title insurance premiums on past real
Page 6 of IS

I

estate closings ])efend~t could not identify the proper parties for whom these funds shouid
have been disbursed

or '~ffer any reason for failing to disburse these funds. Defendant has been

tillable to account for those unidentified proceeds to date.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee enters 'the following:
Conclusions of Law
1.

All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has

I

jurisdiction over Thomas M. Tillett and the subject matter.
I

2.

The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes

grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that the conduct violated the
Revised Rules ofProfessiortalConduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:
(a)

By knowingly and willfully converting funds held in a fi~uciary capacity

in hls attorney trust account for payment of his personal child support obligation:
Def~ndant

committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty,

trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b); engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and
used funds held in trust for his own personal benefit in violation of Rule 1.15-2 (j);
(b)

By preparing and presenting a faise HUD-l settlement statement to the

lehd~r in the transaction involving the Brentwoods, Defendant knowIngly made a false

statement of material fact in violation of Rule 4.1; engaged. in conduct in.volving

I

dishonesty, fraud~ deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and in criminal
conduct that adversely reflected upon his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer
in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
(c)

By withdrawing the $26,907.83 from his trust account on behalf of the

Brentwoods when Defendant knew the Brentwoods did not have any ,funds in his trust
account belonging to them at the time, Defendant engaged in conduct involving
dish9nesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation ofRtile 8.4(c);

Page 7 of 15

I
',I

k_..... ",.¢'. ~~ ..... --:~.~!_~._____"":'......
_~ .•~~_

(d)

.... ' .. _ ..............~...... ~... C:.::ri-I:~..

'"

"

·'

....... ~""".~.;.~.~-~~'I,..:;.. .~.,-

~y failing to respond to Dr. Hart's requests for infonnation; the Defendant

failed to adequ-afelycommunicate with his client in violation of Rules 1.4(a) and (b);
(e)

By 'paying the entire retainer received, from Dr. Han to himself' as fees,

before they were (;:arned and by failing to refund any amount of'the ret~in~r pl:lid by O,r. '
Hart, Defendant collected or'retained an excessive or unearned fee in violation ofRui~s

I

1.5(a) and 1.16(d).

(f)

By failing to account to Dr. Hart for the tran~fer of fees from his trust

account to his operating account at any time, Defendant failed to provide his client with a
complete and accurate accounting of funds held intrust ill violation of Rule 1.1S-3(d).
(g)

By failing to timely make the proper disbursements to pay MCLean's prior

mortgagesa:nd taxes, Defendant failed to promptly pay client funds to third ,parties as
dir(;:cted by the client in violation Rule 1.15-2(ni) and fruled to act with reasonable
dilige:Qce and promptness in representing a Glient in violation ofRl,lle 1.3.

(h)

By being 'unable to identify the parties whose funds remain in his trust

account, Defendant failed to maintain proper records,~ reconcile'his trust account ona
quarterly basis alid provide complete and accurate accountings to his clients for the
receipt and disbtitsement of client funds in violation of Rule 1.15-3.

I

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Cohchlsions QI..Law, and upon.clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence, the hearing committee hereby makes these additional

Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
1.

The Defendant has no prior disciplinary record.

2.

Defendant was admitted to a treatment facility in Kentucky during the late winter ,

and early spring of2003 for treatment of severe depression and adult attention deficit disorder.
He continues in treatment with a physician.and is receiving,medication for his ai1ments~ His
conduct with respect to the Brentwoods, Dr. Hart, and McLean occu11;'ed during the time when
his depression began to manifest itself DefendaIlt personally believes' that his judgment 4urin~

Page 8 of is

I

his representation of the Brentwoods, Dr. Hart, and McLean was significantly impaired by his
untreated depression. f: .
3.

Defendant was cooperative with the investigation by the North Carolina State Bar
.

I

and made full
4.

dis~losure

of his 'conduct to the Hearing Committee.

Defendant had previously been jailed for contempt for failure to pay his child

support obligation. Defendant's misappropriation of funds in his trust account appears motivated
by a momentary panic to assure that he was not held in contempt of court with the possibility of

I

jaii after lea1,1ling that his operating account check would not be accepted. He intended to
replenish the trust account before the end of the day. Additionally, his judgment may have been
impaired bychartges in his anti-depressant medication at the time ofms conduct.
5.

Although Defendant did not fully reimburse the trust account for the funds that he

had misappropriated for payment of his child support obligation until he was aware that the State
Bar was completing its audit of his trust account, Defendant appeared to be uncertain with
respect to the requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct With respect to the handling of
trust account funds, particularly the prohibitions of commingling ()fhis personal funds. This
ulicertainty contributed to his failure to reimburse the account earlier.
6~

Defendant's misappropriation was an isolated instance. The State Bar's audit of

his trust account uncovered no other misappropriations and could not identify any loss to any
client. No client complained of any misappropriation.
7.

. :Defendant's cbnduct with respect to the closing ofthe Brentwoods' loan wa~

1-

motivated bY, a sincere belief that it was necessary to assist the Brentwoods to prevent
foreclosure of the property becaUSe of the seller's conduct with a substantial financial loss to the
Brentwoods. The Brentwoods were pleased with his efforts at the time of closing.
8.

Defendant has made no effort to refund or reimhqrse the Brentwoods or McLean

for any of the shortfalls in payments he should have made on their behalf from their respective
loan closing 'transactions not has he made any effort to refund any of the unearned fee he
collected from Dr. Hart.

Page 9 of15

I

9~

Defendant engaged in 111ultiple.violations of the Rules ofJ;>rofessional Conduct

involving representation ~f multipledients.
Based on the Fin<lings of Fact and Conclusion$ of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee makes,:the following:
'Conclusions with Respect to Discipline

I

1.

2.

1-----

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the follOWing factors:
(a)

Substantial experience in the practice o:flaw;

(b)

multiple offenses involving multiple c1ients~

(c)

a dishonest or-selfish motive;

(d)

a refusal to acknowledge the wrongfulness ofms conduct; and

(e)

an indifference to making restitution.

Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

No prior disciplinary record;

(b)

personal or emotional problems;

(c)

full and free disclosure to the Hearing Committee;

(d) ." -a cooperative-attitude toward the proceedings;-··.. (e)

physical or mental disability or impairment; and

(f)

interim rehabilitation.

3.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

4,

The Defendant's conduct has caused, and had the potential to cause, significant

harm to his clients. Further, Defendant's conduct or misconduct has hanned the st~diilg of the
legal profession by undennimng trust and confidence in lawyers and the legal system

Page 10 of 15

I
.'

.. ,'

.....

.,"""~~~""'
.,
,~

...

~~::.
:

5.,

~~..,

:..I.f-_.. ,.....,:.

..::;.....iJ" .... --.~. 1:0- ...".

---

To that end, the Hearing Committee has carefully considered all of the different

rorins of sanction available to it and finds that arty sanction ofless than suspension of
Defendan~'s license would not be appropriate in this case. Further, an Order ofDisclpline less

than suspension would not sufficiently protect the public because of the violations or public trust
in this case and becabse the conduct involved the taking of money belonging to others to wh"bm
Defendant had a fiduciary duty. Entry of any Order imposing lesser discipiine than suspension
, would fail,to acknowledge the seriousness ofthe offense that the Defendant has committed and
sends the wrong message to: attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members

I

of the Bar.' The only sanction in this case that can adequately protect the public is suspension of
the Defendant's license for a period of tjme..
bisbann~nt ordinarily is the appropriate discipline imposed in cases involving

6.'

attorney misappropriation of client funds. The Committee's decision in this matter is based upon
the unique facts involved in this case and should not be viewed as an indication that future
embezzlement cases will be dealt with lightly. The isolated nature of the taking, coupled with the
Defendanfs mental condition at the time of the misconduct and interim proof of rehabilitation,
conVinced the Committee that, in this particular instance, a suspension of license was sufficient
to protect the public.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and the Conclusions with Respect to Discipline, the Hearing
Committee' enters the following:
.. .
~

"

...

.-

Order of Discipline
1.,

I

The Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Catolina is hereby

suspended for three years, effective thirty days after service of this Order of Discipline on the
Defendant.
2.

I

Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the

North Carol,ina State Bat no later than 30 days following service ofthis order upon Defendant.
3.

Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.

Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .OI24(b), the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &

Page 11 of 15

I

Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secr~tary ofthe North Carolina State
Bar within 10 days

oithe effective date of this Order ofDiseipline certifying he ,has complied

with the wind down rule.
4.

After serving one year of the active suspension of his license, Defendant may.,

apply for a stay lof the balance ~f the suspension upon filing a motion with the Disciplinary ,

I

Hearing Commission,in this matter at least thirty days before any proposed effective date of the
stay and demonstrating the following by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
(a)

That during the'period of suspension of his law license he has continued'

with all prescribed medical treatments as determined by his p~ychiatrist or other mental
health professional for his ,depression, attention deficit disorder, ,and any other tnental
health problems that have been diagnosed by such medical care providers at Defendant's
sole expense;,
(b)

That he has received a medical evaluation from a qualified psychiatrist

approved by the Office of Counsel oithe North Carolina State Bar made within 30 days
before the filing of his motion to stay the balance of his suspension that has detef1l1i ned
that Defendant has no current mental or psychological impairment that would affect his ,
ability to comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct or cause harm to the public ifhe
is allowed to resume the practice law. The medical evaluation shall be obtained at

1-·

Def~ndant' s expense. l;>efendant will serve a copy of such evaluation on the Office of
Counsel of-the North Carolina State Bar with his motion to stay th~ balance of the ' ..
suspension.
(c)

That Defendant has served the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina

State Bar w"ith his motion to stay the balance ofthe ~uspension with all necessary and
appropriate releases and me'dical authorizations for the Office of Counsel to review all of
his medical reports, medical records, psychological evaluations or mental health,
evaluations and interview all of his treating medical care providers, including but not
necessarily limited'to those persons who provided his care as described in (a) above. The
Oefendant may not revoke the rele?ses or authorizations. Arty charges by the medical

Page l20f15

1

care providers for providing the reports and responding to information requests by the
Office ofCouJs~1 of the North Carolina State Bar will be at Defendant's expense.
(d)

That Defendant has satisfactorily completed a law office trust account

. management course approved by the Office of Counsel 6fthe North Carolina State :e..ar at
his qwn expense and has paid the costs thereof
(e)

That Defendant has satisfactorily cooperated with the Office of Counsel to

I

identify and appropriately disburse the balance of the funds still in Defendant's trust
:

account..
(f)

That Defendant has made restitution to the Brentwoods, McLean, 8l1d Dr.

Hart, for such amounts as those parties may agree or as d~termined by any mediation,
arbitration or civil proceeding with respect to such claims.
(g)

That he has participated in good faith in the North Carolina State Bar's fee

dispute resolution process for any petition received after the effective date of this order,
participated in good faith and refunded all fees that were determined to be subject to
•

refund by the mediation process.
(h)

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department

advised of his curr~nt business and home address.
(i)

That he has responded to all communications from the North Carolina

, State Bar within 30··oays··ofreceipt or by the deadline stated iii the coinmuni~ation,
whichever is sooner.

Cj)

--I

That he has not Violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct or the

laws of the United States or any state during his suspension.
: (k)

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with the

tenhs of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules,

Page 13 of15

I
".,'

'-'-..............

(1)

~~~

"
................ ~.............~

That he has paid all Membership dues and Cllent Security FUnd

assessments and ~omplied with all Continuing Legal Education (CLE) requiremehtson a
timely ba~is as if still in practice during the suspension.
(m)

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 90 days of service of the

statement of costs upon him.

I

(n)That ifhe proposes to practice as a solo practitioner if the stay is granted,
he has asked a member of the North Carolina State Bar who is iii good standing who
practices law in county where he proposes to practice, and Who hru! been approved by the,
North Carolina State Bar, to serve as his monitor and that the selected monitor has agreed
to so serve and agreed to the requirements set forth in paragraph 5 of this Order.
Defendant will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this supervision. If the
monitor requires a fee to be paid in advance or a retainer to be paid at the inceptiol) of
this monitoring relationship, Defendant will have paid that prior to, submitting his petition
for a stay or for reinstatement.
5.

If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license, such

stay wili continue in force only as long as he complies with the conditions set out in paragraphs
4(a), (e), and (g) through (n) above and with the following additional conditions:
(a)

That he provide reports at his' own expense consistent with the

requirements of paragraphs 4(b) and (c) to the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina
State

Bar'by the t'5th day of the month following each calendar'quart~r (Le. JMl,lary'15,

April 15, July 15, and October 15) during the period of the stay.
(b)

That he meet once a month with hi~ 1l).onitoring attorney to whom he will

report the status of all cutrent client matters, cooperate with the mentor attorney and
provide any information the mentor attorney deems reasonably necessary to ensure that
Defendant is handling all client matter$ in ,a timely fashion and IS responding promptly to
his clients. The Defc;mdant will be solely responsible for any cost of this arrangemep.t.
(c)

That the monitoring attorney submits monthly reports to the Office of

C.ounsel of the State Bar by the 10th of each month.

Page 14 of15

I

(d)

That Defendant will permit the North Carolina State Bar to conduct

random audits-

of his trust account, and any other busineSs and personal bank accounts

necessary to complete such audits, during the period'ofthe stay.
If an order staying any period ofthis suspension is entered and the Defendant,fails

6.

to comply with anyone or more of the conditions-referenced in Paragrap4 5, then the stay offhe
suspension, of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .0 114(x) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
7. :

If Defendant does not seek a stay ofthe active portion of the suspension of his law

I

license or ,if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant
must comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs 4(a) - (n) above before seeking
reinstatement of his license to practice law.
8.

The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter

pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter e, § .0114(x) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.

.

,

The Defendant will pay all costs of this proceedi~g permitted by law within

9.'

ninety (90) days of service of notice of the amount of costs as assessed by the Secretary.

S~gned

by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other

members of the Hearirt~ Committee.

- ..-"
This the'

gr;t.

-~.

.....

.

day of~.-"&"'~~~~___-----, 2005

I

;I~,t1--,
W. Steven Allen, Sr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

Page 15 of 15

I

