BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMiSSION
OF
TBE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05DHC 22

WAKE COUNTY

..... ,.

I

The North Carolina State Bar,
Plaintiff

Order of Discipline

v,
Durryl D. Taylor, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on the 11 th day of August, 2005, before a Hearing Committee of
the Disciplin~ Hearing Commission composed ofthe Chair, F. Lane Williamson, and members
Michael A. Grace, and Marguerite P. Watts, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code,
Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(h). The Plaintiff was repre$ented by David R.
Johnson. The defendant was present and represented himself. An Entry of Default was entered in
this matter on July 11,2005 and, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(f}, all allegations in the Plaintiffs Complaint wetetheteby
deemed admitted by the Defendant. Based lipon the record~ the allegations in the Complaint
deemed admitted, the evidence introduced at the hearing, and the reasonable inferences draWh .
therefrom, by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the Hearing Committee hereby makes the
following:

Findings of Fact
1.

Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organiZed under the .laws of

North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this pmceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Catolina, and the rules and regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.

D~fendant, Durryl D. Tl:\.ylor, (hereinafter "Defendant"), was .admitted to -the

North Carolina State Bar on March 21, 1986, and is, and was at all times referred to herein,. M
Page 1 of 17

I

attorney at law licens~d to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules
of Professional

Condutt:~fthe North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North

Carolina.
3.

During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was actively."

engaged in the private prEictice oflaw il1 the town of Marshall, Madison County, North CamIina.
4.

The complaint in this action was filed on May 24, 2005. SUIIlmons was also

"issued on, May 24, 2005.
5.

I

The sumn1bns and complaint in this action was served on the Defendant in pers9P

by the Sheriff of Madison County on June 7,2005.
6.

An answer "or responsive pleading by the Defendant was due by June 28, 2005,

twenty days ,after service of the complaint.
7.

Defendant did not file an answer or responsive pleading in this action.

8.,

The Secretary of the North Carolina State Bat entered the Defendant's default for

failure to fil¢ an answer or responsive pleading on July 11, 2005, in accordance with the Rules of
the North Carolina State Bar.
9.

The Defendant was duly served with notice of the date, time, and place of this

hearing as well as Plaintiffs motion for an Order of Discipline pursu~t to the Rules ofthe North
Carolina State Bar.
10.

Defendant was present and participated in the hearing of this matter. Defendant

I

made no mot jon to set aside the entry of default or offer any grounds for such a motion.
11.

i

In or about June, 2004, Defendant established an attorney-client relationship with

Stephanie M~iner (hereafter "Mainer"). Mainer paid Defendant $200.00 and Defendant
undertook to represent Mainer on a pending charge of passing a stopped school bus.
12.

. Defendant obtained a continuance of Mainer's case without Mainer's knowledge

or consent and could not or would not tell Mainer her new court date, instead placing the burden
on ,Mainer to ~ontact the courthouse to determine her new court date.

Page 2 of17

I

0000

13.

Before A~gust 23,.2004, Mainer telephoned and had others telephone Defendant·

to inform Defendant that·Mainer~s new court date was August 23, 2004 at 9:00 a.m. Defendant
indicated that Defendant wbuld appear on Mainer's behalf on~u,gust 23, 2004 at 9:00a.m.
Defendant obtained a waiver of appearance from Mainer, instructed Ma,iner that Mainer did not
need to appear in the courtroom for her case, and instructed Mainer to go to the courthouse fate
in the day on August 23, 2004, to pay her fine and costs.

I

14.

Def~ndant

did not appear on behalf of Mainer when Mahler's Cllse was called by

the court at 9:00 a.m. on August 23,2004. As a result, Mainer was called and failed.
15.

Defendant assllTed Mainer that Defendant wOllld take the necessary steps Oll

August 24, 2004, to have the called and failed entry stricken. Defendant did not take such steps.
16.

Mainer and others acting on Mainer's behalf placed numerous telephone calls to

Defendant asking Defendant to correct Defendant's mistake and demanciing that Defendant
provide Mainer with a copy of Mainer's file. Defendant did not tespondto these telephone calls
and did not provide Mainer a copy of Mainer's file.
17.

Thereafter,Mainer contacted the Assistant District Attorney herself and Was able

to resolve the matter to her satisfaction without the aid of Defendant.
18.

On or about February 9, 2002, Defendant established an attorney-client

relationship with Lester Stanley (hereafter "Stanley"). Stanley paid $3000.00 to Defendant and

I

pefendant undertook to file a claim or other proceeding against the estate of Florence Turner in
Buncombe County based upon services provided to the deceased before her death by Stanley and
his spouse.
19.

On or about May 17,2002, Defendant filed the claim against the estat~. The.estate .

denied the claim. Defendant took no action to further pursue the Claim against the estate.
Def~ndant did not tell Stanley he would not pursue the mat~er further.

20.

Defendant has failed and refused to return the unearned fee or the unearned

portion of the $3000.00 fee to Stanley.

Page 3 of17

I

.

21.

StanleYll?-ade numercus, repeated effo.rts tcccmmunicate with Defendant to. learn

the status of Stanley's fekal matter. Defendant failed and refused to. respond to Stanley's
ccmmunicaticns and failed to. keep Stanley infcrmed cf the status cf Stanley's legal matter.
22.

On cr abcut Ncvember 17,2003, Defendant received Nctification cfMandatory

I

Fee Dispute Rescluticn, infcrming Defendant that Stanley had filed a petiticn fcr resoluticn cf a
dispute fee with the North Carolina State Bar and informing Defendant of his duty to respcnd to
the petition.within 15 days. Defendant did nct respcnd within the required 15-daypericd. Ort cr
about December 18, 2003, Defendant received a SeccndIFinal Letter cfNctificaticn cf

I

Mandatcry Fee Dispute Rescluticn. Defendant did not respond to. the seccnd nctice.
23.

i

As a result cfDefendant's failure to respcnd to. the fee dispute resolution petition,

Plaintiffinitiated a grievance file against Defendant. On or abcut Fe~ruary 6, 2004, Defendant
received a Letter ofNctice frcm the Chair of the Grievance Committee regarding the grievance
filed by Plaintiff against Defendant relating to. Defendant's attcrney-client relaticnship with
Stanley. By:Bar rule, Defendant was required to. respcnd to. the Letter ofNo.tice within 15 days
cf receipt. Defendant did nct respcnd to. the Letter cfNo.tice within the IS-day pericd as .
required.
24.

On or abcut March 6, 2004, Plaintiff sent a seccnd nctice to Defendant informing

Defendant cfhis cbligation to. respcnd to. the grievance. Defendant did nct respcnd to. the
grievance. :
25.

On cr about July 19, 2004, Staniey-flleci'i:i gnevance against Defendant

ccncerning the same matters as described in the fee dispute petiticn Stanley had previcusly filed.

I

On Septemqer 2,2004, Defendant received a Letter 'of Nctice frcm the Chair o.fthe Grievance
Committee regarding the grievance fIled by Stanley against Defendant. By Bar rule, Defendant
Was required to respond to. the Letter ofNctice within 15 days cf receipt. Defendant did nct
respcnd to the Letter of Notice within.the IS-day perio.d as required.
26.

On o.r abo.ut February 21,2002, Defendant established an atto.rney-client

relaticnship,with Niccle Serralta (hereafter "Serralta"). Serralta paid Defendant $200.00 and
Defendant U;ndertock to. represent Serralta in a traffic case.

Page 4 of 17

I

27.

Serralta r~quested Defen4apt complete and return to her a I page fonn which
~.

;.

would enable Serralta tb obtain a refund oflegal fees from the American Automobile
Association (hereafter AAA). Sertalta told Defendant thJlt she needed Defendant to return the
fonn as soon as possible.

28.

I

Defendant did not infonn Serralta ofthe outcome of her court case and did not"

return the completed AAA form to Serralta.
29.

Serralta made nUinerous telephone calls to Defendant, none of which was

answered orretumed, and sept Defendant two letters, one by certified mail, to which Defendant •
did not respond, requesting that Defendant return the completed AAA form to Serralta.
30.

Defendant,has never provided Serralta the cpmpleted AAA form.

'31.

On or about July 26,2002, Defendant received a Notification ofMalidatory Fee

Dispute Resolution relating toa petition for resolution of a dispute fee filed by SerraIta.
Defendant did not respond to the July 26, 2002, Notification. On or about August 13, 2002, .
, , Plaintiff sent Defendant a second notice of Serralta' s petition and requested that Defendant
respond within 10 days of Defendant's receipt of the August 13,2002, letter. On September 10,

:; 2002, Plaintiff sent Defendant a third request that Defendapt provide a response to Serralta's
petition and infonned Defendant that failure to provide a response within 10 days. would result in
a grievance being filed against Defendant. Defendant provided no response to any of these
notifications.
32.

On or about September 3, 2002, Defendant received a Letter of Notice from the

Chair of the Grievance Committee regarding the grievance filed by Sertalta against Defend'ant..
By Bar rule, Defendant waS required to respond to the Letter ofNotice within 15 days of receipt.
Defendant did not respond to the Letter pfNotige within the IS-day period as required.
33.

On or about September 20,2002, Plaintiff sent Defendant a letter reminding

Defendant of his obligation to respond to Serralta's grievance and requesting Defendanfs
response by October 4,2002. After two deadlines for 'his response had passed, Defendant
requested and was granted an extension of time until October 21, 2002, to respond to the
grievance. Defendant finally'provided a response to the grievance by'facsimile on October 29,

2002.
Page 5 of17

I

34.

On or about
,. August 28, 2003, Defendant established an attorney-client

relationship with Don k~lly (hereafter "Kelly"), a resident of Oklahoma. Through Kelly's
Oklahoma attorney, Jeff McConnell (hereafter "McConnell"), Kelly paid Defendant a fee of
$150.00 and Defendant undertook to represent Kelly in a traffic case with acollrt date of
September 24, 2003.
35.

Defendant did not inform Kelly or McConnell ofthe outcome of the case.

McConnell telephoned DefelJ.dant's office thirty or inote days after the court date and was
infonned by; Defendant's office that the case was concluded, that Kelly had been allowed to

I

plead guilty:to a lesser charge, and that the court taxed court costs totaling $260.00 to Kelly.
36. ' In or about December, 2003, Kelly received a Notice of Failure to Appear on the
-'

charge for which Defendant was retained to represent Kelly and learned that Defendant had not
in fact appeared on Kelly's behalf and had not resolved the case on the terms represented by
Defendant or On 'any other terms.
37.

McConnell made numerous attempts over a period of several days to reach

Defendant by telephone and by facsimile. McConnell was seeking to have Defendant take action
to avoid prejudice to Kelly. Defendant did not respond to any of these communications.

38.

McConnell thereupdn contacted the Assistant District Attorney himself and was

able to res<;>lve the matter on behalf of Kelly. Defendant has not returned any portion of Kelly's
fee.
39.

In or about August, 2003, Defendant failed and refus.ed to file reports required by

I

law to be filed with the North Carolina Employment Security C6Ill.rtlission (hereafter "ESC"). A
tax auditor for the ESC made repeated efforts to obtain the reports from Defendant, to which
efforts Defendant did not respond. Due to Defendant's failure to respond to the tax auditor, a
criminal warrant Was issued charging Defendant with violation ofN.C.G.S. 96 ... 18(b) and 96-

.

4(g)(1). After1the warrant was issued, Defendant provided the required reports to the ESC and
the criminal c'ase was dismissed.
40.

•On or about November 17,2003, Defendant received a Letter of Notice from the

Chair of the Gpevance Committee informing Defendant that, as a result of the warrant which had
been issued against Defendant, Plaintiffhad initiated a grievance against Defendant. By Bar rule,
Page 6 of17

I

Defendant was required to respond to the Letter of Notice within 15 days of receipt. Defendant
did pot respond to thefi~tter of Notice within tbe IS-day period as required.
41.

On or about December 5,2003, Plaintiff sent Defendant a letter reminding

Defendant of the-pending grievance and of Defendant's obllgation to provide ~written resp~se
by December 15,2003.

I

42.

On December 17, 2003, Defendant made a written request for extension ofthne in-

which to provide a response to the grievance. This request was denied.
43.

Defendant never subniitted a written response to the grievance.

44.

In or about November, 2003, Defendant established./;\11 attorney-client relationship

with JoAnn El-Sheikh (hereafter "EI-Sheikh"). EI-Sheikh paid Defendant $500.00 and Defendant.
undertook to represent El-Sheikh in a di~pute with EI-Sheikh's mortgage company.
45.

Defendant rescheduled El-Sheikh's hearing without informing EI-Sheikh,

represented to EI-Sheikh that he had communicated with the mortgage compatlY when'he had not
, done so, and did not attend EI..,sheikh's rescheduled hearing. Defendant did nothing further on
behalf of EI-Sheikh.
46.

:Defendant did not communicate with EI-Sheikh, did not return telephone calls

from EI-Sheikh, did 110t respond to written communications from El-Sheikh, and refused EI-

I

Sheikh's deJ.1lands that Defendantretum the $500.00 fee and return EI-Sheikh's files.
47.

On or about July 12, 2004, Defendant received a Notification of¥andatory Fee

Dispute Resolution informing Defendant that El"Sheikh had filed a petition forresoltltidn of a
fee dispute and informing Defendant of his obligation to respond to the petition wit,hin 15 days. "
Defendant did not respond to the petition within the :re9uired IS-day p~riod.
48.

On or about July 27, 2004, Plaintiff sent Defendant a SecondJFinal Letter of '.

Notificl:l.tion of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution with respect to EI-Sheikh, reminding
Defendant of the petition and of Defendant's obligation to provide a response. Defendant did not
accept service ,of the July 27,2004, letter.

Page 7 of17

I

()·o~S-,

49. , Plaintiff initiated a grievance against Defendant arising out of Defendant's
attorney-client relationship with EI-Sheikh. On or ,about September 2, 2004, Defendant receiveq
a Letter ofNbtice from the Chair of the Grievance Committee infonning Defendant that a
grievance, had been initiated as a result of Defendant's attorney-client relationship with Eli

_

Sheikh. By Bar rule, Defendant was required to re~pond to the Letter of Notice within 15 days of
receipt. Defendant did not respond to the Letter of Notice within the IS-day period as required.

50.

On or about September 22, 2004, Plaintiff sent Defendant a second letter

infonning Defendant that Plaintiff had not received Defendant's response to the EI-Shiekh

I

grievance and requesting that Defendant provide a response by October 1, 2004.

5l.

Defendant has never provided a response to the EI-Sheikh grievance.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee enters the following:

Conclusions of Law
1.

All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee has

',: jurisdiction over Durryl D. Taylor and the subject matter. By appearing and participating in the
proceedings without objection, Defendant waived any and all defects in the service ofthe
summons and complaint and in the notice of the hearing.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes

2.

grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that the conduct violated the
,
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at th~ time of the conduct as follows:
(a)

'By failing to provide the necessary services to represent his clients

Mainer, Stanley, Kelly, and EI-Sheikh in their respective court cases, including but not

I

limitttd to, failing to infonn Mainer of her court date; failing to appear at scheduled court
dates on behalf of Mainer, Kelly, or EI-Sheikh; pennitting Mainer and Kelly to be called
and failed and failing to take the steps necessary to have the called and failed entry
stricken; and failing to prosecute Stanley's claim to
,

a conclusion, and by failing to

provide Serralta with a completed fonn for reimbursement ofhet fee by AAA, Defendant
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation
ofRule 1.3 of the Revised Rules, of Professional Conduct;

Page 8 of17

I

(b)

~Y failing to communicate with Mainer, Stanley, Serralta, Kelly, or El- .

Sheikh on a timely basis concerning their respective matters, including failing to respond
to numerous messages, faxes, and letters sent 'by those clients, Defendant failed to
reasonably consult with a client about the means by which the client's objectives were to
""I

be acc9mplish~d, failed to keep a client reason~bly informed about the status of a legal·

I

matter, failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information, and failed to
explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the client to make informed
decisions regarding the representation, in violation of Rules 1.4(a) and (b) ofthe Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct;
(c)

By failing to promptly refund to Mainer, Stanley, Kelly, and El-Sheikh the

fees paid by them in adv;;mce after not providing the agreed-upon legal services,
Defendant collected a clearly excessive fee jn violation of Rule 1.S(a) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct and failed to refund an advance payment of a fee that was
not earned upon termination of employment in violation of Rule 1.16(d) of the Revi$ed
Rules of Professional Conduct.
(d)

By f~ling to respond to the notices of mandatory fee disp:ute resolu~ion

after Mainer, Stanley, and EI-Sheikhfiled fee dispute petitions, Defendant failed to
participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process of the North Carolina State
Bar in violation of Rule l.S(f) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

(e)

By failing to respond to the Letters of Notice issued by the Chair bfthe

Grievance Corntnittee within the deadline established by the rules with respect to the
grievances involving Defendant's conduct in representing Mainer, Stanley, Serralta,
Kelly, and EI-Sheikh and with respect to his failure to timely file required reports with
the Employment Security Commission, Defendant failed to timely respond to inquiries by
"
the Bar in violation of Rule 8.1 of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct and N.C.

Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3).
(t)

By representing to McConnell that Pefendant had appeared on behalf of

Kelly and had reached a resolution of Kelly's legal matter when he had not appeared and
had not reached a resolution of Kelly's legal matter, Defendant engaged in conduct

Page 9 of17

involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A( c) of the
Revised Rules
(g)

b:i~rofessional Conduct.

By failing to submit reports required by governmental authorities in

violation efN.C.O.S. 96-18(b) and 96-4(g)(1), Defendant committed a criminal act tl:\at
reflects adversely on Defendant's honesty;trustworthillesS or fitness as a lawyer, in
violation ofR"\lle 8A(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoirtgFindings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and upon clear,

I

cogent, and convincing evidence and the reasonable inferences drawn therefrom, the hearing
committee hereby makes these additiopal
. FiQ.dings of Fact Regarding Discipline
Defend~t

1.

received a reprimand from the Grievance Committee in January 2004

. .for similar conduct to that involved in the instant matter, including neglect of the client's legal
matter, failu.re to communicate, and failure to timely respond to the Grievance Committee.
2.

Defendant has made no effort to refund or reimburse Mainer, Stanley, Kelly, ot

I

.EI-Sheikh for any part of the uneanwc1 fees he collected from them.
3.

; Defendant engaged in multiple violations of the Rules of ProfesSional Conduct

involving representation of multiple cHents.
,

bef~mdant t~stified that h~. h~~ s~e~ a psychiatrist on ~uly 2Q, 2005 and was now

4.

undergoing treatment for depression, including medication. Defendant also indicated that he had

I

recently had a substance abuse problem involving opiates, but was undergoing treatment for this
problem as well. Defendant provided no medical records, diagnosis, or prognosis to substantiate
his testimony. Defendant also testified that he had problems
with alcohol abuse. Defendant
.
,

admitted thathe had not provided any information to the Plaintiff concerning his recent treatment
until he arriv~d for the hearing. Defendant did not assert that he was disabled or move for any
finding of disability.

Page 10 of 17

I

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Gomrpittee makes the following:
Conclusions with Respect to Discipline

1.

I
2.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

A prior disciplinary offense;

(b)

a pattern of misconduct;

(c)

multipie offenses involving multiple clients; and -

(d)

substantial eJ(perience in the practice oflaw.

Defenda.nt"s misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

Personal or emotional problems; and

OJ)

physi9al or mental disability or impairment.

3.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.,

4.

The Defendane s conduct has caused, aIld had the potential to 9ause, significant

; harm to his .clients that are referenced in this order by denying them the opportunity to have th¢ir cases heard in accordance with the law and subjecting some of them to'potential additional
sanctions by the court for failure to appear. Further, Defendant's conduct or misconduct has
....
.... ' .
'. . . . . .
'.
.
harmed the standing of the legal profession by undermining his client's trust and confidence in "

lawyers and the legal system.
5.

Additionally, the Defendant's failure to participate in the mandatory fey dispute

resolution process and his failure to respond ,to the letters of notice from the Chair of the
Grievance Committee substantially interfered with Bar's ability to regUlate attorneys and
updermined the privilege of attorneys in this state to remain self-regulating.
6.

To that end, the Hearing Committee has carefully considered all of the differynt

forms of sapctioh available to it and finds that any of the sanctions of less than suspension would
not be appropriate in this case. The Hearing Committee has considered lesser alternatives and

Page 11 of 17

I

finds that a. public censure or reprimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity
.

~.

of the harm caused byihe conduct of the Defendant to the public and the administration of
justice.
7.

The Committee finds the Defendant's conduct caused.significant harm and

significant potential harm to clients and the administration of justice, to the profession, to
members of the public, and that more severe discipline is necessary to protect the pUblic. Entry
of any Order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness 'ofthe offenses that the Defendant has committed and sends the wrong message to

I

attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar. The only
,

sanction in this case that can adequately protect the public is suspension of the Defendant's
license for a; period of time.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the Findings of

,. Fact Regarding D.scipline, and the Conclusions with Respect to Discipline, the Hearing
Committee enters the following:

Order of Discipline
·.·1

1 . ' The Defendant's license to pra9tice law in the State of North Carolina is hereby
suspended for five years effective thirty days after service of this Order of Discipline on the
Defendant.
Defendant sha11 submit his liGense and membership card to the Secretary of the '

2.

North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service ofthls order upon Defendant.
!

3.

I

: Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.

Admin. Code. Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b), the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State'
Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this Order of Discipline certifying he has complied
with the wind ,down rule.
4,

lfhe has not already done so, within fifteen (15) days of the effective date ofthis

order, Defend~t will provide the State Bar with an address at which clients seeking return of

Page 12 of17

I

their files and records ~npefendant's possession or control may obtain such files and ,records and
at which the State Bat may serve any notices or other matters upon him.
5.

After the completion of two (2) years-of active suspension of his license,

Defendant may apply for a stay of the balance of the suspension upon filing a motion with th~
Disciplinary Hearing Commission in this matter at least thirty (30) days before any proposed

I

effective date of the stay and demonstrating the following by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence:
That during the period of suspension of his law license he has continued

(a)

With all prescribed medical treatments as determined by his psychiatrist or other mental
health professional fot his depression, substance abuse, and any other mental health
problems that have been diagnosed by such medical care providers at Defendant's sole
expense. Defendant may elect to have his treatment program supervised by the North.
Carolina State Bar Lawyer Assistance Program. Ifhe does so el~ct, he will cooperate
fully with the Lawyer. Assistance Program to develop an appropriate treatment program
under the supervision of the Lawyer Assistance Program, and will comply with the
requirements of such treatment program. Ifhe does not elect to have his treatment
program supervjsed by the Lawyer Assistance Program,

,''J; -

:Oefend~t,

at hi$ expense, will

direct his p~ychiatrist to directly provide quarterly reports to the-Office of Coynsel
describing in detail hi$; current treatment regimen, compliance,

I

~d prognosis

or .

treatment plan for the next quarter within 15 days of the end of each calendar quarter
,

_

....

,~.'~"'"

,..... •

.~..

_

.~

'"

u""

' •

•

•

••

•

•

, •

.~

_,

•

•

~.

~"

~

-

(i.e., by January 15, Apri115, July 15, and October 15). The Defendant will execute
written waivers and releases authorizing the Office of Counsel to confer with the 'Lawyer
Assistance Program and/or with Defendant's psychiatrist or other medical care pro:viders
for the purpose of determining if the defendant ~as cooperated with the Lawyer
Assistance Program and complied with all requirements of the program and treatment
prescribed. The Defenda:nt will not revoke the waivers and releases.
(b)

That he has received a medical evaluation from a qUlJ.lined psychia:trist ot

other mental health professional approved by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina
State Bar made within six (6) months before the filing of his motion to stay the halance -of
his suspension that has determined that Defendant has nO' current mental or psychological Page 13 of17

I

irnpainflent that would affect his ability to practice law and comply with the Rules of
Professional
,

C6~'duct or cause harm to the public ifhe is allowed to resume the practice

law. The medical evaluation shall be obtained at Defendant's expense. DefeI)dant will
serve a copy of such evaluation on the Office 'Of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar
with his motion to stay the balance of the s.uspension.
(c)

That he has received a medical evaluation from a qualified psychiatrist or

other mental health professional approved by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina
State
Bar made within six (6) months before·the filing
of his motion to stay the balance of
,
,

I

his suspension that has determined that Defendant has no cuttent chemical, drug, or
alcohol dependence that would affect his abil~ty to practice law and comply with the
Rules of Professional Conduct or cause harm to the public ifhe is allowed to resume the
practice law. The medical evaluation shall be obtained at Defendant's expense. This
evaluation may be made by the same person who conducted the evaluation required in
subsection 5(b) above. Defendant will serve a copy of such evaluation on the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar with his motion to stay the balance of the
suspension.
,J

(d)

That befendant has served the Office or Counsel of the North Carolina

State Bar with all necessary an<;l appropriate releases and mediCal authorizations for the
Office of Counsel to review his medical reports, medical recor<;ls, psychological
eval'uation~

or .mental health evalll;~ti.?ns and int~rview bis treating medical car~ providers

with his motion to stay the balance of the suspension, including his continuing treatmeht
required by subsection 5(a) and his evaluations preceding his application for

a stay

I

required by subsections 5(b) and (c). Defendant may not r<;lvoke any of these releases.
Any: charges by the medical

c~re providers

for providing the reports and responding to

infoimation requests by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar will be at
Defendant's expense.
(e)

That Defendant has satisfactorily completed a law office management

co'utseapproved by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar at his own
expense and has paid the costs thereof.

Page 14 of17

I

(f)

That Defendant will have made restitution in the amount 'Of $200 to

Stephanie Mafn:~r, $3,000 to Lester Stanley, $200 to Nicole Serralta, $150 te Den Kelly.·
('Or his attorney), and $5QO to JoAnn .El-Sheikh.
(g)

That he has participated in good faith in the North Carolina State Bae:$ fee

dispute reselutien process for any petitienTeceived after the effective date of this order
and has refunded all fees that were detennined to be subject to refund by the mediation

I

process.
(h)

That Defendant has made all required reports and pai4 any taxes that may

be due to the Employment Security Cemmission, inclJ.lding these for periods for which he
is currently delinquent.
(i)

That he has opened both a regular business operating acceunt and a

separate attorney trust account that conforms to the requiremen~s of the Rules of
Professiorta1Conduct.
(j)

That he has kept the Nerth Carolina State Bar Membership Department

advised efhis current business and home address.
•

l,

(k)

That he has responded to all communications frem the North Carelina

State Bar within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner.

I

(lj

·That he has not vielated the Revised Rules efPrefessiomtl Cenduct 'Or the

laws of the United States or any state during his suspensien.
em)

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with the

terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules.
(n)

That he has paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund

assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education (CLE) requirements ·en a
timely basis as if still in practice during the suspension.

Page 15 of17

I

Tp~t

if the stay is granted, he has asked a member of the North Carolina
,.
State Bar who is 'in good standing who practices law in Madison County or any county
(0)

where he proposes to practice, and who has been approved' by the North Carolina State
Bar, to serve as his monitor and that the selected monitor has agreed to so serve and
1

agreed to submit monthly reports to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. Defendant:·
will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this supervision. If the monitor
I

requires a fee to be paid in advance or a retainer to be paid at the inception of this
monitoring relationship, Defendant will have paid that prior to submitting his petition for

I

a stay or for reinstatement.
(p)

That he has paid the costs of this proceeding within thirty (30) days of

service ofthe statement ofcosts upon him.
6.
. '!'

If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license, such

stay will con~inue in force only as long as he complies with the conditions set out in paragraphs
5(a) and (g) through (P) above and with the following additional conditions:
(a)

That he provide reports at his own expense consistent with the

requirements of paragraph 5(a) to the Office of Counsel of the North C~rolina State Bar
by the 15th day ofthe·month following each calendar quarter (i.e. January 15, April 15,
July 15, and October 15) during the period of the stay.
(b)
.

That he meet once a week with his monitoring attorney to whom he will
.

,

report the status of all current client matters, cooperate with the mentor attorney and
provide any information the mentor attorney deems reasonably necessary to ensure that

I

Deferidant is handling all client matters in a timely fashion, is responding promptly to his
I

clients, and has received and disbursed all client funds appropriately, including amounts
received as fees. The Defendant will be solely responsible for any cost of this
arrangement.
1

I (

c)

That the monitoring attorney submits monthly reports to the Office of

Counsel of the State Bar by the 10th of each month.
7.

• If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the Defendant fails
i

to comply witp anyone or more of the conditions referenced in Paragraphs 5 or 6, then the stay
Page 16 of17

I

J

I
!

ofth~ suspension ofhi~ ;law license may be lifted as provided in §.OJ 14(x) of the North Carolin&.

,.
State Bar Discipline .artci Disability Rules.
8..

If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the ~tJspension ofhishrw

license or if sonie part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant
must comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs Sea) 7- (P) above 1;>efore seeking

I

reinstatement of his license topractice law.
9.

The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter

pursuant to 27 N.C, Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) ofthe North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules thro"Qghout the period of the stayed suspension,
10.

The Defen4ant will pay all costs of this pro<;eeding permitted by law within thirty

(30) days of service of notice of the amount of costs as assessed by the Secretary.

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Committee.

This the.

I

? .I-.-}'

~

I.~) .~ day of

A~

r' /

7~'

. ,2005

FttaneiIfuUl1son, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

Page 17 of17

I

