,

3() ~o
NORTH CAROLI "

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
)
v.
)
)
MILTON E. MOORE, Attorney,
Defendant )

ORDER OF '
DISCIPLINE

This matter was heard on August 19, 2005 by a Heating Committee of tne
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Karen Eady-Williams, Chair,
Tommy W. Jarrett and Lorraine Stephens. Margaret Cloutier represented
plaintiff. Defendant appeared pro se. Based upon the record and the eviqence
introduced at the hearing the 'Hearing Committee, by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence, hereby makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State aar"), is a
body duly dtganized under the laws ,of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring, this proceeding under the f;iuthority granted it in Chapter 84 of the Generf;il
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rule~ and Regulations of the North Carolina
State. Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Milton E. Moore (hereinafter "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 14, 1970 and is, and was at all. times
referred to herein, ~n Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina,
subject to the rules, regUlations, and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. Outing the times relevant herein, Defendant -actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained alf;iwoffice in
Williamston, Martin County, North Carolina.
4. On or before October 2, 1998, Defendant represented Frank Winstead
(hereafter "Winstead") before the Social Security Administration (hereafter
"SSA"), i3n administrative agency of the United States acting in an adjudicative

1

I

008r"'

capacity; regarding Winstead's claim for disability benefits. Winstead received a .
favbrable decisior ~from the SSA entitling Winstead to disability benefits.

5.

Defendant submitted to the SSA a petition dated August 4, 1999 to
obtain approval of an attorney's fee based on the contingent fee agreement
between Defendant and Winstead and on Defendant's report to SSA of seven ".,.
hours O,f work on Winstead's claim.
6. The SSA initially authorized a fee of $3,478.75 to be paid to Defendant
for his representation of Winstead. Defendant received a check dated October
14, 1999 in the amount of $3,478.75 from the United St~tes Treasury in payment
of the f?e. Defendant negotiated the Check he received frbm the United States
Treasury.

I

7. Winstead filed an objection to the amount of the fee paid to Defendant
with the SSA. The SSA reviewed the matter and on December 18, 2000 issued
an Amended Authorization to Charge and Collect a Fee. In the Amended
Authori~ation, Regional Chief Administrative Law Judge Henry G. Watkins
reduced the amount of Defendant's authorized fee to $2,000.00 and instructed
Defendant to return $1,478.75 of the funds received by Defendant on or about
October 14, 1999 directly to Winstead.
8. Defendant did not return the sum of $1,478.75 to Winstead as directed
by Judge Watkins.
~. Despite telephone messages from and conversations with Louise
Plood, paralegal Specialist with the SSA and a letter from Judge Watkins dated
February 16, 2001 all in$trLicting Defendant to refund $1,478.75 to Winstead,
Defendant has not returned the sum of $1,478.75 to Winstead.

10. On or before July 30, 1999, Defendant represented Walter S.
Roberson (hereinafter "Roberson~') before the SSA regarding Roberson's claim
for disqbility benefits. Roberson received a favorable decision from the SSA
entitling Roberson t6 disability benefits.

I

11. On July 30, 1999 the SSA initially approved an attorney's fee of
$1,631 ~OO based on the contingent fee agreement between Defendant and
Roberson. Defendant received a check dated February 16, 2000 in the amount
of $1,6131.00. from the United States- Treasury in payment of the fee. Defendant
negotiated the check he received from the United States Treasury.
12. The fee agreement between Defendant and Roberson provided for a
fee of one-fourth of the recovery awarded to Roberson or the amount set aside
by the Social Security Administration. The agreement violated 42 U.S.C.S.
§406(a~(2)(A) because it did not limit the amount of fees Defendant could. receive
to the lesser of $4,000.00 or 25% of the client's recovery.

2

I
':', .

·1'
"

or

13, On 'about February 25, 2000 Regional Chief Administrative Law
Judge Henry G. Watkins issued an Order disapproving the fee agreement
between Defendant and Roberson because it violated 42 U.S.C.S. §406(a)(2)(A)'.
By letter dated February 25, 2000 Judge Watkins notified Defendant of the Order
and directed Defendant to file a fee petition if Defendant intended to charge or "",
. collect a fee in the Roberson matter.
. "

I

14. Defendant did not file a fee petition as directed byJudge Watkins and
did not return the sum of $1 ,631.00 to Roberson ot'to the SSA
"

15. Despite telephone conversations with and letters from Ralph Dodos,
Hearing Office Director of the SSA in Raleigh, directing Defendant to return the
sum of $1 ,631..00 to Roberson or hold that sum in escrow and file a fee petition ,
for his representation of Roberson, Defendant has not filed a fee petition and has
not returned $1,631,.00 to Roberson.
16. As a result of Defendant's failur~ to return the $1j~1:78.75 in the
Winstead matter and the $1,631.00 in the Roberson matter, on May:2, 2002 the
SSA initiated a complaint against Defendant in the Office of Hearings & Appeals'
of the SSA.
17. After a hearing in the Social Security Administration Office of
Hearings & Appeals, U.S. Administrative Law Judge Steven O. Siahta issued a
decision prohibiting Defendant from acting as Q representativ.e of claimants
before the Sociar Security Administration because he collectEid, received and
retained unapproved fees for representational 'Services to Winstead and
Roberson and refused to refund or return those unapproved, fees.

I

18. On or about July 20, 2001 Wilsonia E. Gorham (hereafter "Gorham")
filed on hElt' own behalfiA the United States District Court a lawsuit against her
former employer, Catalytica Pharmaceuticals, alleging wrongful termination in
violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act (hereafter refef;red to as the
"lawsuit").
19. On or about August 1, 2002, Gorham engaged Defendant to
represent her in the prosecution of that lawsuit, as well as in a State of North
Carolina Workers' Compensation Act actior:l then pending.
..

'f.

20. On or about March 3, 2003 the attorneys for CatalYtica
Pharmaceuticals filed a motion for summary judgment. Defendant filed a
memorandulTl of law on Gorham's behalf opposing the motion for summary
juqgment. The memorandum of law filed by Defend~mt substantially failed to
comply with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure or local rules of the diStrict as to
form. The brief failed to apply the law to the facts; instead, ii'merely set forth tbe

3

I

status oJ the law wi,th no relevance to Gorham's situE!tion. Many paragraphs
were repeated in haphazard fashion throughout the memorandum.
2,1. Because the memorandum submitted to the court by Defendant was
so incomprehensible and because Defendant failed to prosecute Gorham's
lawsuit diligently, United States District Judge Malcolm Howard, before whom th.q
motion Was being heard, declined to consider Defendant's memorandum at all, ':.
stating ",.' , . given the consistent failure of plaintiff and plaintiffs counsel to
prosecute this action hi a diligent fashion, and in light of their frequent inability to
comply with both the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and the Local Rules of this
district, the court declines to consider plaintiffs memorandum of law in opposition '
to the s4mmary jUdgment motion."

I

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the
followinq
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
,

2. I Defendant's
foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline
.
pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b )(2) in that he violated one or more of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as follows:
a.: by retaining the $1,478.75 received in the Winstead matter and the
$1,631.00 in the Roberson matter contrary to the orders of the Administrative
Law Judge, Defendant knowingly disobeyed a ruling of a tribunal in violation of
Rule 3.4(c);
b l by retaining the $1,478.79 received in the Winstead matter and the
$1,631.00 in the Roberson matter after such sums were disallowed as fees by
the SSA,.Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and conduct prejudicial to the
administrption
of justice in violation of Rule 8.4( d); and
I

I

c. !by SUbmitting a memorandUm of law on Gorham's behalf that was so
lacking in form and content as to be detrimental to Gorham's lawsuit, Defendant
failed to apply the legal knowledge, skill, thoroughness and preparation
reasonably necessary to the representation of Gorham in violation of Rule
1.1(b).
BaSed upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and ConclUSions of Law, the
Hearing Committe'e also' enters the following

4

I

f '0
.

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. Defehdant's misconduct is aggravatedoby'the following factors:

I

''',
(a) dishonest or selfish motive;
(b) a pattern of misconduct;
(c) multiple offenses involvi'ng multiple clients;
(d) refusallo acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;
(e) substantial experience in the practice of law;··
(f) vulnerability of his victims;
(g) indifference to making restitution;
(h ) issuance of a lett~r of warning to Defendant within the three
years immediately preceding this action (issued August 12; 2003 for failing to
abide by his client's decision regarding the scope and objectives of
representation); and.-

.

°

(i) priordisciplihary record, in that'Defendant received the following
discipline:

'i. September 3, 1-980, Public Censure for failing to properly
retain and maintain trust account records;
it August 16, 1995, Admonition for failing: to communicate
with his client and failing to diligently pursue the client's matter; and
iii. November 19, 1999, Admonition for failing to promptly
.
respond to a lawful inquiry of the State Bar.

I

2. The Hearing Committee found no mitigating factors.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. The Hearing Committee finds and concludeS that Defendant's conduct
caused significant harm or significant potential harm to his clients, to the
administration of justice and to the public. Particularly, Defendant has harmed
his clients, Mr. Winstead and Mr. Roberson, who were deprived of their funds
and who rely on Social Security benefits as their sole source:of income.
5. Prior orders imposing lesser sanctions were insufficient to impress
upon the Defendant his obligations under the Rules of Professional Conduct and
Defendant failed to present any evidence that he has reformed or taken any .
steps to ensure that the public will not be harmed if he is permitted to continue to
practice law. The Committee finds that entry of an order less than a suspension
would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by

5

I

Defendant and wou.ld send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the
conduct expected- of member of the Barin this State.

6. A deposition of Defendant was taken by Plaintiff and the expenses
incurred by the Plaintiff for that deposition were reasonable and necessary in the
litigation of this case. The expense of the deposition should be taxed to the
Defend~nt.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
Findings Regarding Discipline, all found by clear, cogent and convincing
eVidence, the Hearing Committee enters the following

I

ORDER OF DISCIP~INE
1.. Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is
hereby ~uspended for four (4) years effective thirty (30) days after service of this
Order of Discipline on Defendant.
2. Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the
Secreta'ry of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty (30) days following
service of this Order on Defendant.
3. Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B, §.0124, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar within ten days of the effective date of this Order of Discipline certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.

4.

Within 1'5 days of the effective date 'Of this Order, Defendant will
provide :the State Bar with a street address and mailing address at which clients
seeking: return of their files and records in Defendant's possession or control may
obtain such files and records and at which the state Bar may serve any notices or
other matters upon him.

I

51. After the completion of two (2) years of actjve suspension of his
license, ,Defendant may apply for a stay of the balance of the suspension upon
filing a motion with the Disciplinpry Hearing Commission at least thirty (30) days
before any proposed effective date of the stay and demonstrating the following
by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
a~ That Defendant made restitution to Frank Winstead in the amount of
$1,478.75 and to Walter Roberson in the amount of $1,631.00 within one year of
the date- of this Order of Discipline;

b, That Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised :of his current business and home addresses;

6

I
",

0090

:

c. That befendant has responded to all communicati'ons from the North
Carolina State Bar within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and has participated in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process forany petition received after the
effective date of this Order.
..

I

"}

d. That Defendant has not violated the 'ReVised Rules of Professional
Conduct or the laws of the United States or any state or local government during
his suspension;
e. That Defendant has properly wQund down his law practice and
complied with the requirements of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B, §.0124, the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules;

f. That Defendant has complied with the requirements of 27 N.C.A.C. 18,
§.0125(b), the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules; and
g. That Pefemdant has paid the costs of this proceeding within sixty (60)
days of the service of the statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar.
6. If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law
license, such stay will continue in force only as long as he complies with the
conditions of paragraphs 5(b ), (c) and (d) on an ongoing basis If Defendant fails
to so comply, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in §.0114(x)
of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.

I

7. If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the
suspension or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the 'stay is
revoked, Defendant must comply with the conditions set .out in paragraphs 5{a).
through (g) above before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law.
8. Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary, which costs shall include the cost of the deposition taken of Defendant
on May 11, 2005, and shall be paid within sixty (60) days of service of the notice
of costs upon the Defendant. '

7

I

OO<1{

