"

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04DHC 52

WAKE COUNTY

I

The North Carolina State Bar,
Plaintiff,

v.

Ord'er of Discipline

Michael L. King, Attorney and
Dumont Stockto:n, Attorney
Defendants

This matter was heard on August 24 and 25,2005, before a Hearing Committee ofthe
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, W. Steven Allen. Sr., and members
Charles M. Davis, and Marguerite P. Watts, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code,
Title 27"Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(h). The Plaintiffwas represehted by David R.
Johnson and Jennifer Porter. Defendant Michael King Was present and was represented by Fred
Williams. Defendant Dumont Stockton was preseht and represented himself. Based upon the
record, the evidence introduced at the hearing, the Hearing Committee,by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence, hereby makes the following:
Findings of Fact

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws, of
North Carolina a.tld is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant, Michael L. Kil;ig (King), was admitted to the North Carolina St&te Bar
on 23 August 1986" and is, and was at all times referred to herein, @ attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolinl:}, subject to the rules, regulations and Rule$ of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
- 1-

I

3. Th~ Defendabt, Dumont Stockton (Stockton), was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar on 21 March 1987, kid'is, and was at aU times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed
to practice in'North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct
of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
4. During all periods relevant hereto, King, and Stockton (hereafter, King and Stockton 'or
the Defendan,ts) were engaged in the practice of law as partners and maintained an office for that
purpose in the Town of East Spencer in Rowan County, North Carolina. Stockton primarily
engaged in a ~tate District Court criminal practice. Before 2002, King primarily engaged in a

I

civil litigation and office practice.
5. Dru;ing all periods relev~t hereto, the Defendants maintained a combined, firrtl
,

attorney ttust:accOunt at the Bank of Ameriea for the receipt and disbursement of client funds by
either Defendant, account number 41l 013527 (hereafter "trust account"). Both Defendants were
authorized signatories on the trust account. The Defendants also maintained a combined firm
operating accbunt, also at Bank of America, on which both Defendants were authorized
signatories.
The Committee makes the following additional FiIidingsof Fact specifically with
respect to PI~intiff'S First Claim for Relief:
6. On or about Jan. 14, 1998, Andre Howell (Howell) Was convicted of robbery with a
~angerous

weapon, following'a trial in Iredell County Superior Court in State v. Howell, 97 CRS

I

700(-He"\vassentenced to'103 to 133 months injail.
7. Shortly after Howell's conviction, Howell's mother, Ruby Howell, discussed her son'~
conviction with King seeking advice on legal options for her son to ptlIsue. King agreed with
Ms. Howell to investigate the legal options available to try to set asi.de Howell's conviction for a
flat fee of$I,000. Ms. Howell paid King the $1,000 fee at some time shortly after their first
meeting.
8.

Aft~r

completing his research into Howell's ~onviction; King informed Ms. Howell

that he could pursue both an appeal and a M.otion for Appropriate Relief (MAR) on behalf of
Howell. Defendant King further informed Ms. Howell that he wouid pursue an MAR for a flat
fee of $5,900 and would apply the $1,000 he had already been paid toward the $5,000 fee. He
-2-

I
..

' ~

60910

,

also informed Ms. HO;:"711 that he would handle an appeal for a fee of $'9,000. Ms. Howell told
King that she did not have enough money to pay King's fee on the appeal at that time, King
advised that he could file for an extension of time to pursue the appeal, butsl1e needed to pay the
court r~porter for a transcript of Howell's trial. King arranged for Ms. Howell to pay the court
reporter for the transcrjpt.

I

9. On June 22, 1998, King filed a motion for an extensIon of time in which to settle the

record on appeal. The motion was granted and King was given until Aug. 9, 1998 in which to
serve the State with the proposed record on appeal. Accordingly, King made a general
appearance on behalf of Howell on an appeal.
10. King did not meet with Howell to detetmine whether How'eiI wanted to p1ll'$ue an
"

appeal or an MAR. Additionally, King did not advise Howell that he would not perfect an appeal- if his entire fee was not paid before the deadline for settling the record on appeal or that Howell
eQuId seek-appointed counsel ifhe could not afford to retain King's services.
11. King did nothing more to perfect the appeal on Howell's behalf; King also failed to

withdraw from representation of Bowell. King did not tell Howell or his mother thfl,t he had
failed to perfect the appeal.
12. Ms. Howell paid the Defendants the additional $4,000 for fees for an MAR in

installments over a period of one to two years.

I

13. After xeG¢iyiJ.1~ the balance of}1js fee, King did not respond promptly to inqUIries

about the status of the case from Howell and his rtwther.

.

14. On Feb. 27, 2002, King filed an MAR on Howell's behalf. King did not-atta,ch a
-

-

necessary affidavit to the MAR he filed.
15. On March 4,2002, the State filed amotion to dismiss HowelI'sappeal and a response-

to the MAR asking that it be denied.
16. On Match 19,2002 the court entered orders dismissing HowelPs appeal and denying

the MAR.
17, On April 1, 2002, the court entered an amended order denying J-Iowell' s MAR.

-3-

I
','

.

0097

18. 'On April i8".2002, King filed a notice of appeal from the order denying the MAR.
.

~.

f .

19~ King did not perfect the appeal from the order denying Howell's MAR nor did he

take other effective action to assist Howell after Apri12002. King did not move to withdraw
from representatio~ of Howell on an appeal.
20. By filing notice of appeal of the order denying the MAR flIed on Howell's behalf,
King entered a general appearance with respect to the appeal.
21. Baving entered an appearance on behalf of Howell in the appeal of his conviction and

I

the appeal of the denial of the Motion for Appropriate Relief, King had a legal responsibility to
continue to 'represent Howell, whether or not he had received his fee, unless and until allowed to
withdraw from further'renresentation by the court.
22. King has not refunded any portion of the $5,QOO fee he received despite demands for
a refund frOPl Howell and his mother.
23. King did not earn the entire $5,000 fee paid to him by Ms. Howell in advance for the
Motion for Appropriate Relief and the unearned portion of the fee is $1,800.

The Committee makes the following additional Findings of Fact with respect to
Plaintiff's Second, Fourth, and Sixth, Claims for Relief:
24. ill early 2002, King began engaging in a real estate law practice. King handled a
nll1l?-be~

of r~a1 est~te loan closings between March 2002 through December 30, 2003, 'including

but not limited to, transactions involving the following parties (settlement dates indicated in
parentheses): Bracey Benson (May 7, 2002); Orlando H. C. Ager, Sr. (May 22, 2002); Kerry

I

Norton (June 5, 2002); Jacqueline Jeremiah (June 12, 2002 and July 24, 2002); Gary Curry (June
13,2002); Kenneth Pleasant (June 28, 2002); Tracey Roberson (July 9,2002); Victor Saul
(August 2,2002); and Lester Sturdivant (October 21,2002).
25. These closings Were typically purchase transactions involving a buyer and C\ lender
from whom the buyer borrowed funds to finance the purchase fllld pay the seller. In each of the
specifically i,dentified closings, the buyers borrowed money from a lender to finance the
transaction. As closing attorney, King had duties and responsibilities with respect to each of the
parties to the' transaction.
-4-

I
"

",'

26. As part or'eafh of these real estate closings, King prepared HUD-I Settlement
Statements showing t~~ 'receipt and disbursement of the funds reqeived from the buyerlborrower
and the lender for each closing. By law, HUD-I Settlement-Statements must show a complete
@d accurate accounting of the receipt and disbursement offurids at each real estate closing. Ki1l:~'
was identified as the settlement agent for each of ~hese closings on the HUD-I form he prepared.
As settlement agent, King Was responsible for collection of all fun~s required to be paid by or on

I

behalf of the buyerlborrower and payment of all disbursements to or on behalf of the parties as
shown on the HUD-I form for the trans,!-ction.
21. King was requIred to deposit all funds received for these real estate closings into the
trust account and disburse those funds, in accordance with the HUD-I for each trans.action.
.T

28. In the course of preparing HUD-I Settlement Statements for which he WaS the
settlement agent, King signed a statement on the second page of each HUD-l Settlement

.

.

Statement certifying "The HUD-I Settlement Statement which I have prepared is a true and
accurate account of this transaction. I have caused or win cause the funds to be disbursed in
accordan<;e with this statement."
29. The HUD-I Settlement Statements prepared by King were not true and accurate
accounts of the transaction and King did not rec~ive funds from the buyerlbortower or cause the
funds to be disbursed in accordance with the HUD-I Settlement Statements in the identified
closing transactions, specifically including discrepancies in the following transactions (identifiecl .

I

by borrower and date):
. (a)

. '. .... .. .

Bracey Benson (May 7, 2002)
The HOD-I shows $7,51~.95 was to be collected from the buyerlborrower
Bracey Benson at the closing. King did not collect these funds from
Benson as required and made no deposit into Defendants' trust account of
that amount for this transaction. King knew that he had not deposited 'l-11Y
funds from Benson with respect to this clo~ing. ,>
$974.00 was distributed to Mildred Na-Allah from this that was not listed

on the HUD,.I Settlement Statement.

-5-

I

T~e HUD-l shows that a distribution of $15, 172.0b to "Jackson M.

Enterprises ~ Renovations" was to have been made from this closing
transaction. King did not'distribute this amount to Jackson M. Enterprises.
King disbursed $7,057.91 to Benson from this transaction that is not l!~ted
on the BUD-I.

\,

'."

King disbursed $2,524.00 to an Eric Jackson that Was not listed ·on the
HUD-l.

I

The HUD-I shows that a distribution of $1,740.00 was to have been made
to,Central Carolina Equity as a broker fee at the Close of the transaction.
King did not disburse this amount to Central Carolina Equity.

(b)

Orlando Ager (May 22, 2002)
The HUD-l did not disclos'e a $24,114.03 disbursement to Orlando Ager,
.who was the buyerlborrower in the transaction.
The HUD-I shows $24,741.12 was to be distributed to A-I Construction.
King did not disburse this or any amount to A-I Construction.
The HUD-l shows $570.70 was to be distributed to Dr. Joseph R.
Hendrick. king did not disburse this or any amount to Dr. Hendrick.
A disbursement of$9,751.74 was made from this transaction to Larry
Gene Causby; no such distribution is listed on the HUD-l.

(c)

Kerry Norton (June 5, 2(02)
The HUD-l shows that the buyerlborrowet, Kerry Norton, was to have
paid $10,805.53 to King as settlement agent on or befote the settlement
date. King did not receive $10,805.53 fro111 Norton on or before the
settlement date of June 5, 2002. King knew that he had not received any
funds from Norton with respect to this closing. Instead, King received a
personal check from Michelle A. Dixon for $10,805.53 at sOme
indeterminate date, but did Iiot deposit that check into his trust account

- 6-

I
" .~

(rs-1J

1}J.?#l November 26,20.0.2. The bank returned Dixon~s check for

i~sufficient funds on December 2, 20.02." King did not collect any funds
from Dixon to replace the insufficient funds check until February 21,

20.03.
The HUD-1 shows a disbur.geme~t of$3$,083.75 was to have been m&de

I

to Epiphany Restoration at closing. No disbursement of$35,0.83.75 was
made to Epiphany Restoration.
King made a disbursement of$24,083.75,to Michelle A. Di~on and a
disbursement of$11,000. t6 Norton at closing. Neither of these
disbursements is shown on the HUD.., 1.
(d)

Jacqueline Jeremiah I (June 12,2002)
The HUD-1lists $8,277.05 as received from the borrower, Jacqueline
Jeremiah, on or before the settlement date. king did not receive $8,277.05
from Jeremiah on. or before the settlement date of jUne 12,20.0.2. King
knew that he had not receIved any funds from Jeremiah with respect to
this closing. Instead, King received a personal ch~ck from Michelle A.
Dixon for $8,277.05 at or shortly after the closing and deposited it on June
14,20Q2.
""'. The HUD~1lists.a.disburseinent.of$26,468.50 t9 Epiphany.Restoration.
No disbursement of $26,468.50 was made to EpIPhany Restoration.
King made a disbursement of $25,468.50. to Michelle A. Dixon and ~
~

disbursement of$1,00.0 to m.ga Johnson ITom this transaction. These
disbursements to Dixon and Johnson were not listed on the HUD-l.
(e)

Ja,cqueline Jeremiah II (JuJy 24, 2002)
The HUD-1lists $12,583;88 as received from the borrower, Jacqueline
Jeremiah, on or before the settlement date. king did not receive
$12,583.88 from Jeremiah on or before the settlement date of July 24,
2002. KingJmew that he had not received any funds from Jeremiah with

-7-

I
..

' ~

, respect to this closing. Instead, King received a personal check from
Michelle A. Dixon for $12,583.88 at some indeterminate date, but did not
deposit that check in.to his trust account until November 7, 2002.
The HUD-1 lists ~ disbursement of $34,362.15 to Solutions Restoratign ...
No disbursement of $34,362.75 Was made to Solutions Restoration;
King made a disbursement of $33,627.80 to Michelle A. Dixon and a
disbursement of$I,OOO to Inga Johnson :from this transaction. These

I

disbUrsements to Dixon ~d Johnson were not listed on the BUD-I.
(f)

Kenneth Pleasant (June 28, 2002)
The·HUD-1 shows $17,325.20 received from the borrower, Kenneth
Pleasant, on or before the disbur$~ment date of June 28, 2002. King did
not receive $17,325.20 from Pleasant on ot before the disbursement date
of June 28, 2002. King knew that he had not received or deposited any
fpnds from Pleasant contemporaneously with the closing transaction.
King distributed $2,886.00 to Pleasant from this transaction. This
disbursement was not listed on the HUD-l.
The HUD-1lists $20,915.23 to be distributed to the sellet, Na-Allah
Properties, Inc. King did not distribute $20,915.23 to the seller.
King disbursed $1,130.16 to Salifour Na-Allah from the proceeds of this

I

transaction. This ciisbursement was not listed on the HUD-I.
befendants distributed $9pO.00 to Arthur Simel1 from this transaction.
The HUD-1 does not list any disbursement to ·Arthur Simell in this
transaction.
(g)

Victor Saul (August 2, 2002)
The HUD-llists a disbursement to Solutions Restorations in the amount
of$55,308.00. $55,308.00 was not distributed to Solutions Restoration.

- 8-

I
,,.'

lOP,

.

~ing

di!)bursed $54,605.27 to Michelle A. Dixon and $1,000 to Inga

:)6hnson from this transaction. These disbursements to Dixon and JOhuson
were not listed on the HUD-1.
The HUD-1lists distrib~tions to "NCO Financial Systems-Payoff;"
"Mercy Hospital-Payoff;" 'f.ACS-Payoff' that were not made by King'

I

from this trans~ction.
The HUD-1 lists receipt of "gift funds" in thearnount of $16,500 .as part
of the funds collected on behalf of the borrower .on or before the
settlement date of August 2, 200t. No deposit was made'into Defendants'
trust account in the amount of $16,500 on or before the settlement,date.
The HUD-1lists a distribution of $6,423.50 to the borrower, Victor Saul.
Defendants did not disburse $6,423.50 from this transaction to Saul.
30. Flick Mortgage Investors Incorporated (hereafter "Flick") ~as the lender for five-of _
the closing transactions conducted by King specifically identified above .. the transactions for
Norton, Roberson, Saul, and both Jeremiah transactions. In each ofthesetransaetions, Michelle
A. Dixon acted as amortgage loan broker. In each of the Flick transactions in which the
borrower was -required to provide funds at the closing as shown on the HUD-l Settlement
Statement, Dixon provided her personal check for those funds to King ..King did not disclose the

I···

soUrce of those funds to Flick or that the borrower had not provided funds for the closing. Flick
considered the source of the borrower's funds as shown onthe HUD-1 Settlement Statement to
be a materhtl fact for eligibility for the mortgage loan it was making to the borrower. Had Flick
known that the source of the borrower's funds in these transactions was Michelle A. Dixoh rather
than the borrower, it would not have approved the loan or authorized the disbursement of the
loan proceed!). Flick was relying on King to actually receive and disburse the funds in
accordance with the entries on the HUD- r Settlement Statement. King knew that he was
receiving a check from Dixon rather than the borrower but did not diselose that fact on the HUD ..
1 Settlement Statement or to Flick.
31. Additionally, in each of the five closing transactions specifically identified in this
proceeding in which Flick WaS the lender, King issued a trust a9count check payable to Michelle.
-9-'

.)

(03:

----------------------....-----------------------

- ----

A. Dixon personally fo~ substantial amounts even though no such disbursement was shown on
the HUD-I Settlement Statement. King did not disclose to Flick that he was disbursing funds
from the closing directly to Dixon. Flick would have had concerns that Dixon, as a mortgage
broker, wa$ circumventing legal limitations on the amount of compensation to mortgage brokers
had King made the disclosure. Had Flick known that Michelle A. Dixon was personally

."

receiving or her companies Were receiving as funds these additional amounts from the

transaction~ in which Dixon was the mortgage broker, it would not have approved the loan or

1-

authorized the disbursement of the loan proceeds. King knew that he was making the
disbursements to DixOn without disclosure on the HUD-l Settlement Statement or to Flick. The
Flick loans subsequently fell into default, were foreclosed, and Flick was required to repurchase
I

the loans.
32. In the closing transactions for Norton, Roberson, and Jeremiah, Killg disbursed funds
to the borrowers at closing that were not disclosed on the HUD-l Settlement Statement. Such
disbursemep.ts to the borrowers without disclosure to and approval by the lender is improper and
violate the lenders' closing instructions. King did not otherwise disclose to Flick that he was
disbursing funds from the closing dire9tly to the b?rrowers. If Flick had known that the
borrowers were receiving funds from the closing that were not disclosed. and approved by them
in advance, ,Flick would not have approved the loan or authorized the disbursement of the loan
proceeds. King knew that be was making the disbursements to the borrowers without disclosure
on the HUD-l Settlement Statement or to Flick.
33. King knew that the HUD-l Settlement Statements that he prepared were not true and
accurate accountings of the receipt and disbursement of funds from these closing transactions.

I

King also knew that he was receiving and disbursing funds in a manner other than what was
shown on the HUD-ISett1ement Statements.
34. King knew that he represepted the borrowers and the lenders as clients in the closing
transactioIis. King did not represent Dixon with respect to any of these closing transactions. King
followed Dir:on's directioIis with respect to the disbursement of the funds from these transactions
contrary to his obligation to Flick and the other lenders that King receive and disburse funds
from these closings only in accordance with the HUD-l Settlement Statements.

- 10 -

I

-

35. King knowingly disbursed funds from the Defendants' trust account on behalf of

borrowers in the identIfied closing transactions without first depositing funds from or on behalf
of the borrowers into the account. King also knowingly disbursed more funds from the
Defendants' trust account than he had received for the above identified real estate closings. As a
result, the funds disbursed by King belonged toone or more other clients of the Defendants--::.
\.

and/or were funds in the trust account held by one or both of the Defendants in a fiduciary

I

capacity for third parties.
~6.

In addition, Stockton conducted at least one real estate closingin or around-January

2002 for a client named New Cornerstone Ministries, Stockton cannot produce a HUD.:1 or any
other Settlement Statement for this closing. Stockton was required to' deposit the funds received
for this real estate closing-"into, and disburse only those funds from, the trust account.
37. Stockton disbursed more funds from the Defendants' trust account than he had

.

received for the New Cornerstone Ministries closing trahsaction. As a result, the funds disbursed
by Stockton belonged to one or more other clients of the Defendants and/or were funds in the
trust account held by one 0):' both of the Defendants in a fiduciary capacity for third parties.

The Committee makes the following additional Fbulings of Fact specificallY with
r~spect

to Plaintiff's Third Claim for Relief:

38. On or before March 15, 2002, Defendant King agreed to ad as settlement agent in a

I

real est&te closing transaction in which Salifou Na-Allah (hereafter "Na-'A.Uah") was borrowing
,.. $68,400 from a lender known as Option One Mortgage Corporation (he~eafter"Option One") to
be secured by real property located at 1404 Leonard Avenue in High Point, North Carolina
(hereafter "Leonard property"). At the time, Na-Allah was the President ,of a business
corporation named Na-Allah Properties, Inc. (hereafter "NA Properties"). The closing
transaction for Which King was acting as settlement agent involved Na-Allah in his individual
capacity and not his capacity as President 6fNA Properties.
39. On or before February 28, 2002, Na-Allah h&d engaged attorney Al111ina Swittenberg
(hereafter "Swittenberg") to conduct a real estate closing in which the Leonard property was to

.

have been sold to NA Properties by the then owner, Provident Consumel; Financial Services
.

(hereafter "Provident"), at a purchase price of$61,000, with NA Properties borrowing $60,900
- 11 -

I

rof

to finance the 'purchase frQm the Bank of Stanly. Provident was to have received $50,472.l4 as
its net sales proceeds from this transaction. On February 28, 2002, SWittenberg received the
funds from the Bank of Stanly and Na..Allah executed the note and deed of trust on the Leonard
property. However, Swittenberg did not complete the closing of this transaction and did not
or the deed of trust in favor of the Bank:of
record either Ii deed from Provident to NA Properties
,
Stanly at that time. Swittehberg did not disburse the $50,472.14 to P.rovident.

I

40. Defendant King prepared a HUD-l fomi. for the Na-Allah transaction showing the
transaction was a sale by Provident to Na-Allah at a sales price of $72,000. Defendant King also
prepared a deed transferring the property from Provident to Na-Al1ah and a deed of trust from
Na-Allah in favor of Option One on the Leonard property. King closed the transaction and
recorded the deed and deedof trust on March 21, 2002.
41. ~ing knew that Swittenberg had not recorded any deed from Provident to NA
Properties or rhe deed of trust from NA Properties to the Bank of Stanly at the time he closed the
Na-Allah transaction. King also knew that Provident Was not selling the property directly to NaAllah and that the sales price was not $72,000.

42. King agreed to accept the funds held by Swittenbetg for Provident and transmit them
to Provident l:}S part of the closing transaction he conducted.

43. Oil March 25,2002, Swittenberg's check for $50,472.14 was deposited into
Defendants' trust accoUnt. Kirig thep. sent a check drawn on Defendants' trust account for

$50,47'1.14 td Provident oil or ab~~t March 26,2002.
44.01) March 27,2002, Swittenberg's bank returned Swittenberg's check for $50,472.14
that had been deposited into Defendants' trust account for insufficient funds. King received a
notice from his bank that Swittenberg's check had been dishonored on or about March 27,2002.
At the time, ~ete were insufficient funds in the Defendants' trust account to pay the Provident
check without the funds from Swittenberg.

45. Provident presented the check it had received from King on or about March 27, 2002.
Because Swit;tenberg's check had been returned for insufficient funds, King's check to Provident
was dishonor~d by King's bank on March 27,2002 for insufficient funds in the Defendants' trust
account.

- 12-

I
.)

100

46. King had not received any replacement funds from Swittenberg before April 1, 2002.
Provident presented Kin~"s check a second time on or about April 3, 2002. King's cheGk to
Provident was again dishonored by King's bank on April 3.~ 2002 for insufficient funds in the
Defenclants' trust account.
47. On April 2, 2002, Swittenherg provided certified funds to King for the $50,472.14"

I

due Provident, which were deposited into· Defendants' trust account on or about April 2, 2002.
King was aware of the deposit of Swittenberg' scertified funds at that time.
48. Upon receipt and deposit of the certified funds in the amount of$50,472.14 from
SWittenberg, King did not contemporaneOUsly reissue a check to Provide.nt to cover his previous
chec~

to Provident that had been returned for insufficient funds. Accordingly, King ·should.have

maintained at least $50,472.14 in the trust account on Provident's behalf at all times until those
funds were paid to Provident.
49. On or about September 6, 2002, Provident presented King with documentation that
his check to Provident had been returned for insufficient funds and demancled payment of the
$50,472.14.
50~ In January 2003., King confirmed with his bank that the fund~ due Provident had .not.

been paid to Provident and that hi$ trust account should have all of Provident's $50,472.14 on
deposit.

I

.

. 51. !(jng did not p~y the funds due Provident at any time between April 2, 2002 an.d

August 8, 2003.
52. The balance in the tnIst account fell below $50,472.14 on a l1umber of occasIons after
April 4, 2002, inchtding Aug. 12 - Aug. 16,2002; Oct. 17 - 22,2002; Qct. 31- Nov. 5,2002;.
Nov. 12 - 22,2002; Dec. 12 - 20,2002; Dec. 27'- 31,2002; Jan. 3,2003; Jan. 7 - 9, 2003; Jan.
24 - Feb. 4,2003; Feb. 25 - 28,2003; March 10 -19,2003; March 25 - May 2, 2003; ~ay 7....,
14,2003; May 19 - Aug. 8,2003. Accordingly, King had insufficient funds in the trust account
from which to pay the full amount due Provident. One ofthe reasons that there were insufficient
funds il;l the account was King's failure to deposit funcis from the borrowers in th~ real estate
closing transactions contemporaneously with those closings. As a result~ Provident's funds were
used to pay for the excess disbursements from the real estate closing ttan::;actions.
- 13 -

I

/07

53. On or about A.ugust 8, 2003, King wired $31,472.14 to Provident in partial payment
of the full amount due 'Provident. King also agreed at that time to pay Provident a total of
$55,000, including lost interest and other damages arising from the failure to pay Provident, by
the 'end of October 2003-. On behalf of his partner and himself, King executed a promissory hote
due October 31, 2003 in the principal amount of $25,000 plus interest at the rate of 8%. King:',

,

'

paid Provident an additional $7,500 before October 31, 2003. In mid~November 2003, King paid
another $1,$00 to Provident. King has made no further payments to Provident. King still owes
Provident $lO,OOO on his original fiduciary obligation to Provident plus the additional sums he

I

agreed to pay PrOVident plus .interest on his note, which is now in default. The total amount King
owes Provid,ent is $14,527.86 plus interest.
54. The Hub-I prepared by King in the Na- Allah closing does not list $50,472.14 to be
disbursed to Providertt. Instead an amount of$8,212.08 is listed as payable to Provident as the
seller. Deferidant did not distribute $8,212.08 to Provident on the disbursement date listed on the
HUD-l. Defendant knew that these entries on the HUD-l Settlement Statement for this
transaction were false as that was not actually the amount due Provident.
55. In addition, the HUD-l prepared by King has other discrepancies from the actual
,

transaction, including:
(h)

King made two distributions to Jackson.M. Enterprises, one in the amount

of$58.00 and another in the amoUlit of$5,913.08, from the proceeds of the
transaction. No distribution in any amount to Jackson M. Enterprises is listed"on,. ,
the HUD . . l.

(i)

I

The HUD-l shows that King was to have collected $4,331. 77 from Na-

Allah at ciosing. King did not deposit any funds from Na-Allah for this
transaction into Defendants' trust account at any time.
The Committee makes the following additio~~l Fin<liQgs of Fact with respect to
Plaintiff's Fourth and Fifth Claims for Relief:

56. Stockton engaged in a criminal law li~igatiort practice during the period from
approximately January 1,2000 through December 31, 2003.

- 14-

I

109'

.'.. ,

57. As partofhi~ .crimina.llaw litigation practice between January 1,2000 and Decemher .
, .

31, 2003, Stockton"scHents paid funds only to Stockton for his fee and expe11ses, particularly
court costs. Stockton's clients regularly and routinely paid,Stockton in cash for the court costs
due.
58. These cash funds for court costs should have been deposited into the pefendants'

I

trust account.
59. Stockton did not deposit all cash funds· given to him by clients for court costs into .the
Defendants' trust account.
60. Stockton retained some or all of these cash funds and used them for his personal use
and benefit without client eonsent.
61. During this time, Stockton disbursed funds from Defendants;. tru,st account for court
costs on behalf of his clients by checks written to various courts. Stockt?n disbursed funds frorp
the trust account for court costs for clients on whose behalf he had not deposited any funds into
the trust accol.1nt. Stockton knowingly disbursed more funds than he had deposited on behalf of
clients for such court costs during this period. The funds disbursed by Stockton \)elonged to one
or more other clients of the Defendants. Over the period of January 1,2000 through December
31, 2003, the shortfall of funds intrust attributable to Stockton's misappropriation was
appro~imately

$15,000.

The Committee makes the foIlowingadditionalFindings of Fact with respect .fO'-'e--...... -.. , .. "'. " .....
Plaintiff's Fourth Claims for Relief:

62. Defendants failed to reconcile their trust accouilt at least quarterly during the period
from January 1,2000 through August 8, 2003.
63. Defendants failed to retain appropriate client ledgers, and failed to maintain all
monthly bank statements, check stubs, deposit slips, canceled checks, debit memos and deposited
items relating to their trust account for the period from January 1, 2000. through August 8, 2003.

- 15 -

I
.,
",'

Based upon the f9regoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee ,enters the following:
,,

1.

.\.

Conclusions of Law

All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the committee has

jurisdiction over Michael L. King and Dumont Stockton and the subject matter. By appearing
and participating in the proceedings without objection, Defendants waived any and all defects' in
I

'

the service ofthe summons and complaint and in the notice of the hearing.
2. T4e Defendant King's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes

I

groUnds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that the conduct violated the
Revised Rules bfProfessional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:
(a)

By failing to perfect an appeal from Howell's conviction and by failing to
;

perfect an appeal from the denial of the motion for appropriate relief, Defendant
King neglected a client matter in violation of former Rule 6(b)(3 } and/or Rule 1.3
, of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct;
(b)

By failing to keep Howell infoni.1ed bfthe status of his case and by failing

to respond to his requests for information about the case, Defendant King failed to
adequately co11Uhunicate with a client in violation of fonner Rule 6(b)(1) and/or
Rule 1.4 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; and
(c}

-- ._-_ .. -.

l

.. _._-" ..

_

---..- -_.-'-'---_.

By failing to return $1,800 as the unearned portion of the $5,000 fee paid

to them on Howell's behalf, Defendant King retained an excessive fee in violation
...-_.....-- .. - .. ....._-. ..- _.-....-._- ._..... --- _... ..- - ... - ..-.. -...... -... -.,., ........ .
of former Rule 2.6 and/or Revised Rule 1.5 and failed to take reasonable steps to

"" ,...... _"._

"-'---~

'-"

'"

,

"'~-

"

I

prot~ct their client's interests on termination of the relationship by returning the

unearned portion of the fee in violation ,of Revised Rule 1.16(d);
(d)

By preparing and signing HUD-1 Settlement Statements that falsely

represented receipt of funds and/or falsely represented the disbursement of funds
ror the real estate closing transactions, King engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in Violation of Rule 8.4(c).
(e)

By disbursing funds from Defendants' trust account purportedly related to

speCific real estate closings to recipients not listed on the HUD-l Settlement

- 16 -

I

110

Statemen~

for such closings, King engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,

fraud, deb~it or misrepresentation in violation of Revised Rule 8.4(c); failed to.
properly maintain and disburse client or fiduciary funds in violation of Rule 1..15- .
2(a) and failed to payor deliver funds as directed or required in violation of Rule
1.15-2(m).

I

(f)

By failing to receive sufficient funds froth the buyerlborrower for each

real estate transaction before closing and disbursing the loan proceeds, King
engaged in conduct in.volving dishonesty,

fraud~

deceit o~ misrepresentation in

violation. of Revised Rule 8.4(c).
(g)

By disbursing more funds from the trust account on' behalf of clients than

he had deposited on behalf of those clients, particularly With respect to the .real
estate closing transactions for Benson, Norton, Roberson,; and Jeremiah, King
failed to properly maintain and disburse client or fiduciary funds in violation of
Rule 1.15-2(a) and disbursed funds belonging to other clients or parties for whom
he held funds as a fiduciary, including Providen.t, from the trust account without
the clients' or parties' knowledge or consent in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and
(m);
(h)

By preparing and signing a HUD-1 Settlement Statement that falsely

represented receipt of funds and/orfalsely represented the disbursement of funds .
. - ....--for-.theNa-Allah transactions,.King. ellgaged in conduct involving. dishonesty,., ,._.. _, ....
fraud,. deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
(i)

By failing to promptly pay Provident the funds c?llected oil its behalf from

Swittenberg, King failed to promptly pay funds as directed by a client in violation
of Rule 1.15-2(rn.);
G)

By disbursing funds from Defendants' trust account purportedly related to

specific real estate closings to recipients not listed on the HUD-l Settlement
Statement for such closings, King engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,.
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Revised. Rule 8.4(c); failed to

- 17 -

II r

preserve ~he identity of client funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a); and failed to
payor ddiiver funds as directed by the client in violation of Rule 1..15-2(m);
(k)

By disbursing funds that should have been held in trust for Provident to

third parties without Provident's knowledge and consent, King failed to preserve'
the identity of fiduciary or client funds in violation of Rule 1. 15-2(a) and failed to
pay ar deliver funds as directed by the client or beneficiary in violation of Rule
1.15-2(m).

(1)

1

By failing to reconcile the trust account at least quarterly, King violated

Revised Rule 1.15,.-3(c);
(in)

By ,failing to maintain appropriate client ledgers, all monthly bank

statements, check stubs, deposit slips, canceled checks, debit memos and
deposited items relating to the trust account, King violated Revised Rule 1.153(b); and
By fraudulently or knowingly and willfully misapplying fUJids from the

(n)

Defendants' trust account 'belonging to another person or entity to the payment of
disbursements made to various other parties who were not disclosed as intended

I

recipients of such disbursements in the course of real estate closing transactions,
King committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and
~

•

,'"

~

••_.

_ . _ _ • __ ._

•• " ,

._

• .' _ _ ...

_ _ _ • • • ~.~

_

_~

__ •

••

__•

• • • • • •

••••

_A

____

• •. ; , .

_

•

_

• • • • • • ,-

,_

engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
i

violation of Rule 8.4(c).

-I

3. The Defendant Stockton's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
I

.

grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that the conduct violated the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:

(0)

By failing to reconcile the trust account at least quarterly, Stockton,

violated Revised Rule 1.15-3(c);
(P)

By failing to maintain appropriate client ledgers, all monthly bank

statements, check stubs, deposit slips, canceled checks, debit memos and
- 18 -

I

."

"

,

,

deposit,ed items relating to the trust acco1.mt, Stockton violated Revised Rule 1.15- .
3(b);
(q)

abd' ,

By disbursing more funds from the trust account on behalf of clients than,

he had deposited on behalf of those clients, particularly With respect to the r~~l .
estate closing transactions for New Cornerstone Ministries and court costs for his .
criminal clients, Stockton failed to properly maintain and disburse client or

I

fiduciary funds in violation of Rule 1. 15-2(a) and disbursed funds belonging to'
other clients or parties for whom he held funds as a fiduciary from the trust
account without the clients' or parties' knowledge 01' co~sentin violation of Rule
1.15-2(a) and (m); and
(r)

Bymisappropriating client funds paId to him for court costs and

converting those funds for his own use and/or by fralldulently or knowingly and
willfully misapplying trust account funds belonging to artoth~r person or entity to
\

the payment of court costs for litigation clients for whom he had not deposited
•

I

,

funds into the trust account, Stockton c,ommitted criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in violation
of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentatioll: in violation ofRule8.4(c).

-I

Basedupol). the foregoing Fin,dings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and upon clear;
cogent" and ,convincing. evidence, the.Hearing Committee hereby makes these ,adclitional,-.. , .....

'_"0'

>..

"~'"

Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline "
1.

2.

. Stockton has no prior disciplinary record.
King was

s~ctioned by the

United States District Court for the Western District

of North Carolina in July 1999, but the Hearing Committee did not consider this sanction as a
prior disciplinary offense for purposes of discipline in this ,proceeding.
3.

From April 2002 through November 2002, King conducted i 5· real es.tate closings

for clients who were directed to him by Michelle A. Dixon, providing ~ignificant income to King
through fees he would.not have otherwise received. King's complicity in following Dixon's

- 19-

I
...~

/13

. . . ." ...

directions with respect to the disbursement of funds was motivated by a desire to retain this
business.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee makes the following:
ConchlsioI)s with Respect to Discipline
1.

2.

Defendant King's miscondlJ.ct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

A pattern of misconduct;

(b)

Multiple offenses involving multiple clients; and

(c)

Sub~tantial

I

experience in the practice of laY'.

befendant King's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

Good character and reputation;

(b)

Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Co:mn'littee;

(c)

A cooperative attitude toward the proceedings; and

(d)

Interim rehabilitation.

3.

The weight of the aggravating factors outweigh the weight of the mitigating

4·.

Defendant King's failure to collect funds from the borrowers as reflected on the

factors.

HUD-l

Settl~ment

Statements discussed herein evaded the safeguatds designed by the lenders

and allowed pertain clients to obtain loans they coUld not afford. As a foreseeable consequence,
some of these loans are how in default and the lender has had to institute foreclosure proceedings
against these clients. Further,. his use of funds belonging to oile client to benefit another client
not only constituted misappropriation and embezzlement of :funds held in a fiduciary capacity,
but resulted in financial losses to parties whose funds should have been held in trust, particularly
to Provident Consumer Financial Services.

- 20 ..

I
',.t

5.

DefenclaI}t King engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,

misrepresentation, or debeit over a substantial time period and has thlls shown himself to be
untrustworthy. Clients are entitled to attorneys they cart trust. When an attorney violates that
trust, it harms the public and the profession.
6. The Hearing Committee has carefully considered all of the different f011)1s of sanctions
available to it with respect to Defendant King and finds that disbarment is the only sanction that

Can adequately protect the public in this particular case for these reasons:
(a)

King committed misdeeds involving moral turpitUde and violations of the _

public trust; dishonesty; fraudulent conduct; material misrepresentations; and
misappropriation of money belonging to' others that he had a fiduciary obHgatlon
-

-~

to protect. Misconduct involving fraud, misrepresentation, dishonesty and theft
,are the most serious offenses that an attorney can commit. Such offenses
demonstrate that the offending attorney is not trustworthy. Clients are entitled to
h~lVe trustworthy attorneys. When an attorney Violates that trust,

it harms the

public. No discipline short of disbarment can protect the public from an
untrustworthy member of the legal profession.
(b)

Entry of an order imposing discipline short of disbarment would fail t9

aclwowledge the seriousness of the offenses that Kilig committed and w~uld selid,

-1---._- -.- - - - _.
-

the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of

-1nembers ofthe North-Carolina -State Bar. --- -. - -(c)

----_---- --- - ------ . - ---"" ---

The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that King not

be permitted to resume the practice of law until he demonstrates that he has
reformed, that he understands his obligations to his clients,the public, the courts,
and the legal profession, and that permitting him to practice law will not be .
detrimental to the public or the integrity andstanc1ing ofthe legal profession or
the administration of justice.
7. Defendant Stockton's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(d)

A pattern of misconduct;

- 21 -

I

115:

(e)

i¥ultiple offenses involving multiple clients;

(f)

A dishonest or selfish motive; and

(g)

Substantial experience in the practice of law.

8. Defendant Stockton's miscond~ct is mitigated by the following factor:
(h)

I

No priot disciplinary record.

9. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
10. pefendant
Stockton's conduct has caused, and had the potential to cause, substantial
,
'

harm to other King & Stockton clients and others to whom he owed a fiducjary obligation in that
he was disbursing trust fUnds in an unauthorized and illegal manner. Further, his use of trust
funds for hi's own personal benefit ~d use of trust funds belonging to one firm client to benefit
another cl.ient not only constituted misappropriation and embezzlement of funds held in a
fiduciary capacity, but resulted in financial losses to parties whose funds should have been held
in trust, pariicularly to Provident Consumer Financial Setvices.
11. Defendant Stockton engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
misrepreseritation, or deceit and has thus shown himself to be untrustworthy. Clients are entitled
to attorneys! they cah trUst. When an attorney violates that trust, it hatms the public and the
profession. '

". ,,-- - "" "''''-'''-'' --··..-·12~ 'The-'Heanng Committee has' carefullY cons'idered all of ihe"aifferent 'forms' of
sanctions available to it with respect to Defendant Stockton and fmds that disbarment is the only

I

sanction that can adequately protect the public in this particular case for these reasons:
(i)

Stockton committed misdeeds involving moral turpitude and violations of

the public trust; dishop.esty; and misappropriation of money belonging to others
that he had a fiduciary obligation to protect. Misconduct involving dishonesty and
theft ate among the most serious offenses that an attorney can commit. Such
offenses demonstrate that the offending attorney is not trustworthy. Clients are
entitled to have trustworthy attorneys. When an attorney violates that trust, it

- 22-

I

,

'

hanns ~~ public. No discipline short of disbannent can protect the public from

an

untrustworthy member of the legal profession.

OJ

Entry of an order imposing discipline short of disbannent would fail to

acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses that Stockton committed and wo:qld .
,

"

send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct

I

expected of members of the North Carolina State Bar.
(k)

the protection. of the public and the legal profession requires that Stockton.

not be permitted to resume the practice of law untU he demopstrates that heh~s
refonned, that he understands his obligations to his clients, the public, the courts,
and the le~alprofession, and that permitting him to practice hiw will not be
detrimental to the public or the integrity and standing of the legal profession or
the administration of justice.
.Based upon the foregoing Findings of F~ct, Conclusions of Law and the Finding$ of

Fact Regarding Discipline, and the ConclusiQns with Respect to. Discipline, the }.Iearin~
Committee enters the following:

Orders of Discipline
The Defendant, Michael 1. King, is hereby DISBARRED.

1.
2.
,

• •, , -

.~.

3.

The Defendant, Dumont Stockton, is hereby DISBARRED.
~

-'

•

-q

....

,. . . .

,.- ••••

~

••• "

•••

-~-

"

••

_ ••• ,

- - - -. . . . .

-

,.

Both Michael 1. King and Dumont Stockton will surrender their respective

licenses and membership cards to the Secretary within 30 days of the effective date of this order.
4.

Both Michael 1. King and Dumont Stockton will comply with the requirements of

27 NCAC IB, § .0124 in winding down their practice. in addition, within 60 days of the
effective date of this order, both King and StQckton will provide the Office of Counsel with
complete and accurate accountings of the disbursement offue balance o~funds held in any and
all trust accounts maintained by either of them; will provide all bank records, including ,
statements, deposit tickets and items, and copies of the fronts and back~ of all ~an~el1ed checks;
will provide authorizations and releases permitting the Office otCounsel to receive any records
directly from the financial institutions at which the accounts are maintained that are irrevocable,
- 23 -

I
...~

and will otherwise cooperate with the reasonable requests of the Office of Counsel to audit and
account for the final

disb~sement of funds from the Defendants' trust account(s).

Before petitioning for reinstatement,. Michael t. King will, in accordance with 27

5.

N.C.A.C. IB, § .0125', make restitution to Andre Howell in the amount of$1,800 and to Natipnal

.

..

City Bank as: the successor in interest to Provident Consumer Financial Services, or any future
successor to 'National City Bank as applicable, in the amount of$15,000 plus interest of8%.per
annum from :November 13, 2003. Michael L. King will provide the Office of Counsel with
satisfactory evidence of payment of such restitution before filing any petition for reinstatement.
6.

I

Before petitioning for reinstatement, Dumont Stockton will, in accordance with

27 N.C.A.C. IB, § .0125, make restitution of$15,000 to or on behalf Qfthose clients of the fir.n1
,

,-

of King & Stockton whose funds were misappropriated by Stockton as reasonably determined
after a final audit of all trust accounts maintained by Stockton upon completion of the winddown period. Dumont Stockton will provide satisfactory evidence of payment of such restitution
before filing any petition for reinstatement.
The Committee finds that the costs of deposing the Defendants by the Plaintiff

7.

were reasonl:\ble and necessary costs of this proceeding. Michael L. King is hereby taxed with the
costs of his qeposition and Dumont Stockton is hereby taxed with the costs of his deposition. The
other costs of this proceeding are taxed to both Michael L. King and Dumont Stockton jointly
and severally and shall be paid as assessed by the Secretary with 30 days of the effective date of
.. ...... . -this' order. - ..... ... ,..
Sign¢d by the underSigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
I

members of the Hearing Committee, this the

:3 0

day of

I

J.ty ~

2005

W. Steven Allen, Sr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

- 24-

I
',.t

f (f

~,

