BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02G0163

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

INRE:

ROBERT J. WILLIS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On 17 July 2002, the Grievance Conunittee ofthe NOlih Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Glievance
COlmnittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the mles as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member ofthe North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance COlmnittee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance COlmnittee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Conm1ittee may issue an Admonition, a
Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent attomey.
A Reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an Admonition issued in
cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hal111 or potential halm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a Censure.
The Grievance COlmnittee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case
and issues this Replimand to you. As chainnan of the Glieval1Ce Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Replimal1d and I aln certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is perfonned.
On or about 13 September 1999, you entered into an agreement with one Juan S.
Rodriguez to represent him in a wage al1d hour claim against his employer, which was comprised
of three separate, but related, entities. Had Mr. Rodriguez fully prevailed on his claim against all

three entities, he would have been entitled to $7,261 in total damages, including both actual and
liquidated damages.
You had a written agreement with Mr. Rodriguez under which you were to receive a 33
1/3% contingency fee, plus any expenses and court costs, if the case was settled or decided after
the filing of suit. Your contract stated that you would also be entitled to any attorneys' fees
awarded by the court or negotiated through settlement, but there would be a "dollar for dollar
credit" against the contingency fee in such event. Your contract also required Mr. Rodriguez to
pay the expenses and court costs regardless of outcome.
You filed a lawsuit on behalf of Mr. Rodriguez shortly after taking the case, on or about
27 September 1999. On or about 13 December 2000, the court granted partial summary judgment
in favor ofMr. Rodriguez against the primary entity for actual damages of$2,770.50. While
there was still an open question whether your client would be awarded liquidated damages
against this entity and any damages against the other two entities, it was clear that Mr. Rodriguez
would receive at least part of his claim after this order. Further, 29 U.S.C. 216(b) would at this
point now require an award of reasonable attorneys' fees by the court, but the amount would be
at its sound discretion.
Thereafter, you entered into settlement negotiations with the defendants for a lump sum
inclusive of both your client's damages and your attorneys' fees. Moreover, you also began to
negotiate with your client regarding the split of any lump sum settlement, disregarding the
contingency fee provision of your contract. You have said that Mr. Rodriguez initially agreed to
accept a settlement of $20,000 with him receiving $10,000 and you receiving $10,000, a fiftyfifty split ofthe settlement amount. You stated that you demanded $22,000 and did not indicate
any different division of that amount. You then stated that you responded to an offer of$12,000
with a counter offer of$19,000. You did not indicate any different split of those proceeds. You
then settled for $15,500 after your client agreed to accept a new division ofthe proceeds whereby
you received $10,000 and he received $5,500.
The end result is that your share of the lump sum settlement increased to nearly twothirds of the lump sum proceeds. Not only that, but under your demands and cOlmter-offers
before final settlement, your client would have received at least as much as his maximum
damages, ifnot more, but with the renegotiated division, he received less than his full claim
while the amount of your fee from the proceeds was not reduced at all. Your client also received
less than what he would have received had the court granted liquidated damages on the claim for
which summary judgment was granted regardless of the results on the other parts of his claim.
Each time you discussed a new division of the settlement proceeds, you were
renegotiating your fee agreement with your client. Once you began renegotiating your fee based
on the amount of proposed settlement, your own interest in maximizing your fee conflicted with
your client's interest in maximizing his award. There were no changes in circumstances other
than the amount offered by the opposing side to settle. As an attorney, your primary obligation
was to represent your client's interest, not maintain your fee at his expense. The only party whose
interest in the lump sum settlement was compromised was your client's. As conunent 3 to Rule
1.5 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct states, once your fee agreement has been
established, your ethical obligation is to represent your client's best interests regardless of

whether you have struck an unfavorable bargain for yourself. Further, by taking nearly two-thirds
of the settlement as your fee, your fee became clearly excessive under the circumstances. As a
result, your client was prejudiced since he received less than he should have.
The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated Rules 1.5, 1.7(b), and
8.4(a) and (g) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

In deciding to issue a Reprimand, the Committee also considered the aggravating and
mitigating factors. hl aggravation, the Committee considers that you had a selfish motive and that
your client was vunerable as an alien in this country. hl mitigation, the Committee notes that you
had no prior disciplinary record.
You are hereby Replimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this Reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Conmlittee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this

d,t'1ray of

J:-() ,

2002.

~~----------------------~

Calvin E. Murphy
~"
Chair, Grievance COlmnittee'-

