NORTH CAROLINA .
,

,.

WAKE COUNTY

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
'"
Plaintiff

v.
JAMES E. HA:tRStON, JR., Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
CONSENT
)
FINDINGS OF FACT,
) 'cONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)

This matter comes before a hearing COinlllittee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
cOlJlPosed ofW. Steven Allen, Sr., Chair, Carlyn G. Poole, a;nd Lorraine Stephens upon the
consent of the parties as to the findings, conclusions and discipline t6 be imposed. A. Root
Edmonson represents the North Carolina State Bar and Jame~ E. Hairston, Jr. ~ppears pro se ..
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bat, is a body duly·organizedunder,the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. The Defendant, James E, Hairston, Jr. ("Hairston"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on April 9, 1993, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulatiol1sand Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3, During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, Hairston was actively
engaged in the private practice oflaw in the city of Durham, Durham County, North Carolina.
4. During calendar years 1998,2000,2001 and 2002, Hairston received sufficient inco:rn~.
to require Hairston to file state income tax retU11;lsr
5. For e.ach of these tax years, Hairston kn:ew the deadlines for the filing of his state
income tax returns and payment of any tax liability.

I

ll9

6. Hairston failed to file his individual state income tax returns for tax years 1998, 2000,
2001 and 2002 at the time: or times required by law.
7. Hairston failed to pay any individual state income tax liability d~e for tax yeats 1998,
2000,2001 and 2001 at the time or times required by law.
8. Hai:rston's failure to file the required state income tax returns and pay any final tax
:: liabilities due ,on a timely basis for each tax year 1998,2000,2001 and 2002 was willful.
,1

•

~

9. Willful failure t6 file or pay-a state income tax When due is a Class 1 misdemeanor
urtder N.C. G¢n. Stat. § 105,.236(9). ' ,

I

BASEP UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the h~ating committee makes the
following':
'
p'

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
.s\.ll parties are properly before the hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
',Commission and the hearing committee has jurisdiction over Hairston and the subject matter.
1.
Hairston's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for disciplIne pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat:§ 84-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Hairston violated the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct as follows:
(a)

By failing to timely file the required state income tax returns or timely
make the required state income tax payments, Hairston committed
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule8.4(c).

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings ofF-act, the Conclusions of Law, and the consent
of counsel, the heating committee hereby makes the following:

I

FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

:f!airston's niisconducG~:faggravated by the following factors:
'.

(a)
: (b)

2.

)'

.~.

>;:1'

"',

.-

t

Multiple viol~tions; and
Hairston received an Admonition issued by the Grievance Committee in
May 2001 and received a Letter of Warning issued by the Grievance
Committee in November 20.04.

Hairston's misconduct. is mitigated by the fQllowing factors,:

I

I~D

/'

I

3.

(a)

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

(b)

'Cooperative attitude toward the disciplinary proceedings;

(c)

Good character and reputation;

(d)

Remorse.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

4.
Willful violations of crimil1allaws by an attorney ca1;1ses ~ubstantial harm to
the profession, especially those members ofthe'profession who have a professional
responsibility to advise members of the public to follow those laws.
5.
Hairston's cOJlduct is serious enough to warrant'more than a Censure, but
does not warrant an active suspension of his license.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Regarding Discipljne and the consent of
the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of the defendant, James E. Hairston, Jr., is hereby suspended for a
period oftwo years.
2.
The two-year suspension of Hairston's license is stayed for a period of three years
on the following conditions; .
.

I

(a)
Hairston shall not violate' any local, ,state or federal laws during the period
of stayed suspension;
(b)
Hairston shall not violate any provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional 'Conduct during the period of st~yed .suspension;
(c)~

an

Hairston shall timely pay taxes, fines, penalties and estimated taxes .
during the stay period and shall timely file all state and federal income tax returns, and
attaclunents and schedules thereto;
3.
If the stay of the suspension of Hairston's law license is lifted, the DHC may enter
an order providing for the imposition of such conditions as it deems necessary for reinstatement
of Hairston's law license at the end of the suspension period.
.
4,
Hairston is taxed with the 'costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary and shall
pay those costs within 90 days of service of notice of those costs.
Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this

I
"

'.l

].1

/6l/

the 'VI; day of

C)

I

d€pb

2005.

.//1~ . ---------

W. Steven Allen, Sr., Chair
Hearipg Committee
., CONSENTED TO:

4·{t~

I

A. Root Edmonson
Deputy Counsel

I

I

