I ~7/SNORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
OF
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05 DHC 14

WAkE COUNTY

Th,eNorth, Carolina State Bar,
. Plaintiff

Consent Order
Transferring Defendant
to
Disability Inactive Status

v.
John A. Martin, Attorney,
Defendant

I

This matter was considered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed ofF. Lane Williamson, Chair, M. Ann Reed, and H. Dale Almond based
upon the consent of the parties following the entry of an order transferring Defendant to
disability inactive status pending a final determination of his disability. Deputy Counsel David
R. Johnson represented the plaintiff. Alan Schneider represented the Defendant. By entering

into this consent order, Defendant waives any formal hearing in the above referenced matter and
the parties stipulate and agree to the findings
of fact and conclusions of law recited in this
.
,

consent order and to the conditions imposed. Further, by consenting to entry of this order,
Defendant also stipulates that he waives his right to appeal this consent order or challenge in any
way the sufficiency of service of process, the complaint, and the findings of fact, conclusions of
law or conditions ordered. Based upon the pleadings and the stipulations of the parties, the
,

.

hearing committee hereby makes.the following Findings qfF~.ct by clear, cogent, and convincing

I

evidence:
Findings of Fact

1.

The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "Plaintiff'), is a body du1y

organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authoritY granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

It,()

.
2.

,

The Defendant, John A. Martin (hereinafter Defendant), was admitted to the

North Carolina State Bar on March21, 1992, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licepsed to practice in North Carolina, ,subje,ct to th~ rules, regulations and Rule$
of Professional Conduct oillie North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

I

3.

The Plaintiff filed a disCiplinary complaint against the Defendant on April 5,2005

ba~edon Defendant's alltlged conduct as an attorney engaged in the private practice oflaw in

'Orange County, North Carolina'. Summons was also issued on April 6, 2005. The SUD;lmons was
served on the Defendant on April 22, 2005.
4',

On May 3, 2005, the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing CommiSSion appointed the

three members of the Hearing Committee to hear and determine the PI~ntiff' s disciplinary
complaint, F. Lane Williamson" Chair, M. Ann Reed, and H. Dale' Almond.
5.

Also; on May 3,2005, the Defendant, through counsel, moved for an extensiop of

time to file an Answer or otherwise respond to the complaint. On May 6,2005, the Chair granted
the extension of time and set May 31, 2005 as the new deadline for Defendant's responsive
pleading.
6.

On May 31,2005, Defendant, through counsel, filed an Answer and a

CounterClaim raising a question about whether the Defendant had a disability that impaired ,his

I

ability to practice law.
7.

On June 14, 200~, Defendant, through counsel, filed an amended Answer and a

CounterClaim in which he contended that he had a disability within the meaning of27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .0103(19) and requested that the disciplinary proceedings be stayed pending a
determination of his disability pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118(c)(I).,
8.

On June 14,2005, Plaintiff filed a reply to Defendant's counterclaim., denying the

factual basis for the Defendant's disability claim. Plajntiff also moved to dismiss the
¢ounterclaim and for a more definite statement.
9.

On June 17,2005, the Chair entered an order staying the' disciplinary proceeding
,

,

and imm~diately transferring Defendant to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N,C.A.C.IB

Page 20f5

I
"

.,"

§ .0118(c)(1). Also on June 17,2005, the Chair entered a separate order pursuant to '27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .0118(b)(3) requiring Defendant to submit to a complete mental evaluation by a psychiatrist
agreed upon by Plaintiff and Defendant and provide the report to the Plaintiff. The Chair theh
entered an order pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118(f) allowing Plaintiff to preserve evidence in
the disciplinary proc;eeding while Defehdanris on disability inactive status.
10.

On AugUst 31, 2005, Defendant submitted himself to an evaluation by Dr. Phillip

L. Hillsman, M.D. Dr. Hillsman is board certified in general psychiatry and in addiction
psychiatry. Dr. Hillsman prepared a report and provided it to counsel for Plaintiff. Dr. Hillsman's

I

I

opinion is that Defendant suffers from severe Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and
possibly has other mental disorders that could be diagnqsed in an ongoing,treatment regimen. Dr.
Hillsman's ultimate conclgsion is that Defen4ant has a current, ongoing mental condition that
significantly impairs Def@dant's professional judgment, perfonnance, or competence as an
attorney.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the following
Conclusions of Law

! '

1.

All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the Committee has

jurisdiction over defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
Defendant is disabled within the meaning.of27 N.C.A.C., 1B § .0103(19), and

2.

Defendant should be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.t.A.C. 1B

§ .0118(c).
Based, upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Committee

I

enters the following
Order

1.

I

Defendant is hereby transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27

N.C.A.C. 1B § .0118(c) and will remain on disability inactive status until reinstated to active
status pursuant to 21 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0125(c).
2.

Defendant will not practice law in North Carolina until reinstated to active status

pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0125(c).

Page 3 of5

I

.

3.

-

The disciplinary proceeding above captioned is hereby stayed until 'such tim~ as

Defendant is reinstated' to active status.
4.

The Order authorizing PlaintiffpursuantJo 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118(f) to use all

necessary m~ans to preserve the evidence related to the disciplinary proceeding, i~cluding bu,t
not limited to the taking of witness depositions, for use at such time as the stay of the
disciplinary proceedings is lifted, remains in full force and effect w.hi1e Def~ndant remail.1s Qn

I

disability inactive status.
5.

Defendant may not petition for reinstatement t6active statu& as ptovir;led. by 27

N.C.A.C. lB § .012S(c) before the end of one year after entry ofthis order and will'comply with
all conditions under 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0125(c) before petitioning for reinstatement..
6.

To the extent he is able while on disability inactive status, Defendant will

personally -cooperate with the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bat to identify the
proper owners of aU funds remaining in his trust account. Defendant will also cooperate with
any attorney who is appointed as trustee to protect clients' interests pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C.

ra

§ .0122(a)
7.

The Defendant is taxed with the costs of this ~ction.
Signed by the undersigned Chai3.-Wth the full knowledge and cons~nt of the other .

members of the Hearing Committee, this J.L;.-aay of

F. Lane

,~

illiamson, Chair· .
Hearing Committee

(Consents appear on following page)

Page 4 ofS

I
'

...

,',

,2005.

By signing below, the parties affiI'l11 their consent and agreement to the entry ofthe foregoing
Consent Order of Disability in the matter of the North Carolina State Bar v. John Martin, OS
DHC 14:
F or the Plaintiff

°a;:;;ft~ I
Alan M. Schneider, Attorney for Defendant

I

Page 5 ofS

I

. /G,t!

