,.

:'

')

"1

I

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE.90MMITTEE
OFTRE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE·BAR
05G0486

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

ROmiie P; King,
Attorney At Law

REPRIMAND· . ·

On October 20, 2005 the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State· Bar..
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
,ipfOrination available to it, inchlding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "rea$onable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjustifYirig
disciplinary ~ction."
.

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a heming before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
disclpline' depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an a,dmonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A r~primand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issueq in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Ru1es of Professional
Conduct and. has caused harm or potential harm to a: client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievflnce Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case .
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue thi$ reprimand, and 1 am certain that you will
understand :fq.lly the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You formerly represented Brenda 1. in a domestic matter, for which she paid you a $5,000 .
retainer. Ultimately, Ms. J. became dissatisfied with your services and discharged you. She
asl,<:ed you to provide her with an itemized statement of the work you had done and to refund t~e

I
:',.

unearned portion of the retainer. When you did neither, she initiated a f~e dispute proceeding
with the State Bar.
Although you were properly notified of Ms. J's fee dispute and directed to respond, you
failed to do so. On Apri1.20, 2005, the N.C. State Bar opened a grievance file against you, based
upon your failure to participate in the fee dispute process. You were served with the letter of
notice on June 114, 2005 and were directed to respond in writing no later than June 29, 2005. You
did not requestor receive any extensions oftime in which to respond to the Bar.
On Jul)l19, you sent a letter to the Bar in which you stated only that Ms. J. had..
"withdrawn" her complaint. On that same day, bar counsel wrote to you and advised that you
would still need to respond to the Bar's grievance. When you did not file a response, bar
counsel sent yo.u a reminder letter ort Aug. 29. It was not until Sept. 29, 2005 that you finally
submitted a std~stantive response to the complaint.

I

Your failure to participate in the fee dispute process in good faith violated Rule 1.S(t).
Your failure to ,respond in a timely fashion to the State Bar's letter of notice violated Rule 8.1 of
the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are· hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by; you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that yoU will never again allow yourself
to depart from ~dherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accorpance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hyreby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

~ day of. t?)1~

,2005

I

HBllr

I

