BEFORE THE
GRffiVANCECONlliflTTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
, . 04G0461 and 04G0617

NORTH CAROLINA
('

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN RE:

MICHAEL A. DeMAYO,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

..

~

CENSURE

On Apri114, 2005, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Martha L. Ramsay and Melanie Gordon.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carplina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, induding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probaple cause is defined in the ru1e~ as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmi~conductjustifying
disciplinary action."
.

I

....

• ••• 1

:

the rules provide that after a finding ofprobable cause, the Grievance Committee
may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing befort; the Disciplinary Hearing .'
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee m~y issue various level& of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the ~.ctual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure,

.:

.

A Censure isa written form of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in
cases in which an attorney has viollited one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the
administration of justice; the profession or a member ofthe public; but the misconduct does
not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committ~e believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in ~his case and issues this Censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar, it is now my quty to iss'\le this
Censure. I aincertain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is perforrri¢d. .
Ms. Ramsay worked as an associate in your firm concentrating in,. the area of workers'
compensation until her departure on February 9, 2004. Ms. Gordon was a wp:rkers' compensation
client ofy<?ur firm. After Ms. Ramsay's departure, she .contacted many of the firm's workers'

I

/~.

7

compensation clients to inform them that she had left the firm, that she was starting her own
practice, and that the clients, could choose to stay with the firm or retain her to represent them.
Ms. Gordon was one of the clients whom Ms. Ramsay contacted. After you learned that Ms.
Ramsay was contacting these clients, you began your own communications with those clients.
You s~nt at least ~o letters to these clients in Februaty hi which you informed the clients
that they were' clients of your firm, and should not respond to Ms. Ramsay. You also stated in one
of these letters that the clients needed to "hear the truthful facts'; regarding Ms. Ramsay. While
those letteJ,"s raise some concerns about compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct and
the ethics opinions RPC 48 and 200, your letter of March 9, 2004 to Ms. Gordon after she had
elected to retaIn Ms. Ramsay made material misrepresentations about your services and violated '
the Ru1es in other respects.

I"

In your letter to Ms. Gordon, you enclosed a copy of an article from Lctwyers' Weekly
concerning a recent North Carolina Court of Appeals decision permitting a discharged law firm
to sue a former client to receive a fee. You represented that this article WtlS the court's opinion,
not a news account of the opinion, and that it clearly states that you would be entitled to collect
your fee directly from Ms. Gordon. You also stated that you would be "entitled" to collect 90%
to 95% of the entire 25% contingency fee. You indicated that your statement was made "simply
to inform you of your rights."
Your representations in this letter were misleading. First, it is not clear that you wou1d be
entitled to collect your..fee directly from Ms. Gordon in a workers' compensation case. As you
later noted in. your letter, attorneys' fees in workers' compensation proceedings are subject to the
review and approval of the Industrial Commission. The case you cited to Ms. Gordon was an
unpublished opinion involving a standard personal injury claim. It is not clear from that case how
the Court wou1d treat a regulated fee Case. Second, you asserted as fact that you were entitled to
90% to 95% of the fee based on the work completed on the file. That is your opinion, not a fact. ,
Even if you believed that you Were entitled to that share of the fee, presenting it to the client in
the manner expressed in the letter was misleading. Further; your statements about the divisio~ of
fees between you and Ms. Ramsay and questioning Ms. Ramsay's willingness to handle the
matter based on the amount of fees to be paid was an inappropriate communication with
someone you k:rtew was represented by another lawyer.
The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated these Rules of
Professional Cqnduct. By stating or implying that you were entitled to 90% to 95% of the fees in
Ms. Gordon's cp,se and could sue her for those fees, you made. a misleading communication
about your services in violation of Ru1e 7 .1 (a) .. By communicating with Ms. Gordon about her
fee arrangement with Ms. Ramsay and implying that there could be an adversarial proceeding
against Ms. Gordon on the division ofthefees, you communicated with a person you knew was
represented about the the subject matter of the representatioh in violation of Rule 4.2(a) and
attempted to sol~cit representation of thatclieht using intimidation, coercion, or threats in
violation of Rule 7.3(b)(2).

I
.

'

.:

",

In deciding to issue a Censure, the Committee considered aggravating and mitigating
factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered that you have 'substantial experience in the
practice oflaW and that your actions were motivated by selfishness. Further, the Committee

I
. ',:

. /&1

/
believed that yoW actions served only to put your former clients in the'middle of a dispute
between you and Ms. Ramsay over the terms and conditions of her departure from your firm.
Your conduct was an effort on your part to retain these clients and their fees Without
consideration of the clients' wishes. In mitigation, the Committee considered that you had no
prior discipline.

I

Youare hereby Censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the
Rule~ of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this
Censure, recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherenGe to the hlgh ethical standards of the legal profession. This Censure
should serve as a strong -reminder and inducement fot you to weigh carefully in the future
. your responsibility to the public, your clients, your fellow,attorneys and the courts, to the end
that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may
be r~lied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this {::2- day of ~.

,2005.

.'-

He.·
'
Chair, Grievance Committee

I

.'.:"

'.

.
'

