-------------------------------------

--

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff

v.
BRENT

e. WOOD, Attorney,

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

I

Defendant
".
This matter was considered by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary H~aring
Commission composed of Karen Eady-Williams, Chair, and members John M. May and
Lorraine Stephens. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff: the North Carolina State
Bar. The :Defendant, Brent E. Wood, represented himself. Both parties stipulate and
agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to
the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the, entry of this consent order of discipline. Based Upon the stipulations of fact
and the consent ofthe parties, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. ,The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations. of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereundet.

I

2.
The Defendant, Brent E. Wood ("Wood"), was admitted to the North
Carolina. State Bar in 1989 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised
Rules ofPtofessional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Wood was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
'
in Wake CoUnty, North Carolina.

4. I Wood Was properly served with process, a heating in this matter was set,
and the matter came before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.

I

/70

S.
Wood's 1999 state income tax return was due to the North Carolina
Department of Revenue by April1S, 2000. Wood did not obtain any extension for
additional time. The state income tax return Wood filed for 1999 is dated July 26, 2004.
The copy of the 1999 return provided by the North Carolina Department of Revertue to
the State J3ar pursuant to subpoena bears the stamp of A\lgust 27, 2004.

I

6.
Wood's 2000 state income tax return was due to the North Carolina
Department of Revenue by April IS, 2001. Wood did not obtain any extension for·
additional time. The state income tax return Wood filed for 2000 is dated Mar,ch 24,
2004. The copy of the 2000 return provided by the North. Carolina Department of
R~veJiue to the State Bar pursuant to subpoena bears the m~king of April 15., 2004..
7.
Wood's 2001 state income tax return waS due to the North Carolina
Department of Revenue by April IS, 2002. Wood did not obtain any-extension for
additional time. The state income tax return Wood filed for 2000 is dated March 24,
2004. The copy of the 2001 return provided by the North Carolina Department of
Revenue to the State Bar pursuant to subpoena bears the marking of April 15, 2004.
8.
Wood's payment of his 1999 state income tax was due to the North
Carolina Department of Revenue by April 15, 2000. Wood ,did not obtain any extension
for additional time. The payment records provided by the North Carolina Department of
Revenue to the State Bar pursuant to subpoena show payment from Wood for his 1999
state incometax on October 26, 2004.
9.
Wood's paYIJlen.t of his 2000 state income tax. was due to the North
Carolina Department of Revenue by April 15, 2001. Wood did not obtain any e~tension
for additiona~ ti111e. The payment records provided by the North Carolina Department of
Revenue to the State Bar pursuant to subpoena show payment from Wood for his 20bO
state income tax in October 2004, with payments on October 5th and October 26th •

I

1 O.
W60d~s payment of his 2002 state income tax was due to the North
C~olina Department of Revenue by April IS, 2003. Wood did not obtain any extension
for additional time. The payment records provided by the North Carolina Department of
Revenue to the State Bar pursuant to suhpoena show payment from Wood for his 2002 .
state income tax on December 10, 2003.
11.
Willful failure to file or pay state individual income taxes when due is a
Class 1 misdemeanor under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236 (9).
1:2.
Wood was charged in Wake County, North Carolina with willful failureto
file his individual income tax :returns for the yeats 1999 and 2003 and with willful failure
to pay his individual income taxes for the years 1998 and 2003, which are Class 1
misdemeanors under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236(9).

'13.
On November 30,2004, Wood pled guilty to willful failure to file his
individual income tax return for the year 1999. The other charges were dismissed. Wood

- 2'-

I

17(

was ordered to pay $100.00 in court costs and a fine of$150.00. Wood was al~o ordered
to ensure that all his returns were filed and all taxes paid in the amount of $23,000.00.
14.
Wood was served with a letter of notice in this matter by certified mail on
or about April 28, 2005. Wood Was required to respond within fifteen (15) days of
receipt, pursuant to the terms of the letters of notice and Rule .0112(c) of the DisCipline
and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar, 27 N.C. Admin. Code, IB
, § .0112(c). Wood did not respond to the letter of notice.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.1
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
co:qunittee has jurisdi¢tion over the Defendant, Brent E. Wood, and the subject matter.

I

2.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (3) as
follows:
a.

By unlawfully and willfully failing to file and/or pay state income
taxes when those taxes were due, Wood committed criminal acts
that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in
other respects in violation of Rule 8A(b); and

b.

By failing to respond to the letter of notice issued by the Chair of
, the Grievance Committee within the deadline established in the
letter of notice and by the rules, Wood failed to timely respond to'
an inquiry by the Bar in vioJation of Rule 8.1(b) ofthe Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3).

Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional
committe~ hereby finds
, I

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

2.

I

Wood's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Pattern of misconduct;

b.

Multiple offenses; and

c.

Substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

Timely good faith effort to make restitution or to rectify the

-3-

I
. : ..

consequences, including having paid the North Carolina
. Departinent of Revenue his overdue state taxes;

I

b.

Full and free disclosure tQ the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings; . .

c.

Imposition of other penalties or sanctions, to wit: court costs and
.
fine as described above;

d.

Wood suffered from personal, profes~ional, and emotional
difficulties at the time ofthe misconduct, which contributed to his
violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
.

e.

No prior discipline; and

f.
3.

. Remorse.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

Based upon the foregoing factors and with the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of the Defendant~ Brent E. Wood, is hereby sUl:lpertded for two
(2) years and that suspension is stayed for two (2) years upon the following terms and
conditions. During the stayed suspension, Wood shall:

I

a.Comply with the terms of all agreements with the Internal R:evenlle
Service and the North Carolina Department of Revenue in existence during the
stay;
Provide the State Bat with documentation from the Internal
Service (IRS) showing compliance with the terms of-any agreements
with the IRS, documenting compiiartce from the date of the entry of this order
through sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the two year stay and filed with
the State Bat no laterthan fifteen (15) days prior to expiration of the two year
stay;
b.

R~venue

c.
manner;

. File and pay all future state and federal income taxes in a timely

d.
Provide the State Bar with copies of all state and federal income
tax returns filed during the stay and proof of payment of income taxes due during
the stay. Such returns and/or any requests for extetlsionsot other documents
related to the filing andlor payment of Wood's state or federalindivielual income

-4-

I

tax shall be provided to the State Bat within ten (10) days of the filing of such
document(s) with the Internal Revenue Service or the North Carolina Department
of Revenue;
e.
:Not violate any laws of the State of North C&rolina or of the
United States;

f.
Conduct;

Not violate any provision bfthe Revised Rules of Professional

g.
Pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within 30 days of notice of the costs being served upon
him;

I

h.
Pay all Membership dues and Client SecUrity Fund assessments
and comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis;

and

i.
Keep his address of record with the North Catolina State Bar
current, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and

j.
Respond to all letters bfnotice and requests for information from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication.

2.
If during the stay of the two (2) year sllspension Wood fails to comply
with anyone or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph 1(a) through 10) above, then
the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Wood must show by clear, cogent, a,n.d convincing evidence that he complied
with each oIthe following conditions before seeking reinstatement:

a.

Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date of the order
activating his suspension;

I

Complied with allprovisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
b.
Subchapter B, § .0124 ·of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules on a
timely basis;
c.

Not violated any.ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct;

d.
Not violated any laws of the State of North Carolina or ofthe
United States;

-5-

I

(7t.(

e.

Paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary;

f.
Show that he is not then suffering from any disability that would
impair his ability to practice law;
g.
.show he has complied with the tenns of any payment agreements
with the Internal Revenue Service arid the North Carolina Department of Revenue
in effect during the suspension period; \

I

h.
Provided the State Bar with documentation from the Internal
Revenue Service and the North Carolina Department of Revenue showing
compliance with the terms of any payment agreements with these entities during.
the suspension period;
.
i.
Timely filed and paid any state or federal income tax.es coming due_
during the period of the suspension;
j.
Provided the State Bar with copies of all income tax returns filed
during the suspension ~d proof of payment of any income taxes coming due .
during the suspension, filed with the State Bar within ten (10) days offilingWith
the Internal Revenue Service or the North Carolina Department of Revenue;

k.
If the suspension Was activated fot Wood's failure to timely file
.andlor pay state andlor federal individual income tax, Wood will have rectified
the deficiency by filing andlor paying as appropriate the income tax(es) at issue
and will have provided proof of such to the State Bar;

1.
Paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and complied with all Continuing Legal Education requirements Oil a timely basis
as if still in practice during the suspension;

I

m.

Kept his address of record with the North Carolina State Bar

current;
n.

Accepted all certified mail from the North CarolinaState Bar, and

o.
Responded to all letters of notice and req"lJests for infonnation from
the North CarolinaState Bar by the deadlines stated in communications to him
from the' State Bar.
4.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, SubchapterB, § ,0114(x).ofthe
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

-6-

I

this the

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
, 2005.
.\ 'SJ:. day of :Dele M \oe,..

s
Hearing Committee
CONSENTED TO BY:

I

~.

~orter

Deputy Counsel
Attomeor Plaintiff ~.

I

-7-

I

176

