/

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlliVANCECONlliflTIEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR '
05G0503 8? 05G0577

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN tHE MATTER OF
Paul C. Pooley,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND··

On October 20,.2005 'the GrievfP1ce Committee of the North Carolina State Bar n1~t and
considered the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar and V. B.
Pursuant to Section .OI13(a) of the Discipline fPld Disability Rules Qfthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including yoUr response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules. as "reasonable cauSe to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required; and the .Grievance Committee may iSsue various levels of
,discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any·
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, ot a c~nsure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in .
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client"the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance~omitiittee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and jssues this reprimand to you. As chairman ofth"e Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In 1997 or 1998 you were appointed to handle a direct appeal from a crimimil conviction
for Jdhn R. After an exchange of letters and negotiations, it became apparent to you that your
client really wished to file a motion for appropriate relief rather than an appeal, primarily because
he wished to raise an ineffective assistance of counsel claim. It is undisputed, however,thatyo'u

I

...-------------------------------------

- -- -

took no effective action to assist your client for a period of at least three years. Ultimately, in
May 2005, you withdrew from the case. Although you were not required to file a motion for
appropriate relieffor John R., the Committee found that your failure to inform him that he
needed new counsel to proceed with the motion and your failure to timely withdr~w constituted
neglect in violation bfRule 1.3.

In Match 2004, you were appointed to file ali appeal for Vernon B. from his criminal
conviction. Although you served the state with a proposed record on appeal on a timely basis,
you failed to :fjle the settled record for more than a year. In May 2005, you withdrew from the
case and neW counsel was appo~nted. Your conduct in failing to perfect the appeal for your
client violated: Rule 1.3.

I

The Committee also found that you flIed to file prompt responses to the State Bar to
grievances relating to your handling of the appeals for John R. and Vernon B. Your conduct in
this regard violated Rule 8.1.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 'are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

-£ day of

m~

,2005

I
HB/lr

