,..

,BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR.
0401184

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKECOUN1Y

IN THE MATTER OF

I

Vickie R. York
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 20,2005 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievanceS filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the No~h Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable'cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Baris guilty ofmisconductjustitying
disciplin.ary action."
.

I

The rules provide that after a fmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
cletermine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
,
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels ~f
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, ,or a cenSure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

".',

"

,
,

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to ,issue this reprimand, and 1 am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In 2003 you represented A.T. in District Court for a DWI. Because of a mix,.u,.p in court
dates, you were unable to dispose of Mr. T.'S case the last time you and he were in court and the
case had to be continued. However, you failed to con;firm a new court date and an order fOF Mr.
T.'s arrest was issued by the court. You did not take appropriate steps to protect Mr. T.'s

I

"

.

1'_

..
".'

interests before you moved out of state and did not return unearned fees to him in violation of
Rule 1.16 of the Revised
Rules
, . . ofPJ,'ofessional
. - Conduct.
,

' "

~

"

You ate hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adh~rence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North·
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and

otdered~ this the b ~ day of/?~

k

I

.,2005

abb, ChaIr
Grievance Committee
H

.

HB/lr

I

I

