NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE tHE
GRffiVANCECONllifiTTEE
OF tHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G1148

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

THOMAS A. WILL, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

.'

On October 20,2005, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
consi<:iered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability RJIles Qfthe Nor.th Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the infQrtnation
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member ofth~iNorth
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action. II
The rules provide that after a'finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the tiling of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance COl11inittee may issue an aclmonition, a reprimand, or a censure.

I

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases iil which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the professiouo!
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing befote the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the GrievanGe Committee qf
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On-September 16,2004 you appeared before hldge Thomas Taylor in Gaston County. 'You
::.,':"';:,,.
became upset with the Judge and directed a vulgarity towards him. After the Judge had you taken intp .. '
' " (.
custody, while still in open court, you continued your tirade using more vulgar language and impugnil1g . ' ,..... : .
the Judge's intelligence and competence. YO\} were later convicted of contempt of GOurt forthe inc.idtimt .. ,.. '
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules Qf
:
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the',,· ',' .
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the ,: . "
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should'serve as a strong reminder al1d

I

.',

..
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your r~sponsibi1ity to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whos~ conduct may be r~li~d upon without question.
In accord~nce with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina,
State Bar regardmg the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed.
to you.
,

Done andord"l'ed, this

~ day of '11~05.

I

a b, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar
H

I

