BEFORE THE
LINARY HEARING COMMISSION
Q)
OF THE
.~ro NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

STATE OF NORTH CA

WAKE COUNTY

~~

.

03 DHC20

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

.

CONSENT ORDER

v.

I

WILLIAM C. SHUMWAY, Attorney,
Defendant·

This matter waS considered by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Charles Davis, Chair, and members Carlyn G. Poole and H.
Dale Almond, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1,
Subchapt~r B, § .0114(x). The Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. The
Defendant represented himself. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact
recited in this consent order and to the action of this panel ordered herein. Defendant
also stipulates that he wa,ives his right to appeal this consent order or challenge in any
. way the sli;fficiency of the fmdings by consenting to the entry of this order. Based upon
the stipulations and cOlisent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby findS by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following:

Findings of Fact
1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2.
The Defendant, William C. Shumway (hereinafter, Shumway), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on November 4, 1986, and is, and was at all
times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject
to the lawspfthe State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina St~te Bar and the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
On October 18, 2004 the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered an
order finding that Shumway violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in several
respects.
4.
The October 18, 2004 Order of Discipline (hereinafter "Order of
Discipline") suspended Shumway's license to practice law for five (5) years and stayed

I

the suspension for five (5) years, on condition that Shumway comply with the
requirements s~t out in the order.

I

5.
The Order of Disciplin~ required Shumway to submit re~on9i1iation
records for his trust account with individual client l~dgers each month to the North
Carolina State Bar. The ledgers must show amounts held and/or disbursed for each client
in that month. Shumway has submitted the monthly. reconciliation records of his trust
account for the months from November 2004 thrQugh August 2005 but has not submitted
'
client ledgers for those months.
6.
The Order of Discipline required Shumway to have ,a ,Certified Pqplic
Accountant (CPA) audit ·his trust account and submit the CPA's report to the State Bar by
December 20,2004. Shumway did not h~we this audit performed and did not provide a
CPA r¢port to the State Bar.
7.
The Order of Discipline required Shumway to complete 8 additjonal
continuing legal edud'ation hours in law office financial management approved in
advance by the Office of Counsel by December 30, 2004. Shumway did not complete
these additional hours.
'
8.
Shumway was notified bya letter from the State Bar dated June 15, 2005
that he was not in compliance with the conditions of his stayed susp~nsion as described
above. Shumway did not subsequently cure the defects described above or otherwise
comply with these conditions.
9.
The Order of Discipline required Shumway to respond to all letters of
notice and requests for ipi'ormation from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines
stated in the COn1munication. Shumway has failed to comply with this condition, ~
follows:

I

a. Shumway was setved with a letter of notice in file04G 1114 on January 6,
2005. The letter of notice stated he had fifteen (15) days from receipt of
the letter' to respond. Shumway did not respond to the letter of notic~~
The State Bar subsequently sent Slwmway a letter noting that he had not ,,'
responded and asking for his response by February 11, 2005. ShumWElY
did not respond to the follow up letter. Shumway WaS subpoenaed to·
appear on April 18, 2005 and respond to th~ substance of grievan,ce in this
file and produce the pertinent client file. Shurpway appeared in response
to· the subpoena and subsequently submitted a written response to the letter
of notice dated April 22, 2005.
b. Shumway Was served with a letter of notice in file 0500048 oh January
31,2005. The letter of notice stated he had fifteen (15) dayS from receipt
, of the letter to respond. Shumway did not respond to the letter of notice.
The State Bar subsequently sent Shumway a letter noting that he had h,ot
responded and asking for his response -by Match 17,2005. Shumway did

I

not respond to the follow up letter of notice. Shumway was subpoenaed to
appear on April 18, 2005 and respond to the substance of grievance in this
file and produce the pertinent client file. Shtunway appeared in response
to the subpoena and subsequently submitted a written response to the letter
of notiCe dated April 22, 2005.

10.
Shumway's failure to provide'the client ledgers as required by the Order
of Discipline prevents the State Bar from evaluating whether Shumway has continued to
make overdisburs~ments from his trust. account, which was the primary conduct for
which the Order ofDiscip1ine imposed discipline.

I

11.
Shumway's faiitU'e to have a CPA audit his trust account and failure to
provide that audit report to the State Bar prevents the..State Bar from determining whether
Shumway's trust account is now being maintained in accordance with the applicable
State Bar rules.
12.
Shumway's failure to attend the additional continuing legal education
course hows indicates that Shumway has failed to obtain the additional information and
education the hearing cOmnlittee found that he needed to address his misconduct and
prevent a recurrence.
13.
Shumway'S failure to respond to the State Bar's le~ters of notice by the
deadline!) expressed in such communications evidences a continuing disregard for the
authority of the State Bar to regulate the attorneys of North Carolina and for his
obligations to the State Bar as part of this self-regulation, and compromises the ability of
the State' Bar to protect the public.

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated' Findings of
Fact, the hearing committee enters the following:
Conclusions Of Law

I,.
All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee
has jurisdiction over the Defendant and the subject mattet of this proceeding..

I

2..
Shumway has failed to comply with the conditions of the stay of his
suspension, as recited above.
,

3'.
A hearing committee of the DHC previously determined that a five year
suspension of Shumway's law license was the discipline necessary to address the harm to
the profession and the significant threat of harm posed to his clients caused by his
mis¢onduct, as recited in the Order of Discipline entered in this matter dated October 18,
2004, if Shumway failed t.o comply with the conditions of the stay of that suspension.
4.
Shumway'S willful and repeated failures to comply with the Order of
Discipline entered in this case ate signific'lnt, directly affect the ability of the State Bar to

I

protect t4e public and the profession as found above, and warrant activation of the five
year suspension of his law license.
THEREfORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:
1.
The stay of the suspension of the law li6~nse of William C. Shumway
imposed by the Order of Discipline previously entered in this caSe dated October 18,
2004 is, hereby lifted~ and the law license of William C. Shumway i$ hereby suspended
for five years, effective thirty day~ from the filing of this order.
.

I

2.
Shumway shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the filing' of this order,
3.
Shumway shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, SUbchapter B, § .0124(b) ,.of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disabflity Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the
North Carolina State B~ within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying he
has complied with the.wind.downrule.
4.
Shumway shall properly disbursed the funds remaining in his trust account
upon the effective date of this suspension. Shumway must provide the Office of CoW}sel
of The North Carolina State:aar with client ledgers for clients who have funds in his trust
account on the effective date of this sUspel1sion showing all receipts and disbwsemetlts
for such clients.. Shumway must also provide the State Bar with a final reconciliation of
his trust account, accoUIlting for all activity from the effective date of this suspension
through the closing out of his trust account. This documentation is due sixty (60) days
from the effective date of this suspension ..

I

I

5.
Should Shumway seek reinstatement, Shumway will be req:uired to show
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following, in addition to the requirements
of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125 of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules:
. a.

Be properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of2? N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of
the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

b.

He paid th~ costs of this proceeding withip. 30 days of service of
the statement of costs up'on him;

c.

He properly disbursed the funds remaining in his trust accolll1t
upon the effective date of this suspension. Shumway must provide,
the State Bar with client ledgers for clients who had funds' in his
trust accoll11t on the effective d::tte of this· suspension shoWing all
receipts and disbursements for such clients. Shumway must also
prOVIde the State Bar with a final reconciliation of his trust
account, accounting for all activity from the effective date of this
suspension through the closing out of his trust account;

d.

He kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home address;

e.

He responded to all communications from the North Carolina State
Bat repeived after the effective date of this order within 30 days of
receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever
is sooner; and

r.

He has not violated the Revised Rules of professional Conduct or
the laws of the United States or any state.

I

Sighed by the urtdersigned hearing cohmlittee chair with the consent of the other
hearing comh1ittee members.

CQ~kJ~

Charles Davis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

Agreed to and consented by:

William· . Shumway
Defen t

. orter
Attorney for Plaintiff

I

I

