i

i
"

,I

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKECOUN'TY

Plaintiff

I

v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
,CONCLUSIONS 'OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

. JAMES A. BEALES, JR., Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing cOminittee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed ofF. Lane Williamson, Chair, and members Karen Eady~
Williams and R. Mitchel Tyler. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff, the North
Carolina State Bar. The Defendant, James A. Beales, Jr., represented himself: Both
parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this
consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any
and all right to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Based upon the
stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby finds ,by'
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of N orth C~olina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and, the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
.
2.
Defendant, James A. Beales ("Beales"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1977, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney 8,t
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised.
Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
DUring all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein; Beales was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Elizabeth City, Pasquotank County, North Carolina.
.
4.
Beales was properly served with process,. a hearip,g in this. matter was set,
and the matter Came before the hearing committee with due notice to all p~ties.

I

,

~ ~.
d- --:->o.
.

'

5.
During the time he practiced law in Elizabeth City, Beales maintained a
trust account for client funds at Centura Bank in Rocky Mount, North Carolina.
6.
At about the end of February 2003 Beales closed his law office and ceased
practicirlg law as a sole practitioner. At about this same time Beales began employment
with Ed»,ard Jones Investment Office in Kitty Hawk, North Carolina.
7.
After disbursing SOllie funds as he completed some client matters, by
about July 1,2003 Beales had about $6,347.36 remaining in his trust account. Beales has
not dishqrsed funds held for clients from his trust account to or on behalf of those clients
since July 1,2003. Beales did not disburse all client funds remaining in his trust account
to the clients or according to the clients' instructions prior to ceasing his practice oflaw.

I

8.
During the month of February 2003 but prior to closing his practice that
same month, Beales accepted neW clients and accepted money from these clients to
representthelli in their legal matter, including but not limited to the following clients:
Christina Sheppard and Michelle 1. Lewis.
9.
When he undertook the representation of the clients described in
paragrap4 8 above in February 2003, he did not inform them that he would close his
practice at the end of that month and cease representation of them at that time.
10.
When Beales closed his laJ. practice in February 2003 he left legal matters
unresolved for the following clients: Christina Sheppard, Michelle 1. Lewis, Elsie
Branch, Charles Grandy, Mazelirte B. Curry, and Michael Smithson.

,

11.
Beales did not arrange for alternative legal representation or an otherwise
orderly tetmination of representation for the clients named above.
12,
Beales did not contact these clients to inform them of his intent to close
his practice, to discuss alternate representation for the clients, Or to otherwise discuss or
arrange an. orderly termination of his representation of these dients.

I

13..
Beales did not refund unearned fees to these clients when he closed his
law practiqe
and
ceased representation of his clients.
,
14.:
Beales did not return client files to these clients when he closed his law
practice and ceased representation of his clients.
15. . Beales was served with a petition for fee dispute pertaining to Btanch on
or about October 29, 2003 and was required to respond within 15 days of receipt. Beales
did not timely respond. He responded with a letter dated January 5, 2004, received by the
State Bar on January 12,2004.

-2-

I

16.

Beales was served with a petition for fee dispute pertaining to Curry on or
about July 12,2004 and was required to respond within 15 days of receipt. Beales did
110t respond to the Curry fee dispute letter.

I

17.
As' a result of Beales' failure to timely respond to the Branch fee dispute,
on or about December '12,2003 Branch was notified that Beales failed to participate-in
the fee dispute program and a grievance file was opened on Beales for failure to
participate in the fee dispute program. Likewise, Curry was informed of Beales' failure
to participate in the fee dispute program regarding her fee dispute and a grievance file
was opened regarding this failure to participate.
18.
Beales was served with Letters ofN9tice issued by the Chair of the
Grievance Committee pertaining to Smithson, Lewis, and Sheppard on or about October
29,2003, pertaining to Branch onot about March 11,2004, and pertaining to Grandy on
or about June 22, 2004. He was required to respond to each Letter pfNotiCe within -15
days of receipt.

19.
and Grandy.

Beales;provided no response to the Letters of Notice pertaining to Branch

20.
Beales obtained an extension of time to respond to the Letters of Notice
pertaining to Sheppard, Lewis, and Smithson until December 1; 2003. Beales did not
submit a timely response. He did provide a response letter dated January 5, 2004,
received by the State BI;I! on Janul;l!y 12,2004.
21.
Beales signed an Acceptance of Service of a Letter of Notice pertaining to
the Curry grievance on June 27, 2005. Beales had 15 days from receipt to respond.
Beales did not respond to the Letter of Notice pertaining to Curry.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and, the
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, James A. Beales; Jr., ap,d the subject
matter.
2.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the .Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline as follows:
(a)

By failing to respond to the Letters of Notice issued by the Chair
of the Grievance Committee pertaining to Branch, Curry, 'and'
Grandy and by failing to timely respond to the Letters ofNotice
issued by the Chair of the Grievance Committee pertaining to
Sheppard, Lewis, and Smithson within the deadline established in
the Letter of Notice and by' the rules, Beales failed t6 timely respond to inquiries by the Bar in violation of Rule 8.1 (b) of the

-3"

.....

Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8428(b)(3);
(b)

By failing to timely respond to the notice of petition for fee dispute
resolution pertaining to Branch and Curry, Beales failed to
participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process of the
North Carolina State Bar in violation of Rule I.S(f);

(c)

By failing to notify his clients of his intent to close his practice and
by not contacting his clients when he closed his practice t6 discuss
the status of their cases,. Beales failed to keep his clients reasonably
informed about the status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a);

(d)

By closing his practice and abandoning his clients and their
pending legal matters, Beales failed to act with reasonable
diligence an.d promptness in representing his clients in violation or
.. Rule 1.3;

(e)

By retaining and failing to refund any unearned portion of the fees
paid to him by the clients whose cases he left unresolved when he
closed his law practice, Beales collected a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule l.S(a); and

(f)

By failing to give his clients reasonable notice of his intent to
terminate his repres~ntation, by failing to make alternate
arrangements for representation for his clients, and/or by failing to
return client files upon closing his law practice, Beales failed to
take reasonable steps to protect his clients' interests upon his
termination of the representation in violation of Rule I.I6(d).

Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional

I

I

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCipLINE
1.

Beales' misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Pattern of misconduct;

b.

Multiple offenses;

c.

Substantial experience in the practice of law;

d.
Bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by
intentionally failing to comply with the rules and orders of the Dfic; and

-4-

I

e.
Vulnerability of victims, particularly Curry, who was out of state
and therefore particularly dependent upon Beales .should action be needed in the
North Carolina family law matter for which she had retained him, and the clients
whose cases Beales accepted in February 2003 ,without notifying them of his
intent-to end his practice of law that month
2.

Beales' misconduct is mitigated by the following factor;
a.

I

3.

No prior discipline.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factor.

Ba~ed upon the foregoing factors and with thecbnsent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license of the Defendant, James A. Beales, Jr., is hereby suspended for
five (5) years. This suspension shall go into effect thirty days from thetnailing gfthis
order to Beales at the address of record for Beales held by the Membership Department
of the State Bar.
.

2.
Beales shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina Stat~ Bar no later than 30 days following the mailing ofthis order
.
upon Defendant.

I

3.
Beales shall: comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter L Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules, including but not limited to distributing any client
property, including funds held for clients in his trustac90unt, to his former clients or
initiating appropriate escheat procedures. Defendant shall file an affidavit certifying he .
has compIled with the wind down rule with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar
within 30 days of the effective date oftnis order.
4.
In addition to complying with the provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125 ofthe North Carolina State Bar
Discipline {k Disability Rules, Beales must have complied with t~e following conditions
in order to qualify ror reinstatement:
a.
Reimbursed the following clients the full amounts paid to him by
these clients no later than 30 days after this order is mailed t6 him, as set out
below. If Beales is holding any funds in his trust account for these clients, the
reimbursement under this provision shall include disbur$ement of the trust funds
to such clients plus payment of any difference between the amount held in trust

-5-

I
.,

and the amount listed below. If Beales cannot locate any of these clients, Beales
shall contact the State Bar. If the State Bar cannot provide accurate contact
information for such c1ient(s), Beales $hall pay the reimbursement into his trust
~ccount and initiate appropriate escheat procedures within the 30 day deadline.
1.

Christina Sheppard, $400.00;

11.

Michelle 1. Lewis, $190.00;

111.

Elsie Marie Branch, $4,000.00;

IV.

Charles Grandy, $2,500.00;

v.
VI.

I

Mazeline B. Curry, $1,500.00; and
Michael Smithson, $1,000.00.

b.
Provided the State Bar with documentation of the reimbursements
required above, including copies of the payments made and correspondence sent
to such clients and a release authorizing the State Bar to obtain banlc records to
verify these disbursements no later than 45 days after the mailing of this order to
Beales;
c.
Disbursed all remaining foods currently held in his trust account to
the appropriate clients, or initiate appropriate escheat procedures, within 30 days
of the mailing of this order to him; .
d.
Provided the State Bar with documentation showing disbursement
of all remaining funds in his trust account and/or the initiation of appropriate
escheat procedures and a release authorizing the State Bar to obtain banlc records
to verify these disbursements no later than 45 days after the mailing of this order
to 'Beales;

I

e.
Paid the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within 30 days of notice of the costs being mailed to him
at p.is address of record; and

f.
Responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in eachcommunicatiort.

-6-

I

,"

I

"

.

,this the

.

Signe$-!Y the ChaIr wi.th the consent ofthe·othet hearing committee members,
6£.Ydayof ~ . '
,200~
,
"
"
,

.

c

~~~~~'~.

F. Lane Wllhamson

-,.---

Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Committee.

CONSENTED TO BY:

lfer
er
Deputy Counsel
Attorney.for Plaintiff

I

-7-

I
...

...

