NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

)
)

)
FINDINGS OF fACT,
) 'CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPL~

v.
NATHANAEL K. PENDLEY, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)

On November 18,2005, this matter came on to be heard before a heating committee of
the Disciplinary Hearing COlnmission composed ofTommyW. Jarrett, Chair; Charles M. Davis,
and R. Mitchel Tyler. A. Root Edmonson represented. the North Carolina State Bar and the
Defendant appe~redpro se. Based lJponthe facts alleged in the Complaint that are d~emed
admitted by the Defendant's default~ the hearing committee finds the following has been
established b~ clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF PACT
1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is th~ proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority grant~d it h~ .
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNorili Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. The def~Ildant, Nathanael K. Pendley ("Pendley'), was aclmitted to the North Carolina
State Bar on November 11, 1988 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at
Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, ~ndRules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina•.
3. During the tillies relevant to this complaint, Pendley actively engaged in the privafe
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law practice in the town of
Clemmons, For$yth County, North CaroJin~.
4. In April 2001, Mr. Michael R. Fleming ("Fleming") retained Pendley to handle the
adoption of Fleming's stepson, Nicholas Reed Giroux:. Fleming paid Pendley the $500 legal fee
Pendley requested.
5. On January 17,2002, Pendley filed a petition for adoption on Fleming's behalf with
the Forsyth County Clerk ofSuperior Court.

I

6, On October 2,2002, after being advised by a representative of the Department of
Social Services ("DSS") that DSS had contacted Pendley in July 2002 to get him to prepare a
final adopti~n decree fot Fleming without success, Fleming prepared a fee dispute petition that
'.
he sent to the North Carolina State Bar.
7. On October 2, 2002, an assistant clerk in Forsyth County signed a Decree of Adoption
for Fleming~s adoption of Nicholas Reed Fleming·(formetly Giroux.)
8. On October 4,2002, a·fee dispute file was'opened against Pendley based upon the
petition mailed by Fleming. The fee dispute was assigned file number 02FD0506 by the North
Carolina State Bar.

I

9. O,n October 7, 2002, Luella C, Crane ("Crane") sent Pendley a Notification of
Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution ("notification") by certified mail that advised Pendley of his
obligation to provide a written response to Fleming's petition within 15 days of his receipt of the
notification. .
.
.
10. The State Bar's fee dispute file does not contain a return receipt ~howing when
Pendley received Crane's October 7, 2002 letter.
11. On November 18, 2002, after not receiving a response to the Fleming fee dispute
from Pendley, Crane sent Pendley a second notification letter by certified mail reminding him
that he had a duty to respond to the fee dispute sent to him on October 7, 2002.
12. On November 20,2002 Pendley received Crl;lp,e's November 18,2002 second
notification letter..
13. Pendley failed to respond to the Fleming fee dispute petition.
14. On January 16,2003, as a result of Pendley's failure to respond to the Fleming fee
dispute petition, the North Carolina State Bar opened a grievance against Pendley. The grievance
was assigned: file number 03GOI01.

I

I

15. On May 6, 2003, Pendley was sent a Letter of Notice authorized by the Chair of the
Grievance COmmittee. by certified mail that advised Pendley that he had 15 days to respond to the
substance of the grievance in 03GOI0l that was attached to the letter.
16. On May 7,2003, Pendley received the May 6, 2003 Letter of Notice.
17. Pendley failed to timely re$pond to the Letter of Notice, even after receiving a May
29, 2003 letter reminding him of his duty to respond.

2

I

.

18. On or about November 5, 2003, Billy F~ May ("May") consulted wHh PendJey about
the possibility of Pendley representing May in two ~uto accidentcase~ that occurred in ~003"
Both accidents occurred' out of state.
19. May left his files on the two accidents with Pendley.
"

'I'~

,

,

20. Pendley co~tacted the two insurance companies that insured the other drivers in
May's accidents. Pendley advised representatives'ofthe insurance companies that he was calling
on May's behalf, but never sent a letter of representation to the insurance companies as they
requested.
.
21. In late December 2003, May moved from the state, and a~ked Pendley to return his
files to him.
22. On June 10, 2004, when Pendley failed to teturn his files to him, May contacted
Amber Moore ("Moore") with the Client Assistance Program <of the North Carolina State Bar.
23 . Op Julie 10,2004 and June 11,2004, Moore left messages for Pendley concerning
May's desire to get his files from Pel1.dley.
24. On Jtme 22, 2004, after receiving a voicemail from Pendley, Moore talked with
Pendley: Pendley told Moore that he would send May his files and send Moore a copy 9fthe
cover letter.
'
25. On JUQ.e 6, 2004, after again beipg contacted by May due to Pendk:y's failure tq
return May's file, Moore left Pendley another message reminding him to send May his files ..
26. Pepdley failed to timely return. Mai s files to him.

I

27. 01) July lQ, 2004, after Pendley failed to send the files to him, May filed a grievance:
against Pendley with the North Carolina State Bar. The grievance was assigned the file number
04G0829.
28. On July 29,2004, Pendley was sent a Letter of Notice authorized by the Chair of the
Grievance Committee by certified mail that advised Pendley that he had 15 days to respond to the
substance of the grievance in 04G0829 that was attached to the letter,
.
29.

Oh July 30,2004, Pendley received the July 29, 2004 Letter of Notice.

30. When Pendley failed to timely respopd to the Letter of Notice, an August 20, 2004
letter was sent to Pendley reminding him of his duty to respond. The letter asked Pendley to .
respond by August 27,2004,

3

I

,/

31. After receiving the reminder letter, Pendley asked for two extensions of time to
respond. Pendley waS given two extensions, the last of-which gave Pendley until September 30,
2004 to respond to May's grievance.
32. On October 1,2004, Pendley faxed three pages of a response to the North Carolina
State Bar. 1i'he bottom of the third page of the response ended mid-sentence. In the part of the
response that was received, Pendley had not responded to the issue of whether Pendley had sent
.
May hIS files.
33. On November 1, 2004, a Deputy Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar sent a letter
to Pendley advising him that only three pages of his reSponse had been received, and that there
appeared to be pages that were not received. Pendley w~s asked to provide an additional
response that would include a response to May's allegation that Pendley hadn't returned his files.
The letter requested that Pendley respond further no later than November 12, 2004.

..

I

34. When Pendley fail~d to respond to the November 1, 2004 letter, on November 15,
2004, Deputy Counsel sent another letter to Pendley asking for Pendley's further response to
May's griev~ce to be filed no l~ter than December 1, 2004.
35. Pendley failed to make any further response to the May grievance.
.

.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. A~l parties are properly before the hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission and the hearing committee has jurisdiction over Pendley and the subject matter.
2. Pendley'S conduct, as set out above, constitutes grqunds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) and §84-28(b)(3) as follows:
(a)

by failing to provide a response to Fleming's fee dispute petition, Pendley
, failed to participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process in
violation of Rule 1.5(f)(2);

(b)
!

(c)

I

I

by failing to timely respond to a lawfui demand for information from a
disciplinary a~thority in the Fleming grievance, Pendley violated Rule
8.1 (b);
by failing to timely return May's files to him after numerous requests by
May and Moore beginning in December 2003, Pendley failed to surrender
papers and property to which the client is entitled upon termination of the
representation in violation of Rule 1.l6(d); and

4

I

(d)

by failing to respond to a lawful demand for infonnation from a
di.jlciplinary alJthority in the May grievance, Pendley violated Rule 8.1 (b).

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of.Fa~t, the Conclusions of Law, and the evidence
presented at the hearing, the hearing committee hereby makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Pendley's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

prior disciplinary offenses;

(b)

a pattern of tnisconduct;

(c)

multiple offenses; and

(d)

substantial experience in the practice of law.

2. Pendley's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
(a)

absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

(b)

mental impairment or emotional problems; and

(c)

genuine remorse.

3. An order calling for discipline short of a stayed suspension of Pendley's
license would not sufficiently protect the public and the profession fot the following
reasons:

I

5

(a)

Pendley failed to adequately respond to at least six attempts the
State Bar made to get him to respond tQ the allegations made by his
client$ in these matter& when they were pending before the Fee
Dispute Resolution PJ;"ogram or the Grievance Committee.

(b).

Pendley also failed to answer the a1legations after they were
brought in the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. This is so even
though he was petsonaJly served with the Complaint, and initially .
asked for an extension of time to, respond. However, Pendley did
~ppear at the hearing and participate in the proceeqing.

(c)

Entry of an order impQsing lesser discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of Pendley's failure to attend to his
obligation to abide by the rules of the North Carolina State Bar
concerning the administration of the disciplin~ process.,

(d)

When the Fleming grievance waS pending before the Grievance
Committee, Pendley was offered an opportunity to have the
grievance deferred by his acceptance of a referral to the Lawyer
Assistance Program. On July 23,2004, Pendley consented to the
referral. However, Pendley failed to complete his Lawyer
Assistance Program contract.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and the arguments of
counsel, the hearing committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

.'

I

1. the license of the Defendant, Nathanael K. Pendley; is suspended for two years.
2. The two-year suspension is stayed upon the following conditions:
a}

Pendley shall obtain a physical and mehtal examination by a psychiatrist
approved by the North Carolina State Bar within 3 months from service of
this order upon him. The evaluation and any subsequent treatment shall be
obtained at Pendley'S expense.

b)

Pendley shall comply with all treatment recommendations of the psychiatrist
thereafter.

.c)

Pendley shall execute a written release authorizing the Office of Counsel of
the North Carolina State Bar to contact the psychiatrist who performs the
evaluation and treatment to obtain copies of his medical records relating to
his evaluation and treatment from the psychiatrist and all other treating
medical personneL

d)

Pendley shall respond to all cortununications from the North Carolina State
Bar within 30 days of receipt or the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is earlier.

e)

Pendley shall not violate the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of any state or of the United States.

f)

Pendley shall maintain his membership dues owed to the North Carolina
State Bar and comply with all mandatory continuing legal education
requirements.

g)

Pendley shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of
the North Catolina State Bar.

I

6

I

Signed by the chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, this
the

I

7

I

qft..aay of J""Q

N

lA.(}

Vlj

2006.

