BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
, ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05DH(49

STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING DEFENDANT to
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

v.

I

ROBERT H. FRIEND, Attorney - Inactive.
Defendant

This Platter was considered by a hearing co;mtnittee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed ofCatlyn G. Poole, Chair, and members M. Ann Reed and JcihnnyA.
Freeman. Jel:urlfer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff, the North Carolina Btate Bar. The
D~fendant, Robert H. Friend, represented himself Both parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the transfer to
disability inactive 'status. -Defendant freely and vohintarilywaives any and all right to appeal the
entry of this consent order. Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the
heC),ring cQminittee
hereby finds by clear, cogent, .and convincing evidence the following
,

.

'

FINDINGS OF FACT

, 1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statqtes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
'

I

Defendant, Robert H. Friend ("Friend"), was admitted to the North Carolina State
_ 2.
Bar in 1978,' and is, and Was at all times referred t6 herein, an, attorney at law licensed to practice
in N0rthCarolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations
of the North 'Carolina State B~ and th~ Revjsed Rules ofProfessiohal Conduct. Friend
transferred t6 inactive status on October 24, 2003.
3.
buring the times relevant to the second claim for relief in this complaint, Friend
Was engaged in the practice' oflaw i1:1 the St,ate of North Carolina and maintained a-Iaw'office in
Greensboro, Guilford County, North Caro:lina.
'
4. ,
Friend was properly served with process; a he'aring in this matter was set, and the
matter cameibefore the hearing committee with due notic~ to all parties.

I

5.

In ahout ;2002, Friend manifested symptoms of bipolar disorder.

6.

'Friend Was hospitalized for syrr'lptoms ofbipoiar disorder in about 2002.

7.
Friend applied for Social Security disability benefit~ based upon his bipolar
disorder and qualified for such disability benefits in about January 2003. Friend currently
receives dis~bi1ity benefits baSed upon his bipolar disorder from the Social Security
Administration.

I

, 8.

Friend closed his law practice in ~bout 2003.

9.
Friend dosed his law practice because his mental illnes's significantly impaired
his ability to practice law.
10.
Friend Was hired by Roosevelt Squirewell ("Squirewell") to handle Squirewe11's
appeal in a civil caSe in about JUne 2002.
11.

Friend filed a notice of appeal on Squirewell's behalfb'9t failed to perfect the

appeal.
12.
Friend destroyed his' client files when he closed his law practice in 2003,
including Squirewell's file. Squirewell had provided Friend with receipts related to ,the
" underlying civil action. These receipts< were destroyed with Squirewell's client file. When
,,:.. ~ Squit~well requested his client file and receipts from Friend, Friend could not return them to .
Squirewell. '
.<
13.
Friend's failure to perfect Squirewell's appeal and his failure to take ~y other
L': action on behalf ofSquirewell resulted from the impairment caused by Friend's bipolar disorder.

ib

I

14.
Friend finds it is a struggle to do anything and has felt so since about 2003. Be
feels too fatigued to participate inactivities and spends most of his time reading and watching
teleVision.
15.
·Friend applied to The North Carolina State Bar for transfer to administrative
inactive status in 2003.
'
16.
Friend applied fot transfer to administrative inactive-membership status based.
upon his inability to function as an attorney due to his mental illness.
17.
Friend was transferred to inactive membership: status pursuant to his petition 011
Octobet 24,2003.
CONCLUSIONS OF tAW
< 1.
The Drsciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over the person of the·
Defelldant and over the' subject matter of this proceeding.

... 2-

I
.~

"

j,'

•

~

•

2.

Friend suffers from a physical or mental condition that significantly
impairs his professional judgment, performance ot competence as a: lawyer within the
meaning off7 NCAC 1, Subchapter B, Section .0103(19) ofthe State Bar's Discipline
& Disability Rules.

ORDER
1.
Defendant, Robert H. Friend, is hereby transferred to disability inactive status, in
accordance with North Carolina General Statute § 84-28 and 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118.

2. ' Proceedings 'concerning the disciplinary violations alleged in the State Bar's
complaint are abated 'until such time as Friend is reinstated to a<;tive statu~.

I

3. .
,," Friend shaH subtnithis Hcense andniember-ship,card to.f;he Secretary of
the North Catolina State Bar nO later than 30 days fOlloWing the mailing of this order to him at
the address of record held by the Meinbership Department of the State Bar.

4.

Friend shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
, 'Code Chapt~r 1, Subchapter B, § .01'24 of the North Catolina State Bar Disciplin~ & Disability
Rules.
5.
The costs of this proceeding are taxed against Fdend and the Secretary of the
, State Bar shall send a statement of costs to Friend. These costs are due upon petition by Friend
for reinstatement to active'status. Friend inust pay such costs as a prerequisite to qualifying for
reinstatement, in addition to meeting the requirements of27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0125.

,.; I

Sign~d by th~ Chait with the

~ day of

Ja.nU4YLL.

consent of the other hearing committee members, this the
. ,2006.

\

/:J~

--~-~~~~~

I

--------~--

earlyn G. '0. e
Chair, Disc inary HearingCohnnittee

CONSENTEb TO BY:

(J< ~~Qrter
~ ~:R~ty Cotln~el

Robert' H: Friend
Defendant

Attorney for Plaintiff

-3-

I

