BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF,THE

WAKECOl.1NTY
,-

NORTH-CAROLINA STATE BAR
04DHC 18 '

'7'

THE NORTH CAROLIN,A:'LJ,I.,,'.,..,,='''''
Plaintiff

I

MODIFIED ORDER

OF DISCIPLINE

v.
1)eodore F. CutrUning§, Ill, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter came before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of F. Lane WilliamsoIl; Chair, and members Carlyn G. Poole and
Marguerite P.Watts on January 5, 2006. Jennifer A. Porter represented th~ Plaintiff, the,
North Carolina State Bar. Ernest (Jay) Reeves, Jr. represented the befendant, Theodore
F. CUrturiings~ III., Based upon the stipulation of the p~ies and the evidence presented <;1t
hearing, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following

FINDlNOS OF FACT
1.
The Piaintiff, the North Catolina State BElt, is a body duly organiZed tmder
the laws of North Carolina ·and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
a~thority granted it in Chapter 84' of the General Statutes ,of North Carolin~ and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.,

I

2.
The befenqant, Theoqote F. Cummings, III ("Cununings") was ~nritted
to the North Carolina State Bar in 1978 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an'
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and R,egul~tions of the North Catolina State Bat and th~
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or p-art of the relevant periods referred to herein~ CumIilinQs
was engaged in the practi~e of law in the State of North Carolina and practiced from Ii
law office located in rus residence in Lenoir, Caldwell COUlity, North Carolina and from a
law office in Hickory, Catawba COUrtty, North Carolina.

4.Cumtrtings WaS- properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was
set, and the matter came before the hearing committee with due Dotice to all parties.

..

f • • ';" •

I
'.

::

5..
On August 2, 2004 this hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Corrirt1ission entered an or~et fmding that Cummings had violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct byfailmg to timely file and pay his federal and state i~come taxes
for a number 'of years, failing to comply with a State Bar subpoena, and failing to timely
respond to an inquiry of the State Bar.

6'.

Th¢ August 2, 2004 Order of Discipline suspended Cummings's license to
pr~ctice law for two (2) years and stayed the suspensjon for two (2) years, on condition
that C~mings comply with the requirements set out in the order.
7;
On November 15, 2'005, the Stare Bar filed a Motion for .order to Show
Cause alleging Cummings had not ~otnplied with certain provisions of the stay of his
suspension set out in the 2004 Order of Discipline.

I

8.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission retained juri~diction of this matter
pUrstiantito 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § ·.0114(x) of the North
Carolina iState Bar Discipline and Disability Rilles throughout the period of the stayed
suspension and this' matter is properly before this hearing, committee.

9.:
The Aligust 2, 2004 Order of Discipline required Cummings to submit to
the' State, Bat copi~s of all tax retttrns),filed during the stay and proof of payment of the
taxes due during the stay, to be filed with the State Bar contemporaneously with filip.g
with the Internal Revenue' Service or North Carolina Department of Revenue.
10.
Cummings was reqUired to provide the State Bar with a copy of his 2004
federal and state income tax returns upon filing such returns. Tax returns for 2004 were
due to be filed by April 15, 2005 unless an extension was obtained. Cummings was also
required to provide the State Bar with proof of payment of his 2004 taxes upon payment
ofth<?se ~es, which was due by April 15, 2005.

11,.
Cummings did not provide the State gat with a copy of his 2004 federal or
state individual income 'tax retlJ.njs, nor did he provide the State Bar with any
documenfution of an extension, prior to or on April 15, 2005. Cummings al'so did not
provide the State Bar with any proof of payment of his 2004 federal or state taxes prior to
or on April 15; 2005.

I

12:.
CoUnsel for the North Carolina State Bar sent Cummings a letter dated
June 2, 2005 notifying him that he was not in compliance with the conditions of his
stayed stl$pension and requiring him to submit a copy of his tax returns and proof of
payment 6f his taxes to the State Bar. The State Bar required his response with the tax
returns and proof of payment or documentation of an extension to be delivered to the
State Bar within two weeks.
13 f
Cummings did not provide cQpies of his 2004 tax returns, proof of
payment Qf his 2004 taxes, documentation of an extension, or any other response to the
State Bar's June 2,2005 request for information.

-2-

I

, 14.
On August 22, 2005, State Bar Counsel sent Cqmmings another letter
again calling his attention to his nonMcompliance with the A1,lgust 2, 2004 Order of
,I;>iscipline artd requiring his response and the outstanding tax returns, proof of payment,
'or extension within 10 days of that letter;
,
"

I

15.
Cummings did hot provide copies of his 2004 tax returns, proof of
payment ()f his ,2004 taxes, documentation of an extension, or any other response ,to the
State Bar's August 22,2005 request for information.
16.
Cummings filed his 20M federal' and state income tax tetums in October
2005. Cllllifilings paid llis 20Q4 federal and state income tax in December 2005.
17.
Ctln'1rtliilgs provided docuplentatiort of his filing of his 2004 federal arid
&tate income tax returns anq of his ,payment of his 2004 federal and state income t~e!)
through counsel for the hearing in this matter'on Janpary 4,2006.
18.
The August 2, 2004 Order of Discipline also required Cummings to "
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from th~ North Carolina State
' ,Bat by the deadlines stated in the communication.
19.
Cilmmjngs was served with a letter of notice .in:GIe 0500879 on
September 22, 2005. The letter of notice stated he had fifteen (15) days from receipt of
the letter to respond. Accordingly. Cumnnngs' response was due by Octobet 7, 2005.
20.

Ctl1r1n1ingsdid not respond to the letter ~fi1otice by October 7, 2005.

21.
The State Bar sent CUIillnings a letter dated October 17., 2005 noting, that
he had not respond~d and asking for his response by October 24~ 2005,

I

22.
CUrtlniings' called the State Bar and made arrangements to provide a
response by October 28, 2005. Cummings provid~d a resp~nse on October 28, 2005.
CONCLUSIONS OF'LAW
Al1 the parties are properly before the he~ng committee and the
I.
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Theodore F. Cummings, III, aildthe
subject matter.
2.
The Defendant;s conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, is :in
violation of the conditions of the stay of the suspension previously imposed by this
hearing committee in its 2004 Order of Discipline, as follows:
a.By failing to provide the State B~ with' documentation of the filirig
of his 2004 federal and state income tax returns and of the payment of his 2004

-3-

'.

"

.:..

','~

'.

..,'

.

"~"

•• , . '

'.

..'

',0

¥',

'

federal and state income taxes contemporaneously with such filing and payment;
,and
.

b.

By failing to timeiy respon.d to the ietter of notice he received from

~he State Bar in file

;Based

upon

0500879.

the evidence presented

at.

hearing, the hearing committee hereby

makes additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REQARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Cthiitnings has shown Ii pattern of failing to timely respond to inqUiries of
the State Bar.

I

I

2.
Clitn1lli~gs has failed to treat his obligation to respond to the State Bar and
to participate in the State Bar's regulation of the profession as the professional obligation
it is.
Cununirtgs' failure to comply with his obligations to respond to inquiries
3.
of the State Bar and to comply with the conditions of the stay of his suspension show a
troubling lack of respect for the State Bar's tegulatioTl and its orders.
I

4.Cu~rtgs' failure to participate as requited in the State Bar's regulation

of the profession compronll$es the State Bar's ability to regulate the profession and
underm41es respect for the State Bar's system of self-regulation.

5'.

CllinIfiings 'has not engaged in conduct that harmed the clients he

reptesents~

6.
Cummings is currently representing thirteen clients in murder cases
assigned to him by the Office of the Capital Defender fot North Carolina, several of
which are capital murder cases.

I

7.

CUinnlings has been appointed to numerous cases over the yeats by the
Office of the Capital Defender, based on his diligence, his ability, and his willingness to
travel to cou:p:ties outside his judicial district. Curp.mmgs has achieved good results for
his clients over the years. in capital arid first degree murder cases. The Office of the
Capital Defender places great value on Cummings; abilities and testified that Cutnn.'lings
would be 'extremely difficult to replace.
8.'
Activating Cummings' suspension would require replacing Cummings as
counsel itt those cases and wou.ld cteate great risk of prejudice to those clients.
,

,

'

9.'
Balancing'the hann Cu.m:mings" conduct caused to the profession against
the harm actjvating Clilnmings' susp~nsion would have on his clients, at this time the
he~g co1liI11itteehas decided not to activate Currtmings' suspension.

-4-

.,:" .,'.~"

.

,"

T

P'.

~

I
:.. :'

::

Based Upon the foregoing findings' of fact and the arguments of the parties, the
hearing committee hereby enters the following

MODIFIED ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

I.
The stay of the two year suspension of the license of the Defendant,
Theqdore F. Cummings, III imposed in the 2004 Order of biscipline in this case :is
hereby extended for an addItional two yeats. The aqditionaltwo years wiiIrun
consecutively to the two year stay previously imposed, making the total period of stayed
suspension fOl,lr yeats with an end date of September 5, 2008. The stay of the two year
suspension is conditioned upon Cummings' compliance with the terms and conditions set
out in the 2004 Order of bisciplineand additional terms and cOhditions hereby imposed,
as set forth below.
2;

Terms and conditions imposed in the 2004 Order ,of Discipline:

a.
Comply with the tetins of all agreements with the Internal Revenue
Service and the North Carolina: Depa:rtment of Revenue in existence during the
stay;
b.
Provide the State Bat with documentation from the internal
Revenue Service (IRS) showing compliance with the termi) of any agr~ements
with the IRS; documenting compliance from the date of the entry of this order
through sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the tWQ year stay and filed with
the State Bar no later than fifteen (15) days prior to expiration of the two year
stay;
c.

I

File and pay all future taxes in a timely manner;

d~

Provide the State' Bar with copi~s of all tax returns filed during the
stay and proof of payment of taxes du~ duripg the stay; filed with the State Bat
contemporaneously with filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the North
Carolina Department ofRevenue ;
e.
Not v.iolate any laws of the State Qf Notih Carolina or of the
United States;
f.
Conduct;

Not violate any provision

of the

Revised Rules of prof¢ssional

g.
Pay the costs' of this proceeding [the 2004 hearing] as ~sessed by
the Secretary of the North Ccu-olina State Bar within 30 days of notice the costs
being served upon him..

of

-5.'

..

....

'J

::

•

'

.~.

..~

.

h~
Pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
~nd comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis;
and
Keep his address of record with the North Carolina State Bar
cUttent, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and

L

i

,
j.
Respond to all letters of notice and requests for infonmttion from
the North Catolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the cottnnWlication.

Additional terms and conditions of~he stay of the suspension:

3.

2006;

a.

I

Pay his 2005 state and federal income taxes no later than April 15,

b~
Provide the State Bat with proof of payment of any federal or state
il1come taxes paid during the period of the stay, including but not limited to
Withheld ta~es, estimated taxes,· and annual incom,e taxes, within ten (10) days of
m,ailing or otherwise making such payment;

c.
Provide the State Bar With any communication with any taxing
a.qthority regarding his income taxes during the stay, including but not limited to a
letter from the IRS or the North Carolina Department of Revenue, ·an application
for extension to file, the filing of any tax return, a paymeht, or a payment voucher,
at the time of such communication and no later than ten (10) days after such
communi'cation;

d.

Provide written notification to the State Bat of any oral
communications with any taxing authority regarcUng his income taxes during the
stciy, including but not limited to oral communications regarding payment of his
income Upces, within ten (10) days of such communic'l~on;
e.
Provide the State Bat with copies of any federal or state income tax
rettu'ns tiled during the period of the stay. A copy of each such tax return will be
ptQvided to the State Bar at the time of filing and no later than ten (10) days after
stich filing;

I

f.

Establish procedures in his office to treat his obligations to respond
. to the State Bar and to comply with this Order as professional obligations with
which his staff provides assistance~ inclUding. but not limited to drawing
Cummings' attention to any m'lil received from the State Bar; tracking the
pertInent deadlines, and prompting him to comply;
g.
Provide Written notification to the State Bar describing the
procedures he establishes in his office to treat his obligations to respond to the
I

-6-

I

State B~ and to comply with this Order as professional'obligations within twenty
days (20) of service of this Order upon him;
h.
Pay the cost of this Show Cause proceeding within thirty (:~O) days
of service of the notice of CQsts upon him. S'uch costs will include pflyment of
attorney's fees to the State Bat fot the attorney time spent on thi~ matter from
service of the Show Cause Order upon cumming through the date of the hearing.
Counsel for the State Bar will prepare ail affidavit of attorney time; which Will be
reviewed by Counsel fot Cunimings and then approved by the Cbair of this
hearing committee andincotporated into the notice of costs; and

I

i.

Waive any hearing otherwise provided for under 27 N.C. Admin.
Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B § ;0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability RWes, should the State Bar file a verified motion
supported by affidavits that Cummings has violated any of the terms and
conditions of this Paragraph 3 or the immediately preceding Paragraph 2.
Cummil1gs will be' mailed such motion at his address of record with the
Memb¢rship Department of the State Bar and will have twenty (20) days from the .
date of, mailing within which to provide any written 'response. After the
expiratioIi of the twenty (20) day period, a he~g cortunittee ,appointed to
consider the motion will decide the motion based upon the written materials.
4.
In addition to the provisions of Paragraph 30) above, if during the !)tay of
the two (2) year suspension CUltUilings fails to comply with anyone or more of the
conditions stated in the immediately preceding Paragraphs 2 and' 3, then the stay or the
suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
5..
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is' activated for
comply with each of the following conditions precedent. to
any reason, Cwnmirtgs
reinstatement ~d provide proof by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of such
compliance with any application forreirtstatement:

will

I

a.
Submitted his lic¢nse and membership card to the SecretElIY of the
North Carolina State Bar no iater thM 30 days from the effective date of th~ order
activatmghis suspension;
b.

Did not violate any ofthe Revised Rules ofPro~essiona1 Conduct;

c.
Did 110t violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States;
d.
Paid all costs of this Show Cause proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary, irtcludin~ the approved attorney's fee described ~bove;
.

-7-

!.',

I

'.:

.'

',::'

e.

Paid his 2005 state and federal income taxes no later than April 15,

'2006~

Provided the State 13ar with proof of payment of any fed~ral or
state income taxes paid during the period of the suSpension, including but not
limited to withhe14 taxes, estimated taxes, and annual income taxes, within ten
(10) days of mailing or otherwi~e making such payment;

f.

g.
Provided the State Bar with any connnunication With any taxing
authority regarding his income taxes during the period of suspension, including
but not limited to a letter from the IRS or the North Carolina Department of
Revenue, an application for extension to file, the filing of any tax return, a
payment, or a payment VOUcher, at the tilhe of such communication and no later
tJIan ten (1 0) days after such communication;

I

h,
Provided written. notification to the State Bar of any oral
c.onuxn:mications With any taxing authority regarding his income taxes during the
~riQd of suspension,. induding but liot IPnited to oral communications regarding
payment of taxes, within ten (10) days of such communication;

i.

Provided the State Bar with copies of any federal or state income
tax returiiSfiled during the period of the ~uspertsion. A copy of each such tax
return will have been provided to the State Bar at the time of filing and ~o later
than fen (10) days after such filing;
j.
Established procedures in his office to treat his obligations to
respond to the State Bar and to comply with this Order as professional obligations
with which his staff provides assistance, including but not limited to drawing
Cummings' attention to any mail received from the State Bar, tracking the
pertinent deadlines, aQQ prompting him to comply;

k.
'Provided writt~n notification to the State Bar describing the
procedUres he established in his office to treat his obligations to respond to the
State Bat and comply with this Order as prOfessional obligations within twenty
days (20) of service of this Order. upon him; .

I

l.
If the suspension was activated for ClinUnings' failure to timely
file and/or pay state andlor federal individual income tax, that CuIIlillings rectified
the. deficiency by filing anQ/or paying as appropriate the income tax(es) at issue
and provided proof of such to the State Bar;
Paid all Membership dues and Cliertt Security Fund assessments
m.
. and complied with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a tim:ely basis
as if still in practice dliring the suspension;

-8-

I
.

~

n.
Kept hisaddtess of record with the North Carolina State Bat·.
current and accepted all certified mail from the.Nozth Carolina State Bar,and

o.
Resp<m.ded to all letters of p:otice and requests for information from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines Stated in the COmnillnication.
6.

The Dis~iplinary Hearing Corntnission will retain jurisdiction of this

matter purSUailtto 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter l. Subchapter B, -§ .01 14(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar bi$cipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Signed-by the Chair with the COnsent of the other hearing-cOIi1mitte~ members,

this the 23rd day of January, 2006.

F. L

.

e Wllltam$on

Chair, DiscipHnary Hearing Corntnittee

-9-

"

, ..
".

".

..

.,.

