'--- --~

- ---

~

---

--

BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROLINA

GRffiVANCECO~TTEE

WAJ(ECOUNTY

INRE:

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G1451

Roger W. Rizk
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

CENSURE

I

On October 20,2005, the Grievanc~ Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
conSidered th~ grievances filed against you by J. B.
Pursuant to Section .OI13(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the :Grievartce Committee conducted a preliminary hearipg. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee formd probable cause. :probable cause is de~ed iIi the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine tha~ the filing of a complaint and a hearing 'before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not warranted and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitig~tin:g factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an adnionition, a
reprimand, or a cenSure.
A censure is a written fow of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused. significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profeSsion or a member ()fthe public, but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney~s licens~.

I.

The Orjevance Committee was of the opinion that a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of
the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
I am certain that·you will ul1derstand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
The complainant retained you to represent him in a lawsuit against his former employer
Phillip Morris on August 6, 2002. On Optober 14,2002, you filed a complaint in the Cabarrus
County Superior Court against Phillip Morris on the complainant's behalf. The complainant
apeged a single claim for wrongful discharge based on racial motivation in violation of public
policy ~der stlitte law. Phillip Morris' attorney, Wood Lay, had the case removed from state

I
...,

court to federal court, The case proceeded to mediation. Negotiations reached an impasse and
Phillip Morris filed ~ motion for suml11ary judgment.
.

I

, On December 17, 2003", a federal court 'lnagistrate' recommended that summaryjudgment
be granted'based on the fiJ.9t that the complainant should have filed suit for breach of contract·
rather than wrongful tennination, as complainant was not an "at-will" employee: The federal
court magistrate decided the case on the basis that complainant failed to state a proper c1aimartd
deemed that a disclls~ion of the merits was unnecessary •. No objections were filed to the
magistrate judge's recommendation and it was adopted on January 22,2004. Phillip Morris was
awarded $2,300.05 in costs.

,I

On October 4, 2004, you filed a complaint ip Cabattus County Superior Courtal1eg~ng
Phillip Morris violated the tetIns of the collective bargaining agreement enforced between Phillip,
Morris and the cO!llplainant. The complaint was based loosely on the compla.h1t filed on Octob~r
14,2002. Attorney Lay wrote you detailing the frivolous nature of the lawsuit given that it "'{as
barred by the doctrine of res judicata, that the state law contract claim alleged was preempted by
federal law and that the statute of lhllitatiol).s had run under the Labor Management Relations
Act.
After receiving Attorney Lay's letter, you wrote the complainant and advised him to
withdraw his lawsuit or Significant financial sanctions would likely be imposed. You also
explained that as of November 18, 2004, your law license would be suspended for failure to
timely pay and report various taxes and thus you would no longer be able to assist the
complainant. Youfiled a motion to withdraw on November 9, 2004.

I

The Grievance ComIhittee found that yottrconduct in representing ·thecomplainant
violated several Ru1es of Professional Conduct. First, the Grievance Committee believes that
you violated RUle 1.1 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct, as it related to your filin~ a
complaint in state court; ,rather than :federal court in 200? The EEOC reopened complaina,pt's
charge for the second time on July 30, 2002 and issued a right to sue for 90 days .. The
complaillant retained you on August 6, 2002. As of the date that complainant retained you, his
right to sue had not yet expired, and the· lawsuit should have been filed in federal court.
The Grievance Committee also found that you violated Rule 1.3 of the 'Itevised Ru1es of
Professional Conduct. You did not diligently file the second lawsuit in state court, and the
, statute of limitations ran on the a9tion. The Grievance Committee found that you 4elayed filin~
the action in state coun: for 10 months after the magistrate judge's recommendation to ,adopt
summary judgment..

,"

,",

The Grievance Committee also found that you violated Rule 1.4 of the Revised· Ru1es of
Professional Conduct. The 'complainant indicates that you did not notify him of his right to
appeal the magistrate juqge' s summary judgment ruling. You admit that you did not tell the
complainant that he could apPeal the magistrate judge's ruling. The Grievance Committee held
that you should have communicated to complainant that he had a right to appeal the magistrate
judge's decision, rather than summarily qetermining that the complainant wQuld be better served
by filing a second l~wsuit.
.

I

-:

I

.;( 1{

"

.

In deciding to issue a censure, the Grievance Committee considered as an aggravating
factor that you had an extensive prior discipline record.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules
ofProfessiQnal Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you wiil never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a strong:reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to
the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself
as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without
question.

I"

In accordance With the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the 'Council of the North
Carolina State Bat regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issue4 a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

HBllr

;t..<f day of

21~ ,2005.

I

1

