BEFORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98 BCS 2

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE OF:

RALPH H. FALLS, JR.

)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §.Ol17(a) of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon an affidavit of tender of surrender of license
executed by Ralph H. Falls, Jr. on January 9, 1998 and filed in the offices of the North Carolina
State Bar on January 12, 1998.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Ralph H. Falls, Jr.'s conduct of
misappropriating client funds is grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2)
in that Ralph H. Falls, Jr. violated Rules 1.2(b) and (c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
Rules 8A(b) and (c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct (for conduct occurring after
July 24, 1997).
WHEREFORE, upon motion duly made and seconded, the Council enters the following
Order:
I. The tender of surrender of license of Ralph H. Falls, Jr. is hereby accepted.
2. Ralph H. Falls, Jr. is hereby is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North
Carolina.
3. Ralph H. Falls, Jr. shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, §.OI24 of the State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules and shall surrender his
license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along
with the affidavit required by §.0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against Ralph H. Falls, Jr.
Done and ordered this 16th day of January, 1998.

William O. King, P
The N.C. State Bar

s~.

\ j

NORTH CAROLINA
MECKLENBURG COUNTY
AFFIDAVIT

TO:

The Council of The North Carolina State Bar
.. 'I ~ ., ;

I, Ralph H. Falls, Jr., hereby tender my license to practice and desire to resign

from The North Carolina State Bar. My resignation is tendered freely and voluntarily, is
not the result of coercion or duress, and I am fully aware of the implications of submitting
the resignation.
I understand that the State Bar Council will consider tills affidavit of surrender at its
meeting on January 16, 1998 and waive further notice
I am aware that there are presently pending investigations or other proceedings
regarding allegations that I have been guilty of misconduct, to wit:
(l)	 I represented Eric Solheim and his business entities. During the course

of this representation, I received sums on behalf of Solheim or his

business entities which were deposited into my trust account.


(2)	 Pursuant to this representation, I made numerous disbursements from

my trust account at the request of Solheim on behalf of Solheim or his

business entities.

(3)	 I made disbursements from my trust account at the request of Solheim

in excess of the amount Solheim had on deposit in my trust account.

(4)	

Being aware that my trust account was out of balance, I continued to

use my trust account by make deposits and disbursements for other

clients.


(5)	 I knowingly used the clients' funds deposited into my trust account to

pay obligations of other clients whose funds had previously been

deposited into my trust account.

(6)	 As a result of the disbursements I made at the request of Solheim in

excess of the amount he had on deposit, my trust account is

$254,425.30 out of balance.

(7)	 As a result of my trust account being out of balance, I have written

NSF checks on my trust account and have amounts I need to disburse

on behalf of clients that my trust account balance is not sufficient to

cover.


I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the complaints are predicated are
true. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if charges were predicated upon

..


.
'

the misconduct under investigation I could not successfully defend against them.
This

ft'!6

day ofJanuary, 1998.

Ralph H. Falls, J r . /

Sworn to and subscribed before me this

q-rl.­

1-_ --- day of ~~~~_, 199!

