~----------------------------------------

\~•.\S\ll 17 18;gd,

~
.' ~
::::::
WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

-

ciIII

~

<008

t?~l.

.t'~b ~

---- --

~-----------

~)\..
<;:..> \

'61

BEFORE THE
¢~~b DIS 1'0 LlNARY HEARING COMMISSION
~
~
OF THE
~J'
('~~ NORtB CAROLINA STATE BAR
f £~~
05 DHC 47

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v,
DAVIn IL. HARRIS, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

I

TfIIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on Feb. 13, 2006 before a
hearing cplnmittee composed of Rick Kane, Chair, Karen Eady-Williams and Donald G.
Willhoit. Carolin Bakewell represented the State Bar. The Defendant, David L. Harris,
did not appear nor was he represented by counsel.
Ba~ed upon the evidence produced at the hearing and the pleadings herein, the

hearing committee enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Plaintiff,. the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring thi$ proceeding
under the ,authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North .
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.

I

2. The Defendant, David L. Harris, ("Hartis"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1980 and is, ~nd was at all times referred to herein, an
.attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar
,and the laws· of the State of North Carolina.
3. During all of the periods relevant hereto, Hartis was engaged in the
practice of law in Alamance County North Carolina.
4. In late 2005, Harris was served with the State Bar;s summons and
complaint' herein by publication in the Alamance News, a newspaper of general

I

circulation in the area in which Harris resides. Harris' .answer was clue no later
than Jan. 9, 2006.
5. Thereaft'er, the State Bar obtained a new address for Harris and'served
him with the summons and complaint by certified mail on Jan. 14,2006.
6. Harris did not answer the complaint and his default was entered by the
Secretary of the N.C. State Bar on Feb. 6,2006.

I

7. A notice advising Harris of the time and date of the hearing herein was
sent to Harris at his Elon address on Feb. 6, 2006.

8. In April 2002, Harris served as closing attorney for the purchase 0f a
home by James and Rhonda Sessom~ ("Mr. & Mrs. Sessoms").
9. Pursuant to his clients' instructions, Harris was to hold $11,400.24 of
the closing proceeds in trust pending completion of the construction on the home.
10. At all times on and after the ApdJ 7002 clos'ing, Harris ~ho1ild have
maintained at least $11,400.24 in his attorney trust account for Mr. & Mrs.
Sessoms' benefit.
11. Between January 2003 and January 2005, Harris knowingly withdrew
$11,100 of the trust funds that he should have maintained intact for Mr. & Mrs.
Sessoms .and used the funds for his own benefit without the Ses,soms' knowledge
and consent.
12. Harris. has failed to reimburse any portion of the funds that he
misappropriated from Mr. & Mrs. Sessoms.

I

13. Between March 2003 and June 2004, Harris also knowingly
withdrew $1,902.15 in client funds from his.trust aCcount by writing checks to
Ihvestors Title and misappropriating the proceeds, of those checks.
14. Harris did hot have the consent of the owners of the funds to use the
proceeds of the checks for his own lise and benefit.

15. Harris has not reimbursed any portion of the $1;902.75 in cHent funds'
that he removed from his trust account.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, the hearing committee enters
the following:

2

I
.... ,,':

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jUrisdiction over the person of the Defendant, David L. Harris, and
the subjec~ matter herein.
2. Harris had proper notice of the hearing herein.
3. 'Harris' conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
,grounds for qiscipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

a) .By knowingly withdrawing $11,100 of the funds that he should have'
held intact in his trust agcount for Mr. & Mrs. James Sessoms and converting
those fund$ for his own benefit without the Se$soms' knowiedge and consent,
Hattis engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentatIon in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and engaged inctimina:l conduct in
violation of Rule 8.4(b).
Ba$ed upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and ConClusions of Law arid based
upon the evidence and argum~nts 0f the parties cOhcerning the appropriate discipline, the
hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following
additional '
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. Harris' misconduct was motivated by a dishonest and selfish motive.
b. Harris has failed to make restitution.
c. Harris engaged iri a pattern of ini~conduct.
d.

Ha~is h~s

I

su1?$tantial experience in the practice of law.

2. ;The Defendant's, conduct is mitigated by the absence ofa prior disciplinary
record.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. ,An order calling for discipline short of disbarment will not sufficiently
protect-the' public and the standing of the legal profession for the following reasons:
a. Harris' misconduct has <;aused substantial harm to his clients, Mr. &
Mrs. Sessoms.

3

I

.f

b. Harris has failed to provide any evidence that he has attempted to
rehabilitate himself and indeed, has refused to participate in any of the
proceedings herein. The COintnittee therefore finds that there is a risk .
that he would continue to engage in misconduct if pennitted to retain
his law license.

I

c. Entry of an order imposing less severe discipline would fait to
ackliowledgethe seriousness of the offense which Harris committed,
would be inconsistent with the orders. of discipline entered by the
Commission in similar cases and would send the wrong message to the
public and to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of
the Bar of this state.
Based upon the foregoing factors the hearing committee hereby enters.
the following:
.
.
ORDER OF DI8CIPt.JNE
1. The defendant, David L. Harris, is hereby disbarred .
.2. The defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of notice of the statement of costs.
'

3. the defen4ant shall comply with the provisions of27 NCAC 1~ .0124.

I

4. Prior to seeking any reinstatement of his law license, Barris mllst present
evidence to the State B~ that he has either made restitution to Mr. & Mrs.
Sessoms in the amoUnt of $11,100, or has reimbursed the Client Security Fund
for any amot!llts paid to Mr. & Mrs. Sessoms and, if necessary, has
reimbursed Mr. & Mrs. Sessoms so that they have received a total of $11,100.
Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the consent of the other
hearing committee members.
.
This the,btlday of February, 2006~

T. Ric ard Kane, Chair
Hearing Committee

4

