i

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE:
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G1256

WAK:ECOUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Leroy R. CastJe,
Attorney At Law

)

REPRIMAND

)
)

I

On January 19,2006, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted preliminary hearings in your case. After
considering th~ information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the .
Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as
"reasonable cause to believe that a member of the No~h Carolina State Bar is guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The Rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that !the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Heating
Commission ;:ue not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the' actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, br a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
caseS in which art attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused ha.rrlI or potential ha.rm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

i

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this r,eprimaild to you. As chairman of the Grievance COinmittee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
In April :2001, you and your associate undertook to represent JG in a personal injury
claim. You fail¢d to return JG's telephone calls and failed to make progress on JG's case. When
JG retained new counsel in 2004, you ignored JG's and het new counseljs repeated requests to
release JG'~ file.' You told JG that you would not release her file until she paid "office
administrative fees." in September 2004, JG contacted the State Bar's Client Assistance Program

I
..

'

~.",

J

in a~ effort to obtain her file. You assured the CAP reptesentative that you would look into the
matter and get back to her, but you never did so. You failed to respond to the CAP
representative's follow up letter and follow up telephone call. JO's new counsel first requested
JO's file on june 8, 20'0'4 al1d the file was not released until sometime after October 13, 20'0'4.
The Grievance COlhmittee determined that your conduct violated Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct 1.3 and 1.16. The Grievance Committee considered your history of prior discipline as
an aggravating factor.
You 'are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Orievance Committe~ trusts that you wiII heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you wW never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
'
Iii accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievan.ce Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50'.0'0' are hereby taxed to you.

~'~-h~-r--?-c---r---; 20'06,

Done and ordered, this the E d a y ofy.',

, BBW/lr

1

·•.··1·

