NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
, OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0662 & 0401134

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

Nancy P'.Quinn,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 19,2006, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by P. N. and P, T.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disa:bilityRules of the North CamlinaState .
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information.
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance C01nlllittee found probable
callse. Probable cause is defined in the rules as Itreasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is gUilty of miscondrtct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable 'cause, the Grievance Committee may
det~rinine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary HearingComn1iss.ion are

not required and th~ Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upop the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee ma~ issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
.

I

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in ~hkh
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofPtofessional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession Or
a member of the public, but the misconduc~ does not req\lire suspension of the attorney's license.
~

,

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Cortiniission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee o'f
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You represented P. T. in his workers' compensation caSe. P. t. filed a grievan~e against you,
complainhig that you held $1,600.00 of his money in your trust account and you had ,not paid his
hospital bill.
A North Carolina State Bar investigator contacted you on June 15,2004 and advisedyouofP.
T.'s grievance. The investigator asked that you send a.copy of your client ledger regarding P. T,'.s case:
and the court oreIer directing payment of his medical bills. You wer~ also asked to send bank records
related to all receipts and disbursements in P. T.'s case,

I

After the investigator did not receive the infolination, he coPtactecl you again on. July 26, 2004
and asked that you provide the requested information. You did not provide the requested bank records
until the North Carolina 'State Bar issued a letter of notice and subpoena for cause audit. Even after the
State Bar served a subpoena for cause audit on you, the investigator had to write you again and ask that
you provide necessary information in investigating P. T.'s grievance against you.
.
On Nov~mber 16, 2004, a State B~ Deputy Counsel wrote you and asked about P. To's hospital
bill that appeared to be unpaid. DeputyCol.ll1sel asked that you contact the hospital and ascertain the
balance that P. T. owed, and disbqrse paymept to the hospital. Deputy Counsel asked that you respond
to her request fot information no later than January 7,2005. The State Bar office heard from you by
letter dated Jam-lary 14; 2005.. However, you did not pay P. T. 's hospital bill until July 7, 2005. The
Grievance Committee found that you did not promptly disburse P. T.'s funds to pay his hospital bill, in
violation of Rule 1.3 and Rule 1.15-2(m). The Grievance Committee also found that you failed to
respond promptly to the North Carolina State Bar during its investigation ofP. T.'s grievance against
you, in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

You represented P. N, in both hi's workers' compensation and personal injury claims. It appears
that P. N. settled his workers' compensation claim. However, the insurer in the workers' compensation
case had a subrogation lien against any recovery P. N. lI!.ay have recovered in his pending civil action.
In your response to P. N.' s grievance, you stated that you would "continue to attempt to reach a reduced
amount on his behalf and that is why the funds are still in trust."
State BarDeputy Couhsel wrote you on November 17, 2004 regarding P. N.' s grievanc~. You
were asked ifyolj had been able t6 negotiate a reduced lien amount, as you had indicated in your
response to the grievance. State Bar Deputy Counsel asked that you respond to her November 17,2004
letter no later thap January 7, 2005. You never responded to Deputy Counsel's November 17,2004
letter. Furthermore, it appears that you continue to hold funds in trust for P. N.
The Grievance Committee found that you violated Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Prof~ssibnal
Conduct by not following through on your attempts to reduce P. N.'s employer's lien on his workers'
compensation claim. Furthern.1ore, according to your last response to this grievance, funds still remail?
in your trust account for P. N. Your failure to disburse promptly those funds is in violation of Rule
1.15-2(m).

I

The Grievance Committee found that your failure to respond to aePlJty counsel's November 17,
2004 letter regarding P. No's grievance violated Rule 8.1 (b) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
.
On October 24,2002, P. N. was deposed relative to his superior court action against two parties.
You arrived 45 minutes late to the deposition. In your absence, your legal assistant was present at the
deposition. The Grievance Committee found that by having your paralegal stand in for you at the
deposition, you were allowing your legal assistant to represent a witness at a deposition in violation of
Rule 5.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will neVer again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your

I

fellow attomeysand the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Coundl of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issu~da
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

a

I

...:L-~~J--~_, 2006.

dayof-:-.

Barbara (" 0 ie") B. Weyher,. Chair
Grievance ommittee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

"

;

....

