NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0931

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
")

Samp C. Hopkins,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On January 19,2006, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by RB.
Pursuant to Section .0113(aYofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee. conducted preliminary hearings in your case. After
considering'lhe: information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the
Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as'
"reasonable cal1se to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of
mi,sconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The Rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that t;he filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are ,not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depertding'upon the misconduct, the actual ot potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a 'censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one Or more prOVisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harrli or potential hatm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession,. or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Catolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fullYI the spirit in which tbis duty is performed.
You undertook to represent RB in a federal tort clain'I when you lacked sufficient
competence to db so. You failed to file RB's claim before it was barred by the statute of
limitation and failed to advise RB properly as to the date when his claim would be time barred.
You failed to re~d mail received from the opposing party, which would have informed you of the

I

)

applicable statute oflimitation. The Grievance Committee found that your conduct violates
Rules 1.1 and 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professionE\.1
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprim~nd, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again aUow yourself
t9 depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In actordance with the policy adopted October 15,1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing ·of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the -4---L_

BBW/lr

I

~~~"-l--7-~--' 2006.

