BEFORE THE DiSCIPLINARY
HEARING COMMISSION OF
THE NORTH CAROLINA
STATE BAR

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

05 DHC 42
THE NORTH CAROLINA StATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.
FREDRICK R. PIERCE, ATTORNEY,

FINDINGS OF FACT
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

I

Defendant.

THIS MATIER came on to be heard and was heard before a Hearing Committee of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of T. Richard Kane, Chair, Charles M.
Davis and 'Marguerite P. Watts. The Defendant, Fredrick R. Pierce was represented by
Ernest (Jay) Reeves, Jr. William N. Farrell, Jr., represented the Plaintiff. Both parties
stipulate and agr~e to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited herein and to the
order of discipline imposed. Based upon the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing
.
Committee Iilereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The PI~intiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized l,mder the laws
of North Carplina and is the proper party to bring ttlis proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84' of the General Statutes of North CarOlina, and the rules and
regulations qf the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2, The Defendant, Fredrick R. Pierce, ("Defendanf'), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 2001, and is, and was at (;III times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed 'to practice in North CarOlina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. Outing all or a portion of the period relevant hereto, Defendant was engaged in the
practice of law in Wake County, North Carolina.
4. In or about February 2003, Defendant established an attorney-client relationship
with Fe/ana Milbourne. Milbourne paid defendant a $400.00 attorney fee and defendant
undertook to represent Milbourne to obtain a divorce for her.

I
.

37tJ

.: "!'

,

,

5. Defendant did noffile a complaint for divorce on behalf of Felana Milbourne. '
6. Defendant has not returned the $400.00 attorney fee paid to him by Felaha
Milbourne.
7. On or about September 21, 2004 Milbourne filed a petition for resolution of a fee
dispute with the North Carolina State Bar. (No. FDR - 04FD0658)

I

8. T.hereafter, Defenda'nt received notification of mandatory fee dispute resolution"
informing defendant that Milbourne had filed a petition for resolution ·of a disputed fee with,
the North Carolina State Bar and informed defendant of his duty to respond to the petition
within 15 days.

9. 'Defendant filed a response to the petition for resolution ,of a fee dispute wherein he
agreed to refund the entire fee to Milbourne on or about November 2,. 20Q4. ,
10. Defendant failed to refund the fee to Feh~na Milbourne aft~r agreeing to do so
quring the fee mediation process and failed to return calls to the mediator or to
acknowledge letters to finalize the agreement to refund the fee.
1'1. On or about February 12; 2004 Defendant received a Letter of Notice' from the
Chair of the Grievance Committee regarding Defendant's failure to participate in the fee
dispute process in good faith. By Bar rule, Defendant was required to respond to the
Letter of Notice '{\lith in 15 days of receipt. Defendant'did not respond to the Letter ·of .
Notice within the 15-day period as required.
12. Defendant responded to the Letter of Notice on March 17, 2005, following clletter
from the Bar dated March 7, 2005" reminding him he Was required to resppnd to the
Letter of Notice.
13. Defendant's response, dated March 16, 2005, to the Letter of Notice admitted' he
did not partioipate in the fee clispute process in goOd faith.
14. Defendant's response furtheradmitied that Milbourne's fHefell.into, the "inactive"
file.
15. Defendant established an attorney~client relatiOnship with Amy Armstrong.
Armstrong paid a $500.00 attorney fee to Defendant and Defendant undertook, to
represent Armstrong in a domestic case.
16. On or about March 2, 2004, Armstrong filed a petition for resolution of a fee.
dispute (file number FDR - 04FD0157) regarding the fee she paid to defendant.
, 17. On or about March 5, 2004, defendant received notification of mandatory .fee
dispute resolution, informing defendant that Armstrong had filed a petition for resolution of
, a fee dispute with the North Carolina State Bar.

18. 011 or about July 8, 2004, during the fee dispute mediation process, defendant
agreed with the mediator to give Armstrong a refund of $350.00.

19. After so agreeing, defendant failed to refund the $350.00 as agreed and failed to
respond to repeated written communications from the mediator. 011 August 23, 2004, the
mediator sent defendant a final letter informing him that he was required to participate in
good faith in the fee dispute resolution process. This letter also advised Defendant, if he
did not respond, the matter would be ref$rred to the State Bar as a grievance. Defendant
did not respond to the mediator and the matter was referred to the Grievance Committee.

1
.

20. On :or about November 16, 2004, defendant received a Letter of Notice from the
Chair of the Grievance Committee regarding the defendant's failure to participate in the
fee dispute process in good faith. By Bar rule, defendant was required to respond to the
Letter of Notice within a 15-day period.
21. Defendant responded to the Letter of Notice on or about December 23, 20()4,
following ~ letter from the Bar reminding him he was required to respond to the Letter of
Not/ce.
22. In nis December 23, 2004 letter 6f response. defendant admitted agreeing to
refund $3QO.00 to Armstrong with the fee dispute mediator to resolve th~ dispute and not
making the refund.
23. On or about October 6, 2003. Zeferino Garci~ (Garcia) retained defendant on
behalf of Enrique and Hublester Gomez-Garcia to represent them regarding criminal.
charges in Forsyth Gounty. Garcia initially paid defendant $2,000.00 to cover bond
hearings. Garcia later paid defendant an additional $4,000.00. This fee was represented
by defendant as a flat fee for his representation of Enrique and Hublester through
disposition of the case.
24. On or about mid November 2003; Garcia informed defendant he had hired another
lawyer for Enrique and Hublester and no longer wanted defendant's services. Garcia
refused to accept a refund of'$1,500.00 from defendant for attorney fees. On or about
February 12, 2004 Garcia filed a petition for resolution of disputed fee (file number
04FD0112~. Defendant filed a response admitting that he offered a $1,500.00 refund.

I'

, 25. On or about April 12, 2004, Defendant was advised in writing that Garcia's petition
for resolutic>n of a fee dispute was assigned to Terence F"riedman t<;> mediate. After the
mediator was assigned, Defendant failed to return calls from the mediator.
26. On 9r about February 12, 2005, Defendant received a Letter of Notice from the
Chair of the Grievance Committee regarding Defendant's failure to participate in the fee
dispute process in good faith. ay Bar rule, Defendant was required to respond to the
Letter of N9tice within 15 days.

I

27. Defendant responded to the Letter of Notice on or about March 16,2005, following
a letter from the Bar reminding him he was required to respond to the l~tter of Notice.
28. On or about February 2002, Glenda Cooper retained Defendant to
in a personal injury claim for injuries suffered in a traffic accident,

r~present her

29; Defend~nt neither settled Cooper's claim nor filed suit before the statute of
limitations ran on Cooper's claim.
~

I

30. In or about March 2005, Defendant falsely told Cooper that her case had been
settled and that he was sending her a check andrele~seform.
31'. When Defendant transmitted funds to Cooper in May 2005, he did not tell her that
the money he Was paying her was to avoid or settle a claim that Cooper had against him
for malpractice for his failure to settle Cooper's claim or t6 file suit on her behalf within the
time allowed.

32. Defendant did not advise Cooper, in writing or otherwise, of the desirability of
seeking independent legal counsel on the value of her potential malpractice claim Clgainst
him. .
.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
CONCLusioNS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, Fredrick R. Pierce, and the subject rTlptter of this
prQceeding. By agreeing and consenting to this order of discipline, Defendant has Waived
any and all defects in the service of the summons and complaint and in the notice of
h~ri~.

I

.

. 2. Defendant's conduct, asset out in the findings of fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipllne·pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat. $ection 84-28(b) in thatthe conduct violated the
Revised Rules of ProfeSSional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:·
.
a. By failing to provide the necessary services to' represent Milbourne in h~r divorce
case and by failing to provide the legal services defendant undertook to provide on
Milbourne's behalf, including but not limited to, failing to file a divorce complaint,
Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a
client in violation of RUle 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
b. By failing to communicate with Milbourne on a timely basis concerning her divprce'.
matter, Defendant failed to reasonably consult with a client about' the means by
which the client's objectives were to be accomplished, failed to keep the client
reasonablyinfbrmed about the status of a legal matter, failed to promptly comply

with reasonable requests for information, and failed to explain a matter to the extent·

I

reasonably necessary to permit the client to make an informed decision regarding
the representation, in viQlation of Rules 1.4(a) and (b) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
G· By failing to promptly refund the unearned fee or the unearned portion of the
$400.00 attorney fee paid by Milbourne after not providing the agreed upon legal
services, Qefendant collected a clearly excessive fee in violation .of Rule 1.5(a) of
the,Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and failed to refund the unearned fee in
violation of 1.16{d).
t

d. By failing to refund the unearned fee, after responding to the Petition for-Resolution
of a Fee Dispute and stating that he stood ready to give Milbourne a total refund,
and by failing to return calls and lette'rs to the mediator, Defendant failed to
participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process of the North Carolina
State Bar in violation of Rule 1.5(1) of the .Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

e. By failing to refund the fee, after responding to the petition for resolution of a fee
dispute and stating that he agreed to give Armstrong a refund of $.300.00, and by
failing to respond .to the mediator Oefendant failed to participate in good faith in the
fee dispute resolution process of the North Oarolina State Bar in violation of Rule
1.5~f) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
f. By failing to return calls to the mediator, Defendant failed to participate in good faith
in the fee dispute resoluti'on process of the North Carolina State Bar in violation of
Rule 1.5(f) of the Revised Rules of ProfessionaJ Conduct.
g. By failing to settle Cooper's claim for injuries she suffered in the accident or file suit
on her behalf prior to the statute of limitations running on her claim, Defendant
failed to act, with r~asonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in
violation of Rule 1.3 and prejudiced or damaged his client during the course of the
professional relationship in violation of RuleB.4(g) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct
h.. By falsely representing to Cooper that thE:! money he paid to her was from a
settl~ment rather than from defendant, Defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, dec~it or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and made a
false or misleading statement about the lawyer's services in violation of Rule 7.1 (a)
of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
i.

I

By failing to advise Cooper in writing of the desirability of seeking independent legal
counsel on the value of her claim at a time When he was attempting to avoid or
settle Cooper's potential malpractice claim against him, Defendant settled a
pote!1tial malpractice claim with an unrepresented client without advising the client
in writing of the desirability seeking advice from independent legal counsel in
. cOl1nection therewith in violation of Rule 1.8(h) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Gonduc.t.
I

I

Based upon the \=oregQing Findings of fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Committee enters the followihg:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.. Defendant's misconduct is aggravCited by the following factors:

I

(a) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
(b) Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
(c) Defendant has shown indifference to returning the fees to Milbourne and
Armstrong as he agreed to do;
(d) Defendant has prior discipline. Defendant received an Admonition from the
Grievance Committee in file number 04G09'87iJi January 2005 for a violation of
Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. In grievance file
number: 04G0505 Defendant received a Letter of Warning, dated December 2,
2004, for minor or technical violations of Rules 1.4 and Rules 1.16(d) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a) Cooperative attitude toward the Bar procee~ings.

(b) Acknowledgement of the wrongful nature of his bonduct;
(c) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. Defendant's conduct has caused significant harm to his client Ms. Cooper in that
Ms. Cooper was denied the opportunity to have her case heard in accordance
with t/Je law.
.
5. Defendant'$ conduct caused actual.harm to the standing of the legal profession, .
undermining his client's trust and confidence in laWyers and the legal' system.
6. Defendant's failure to participate in the mandatory fee dispute resolution process·
interfered with the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys and undermined the
privileges of lawyers in this state to remain selfregulating.
7. The Hearing Committee has considered lesser alternatives (;lnd finds that a
public censure or reprimand would not sufficiently protectthe public and that.a

stayed suspension is necessary to allow implementation of conditions to ensure
the protection of the public and Defendant's future clients.
8. The Hearing Committee finds Defendant's conduct caused significant harm and
significant potential harm to clients and to the administration of justice, to the
profession. and to members of the public, and that a stayed suspension is
necessary to protect th~ public.

th~

BaSed upon
Foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the Findings of
Fact Reg~rding Discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the following: .

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLNE
1. rhe Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is hereby
suspended for two years, effective upon service of this Order of Discipline on the
Defendant. The suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Defendant complies with the following conditions:

a) Defendant will provide the Office of Counsel with a current working street
Iildqress, not a P.O. Box, and will advise the Bar in writing of any changes in his
~ddress within 10 days of all changes.
.
b) Defendant will respond to alliettets of notice and requests for information from
the N.C. State B~r by the deadlines stated in the communication.
c) Defendant will timefy pay all State Bar membership dues and Client Security
Fund assessments.
.
d) Defendant will timely comply with his State·Bar continuing legal education
nequirements and will pay all fees arid cOsts assessed by the applicable
deadline.
.
I
.

I

e) Defendant will not violate any law of the United States or the laws of any state.

t) Defendant Will riot violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
,

g) No later than 30 days from the entry of the Order of Discipline Defendant shall
contract With a licensed North Carolina attorney who maintains a private law
practice in the judicial district in which Defendant maintains his practice to serve
as a practice monitor. Defendant will first secure the approval of his proposed
practice monitor from the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar,
which approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Defendant will personally
meet With his practice monitor at least once each quarter beginning in April

I
.'.

:.:' ': ~.

I

2006 during the period of stayed suspension.' Defendant will keep the monitor
apprised of all' open and pending client matters and the st~tU$ of all such
matters. Within 15 daY$ after the end of each calendar qUarter of each year of
the stayed suspension, Defendant will deliver to the Office of Counsel a written
report signed by the practice monitor .confirming that the meetings areocctlrrirlg
and that the Defendant is reporting on the status of Defendant's client matters
to tne practice monitor and that the practice monitor is satisfied with the status .
of such client matters. Defendant will b~ solely responsible for all costs
associated with the monitoring of his law practice,
ti) Defendant shall complete within the first twelve months of the stay, at his own'
expense, a course of training of at least eight hours, in law office management
approved by the North Carolina State Bar, and expressly waive any right he
might otherwise have as to confidential communication with persons associated
with the management training program in regard to the prescribed course of
training. Within 'ten days of completion of the management training program
Defendant will be respohsible for seeing that the provider -of the training course
ha$ ce~ified to the Bar that he has satisfactorily completed the course.and PC3id
the costs of the course.

i) Within 180 days of the entry of this Order of Discipline, Defendant will have
refunded unearhed fees to cli(7nts identified in the Order of Discipline in the
amount shown below and provided the Office of Coun$el with a satisfactory
-evidenqe of PC3yment such as a signed reteipt or cancelled check:
Client
Felana Milbourne
Amy Armstrong
Zeferino Gomez Garcia

I

Amount

$4001.00
$350.00
$2,000.00

2. Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service of the
statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar.
3. If the stay of the suspension is lifted at any time and the suspension of
Defendant's law license is activated for any reason, before seeking
reinstafement of his license to practice law, Defendant must .show by clear,
. cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied with each of the following
conditions:
a} Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the N:.C. $tat~
Bar within 30 days after the effective date of the order suspending his law
license.
.
b) 'Complied withal! provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1, Subchapter B,Section'
.0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules on a timely basis.

<,

,".\

3--7.7

c) Demonstrated that he is not suffering from any addiction, disability or condition
that would impair his ability to competently engage in the practice of law.
d) Paid all due and owing membership fees', Client Security Fund assessments
and costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar.
e) Complied with all continuing legal education requirements imposed by the North
Carolina State Bar.
Signed'·by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the knowle ge and consent of the
other Committee members: This the i3th day of April,
6.(;)"("(\

'I

"..~.~

T. Richard Kane, Chair
Hearing Committee

Consented To;

~7!~/.~,~
Fredrick R. Pierce
Defendant

William N. Farrell; Counsel
Attorney for Plaintiff
r

I

I
"

'",'

