..

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

The North Carolina State Bar,
Plaintiff)

I

v.

)
)
)
)

)
BOlll1thaniVongxay,
Defendant.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSION OF LAW AND ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE BY CONSENT

I

)
)
)

This matter came on to be heard and was heard before a Hearing Committee of the .
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair,. Carlyn G. Poole, Tommy W.
Jarrett, and R. Mitchel Tyler. The Plaintiff was represented by William N. Farrell, Deputy
Counsel. Defendant was represented by Alan M. Schneid~r. Both parties stipulate and agree
to the findings
.

ot fact and conclusions of law recited herein and to the
order of discipli l1e
.

imposed. Based upon the consent of the parties; the Hearing COhllnittee hereby enters the

I

following.
Findings of Fact

].

The Plaintiff, ~he North Carolina State Bar; is a body duly organized under the laws of

North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it
.
.
in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, fJIld the rules and regulations of the .
North Carolina State Bar promuigated thereunder.

37C(·

2.

The Defendant, Bounthani Vongxay (hereinafter "Vongxay"), was admitted to the

North Carolina State Bar bn 24 August 2001, and is, and was at all times referred to herein,
an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Pr(>fessional Conduct of the State of North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the
State ofNorlh Carolina. '
3.

During all of the periods hereto, Vongxay was actively engaged in the private

I

practice of law in Charlotte, North Carolina.
4.

During all of the periods hereto, Vongxay maintained a personal injury trust account
I

ahd a real estate trust aCcount at Wachovia Ban1e
5.

On ot about May 7,2004, Vongxay conducted a real estate closing for Tim McAuley

(hereinafter :"McAuley"), the buyer/borrow¢r, 'and Jeffrey Allan Griffin and Tammy R.
Griffin (hereinafter "Griffins"), the sellers. The subject real estate is known as 1628 Dendy
Lane:. Pineville,
North Carolina.
.

6.

i

.

At the time of the closing there Was a prior deed of trust on the property in the favor

of Wilshire (:reclit Corporation. As part of the closing this deed of trust was to be paid off
such that the :new lender, S'ervice First Mortgage, would have a first lien on the property.
7.

As cl6s.ing attorney, Vongxay had duties and responsibilities with respect to each of

I

Jhe parties to the transaction, including the buyeriborrower, sellers and lenders.
8.'

As part of this real estate closing, Vongxay prepared a HUD-I settlement statement

showing the receipt and disbursement of the funds received from the buyer/borrower and the
lender, for the

closing~

By law, HUD-I settlement statements are supposed to show an

accurate aCC?U1fting of the receipt and disbursement of funds at a real estate closing.
Vongxay was identIfied as the settlement agent for the closing on the transaction for 1628
-2-

I
.:":;'

Dendy Lane, Pineville, North Carolina on the BUD-I. As settlement agent, Vongxay was
responsible for collection of all funds required to be paid by or on behl:\lf of the
buyer/borrbwer and payment of all disbursements to or on behalf of the parties shown on the
BUD fann for the transaction.

I

9.

Vongxay was required to deposit all funds received for this real estate closing into his .

trust account, and disburse the funds in accordance with the HUD,.} from his trust account.
10.

The BUD settlement statement prepared by Vongxay was not a true and accurate

account of the tr~sl:\ction 'and V Oilgxay didno{ cause the ,funds to be disbursed in.
accordance with the HUD-I settlement, in thatVongxay listed $2,284.00 disbursed to his law
office for various charges when in fact this Was not the case.
11.

The BUD-I settlement statement indicates a gross amount due from the borrower' in

the amount of $79,543.74.
12.

Vongxay's disbursement summary/balance sheet from' his office shows total

incoming funds of $77,943.00 and total disbursements of$80,502;60.

I

13.

As part of the sellers' (Griffins) agreemynt with Wilshire Credit Corporation for a

reduced loan pay-off, Wilshire Credit Corporation'S instructions to Vengxay required that
the Griffins receive no funds at closing and that any excess funds would be applied to what
"

was owed to Wilshire.
14.'

Vongxay prepared a preliminary HUD-l showing that the sellers (Griffins) were to

receive $1,500 ..;$1,800.00 proceeds from the sale and notified the buyer that there were
proceeds to the sellers.
15.

After being told by the buyer (McAuley) that the seH~ts (Griffins) could not receive ..

any proceeds, Vongxay prepared another HUD-l, showin~ that the sellers would not receive

-3-

any proceeds. V ongxay accomplished this by inflating fees, including his attorneys fees,
shown on 'the HUD-I
and. offsetting it with a "seller credit" to the buyer, thereby
.
misrepresenting to Wilshire Credit Corpo~ation that there were no additional proceeds which
could be paid to them.
16.

Vongxay submitted the HUD-I to Service First Mortgage knowing that it was not true

and accurate, including but nbt limited to the fact that he showed $2,284.00 going to his

I

office for various charges even. though Vongxay did not receive these funds.
17.

Vongxay opened his law practice in October 2001 'and deposited $2,000.00 to open a

real estate tIllst a~count and deposited another $2,000.00 to open a personal injury trust
account.
,

18.

During the period January 1,2004 through September 30,2004, Vongxay did'not

reconcile his~ real estate trust account or his personal injury trust account.
19.

During the period from November 2003 through September 30, 2004, Vongxayfailed

to keep a ledger containing a record ofthe receipts and disQursements for his clients Ki Hong
Nam (herein~fter "Nam") and Bee Spk Chon Seo (hereinafter "Seo li) showing the current
balance of funds held in the trust account for them. Seo and Nam had each paid V ongxay
$20,QOO for their respective representation. These fees were deposited into Vongxay's

I

personal injury trust account.
20.'

As a result of his failure to keep records of the receipts and disbursements for clients

with fUnds in: the personal injury trust account~ Vongxay withdrew excess funds from the
personal' injury trust account.

-4-

I
','

21.

During the period of January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004, Vongxay made

deposits into his personal injury trust account which did not jdentify the source of the funds
and did not name the person to whom the funds belonged.
22.

I

At the end of December 2004, there was a shortage of client funds in the personal

injury trust account ip the amount of$3,898.52.
23.

At the end of December 2004, there was a shortage of client funds in the r,eal estate

trust account in the amount of $J ,993.19.
24. Vongx:ay did not misappropriate client funds for his own use.
Ba~edupon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committe.e' hereby enters the

following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I) All parties are properly before tbe Hearing CQmmittee and the committee has
jurisdiction over Bounthani Vongxay and the subject matter of this
pr6ceeding. By

agr~eing

and consenting to their ord~r of discipline, Vongxay

has waived any and all defects in the service of the Sum,mops and Complaint

I

and in the Notice of Hearing.
2) Vongx:ay's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. General Statute §84-28(b)(2) in that
the conduct violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the
time ofthe copduct as follows:
a) By preparing and signing the HlJD-l settlement statement that fa1sely
misr-epresented receipt of funds and/or falsely represented the
disbLlrsement of funds for the transaction, V ongxay engaged in conduct
-5-

I
.',

,",\'

involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or mispresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c);
b) By inflating his Title Charges fees shown on the HUD-I and
offsetting this with a "seller credit" to the buyer to avoid any net
proceeds, Vongxay mispresented to the prior lender that there Were no
additional proceeds from the sale to be paid to it, thereby engaging in

I

conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8A( c);
c) By failing to maintain bank receipts or deposit slips listing the source
•

I

of all 'funds deposited in the personal injury trust account and failing to
name the client to whom the funds belong, Vongxay failed to maintain
I

•

records in viol:;ttion of Rule 1.1 5-3(a)(1);
.

"

d) By failing to maintain a ledger containing a record of receipts and
disbursements for Nam and Seo and showing their current balances of
funds held for them in the personal injury trust account, Vongxay failed
to maintain a ledger in violation of Rule 1.15-3(a)(5);

I

e) By failing to reconcile his real estate and personal injury trust
accounts quarterly, Vongxay failed to balance his individual client
balances shown on the client ledger and reqoncile them with the current
bank balance for the trust account as a whole in violation of Rule 1.153(c);

f) By failing to maintain sufficient funds in his real estate trust account
and his personal injury trust account at all times after receipt of the
-6-

I
','

·.
clients' funds, by failing to protect the integrity of those funds, and by
disbursing funds from his trust account on behalf of clients llsing funds
received on behalf of other clients, Vongxay failed to properly m~intaiI1
or disburse trust funds in violation of Rule 1.1S-2(a), improperly

I

disbursed trust funds on behalf of a client to the ftmds in violation of
Rule 1.15-2(m), l,lsed entrusted property for the benefit of a party other
than the legal or beneficial owner of the funds in Violation of Rule 1.152(1).

Based l,lpon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing,
Committee enters the following:
Findlngs Regarding Discipline
1. Vongxay's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a. M1,lltiple offenses.
b. Multiple violations bfthe Rllles.
2. Vongxay's misconduct is mitigated by thy following facts:

I

-

I

!

- -I

a. Absence of prior-disciplinary record.

!

h. -Cooperative l:tttitude toward proceeding and acknowledgemerit of misconduct.
c. Inexperience in the practice of law.
-3. Vongxay' s conduct caused harm to Wilshire Credit Corporation and to the standing of
the legal profession.
-

-

4. Vongxay's failure to r~concUe his trust account posed a significant threat ofharin to
his clients and if repeated poses significant potential harm to future clients.

-7-

I
"

".,'

5. An Ordet of Discipline less than an active suspension would not sufficiently protect
the public in this case because ofthe misrepresentations and the nature and extent
bfthe trust account violations. Vongxay had fiduciary duties for those clients
with funds in his trust accQunt and an entry of any order imposing lesser discipline
~han suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses he has

¢ommitted and send the wrong message to the attorney and the public regarding"

the conduct expected of members of the Bar.

I

The appropriate sanction in this case

" to protect the public, on the facts unique to this case, is suspension ofVongxay's
license for a period of time.
Based upon the foregoing Fin4ings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
Order of Discipline
1. Vongxay's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is herby suspended
for three years, effective thirty days after service of this Order of Discipline on the
Defehdant.

2. VOilgxay shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the North

I

CaroFna State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.
"3. Vongxay shall comply with the wind down provisions containe4 in 27 N.C. Admin
,

"

Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b). the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules. Vongxay shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar within 1"0 days of the effective date of this Order 6fDiscipline
certifying he has complied with the wind down rule .

..8-

I

4. After serving one year of the active suspension of his license, Vongxay may apply fot
a stay of the balance of the suspension upon filing a motion with the Di$ciplinary
Hearing Commission in the matter at least thirty days before any proposed effective
date of the stay and demonstrating the following by clear, cogent, and convipcing

I

evidence:
a. That Vongxay has satisfactorily completed a law office trust account
management course approved by the Office of Counsel of the North CarQlina
State Bar at hjs own expense and has paid the costs thereof.
b. That Vongx.ay has satisfactorily cooperated ;with the Office, of Counsel to
identify and appropriately disburse ,the balance ofthe funos :stiH in
Defendant's trust account.
c. That ~e has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised 6fhis current business and home address.
d. That he has responded to a~l comtm,mications from the North Carolina State
Bar within 30 days of receipt or by the deaqIine stated in the commlll1ication,

I

whi~hever

is sooner.

e. That he has hot violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or any state during his suspension.

f. That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with the terms of '
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1 Subchapter B, §.01.24 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules .

.
'

.. ""

-9-

g. That he has paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and complied with all Continuing Legal Education (CLE) requirements on a
timely basis as if still in. practice during the suspension.
h. Th~t be paid the costs of this proceeding with 90 days of service of the
statement of costs upon him
L That ifhe propoSes to practice as a solo practitioner if the stay is granted, he

I

has contracted with a licensed a member of the North Carolina State Bar who
is in good standing who practices law in county where he proposes to practice,

I

and who has been approved by: the North Carolina State Bar, to serve as his
monitor and that the selected monitor has agreed to so serve and agreed to the
requirements set forth in paragraph 5 of this Order. Vongxay will pay the cost

I

ifany, charged by themonitorJor this supervision. If the monitor requires a
fee to be paid in advance or a retainer to be paid at the inception of this
monitoring relationship, Vongxay will have paid that prior to submitting his
petition for a stay or for r~instatement.
5. IfVongxay successfully seeks a stay Qfthe suspension of his law license, such stay
will continue in force only as long as he complies with the following additional

I

conditions:
a.: That he meets once a :QlOhth with. his monitoting attorney to whom he will
I

report a statu§·of all current trust accounts, cooperate with the mentor attorney

, and provide any information the mentor attorney deems reasonably necessary
• to ensure that V ongxay is handling all trust accounts appropriately and in

-10-

I
",'

compliance, with Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. Vongxay will be
solely responsible for any cost of this arrangement.
b. That the monitoring attorney submits written quarterly reports to the Office' of

Counsel of the State Bar by the 10th of each month confinning that Vongxay is

I

complying wjth Paragraph 5(a).
c. That V ongxay will provide written quarterly re'conciliation of all ~st accounts
to which he has aC'cess to the ,Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State
Bar within that (30) days of the last day of each calendar quarter. (Le. reports
are due no later than April 30, July 30, October 30 and Janu~ry 30).
'd. That Vongxay will pennit the North Carolina State Bar to conduct random
,audits of his trust account, and any other business and personal bank accounts
to which he has access necessary to complete such audits, during the period of
the stay.
6. Ifan order ~taying any period of this suspension is entered and Vongxay fails to
~

I

comply with anyone or more of the conditions referenced in Para~aph 5, tbep. the

,

.

stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
7. IfVongxay does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of his law
license or if some part of the suspension is staY7d and thereafter the stay is revoked,
Vongxay must comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs 4(a) - (i) above"
before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice l~w.
8. 1'l1e Disc,iplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant
, to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1 SUbchapter B, § .01 14(x) of the North Carolina

-11-

..

0"',·

State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules thrOllghout the period of the stayed
suspensIOn.
9. Vongxay will pay all costs of this proceeding pennitted by law within ninety (90)
daysI of service of notice of the amount of costs as. assessed by the Secretary.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with full knowledge and consent of the other
members ot the Hearing Committ~e.

This is the

-.lJday

of

¥l

I

) 2006.

Carlyn G. . Ie, Chair Disciplinary
Hearing Committee

Consented To:

William N. Farrell, Deputy Counsel

Attorney for Plaintiff

.

I

~'kL

Alan M. Schlliddet
Attorney forIDeH",-"""""M

--~~~~--~----------

-12-

I
..

..

