NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARYHEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05 DHC 51

WAKE COUNTY

The North Carolina State Bar;
Plaintiff,

)

v.
Marshall F. Dotson, III
befendant.

__._--_.__._._-,_.._-'-'._--_ _ - -

.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, and
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

..

~··---~-~---·---- _

_ . ;_ _ R

_ _ _ _- "

_______

• • . : . . - . ._ _ _ _

,

This matter came on to be heard and was heard before a Hearing Committee bfthe
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Karen Eady-Williams, Chair, Michael 1. Houser,
and Stephen B. Culbreth. The Defendant represented himself. William N. Farrell represented
the Plaintiff. Both parties stipUlate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited herein and to the order of discipline imposed. Based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

Plaintiff, ,the North Carolina State Bar, (hereinafter "State Bar") is a body duly organized

under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper .party to bring this proceeding under the

I

authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the. North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I
. I

Defendant, Marshall F. Dotson, .HI, (hereinafter "D~fendant"), was admitted to the North

2.

Carolina State Bar on February 28, 1989, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Revised Rules 'of Professional Conduct of the State of North Carolina State Bar and the laws of

I

the State of North Carolina.
3.

During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the practice of law ill the

State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Greensb~ro, Guilford County, North
Carolina.
4.

In July 2003, Defendant represented a client named John M. Bell (hereafter "Bell") in an

equitable distribution proceyding with Bell's former spouse,Patricia Ann Bell (now Ru~gjerp,
hereinafter "Ruggiero") in Guilford County case number 98 CVD 9?63. On July 2, 2003, Judge
, Joseph E. Turner entered a COnsent order, attachea to the Complaint as Exhibit A, in Gllilford
County Case number 98 CVD 9563. Paragraph 7 of the order provided that "[T]he parties shall
sign any and all documents necessary to effec4tate the transfer of assets as $et forth herein,
including but not limited to, the non-warranty deed and consent to the entry of a Qualified .

I

Domestic Relations Order to divide the plaintiffs North State Chevrolet 401 (K) as set forth
herein,"
5.

On or about July 29, 2003 counsel fO'r Ruggiero, drafted the Qualified Domestic

Relations Order (hereinafter "QDRO") pursuant to the July 2, 2003 consent order, and gave the
order to Defendant sometime between July 29, and September 26,2003.

-2-

I
, I "

Vo3

,/

6.

On September 26, 2003 an order, attached to the Complaint as Exhibit B, was entered in

Guilford County case number 98 CVD 9563 by Wendy M. Enochs, District Court Judge
Presiding. ,The order recited that the "QDRO .has been prepared awaiting approval from
company." •
7.

On or about March 12, 2004 counsel for Ruggiero made a calendar request and gave

notice.ofhe~ing

8.

I

to be held on May 3, 2004 for entry of the QDRO.

On or about May 25, 2004 counsel for RUggiero again sent the QDRO to defendant for

execution by Defendant's client, Bell.
9.

On or about June 11,2004, counsel for Ruggiero sent a V\lTiting to Defendant requesting

to be advised "as to the statu~ of the execution of the Qualified. Domestic Relations Order."
Defendant did not respond in writing to this request.
10.

On

ot about July 1, 2004, counsel for RUggiero sent a Second Request in writing to

Defendant requesting to be advised "as to the status of the execution of the Qualified Domestic
i

Relations Order." Defendant did not respond in writing to this request.
11.

On ot about November 19, 2004, counsel for Ruggiero sent a Third Request in writing to

Defendant requesting to be advised "as to the status of the execution of the Qualified Domestic

I

Relations Order." Defendant did not respond in writing "to this request.
12.

On Or about January 10, 2005, Ruggiero personally wrote Defendant requesting

information from defendant as to the specific date that Bell would sign the QDRO and return it
to Ruggiero's counsel.
13.

On or, about February 11, 2005 Ruggiero personally wrote Defendant for a second time,

requesting to be advised ofthe status of the QDRO.

-3-

I
. I

..

14.

On or about April 26, 2005, Ruggiero personally wrote Defendant for a third time, noting

that he had not responded to the letters of January] 0 and February 11, 2005, and requesting that
the QDRO be .signed and sent to Ruggiero's counsel.
15.

On or about May 16,2005 Ruggiero filed a grievance with the North Carolina State Bar

against Defendant regarding the delay in the execution of the QDRO, consented to by the parties

I

and ordered by the court on July 2, 2003.
16.

,A Letter of Notice from the Chair, of the Grievance Committee, regarding defendant's

neglect and delay in the QDRO matter was sent to defendant on or about JUlle 1,2005.
,
17.
After receiving an extension of time until July 1, 2005, within which to respond to th¢
Letter of Notice, Defendant failed to respond on or before July 1.
18.
:t '

On or about July 13, 2005, Defendant was sent a follow~up letter from the State Bar

reminding him that he had not responded to the Letter of Notice and requesting that he respond

, by July 19, 2005.
19.

By letter dated July 20, 2005, and post-marked July 25, 2005, Defendant responded to the

Letter of Notice. In his response Defendant denied that he had failed to respond to Ruggiero.

I

Defendant further stated that he had told Ruggiero and her "previous counsel" of problems with
the language of':the QDRO regarding the survivors benefit langlJage. Defendant stated that at
such time that -the' survivors benefit language was removed from the order and that at such tiine
the order cO,ntained the appropriate language, that his client would approve it and the court wo\lld
enter such order.
20.

By 1.etter dated July 26, 2005, Deputy Counsel for the State Bar requested further

documents from Defendant and requested that he provide same by August 8, 2005. Defendant
did hot respond to this request until September 12, 200S.

-4-

I

,

, I

:."

.

_

21.

On September 8, 200S, a Qualified Domestic Relations Order, attached to the Complaint

as Exhibit C, was entered in Guilford County case number 98 CVD 9563 by Joseph E. Turner,
District Court Judge Presiding. The order was signed by Defendant, his client, Ruggiero and her
counsel.
22.

This brder was identical in all respects to the order as initially drafted by Ruggiero's

counsel and given to Defendant between July 29, 2003 and September 26, 2003 except for the
changes as to dates sent to Defendant in ,May 2004, The order consented to by the parties and
entered by the Court On September 8, 2005 contained the same language that Defendant stated
was holding up the execution of the order by his client.
23.

In October 1999 Ms. Jo Ellen Barley and husband retained Defendant to represent them

'; regarding custody of their granddaughter~ Cheyene Taylor Noah. D~fendant was paid $2,200.00
I

for his service's.
24.

Defendant told Ms. Barley that he would need court records pertaining to ,the divorce of

. 'Ms. Barley's SOn, Joseph A. Noah, and Janet B. Noah. Defendant advised he would send his
assistant to gather these documents.
25.

At some point during the representation of Ms. Barley, Defendant suggested that she hire

a private investig~tor to gather information to verify the mother's conduct and to determine
t

I

whether circumstances existed which would warrant a custody action by Ms. Barley, the child's
grandmother. '
26.

On or about August I€?, 2005, Ms. Batley c(;mtacted Defendant's office and asked for a

,

copy of her file. The request for the file was to provide the file to the investigator to avoid
duplication of: any effort already made by Defendant.

Ms. Barley Was asked what the

investigator needed out of the file.

-5-

I
:

. I

..

Defendant did not return a copy of Ms. Barley's fil~ to her nor did he explain to

27.

Ms.

Sarley why he wa~ not doing so.
Based upon the for~going Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
CONCLDSIONS· OF LAW

I

1.

All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, M'll'shall F. Dotson, III, and the subject matter of this
proceeding. By agreeing and consenting to this order of discipline, Defendant has
waived any.and all 'defects in the service of the summons and complaint and in the
110tice of hearing.

2,

Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the findings of fact above, constitutes ground~ for
discipline, pursuant to N:C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28 (b) in that the ~onduct vjolated
the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as
follows:

a.

By delaying the execution of the Qualjfied Domestic Relations Order and.
failing to respond to opposing counselor voice any objections to the proposed

I

QDRO, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
violation of Rule 1.3, failed to make reasonable effort$ to expedite the
litigation in -violation of Rule 3.2 and engaged in conduct that was'pr~judicial
to. the administration of justice in violation of Rule 804 (d).

-6-

..

I
. I

, ,

b.:

By failing to give Ms. Barley a copy of her file, upon her request, Defendant
failed to reasonably consult with a client about the means by which the
client's objectives were to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4 (a) (2) ano
failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in
violation of Rule 1.4 (a}(4).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing

I

Committee enters the following:
FINDINGS REGAJillING DISCIPLINE
I

1.,

Dyfendants conduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a.

Substantial experience in the practice of law;

b.:

Issuance of four letters of warning to the Defendant within the three years
immediately proceeding the filing of the complaint;

c. '

The letters ofwaming involved similar conduct as the conduct in the present
proceeding.

2.

Defendants misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

a.

Cooperative attitude toward the Bar proceedings;

b. '

Acknowledgement of the wrongful nature of his conduct.

3.

The "aggravating factors outweighthe mitigating faptors.

4.

Defendants conduct caused harm to the standing of the legal profession, undermining
tru~t

I

and confidence in lawyers and the legal system.

-7-

I
, I

5.

The Hearing Committee has considered Jesser alternatives and finds that a pubUc
censure or reprimand would not sufficiently protect the public anq that a stayed
suspension is necessary to allow implementatiop of conditions to ensure the
protection of the public and Defendant's future clients.

6.

I

The Hearing Committee finds Defendants conduct in delaying the execution of the
QDRO caused significant harm to the ~dministration of justice and that a stayed
suspension is necessary to protect the public and the standing of the legal professioh., .
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings Regarding

Discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is hereby
,,~:

suspended for one year, effective upon service of this Order ofJ)iscipline on the
Defendant. The suspension is stayed for a period of two years as long as Defendant
complies with the following conditions:
a.

I

Defendant will advise the Bar in writing of any changes in his address within
10 days of all changes.

b.

-Defendant will respond to all letters of notice and request for information
from 'the' N.C. State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication,

c.

Defendant will timely pay all State Bar membership dues and Client Security
FUI)d assessments.

d.

Defendant will timely comply with his State Bar continuing legal education
requirements and 'will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline.

-8-

I
, I

Defendant will not violate any law of the United States or the laws of any

e.

state.
f.

Defendant will not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

g:

No later thal130 days from the entry of the Order of Discipline Defendant
shall contract with a licensed North Carolina attorney who maintains a private
laws practice in the judicial district in which Defendant maintains his practice
to serve as a practice monitor. Defendant. will first secure the

~pproval

I

of his

proposed practice monitor from the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina
State Bar, which approval will not be unreasonably withl:teld. Defendant will
personally meet with his practice monitor at least once each quarter beginning
~.~

•

in July 2006 during the period of stayed suspension. Defendant will keep the

.

monitor apprised of all open and pending client matters and the status of all

~,')I

• rIO

such matters. Within 15 days after the end of each calendar quarter of each
year of the $tayed suspension, Defendant will deliver to the Office ·of Counsel
a written report signed by the practice monitor confirming that the meetings
are occurring and that the Defendant is reporting on the status of Defendant's
.-client matters to the practice monitor and that the practice monitor is satisfied

..

,

I

with the status of such client matters. Defendant will be solely responsible for
all costs associated with the monitoring of his law practice.

-9-

I
. I

'-if D

':.:'

~l~u

~!I
iJ:l

<•

••j

h.

Defendant shall complete within the first three months of the stay at his own

"

expense, a course of training of at least eight hours, in law office management
approved by the North Carolina State Bar, and

~xpressly

waive any right he

might otherwise have as to confidential communication with persons
associated with the management training program in regard to the :prescribed

I

course of training. Within ten days of completion of the management traI:ping
progranl, pefendant will be.responsibtertor seeing that the pro.vider of the
training course has certified to the Bar that he has satisfactorily completed the .
'course and paid the costs of the course.
1.

Within 90 days of the entry ofthis Order of Discipline, Defendant pay Patricia
Ann Ruggiero the sum of $720.00 for counsel fees incurr,ed from the delay in
the execution of the QDRO.

J.

Within 10 days of the entry of this Order of Discipline, Defend~nt will deliver
an entire copy of Jo Ellen Barley's file to her, except for Defendant's notes,
drafts of docmnents and telephone log records.

I

2. Defendant shall pay th¥ costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service of the
statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the State' Bar.

J. Trthe $t~y of the susp~nsi01yis 1ifted at any time and thfo' suspension ofDefendanC~~}aw
license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice
law, Defendant must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied
with each of the following conditions:

-10-

I
:

. I

..

a.

Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the N.C. State
Bar within 30 days after the effective date of the order suspending his law
license

i

b,.

Complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Section .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules on a timely basis.
Demonstrated that he is not suffering from any addiction, disability or
condition that would impair his .. ability-m. competently engage,j'n' the. practice

I

oflilw.
i

d.

Paid all due and owing membership fees, Client Security Fund assessments
and costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar.

e.

Complied with all continuing legal education requiremeJ,lts imposed by the
North Carolina State Bar.

,

Sign~d by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the knowledge and consent of the
other
Committee
members:
,
I
This the

'l5~. day of _ _M£A----"~~-,----'-,,2006.

<' / l
~~~~~av;m,r

W~~l\\~~~
William N'. Farreli
Attorney for'I Plaintiff

-11-

. I

..

..

I

