"--

--

BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLlNA
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,.
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.

1

DAVID H. ROGERS, Suspended
Attorney,
Defendant.
This matter was considered by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Karen Eady-Williams, Chair, and members Tommy W. Jarrett
and R. Mitchel Tyler. Katherine E. Jean represellted plaintiff, the North Carolina State
Bar. Wayne B. Eads represented defendant, David H. Rogers. Both parties stipulate and
agree to the fmdings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order ~d to
the discipl~e imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily Waives any and all right to
appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations of fact·
and the consent of the pa,rties, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and.
convincingevidertce the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1

1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
ofNorfu Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, $dthe Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, David H. Rogers ("Rogers"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar iri Jime, 1979.
3. On January 10, 2003, in case number 01 DHC 15, North Carolina Stat~
Bar v. David H. RQgers, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission entered an Order
of Discipline suspending Rogers'law license for a period of3 years.
4. ThesuspensionofRogers'lawlicense in 01 DHC 15 became effective
March 18,2003.
5. During the period of suspension of his law license, Rogers has
nonetheless been subject to the rules, regulations and Rules ofProfes~iorial

1

--I
. I .

..

Conduct of the North Carolipa State Bar and to the laws of the State of North Carolina.
. 6. From Match 18, 2003, through the present, Rogers has not been an
active Plember of the North Carolina State Bar admitted and licensed to practice
as attorney-at-law.

· 7. Rogers' license to practice law has not been reinstated and the
.
suspension has not been stayed.
.

,

, 8.. In or before June, 2005, Rogers met an elderly woman, L. Denny
Yeaman, who lives in Durham, North Carolina.
,9. In or about June, 2005, Rogers gave legal advice to L. Denny Yeaman.

I

10. In or about June, 2005, Rogers assisted Ms. Yeaman in drafting a Last
Will and Testament, a Power of Attorney, and a Durable Power of Attorney for
Health ,Care. Rogers selected language which was inserted into the Will,
including selecting the language to identify himself as the executor of Ms.
Yeaman's estate and selecting the language to identify himself as the attorney in
fact in Ms. Yeaman's Power of Attorney.
:11. The Last Will and Testament named "David H. Rogers, Esq." as
execut6r of M;s. Yeaman's estate.
12. The Power of Attorney named "David H. Rogers, Esq." as attorney in
fact for Ms. Yeaman.
i13 .

Rogers took Ms. Yeaman to a notary public to execute the documents
identifi¢d in paragraph 10 above.
,

,14. On June 8, 2005, Rogers wrote a letter-to Denny Deady, Ms.
Yeaman's niece, instructing Denny Deady how to execute the Durable Power"of
Attorney for Health Care and explaining to Denny Deady the difference between
the Durable Power of Attorney for Health Care and the Living Will which was at
issue in, the Terry Schiavo case.
~5. Rogers enclosed with his June 8,2005 letter to Denny Deady a
busines~ card with the typewritten words "attorney at law" printed under his

I

name

and beside the handwritten letters "Ret'd."
16. The letters "Ret'd" written on Rogers' business card were
intended by Rogers to communicate and were understood by Denny
Deady to communicate that Rogers was a retired attorney at law.
i

17. Rogers did not simply retire from the practice oflaw. Rogers
testified' in his deposition that he "retired" after the Disciplinary Hearing

2

I
. I

.. ::.:-

Commission entered an order suspending his license' for three years in -0 1
DHC 15. Rogers was forced to cease engaging ill the practice oflaw
when his license. was suspended by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
in 01 DHC 15.
.
18. Rogers' act of giving the business c~d to Denny Deady with
the handwritten letters "R~t'd" was misleading to Denny Deady. ,

I

19. Rogers gave the, pusiness carel to Denny Deady in an effort to
induce her to believe that Rogers was a retired attorney at law.
20. Rogers' conduct in giving the business card to Denny Deady
was an intentional deception.'
.
21. Continuously from Match 1'8, 2003 to the present, Rogers has

maintained listings in the Bellsouth yellow pages, business white pages and
residential white pages telephone directories for the Raleigh, North Carolina area
identifying himself as an Attorney and as IIAtty."
22. A member of the public seeing any of the yellow pages, business

white pages or residential white pages listings identifying Rogers as an Attorney
or "Atty" would believe that Rogers was an attorney lic~nsed and able to practice
law in North Carolina and that lie was se~king to have potential clients hire him to
provide legal services.
23. The existence of the listings in the white and yellow pages was

deceptive and misleading to the public.
.24. Rogers was aw~e of the telephone book listings identifying him as
an Attorney and as "Atty" at latest on October 16,2004.

I

25. Rogers wrote one letter to BellSouth Yellow Pages on Octoper 16,
2004, requesting that the Yellow Pages listing be removed. Otherwise, Rogers

took no action to eliminate the misleading listings from the telephone books. The
listings were published in the 2005 and 2006 white and yellow pages, unchanged.
Rogers paid to have these improper listings published in the 2005 and 2006 white
and yellow pages.
26. During the period of his suspension from the practice of law, Rogers
referred to himself in correspondence as "David H. Rogers, Esq.," including but
not limited to such references in June 8, 2005 correspondence to Denny Deady, in
July 13,4005 correspondence to Denny Deady, and In August 17,2005,
September 5, 2005, and "July xx, 2005" correspondence to the North Carolina
State Bar's Grievance Committee. Rogers' correspondence also r~ferences other
persons. Rogers referred to the attorneys referenced in his correspondence as

3

I
,I

:."

-

,

"Esq." and did not refer to the laypersons referenced in his correspondence as
"Esq:"
27. Rogers' use ofthe term "Esq." following his own name, following the
name of his own attorney, ,and following the name of attorney Sheri Murrell, but
not foll'pwing the names of Denny Deady and 1. Denny Yeaman, who are
laypersons, indicates that Rogers' use of the initials "Esq." was intended to
indicate that the person to whose, name it is appended is an attorney.
~8.

By appending the term "Esq." to his ,own name in
correspondence referenced in paragraph 26 above, Rogers intended to
cOrriIilunicate to the reader that he is an attorney.

I

29. On or about May 7, 2003, Rogers transmitted to Alison M. Moseley,
Director of Student Service at Moseley, a continuing legal education prOVider, a
resume in which Rogers represented that from June 1983 to "present" he was an
attorney-at-law and that he was engaged in the private practice of law, from
which he had "earnings per annum presently in the $36,000 to 40,000 r~ge~"
, Also in the resume transmitted to Alison M. Moseley, Rogers represented that he
is "licensed as attorney-at-law and member of the North Carolina Bar."
30. At the time of the representation.s and conduct described in
paragraphs '9-29 above, Rogers was not authorized by the North Carolina
State Bar to engage in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina
and was not an active member of the North Carolina State Bar.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

i. All parties are properly before the hearing committee and th~

jurisdic~on over defendant, David H.

committee has

Rogers, and over the subject matter.

2. Rogers was properly served with process, a heating in this matter was set, and

the matt¢r caine before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.

I

3. Rogers' conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (3) as follows:

a, During the period of suspension of his law license, Rogers held
himself out by word, letter and advertisement as competent or
qualified to give legal advice or counsel in violation ofN.C.O.S.
84-4.
b. During the 'period of suspension of his law license,' Rogers held
himself out by word, letter and advertisement as being engaged in
I

.

i

4

I
.:"

, I

, L{:J.O

advising or counseling. in law or acting as attorney or counselor-atlaw in violation ofN.C.G.S. 84-4.
~

c. During the period of suspension of his law license, Rogers held
himself put by word, letter and adverti~ement as being competent
or qualified to prepare legaldQcU111ents in violation ofN:C.G.S.
84..4.
.

I

d. buring the period of suspension of his law license, Rogers held
himself out by word, letter apd advertisement as fu,mis~ng the
services of a lawyer: in violation ofN.C.G.S. 84-4.
.
·e. During the period ofsuspen~ion ofJlls law license, Rogers
engaged in the practice of law by performing legal services,
preparing or participating in preparing a Last Will and Testament,
Limited Power of Attorney, .and Durable Power of Attorney for
Health Care, and giving legal advice or counsel in violation of
N.C.G.S. 84-4.
f. Rogers' conduct a.s described above constitutes mUltiple violations of
N.C.G.S. 84-4.
g. By committing the acts described above, Rogers engaged in conduct
involving clishonesty, fraud, deceit or rp.isrepresentation in violation of
Revised Rule of Professional Conduct 8A(c), engaged in criminal conduct
that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a
lawyer in violation of Revised Rule ofProfe~sional Conduct 8A(b),.
practiced law·in ajurisdiction where doing so violates the regulation of the
legal professiol)..inthatjurisdiction in violation of Revised Rule of
Professional Conduct 5.5(a), and held out to the public or otherwise
represented that he is admitted to practice law in North Carolina
jurisdiction in violation of Revised Rule of Professional Conduct
5.5 (b)(2).
Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following'
additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Rogers' misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. Rogers has engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
b. Rogers committed mUltiple offenses;

5

I
. I

c. Rogers has substantial experience in the practice of law;
d. Rogers has the following prior discipline: 3 year active suspension from
the practice oflaw in 1982; public censure in 1985; admonition in 1998; 3
year active suspension in 2003.
I

~.

Rogers' misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. The 1982 and 1985 disciplinary orders are remote in time. .

.

h. Roger~ is a decorated veteran of the United States Army, having served

,

honorably in both combat and non-combat assignments.

I

3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
I

.

4. Rogers' conduct created a significant risk of serious damage to L. Denny

Yeamatl: in that L. D~nny Yeatnan is a vulnerable person who relied upon Rogers.

~. Rogers' conduct has interfered with the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys
and undermined the privilege of lawyers in this State to remain self-regulating in that
Rogers deliberately disobeyed a direct order of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
,

6. This DHC Committee has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a public
censure ,or reprimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
harm caused by the conduct or Rogers, because Rogers has had substantial prior
disciplh?e, and because Rogers has demonstrated an inability or an unwillingness to
comply ~th the lawful order,S of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
.

7. This DHC Committee finds that Rogers' conduct caused Significant harm and

signific~t potential harm to L. Denny Yeaman, to the public, and to the profession, and
that a di~cipline more severe than public censure or reprimand is necessary to protect the
public. .
.

Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness. of the offenses committed by Rogers, would be inconsistent
with orders of discipline entered by this body in similar cases' and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and to the public regarding the obligation of all attorneys to obey
the lawM orders of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
~.

9. For those reasons, this DHC Committee believes and so finds that an Order
I

.

imposing discipline short of a suspension of Rogers' law license would not be
approp~ate.

Based upon the foregoing factors and with the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following

6

. I

..

I

-,
I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

I

1. The license of defendant, David H. Rogers? is hereby suspended fot five (5)
years, which suspension shall begin immediately upon expiration of the 3 ye~
suspension-imposed by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission in 01 DHC 15.
2. -If he has not already done so, Rogers shall submit bis license and membership
card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar immediately~

I

3. As condition~ precedent to his reinstatem~nt to the active practice of law at the
end of the -five (S) year suspensiOJ.1~ Rogers shall ha:ve the burden of proving, all of the
following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
a. Except for matters already dealt with in this Order of Discipline, that he
_complied with all other conditions of reinstatement imposed by the
Hearing Conunittee in the Order of Discipline enteredm 01 DHG 15.
b. That he has satisfied all of the requirements of27 N.C. Adinin. Code'
Chapter 1, Subchapter B,§ .012S(b)(3)(A)-(J) of the State Bar Discipline
& Disability Rules.
c. That he has reformed and that he presently possesses the moral
qualifications
required for admission to practice law in North Carolina.
....... .
.",'

d. That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 180 days of service of
the statement of costs upon him.

I

"",

e. That he has submitted a report from a psychiatrist satisfactory to the
State Bar Office of Counsel reflecting that no later that1 60 day~ prior to
filing Rogers' petition for reinst&tement, Rogers was found by the
psychiatrist not to be suffering from any mental, physical, emotional or
psychological condition which impairs his professional judgment,
performance or comp~tence.
f. That he has kept his address of record with the North Carolina State Bar
current, has promptly accepted all certified mail from'the,North Carolina
'State'Bar, and hrui"resporided tC) allletters'bfnotice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in
the communication.
g. That he has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct ot
the laws of the United States or ofany state.
h. That he has taken all steps necessary to ensure that from the effective
date of this Order forward there will be no listing in any telephone

7

I

..

· directory indicating in any way that he is an attorney or "Atty" or
containing any other false or misleading information about him.
• i. That he paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and complied with all Continuing Legal Education (CLE) requirements on
· a timely basis.as if still in practice during the suspension.

. ' Sigp.~(tby the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
this the 2.5!l day of
f\A:C\
.
.

I
~_O_B_Y_:_.____----------Katherine E. Jean
Deputy Counsel
. Attorney for Plaintiff

Wayne'B. Eads
Attorntry'for Defendant

" ti~
·
~~£
..
~

..

-?~~.

I. . . .

David H. Rogers
Defendant

.

.

I

8

I

