..

I (l~b
BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSIQN
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06DHC 3

WAKE COUNTY

&

THE NORTH CAROLINA \,!.,...,.~-u

I

Plaintiff

v.

FINPINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSXONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

LYNETTE HICKS., Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair, and members M. Ann Reed and
Rebecca Brownlee. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff, the North Carolina State
Bar. James B. M~well represented the Defendant, Lynette Hicks. Both parties stipulate
and agree to the findings offact and conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order and
to the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives anY and all right to
appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations of fact
and the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby finds· by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding tinder the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North CarQlina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 ofilie North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Lynette Hicks ("Hicks"), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1983, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina,
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised Rules ,of
Professional Conduct.
3,.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Hicks Was· '
engaged in the pra9tice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in,Mocksville, Davie County, North Carolina.
Hicks was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set,
4.
and the matter comes before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.

·1

5.
In the course of Hicks' practice oflaw, she maintained a trust account for
client fi;mds at BB&T under th~ name of Piedmont Legal Associates, PA IOLTA
Accou~t, account number ending in the digits 7124.
6.

Hicks hired Janet Barbour ("Barbour") as a paralegal in her office in about

1994.

7.

Prior to 2000, Hicks delegated bookkeeping responsibilities for the trust
account to Barbour. These delegated duties included writing and signing trust account
checks ~d reconciliation of the trust account.
8.
At the time of this delegation, Hicks believed Barbour had the experience,
training, qualifications, and integrity to handle these responsibilities.

I

5?
Although Hicks delegated these duties to Barbour, Hicks remained
responsible under Rules 1.15-2 and 1.15-3 of the North Carolina Revised Rules of
Professional Responsibiiity ~o protect client funds, to maintain client ledgers for each
client wIth funds in her trust account, and to reconcile her trust account quarterly.

10.
Bruno E. DeMolli, a staff auditor with the North Carolina State Bar,
conductyd a random audit of Hicks' trustaccounf on March 10, 2000. His audit
consiste4 of a procedural review of trust account administrative recordkeeping
procedures. He found several deficiencies, including failure to maintain client ledgers
and failUre to reconcile the trust account quarterly.
}i 1.

DeMolli did not discover shortageS or funds miSSing from Hicks' trust
account in his procedural audit nor did he conduct a substantive audit that would have
enabled pim to do so.
12.
DeMolli provided Hicks with written notice of the procedural deficiencies
he found in a document dated March 10, 2000. Both DeMolli and Hicks signed this
doclinient.
1~.

Despite these deficiencies, Hicks continued to have Barbour maintain the

I

trust account.
14.
After DeMolli's audit, Hicks met with Barbour and reviewed the results of
the audit with her. Hicks anticipated Barbour would make the changes necessary to
remedy tlIe deficiencies. Hicks did not adequately follow-up in the supervision of
Barbour after these discussions:
I

15.
As of January 1, 2002, Hicks should have had a total of$35,194.01 in her
trust account for three estate client matters, as follows:
.

a.

Ridenhour Estate

$21,0323}

b.

Parse Estate

$11,806.89

-2-

I
.~
.:.

:.

"

"

c.
16.
$10,441.05.

I

I

Thompson Estate

$ 2,354.90

As of January 1,2002, the balance of Hicks' trust account was

17.
$5,641.62 ofthe $10,441.05 balance in Hicks' trust account as QfJanuary
1, 2002 waS being held for matters other than the Ridenhour Estate, the Parse Estate, or
the Thompson Estate, leaving only $4,799.43 in Hicks' trust account that couid be funds
belonging to these estates.
18.
As of November 11,2002, Hicks should have had a total of$127,088.33
in her trust account for client matters, as follows:
a.

Ridenhour Estate

$20,895.31

b.

Pars~

Estate

$ 9,791.89

c.

Thompson Estate

$ 2,354.90

d.

Floyd Greene (#1)

$10,000.00

e.

Floyd Greene (#2)

$

f.

Garcia Cruz

$78,540.53

g.

W. Jones

$

75.00

h.

McMillan

$

273.00

1.

Payne

$

60.50

J.

Taylor

$

119.28

k.

Taylor

$

330.26

1.

Link

$

14.00

m.

S. James

$

90.02

n.

Bledsoe

$

203.00

o.

Brittan

$

139.25

p.

Howell

$

420.50

q.

Cockerham

$ 1,107.75

r.

Creason

$

107.50

167.00

-3-

s.

Blank

$

54.52

t.

Santos

$

118.00

u.

C. Charles

$ 2,162.28

v.

Keller

$

28.00

w.

Phillips

$

35.00

19.
As of November 11,2002, the balance of Hicks' trust account was
$101,269.08.

I

As of November 11, 2002, Hicks' trust account held $25,819.25 less than
20.
it should have h~ld in client funds. .

21.
Between November 2002 and January 2003, Hicks discovered
discrepancies in her trust account, including missing entries in the check r~gister. Hicks
discovered instances where Barbour had written trust account checks to pay Barbour's
personal :expenses.
22.
Hicks revoked Barbour's signatory authority over the trust account in
November 2002 and reported her to the Mocksville Police Department in November
2002. i
I

•

23.
Barbour was convicted on January 6, 2005 of several charges of obtaining
property:by false pretenses from Hicks; trust account, with offense dates ranging from
February'26, 2001 through November 28,2001.
24.
Additionally, Barbour wrote approximately 53 checks from Hicks' trust
account tor Barbour's personal expenses from about February 11, 2002 through about
Novem,ber 11, 2002.
25.
Hicks did not personally condUct quarterly reconciliations of her trust
account between February 26,2001 and November 11,2002 .

I

.26.
Hicks did not ensure Barbour conducted accurate quarterly reconciliations
of Hicks' trust account between February 26,2001 and November 11, 2002.
I

27;
Hicks did not personally maintain ledgers containing a record of receipts
and disbursements for each person o~entity from whom and for Whom funds were
received .~d held in trust along with a current client balance per client from February 26,
2001 through November 11, 2002.
. 28.
Hicks did not enSure Barbour maintained accurate ledgers containing a
record of receipts and disbursements for each person or entity from whom and for whom
funds Were received and held in trust along with a current client balance per ciient from
February 26, 2001 through November 11,2002.

-4-

I
.:

......

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has juri~diction over the Defendant,. Lynnett~ Hicks, and the subject matter.
2.
Hicks' conduct, as set out in the Findings' of Fact above, constitutes'
grounds for discipline as follows:

I

I

a.

By failing to personally conduct quarterly reconciliations of her
trust account and/or by failing to ~nsure staff to whom she
delegated the duty of conducting quarterly reconciliations did so
accurately, Hicks failed to fulfill her duty to conduct quarterly
reconciliations of her trust accoUl).t in violation of Rule 1.15-3;

b.

By failing to personally m&intaiilledgers containing a record of
receipts and disburs~ents for each person Or entity from whom
and for whom funds were received and held in trust along with the
current client balance per client and/or by failing to ensure staff to
whom she delegated the duty of maintaining such client ledgers did
,so accurately, Hicks failed to fulfill her du~y to·maintain a r~cord
of receipts' and disbursements per client with a cur,rent client
balance for the funds in her tnist account in violation of Rule 1.153; and

c.

By delegating bookkeeping and check writing authority for her
trust account to Barbour and failing to prQvide the supervision
necessary to prevent Barbour nom embezzling client funds, Hicks .
failed to make reasQp.able efforts to ep.sme that the nonlawyer's
conduct was compatible with the professional obligations of Hicks
in violation of Rule 5.3.

Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consep.t of the parties, the heari.ng
committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, apd convincing evidence the following
additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
J.

2.

Hicks' misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Multiple offenses; and

b.

Substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

Hicks' misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

-5-

I

a.

Absence of a prior disciplinary record;

b.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

Personal health problems which distraCted her attention from the
management of her law office;

d.

Remorse;

e.

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or rectify
conseql,lenc~s of misconduct, including notifying the police of
Barbour's embezzlement, self-reporting to the State Bar, opening a
new trust accoUJ;lt to ensure the protection of client funds, and
expending personal funds to remedy the financial harm caused by
Barbour; and

£

FUll.and free disclosure to the hearing committee and .a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings.

3.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

4.

Hicks derived no'personal benefit from Barbour's embezzlements and
expended substantia,! personal funds to ensure all client funds were
replaced and to remedy other financial harn caused by Barbour's actions.

5.

Upon discovery of Barbour's misconduct, Hicks immediately terminated
her employment. Hicks subsequently hired two assistants with substantial
banking experience whom she believes have the training and experience to
properly maintain and reconcile her trust accOunt.

6.

Hicks' failure to properly supervise Barbour and to ensure her clients'
funds were being properly protected enabled Barbour to commit the
embezzlement of client funds described herein. Although no client
disbursement was. disallowed for insufficient funds during this timeframe,
due to the timing of disbursements and the usage of funds that were in the
trust account, this happenstance does not cure the harm caused by Hicks'
failure to supervise Barbour and faihrre to protect her clients' funds.

I

I

Hicks' failure to superVise her non-attorney assistant and failure to protect
client funds posed a significant threat of harm to her clients and, if
repeated, poses significant potential harm to future clients and the
reputation of the profession.

8.
I

Based upon the foregoing facts, entry of an order of discipline with a
significant suspension of Hicks' law license that is stayed only as long as
Hicks complies with reasonable conditions is necessary to protect the
public.

-6-

I
::

:..; ..... .

Based upon the foregoing factors and with the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

1.
The license ofthe Defendant, Lynette Hicks, is hereby suspended for three
(3) years, effective 30 days from service bfthis order upon Hicks.

2.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Hicks complies, and continues to 'comply during the period of the stay~ with the following
conditions:

I

a,

Hicks, at her own expense, will have her trust account a-pdited by ~
Certified Public Accountant (CPA) within sixty days of serVice of
this order. Hicks will provide the CPA's audit report to the State
Bar within ten days of receipt. Hicks will remedy any deficiencies
idtmtified in the CPA's audit and will bring her trust account into
complianc~ with the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct within
thirty days of receipt of the audit report. Hicks will submit proof
of any remedial action to the State Bar and to the CPA no later'
than fifteen days after receipt of the CPA's report. Ifremedial'
action was required, the CPA will prepare a final audit report
certifying that Hicks' trust account is in compliance with the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct without qualification or
reservation to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar no later than .
thirty days after receipt of the remedial information from Hicks.
All evaluations, reports, and services oftheCPA will be at Hicks'
expense;

b.

Hicks will have a CPA audit her trust account on a quarterly basis.
This audit will occur no later than ten days after the last day of
each quarter (April 10, July 10, October 10, and January 10) and
the CPA will submit the audit report to Hicks and the State Bar no
later than fifteen (15) days after conducting the audit. All
evaluations, reports, and services of the CPA will be at Hicks'
expense;

c.

Hicks will complete an accounting course, either a continuing legal
education course teaching trust account accounting practices or
other accounting course with an emphasis on trust accounts and/or
fiduciary funds approved in advance by the Office of Counsel of
the State Bar. Hicks will complete this course within six months
of service of this order upon her. Hicks will provide the Office of

-7-

. ......

,',

',

Counsel of the State Bar with proof of completion of this course
within ten days of completion.
d.

For the quarter following completion ofthis accounting course,
Hicks will personally and without the assistance any other person:
1.

Maintain a ledger containing a record of receipts and
dispursements for each person. or entity from whom and for
whom funds are received in her trust account that shows the,
current balance of funds held in the trust account for each such
person or entity;

11.

Maintain these client ledgers on an ongoing basis, updating
each ledger contemporaneously with receipt or disbursement of
trust account funds;

I

iii. Reconcile her trust account, totaling the individual client
balances shown on the above described ledgers and reconciling
that balance with the current bank balance for the trust account
as a whole on a monthly basis.
e.

Hicks will provide copies of these client ledgers, her,monthly
reconciliations of her trust account, and the corresponding bank
statements'to the CPA conducting the audit of her trust account for
that quarter and to the State Bar Office of Counsel, such
documents being due 5 days after the end of that quarter;

f.

For the quarter in which Hicks performs the activities required in
subsection d of this paragraph 2, the CPA will examine the ledgers
and reconciliations created and/or maintained by Hicks during that
quarter, in additiol1 to performing an independent audit of the trust
account. If the CPA finds any deficiencies in Hicks'
recordkeeping, the CPA will issue a report describing the
deficiencies. This report will be provided to Hicks and the State
Bar in addition to the report of the CPA's independent audit of the
trust account no later than 15 days after completion of the audit
and review. All evaluations, reports, and services of the CPA will
be at Hicks' expense;

g.

I

If the CPA finds any deficiencies in Hicks' recordkeeping, she
will:
'
1.

Correct any deficiencies within ten days of receipt of the
CPA's report and provide documentation to the State Bar of the
corrective action within ten days of accomplishing it; and

ii. Personally create andlor maintain the records described in
subparagraph d of paragraph 2 for the subsequent quarter and
fulfill the requirements of subparagraphs e, f, and this

-8-

I
,:':":,'

.

subparagraph g ofparagraph 2 for such quarter, until the C:pA
finds no deficiencies in Hicks' recordkeeping.

I

I

h.

The personal recordkeeping by Hicks described above can be in addition to any accounting or recordkeeping system Hicks has
instituted in ·her office but must occur independently and without
the assistance of others. This personal recordkeeping requirement
in no way excuses Hicks from compliance with Rul~ 1.15 p~or to
taking the accounting course described above;

1.

Hicks will be the only signatory on her trust account and operating account(s). Bicks will provide documentation showing she is the
sole signatory on these accounts no later than thirty (30) days from
the' effective date of this order. Hicks must sign aU instruments
disbursing funds from or depositing. funds into his trust.and
operating account(s);

j.

Hicks will complete a law o:fficemanagement course within one
year of service of this order upon her. Such course can be a
.
session that-is part of a bigger continuing legal education course Qr
can be an independent course. The law office management course
or session shall be approved in advance by the Office of Counsel
of the State Bar;
.

k.

Hicks will not violate any of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduc~ in tffect during the period of the stay;

1.

Hicks will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the period of the .stay; and

ffi.

Hicks will pay all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within 30 days after service of the statement of costs on
her:

3.
lfHicks fails to comply with anyone or more conditions stated in
paragraph 2 above at any point during the period of time the suspension is stayed, the
stay of the suspension of her law license :play be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4.
lfthe stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the DHC may enter an Order providing for such conditions it deems
necessary for reinstatement of Hicks' license at the end of the three-year suspension.
Furthennore, Hicks will have -complied with each of the following conditions precedent
to reinstatement:
a.

Submitted her license and membership carel to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective
date of the order activating her suspension;

-9-

.' .
. j

".

.,

~

•

,

l

Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 ofthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline

b.

and Disability R'\lles on a timely basis; and
Taken the accolUlting and law office management courses

c.

described in parawa:ph 2 abov~~
: 5.

The Disciplinaxy Hearing Commissio~ wiJI retai.njurisdiction of this

matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) ofthe
North Carolina State Bat Discipliil~ and Disability Rules throughout the period of the

stayed suspension.

.,.

.

. Si~od 'Qythe Chairrth the consent of the other hearing committcentembers,
.2006.

~sthe~dayof r:. ~

I

.
~
~~4.-6~~~
St~ CuThreili
Chair, DiscjpHnaty Hearing Conunittee

CONSENTED TO BY:

Je

er. Porter

eputy Counsel
Attorney for Plaintiff

I

~.~~
ameSB.
Maxell
Attorney for Defendant

.

- to.

I
,:'.

