1

;97'1

- I...

NORTH CAROLINA

I
i

.--- . .

---- ..

-~ . . . ; - '

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINASTATE BAR
05G0697

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

SAMUEL S. POPKIN~
Attorney At LaW .

REPRIMAND' .

On January 19; 2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by Ms. Trina McDonald.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Conunittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation ava,ilable to it, including your respon$e to the letter of npti<?e, the Grievance
Committee fOllnd probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reas(mable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
dIsciplinary action."
'the rul~s provide that after a ffuding of probable cause, the GrievaIlce Committ~e may
a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not .required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure t~ the respondent attorney.
detennin~ that the filing of a complaint and

..

I

A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an adIl1onition issued in.
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member 'of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
'
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented Ms. McDonald in a legal malpractice claim and filed a complaint in
Onslow County on or about September 4,2003. Service upon the defendant was never
completed, however you did file several alia,s and pluries summons. The COllrt placed the ·fileon
inactive status.
91 7108 21~3 3931 4419 7709

I
I

.

~

Throughout the representation, however, you failed to communicate with Ms. McDonald,
failed to keep her informed of the status of case and failed to return Ms. McDonald's phone calls.
In addition, when Ms. McDonald called your office,. your staff repeatedly told Ms. McDonald
that she w~s not a client and that you did not handle legal malpractice claims. You also failed to
comply with Ms. McDonald'-s request for a copy of her file. The Grievance Committee has
therefore dptennined that you have violated Rule 1.4, Communication.
Th~

Grievance Committee has also determined that you failed to work on Ms.
McDonald's case in a diligent manner. You did make a one-time $10,000 settlement demand on
the defendant insurance ~ompany, but ignored the insurance companies attempts· to communicate·
with you regarding settlement. Although you were not working on settling Ms. McDonald's
case, you informed her that there was no need to go to court because you Were close to settling
the matter, which was not true.· You have therefore violated Rule 1.3, Diligence.

I

Upon receiving a Letter of Notice from the Bar regarding the grievance filed by Ms.
McDonald, :you did meet with Ms. McDonald and you agreed to pay her $10,000 to settle matter
between th¢ two of you rather than pursuing a lawsuit. Believing that the statute oflimitations
on the legal malpractice claim was gone, Ms. McDonald agreed to accept $10,000 to cover the
value of the. legal malpractice case and to compensate her for your failure to properly handle the
legal malpractice case~
You, drafted a release wherein Ms. McDonald agreed to release you from any liability for
malpractice. You retained the services of another attorney to represent your interests and to
administer the signing of the release and payment of the $10,000. You, however, failed to
explain to cQmplainant that she had a right to independent counsel. Thus, at the time Ms.
McDonald s:igned the release and accepted a check in the amount of $10,000, she was
unrepresented by counsel. The Grievance Committee therefore determined that you violated
Rule 1.8(h)C:1) 'and (2), Conflict offuterest.
I

Furthermore, you were slow to respond to the initial Letter of Notice and to follow up
questions presented by Deputy Counsel, failed to provide a full and fair disclosure of all the
relevant facts, provided inconsistent information to Deputy Counsel, and failed to provide a copy
of your file and the court file pursuant to the request of Deputy Counsel. The Grievance
Committee therefore determined that you violated Rule .0112(c).

I

You ~e hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. 'The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered iby you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards ofthe legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina Stat~ Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issu~d a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

I

::."
:(1
,

i

:
:

pone and ordered, this the _ __

I

BW/npm

I

I
I

.

.': '.:.

