- -,

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0603

WAKE COUNTY

,

)
)
)
)
)

IN THE MATTER OF
Albert J. Singer,
Attorney At Law

REPRIMAND

I

On January 19, 2006, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered th~ grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted preliminary hearings in your case. After
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the
Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as
"reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The RuJes provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that :the filjng of a complaint and a hearing before the Discipiinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury c~used, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admohition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written forin of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which ~n attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused hanh or potential harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the proKession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman ofthe Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You represent many parents in child custody cases in district court. You have filed on
your clients' behalf Petitions to Sue/Appeal as an Indigent, in which the clients sign affirmations
that they are "financhtlly unable to advance the required costs for the prosecution of this action"
in situations in Which evidence later offered by you demonstrates that the clients are not in fact
indigent. The Grievance COI;n.mittee did not find evidence to support your cOhtention that you

I
.:
I

.-

....

I

were authorized by court personnel to submit the false affidavits in order to reduce bookkeeping
tasks in your office. You underta,ke to represent a relative such as an aunt or grandmother to
obtain custody of a child when Department of Social Services begins investigating the child's
patent for abuse, neglect or dependency, knowing that once the court enters an order' changing
custody, DSS will cease its investigation of the parent. Physical custody ofthe child may not in
fact change. Once the bSS investigation ceases, you commence a new action in which you
represent the parent against your original client in an effort to restore custody to the parent even
though in an earlier action you represented to the court that the parent was unfit and even though
there has been no change of circumstances indicating the parent is no longer unfit. You do not
obtain written waivers of these conflicts of interest. Despite being fully aware that Rule 2 of the
Durham Family Court Domestic Rules makes qse of the 2001 Affidavit of JudiCial Assignment
mandatory, since 2001 you have routinely used the pre-2001 form, thereby avoiding making the
mandatory. disclosures tb th~ court, and thereby conceal from the court·fessential information
about pending and prior lawsuits involving members of the same families. The Grievance
Committee found that your conduct violates Rules 1.7, 1.8(b), 1.9, 3.3(a) and (b) and ~.4(c) and
(d).
Ybu are hereby reprima,nded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will,never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council ·ofthe North
Carolina State Barregarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this actio!} inthe amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the _~__

I
BBW/lr

