<

'

i--

-_.----:

-/1(cr"j .
.'--"

1--_.. _ _ -------~-----.---.

_~

__ ~~ _ _

NORTH CAROLIN
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
).
)

)

~

}
DOUGl;.AS L. SUTTON, Attorney,
Defendant
.

)
)

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING DEFENDANT
TO DISABILITY INACTIVE
STATUS

I

<

This matter was consiaered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of F. Lane Williamson, Chait', Michael A. Grace,
and Marguerite P. Watts. Margaret Cloutier represented plaintiff. Defendant
appeared pro se. Defendant has agreed to waive a formal hearing in the above
referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the conditions imposed.
Defendant also stipulates that he waives his right to appeal this consent order or
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings, conclusions of law or
conditions ordered by consenting to the entry of this order. Defendant further
Waives any insufficiency in service of process and the complaint.
Based on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby finds
by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a
,body du,ly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2.

Defendant, Douglas L. Sutton (hereinafter "Defendant or Sutton"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on Match 23, 1990 and is, cmd was at
all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolin$.

I

, i

.;:...

3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office iri
Chapel Hill, Orange County, North Carolina.
4. Until apptoximately late 2003, Defendant maintained an active law
practice in which he primarily handled residential real estate closing$.

I

5. Since at least late 2003, Defendant has not been able to maintain a
viable law practice as evidenced by the following:
a. Defe'nda,;t has ndt' obtaine'd policies of title jnsurance for
multiple transactions closed in the several years preceding late 2003;
b. Defendant has not disbursed funds held in his trust account for
such policies despite requests, encouragement, arid directiv~s f1"9!l1 the t,itle
insurance c;:ompanies' and the Nor1h Carolina State Bar;
c. Defendant has made several promises to work with the title
insurance companies and disburse funds in his trust account but has not followed
through;
d. Defendant has not actively practiced law since approximately
late 2003; and
e. Defendant lacks the energy and enthusiasm to maintain a law.
practice and/or finalize the transactions pending $inc~ 2003 and earlier.

I

6. Defendant suffers from major depression that interferes with his ability
to practice ICiW as described above. Despite receiving, treatment for depression:
and other mental health issues since 2000, Defendant has not consistently
followed through with treatment recommendations and as a result, or for other .
reasons, the treatment he has received to date hc;iS been ineffective as it relates
to his ability to effectively practice law.
Based 011 the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1, All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee hCiS jurisdiction over defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. Defendant is disabled within the meaning of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
ยง.01 03(19), and Defendant should be transferred to disability inactive status
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B ยง.0118.

2

..."~

I

I

I

.

'

ORDER
1. Defendant is hereby transferred to disability inactive status. .
2., Defefldant shall refrain from practicing law'in North Carolina until
reinstated to active status pursuant to 27 N.C:A.C.1B ยง.0125(c).
3. Defendant shall be taxed with the costs of this action.

I

3

,

..':

' ~

i

