NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff,

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.

I

ARCH K. SCHOCH V, Attorney,
Defendant.
, - ' - - - - ' - - - - - - '-~----~--,~---'----------.-.----

..- - , -...,-.--.,.---,--,

This matter was considered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Tommy W. Jarrett, Chair, and members John M. May and
Rebecca Brownlee. Katherine E. Jean represented plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
H. Davis North III represented defendant, Arch K. Schoch V. Both parties stipulate and
agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to
the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the ientry of this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations of fact
and the consent of the parties, this Hearing Committee hereby finds the following by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, ,is a 'body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority. granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and ~egulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
, 2.
Defendant, Arch K. Schoch V ("Schoch''), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1997 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licens~d t6 practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the, Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina Stat~ Bar and the Revis'ed
Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.:
During the relevant periods referred to herein, Schoch waS engaged in the
practice of:law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in High Point,
Guilford County, North Carolina.
4.
Schoch was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set,
and the matter came before the heating committee with due notice to all parties.

.-:.

-\

, "

~

I

5.
On June 21, 2005, Schoch mUawfully and willf\llly possessed and llsed
crack cocaine in his home and in his law office in High Point.
.
6.
On June 21, 2005, Schoch provided crack cocaine to
law practice, in his home ~d in his law office.

I

acurrent cli~nt of his

7.

Crack cocaine is a controlled substance.

8.

It is a viola,tion ofN.C.G.S. 90-95 and a felony to possess crack cocaine.

9.

It is a violation ofN.C.G.S. 90-95 and a felony to provide cra,ck cocait)eto'

a third party.
10.

Schoch's conduct violated N.C~G.S. 90..95.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
,Ail the parties ,are properly b¢fore th~ hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over defendant, Arch K. Schoch V; and over the subject
matter.

2.
Schoch's cond\lct; as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (S} as follows:
a.

I

By possessing and using cra,ck cocaine, ~ controlled substance, h1
his law office and in his home' and by providing crack cocaine, a
controlled substance, to a current client in his hOllle and in his law
office, in violation ofN.C~G.S. 90-95, Schoch connnitted serious
criminal acts which reflect adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in violation ofRule
8.4(b) of the Revised Ru1es ofProfessional Conduct.

Based upon the stipu1ations of fact and the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Committee hereby makes, by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, the following
additional

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Schoch's lllisconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Schoch's commission of criminal offenses in,his law office and
provision of a controlled substance to a current client of his
law practice bro\lght the legal profession into disrepute;

2

I

.~.

. '.

.'

2.

3.

b.

Schoch committed multiple offenses;

c.

Schoch has substantial experience in the practice oflaw;

Schoch's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

Schoch has no prior discipline;

.b.

Schoch is remorseful;

c.

Schoch did not provide the crack cocaine to his client for the
purpose of obtaining a profit and did 110t in fact obtain a profit;

d.

Schoch voluntarily entered a substance abuse treatment facility
where he remained for 90 days;

e.

Schoch is under the care of a substance abuse counselor who has
reported to the State Bar that Schoch has been in continuous
compliance with all requirements and recommendations for
substance abuse treatment from July, 2005, to the present;

f.

Schoch complied with the State Bar's requirement that he refrain
from engaging in the practice of law during the pendency of
Grievance File No. 0500772;

g.

'Shoch has cooperated with the State Bar's grievance and
disciplinary procedures.

I

The.mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

4.
Schoch has significantly harmed the reputation and standing of the legal
profession and has caused substantial potential harm to his clients and to the public.
5.
This Hearing Committee has considered lesser ~temat1ves and fmds that a public
censure or reprimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
harm and potential harm caused by the conduct of Schoch.

I

I

6.
TIPs Hearing COPlmittee finds that Schoch's conduct caused significant potential
harm to clients and signific~t actual harm to the profession and that a discipline more
severe than public censure or reprimand is necessary to protect the public and the
standing 0f the legal profession.

3

I

7.
Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than active suspension would fail to
acknowledge the serioushess of the offenses committed by Schoch, would be inconsistent'
with orders of discipline entered by this body in similar cases' and woUld send the wrong
message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
8.
For those reasons, this Hearing Connnittee believes and so finds that an Order
calling for a discipline short of a suspension of Schoch's law license would not 'be
appropriate.

I

Based upon the foregoing factors and with the consent ofthe parties, the hearing .
committee hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of defendant, Arch K. Schoch V is hereby suspended for three (3)
years beginning 30 days from ~ervice of this Order upon Schoch.
2.
Schoch shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service -of this order upon
Schoch.

3.
Schoch shall comply with the wind down provisions contained hi 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules. Schoch shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this. order, certifying he h~ complied'
with the wind down rule.
4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this order, Schoch shall provide the State
Bar With an address at which clients seeking return of files can obtain such files and shalt
promptly return all files to his clients upon request.

I

5.
Sc40ch .shall receive credit toward service of his three year suspension for all time
from July, 2005 until the date of his application for reinstatement during which he
complied with the State Bar's requirement that he not engage in the practice oflaw.
6.
At the end oftbe three (3) year suspension, Schoch will be eligible for
reinstatement only upon a showing by clear, cogeJ;lt and convincing evidence that he At;lS
complied With all ofthe following conditions:
.
a.
That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar,
Discipline & Disability Rules.
b.
That he paid the costs of this proceeding within thirty (30) days of service
of the statement of costs upon him by the Clerk of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.

4

.. :..
.

,,-

·,

c. .
That he has submitted clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he is not
at the time of his application for reinstatement suffering from any active addiction,
mental or physical condition or substance abuse conditioij. which at the time of his
petition fqr reinstatement significantly impairs his professional Judgment, performance or
compet~nce.

d.
That he has not violated any provision of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules or of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct during the
period of suspension.
e. .
That he has not violated the laws of the United States or of any state
during the, period of suspension.

I

f. .
That during the period of suspension he has complied with all trea1ments
prescribed by his psychiatrist or other mental health professional for his substance
addiction and any other mental health problems diagno~ed by such medical care
providers, that he has at his own cost participated iii or had his treatment supervised by an
abstinence-based program of his choice that was approved by the Office of Counsel of
the North Carolina State Bar, and that he complied with aU terms of the program.
g.
That within thirty (30) days of any application for reinstatement, Schoch
has provided the Office of Coupsel with releases authorizing the State Bar Counselor her
designated representative to receive from' his treatment program and from his medical
care providers all information which the State Bar Counsel deems n.ecessary to determine
if Schoch has complied with and is then complying with all r~quirements imposed by the
program andlor the medical providers.
h.
That he has abstained from all illicit drug use or consumption and has not
taken any prescription. drugs or controlled substances other than as authorized by his
treating physician for the entire period of suspension. This requirement will apply
regardless of whether enforcement of this provision would extend the period of
suspeIisioli of Schoch's law license beyond the three (3) year period set out herein.
1.

I

That he has not engaged in the pn!.ctice of law during the period of

suspension.
j.
That he has .kept his address of record with the North Ca,rolina State B~
current, promptly accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and
responded ,to all letters ofnptice and requests fot information.from the North Carolina
State Bar oy the deadlines stated in the communication.

k.
That he paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and complied with all Continuing Legal Education (CLE) requirements on a timely basis
as if still iIi practice during the suspension.

5

.:-

.'

I

1.
That he has participated in the North Carolina State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition received after the effective date of this order,
participated in good faith and refutlded all fees that weredetenninedto be subject to
refl,ind by the mediation process.
m.
That, within ninety (90) days of the effective date ofthls Order, he has
provided the State Bar with the names, addresses and telephone nlimbers of all persons or
entities for whose benefit he bolds any funds' in any trust account.

n.
That he has provided to the Office of the Secretary of the North Carolina.
State Bar a copy ,of any judgment entered against hhn arising out of or relating t<? the
. criminal. acts referenced in this Order, within fourteen (14) days of entry of such
judgment.
o.
That he has provided to the Office of the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar a copy of any judgment entered against him by any court at any time during the
period" of his active suspension, within fourteen (14) days of entry of such judgment.
p.
"That he has complied with all requirements of any probationary sentence
imposed upo}). him by any court.

q.
That he has reported to the Office ofthe Secretary of the North 'Carolina
State Bar the name, address and telephone number of his probation officer.
r.
That he has reported to the Office of the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar any finding by any court or probation officer that he has violated the tenns of
any probationary sentence to Which he is subject at any time during the period ofms
suspension, regardless of whether punislnnent is imposed for said violation, within
fourteen (14) days after such finding is made.
s.
That he has submitted to random drug testing anel urinalysis on each
occasion when he has been requested by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina
State Bar to do So, within twelve hours after a telephone request by the Office of Counsel.
The test shall be perfonned at a testing facility approved by the Office of Counsel. A
Notice of Request for a drug test shall be filed with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
in this matter giving'the date and time of the request and the location where the test is to
be perfonned. When filed, a copy of the Notice of Request shall'be sent to Schoch by
certified mail. Schoch shall file with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission a Notice of
Compliance, along with a certified copy ofthe drug testreslilts, within ten (10) days of
service upon Schoch of the Notice of Request. Schoch shall bear the cost of compliance
with this provision. The Office of Counsel will only make its own requests that Schoch
submit to random drug testing and urinalysis if the Office of Counsel has not received,
within any 4 week period, any written reports reflecting that Schoch is undergoing
random drug testing and urinalysis through another program satisfactory to the Office of
Counsel.

I

6

I

,~

.'

to
That he has filed a Notice of Compliance with the Disciplinary H~aring
Commission for each drug test that he undergoes at the request or order of any probation
officer or of any court pursuant to the terms of any criminal judgment which is entered
against him at any time during the period of his suspension. The Notice of Compliance
shall statethe date that the drug test was requested, the party requesting the drug test, the
date and location where the drug test was performed. and shall attach a certified copy of
the drug test results.
u.
That he has submitted to the State Bar Office of Counsel ali addiction and
mental he~lth evaluation, performed by a physician approved by the Office of Counsel
and perfortned not more than thirty days prior to filing an application for reinstatement,
that addresses whether Schoch suffers from an active addiction to any legal Or illegal
substance pr suffers from any mental health problem, disorder' or disease which impairs
his judgment or his ability to practice law. The State, Bar Office of Counsel shall keep
such report confidential, except that the report shall be provided by the Office of Counsel
to the Dis¢iplinary Hearing Commission and may be provided by the Office of Counsel
to officers, councilors, and employees of the State Bar.

1

v.
Schoch shall be responsible for all costs associated with complying with
this order ~md the conditions set forth abov~. Under no circumstances shall the State Bar
be responsible to Schoch or to any third parties for the costs of Sqhoch' s compliance with
the conditions of this order.

1.

Th~

Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant t6 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B. § .0114(x) of the North
, . Car.olina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of Schoch's
suspension.
!

Signed by the Chair with the conSent of the other hearhig committee members, ,
this the If~ day of ~ :Tv-Nfl- :
' 2006.

1

Tommy
ett
Chair, Disciplinary

7

.:..

,I

'

"

"

..

CONSENTED TO BY:

\:i/~-----"-~--""
Katherine E. Jean
Deputy Counsel
Attorney for Plaintiff

I

.

Arch K. Schoch V
Defendant

.~~-

H. Da,vis North III
Attorney for Defendant

I

8

I

:...

""

,

