_

',....1'1

0"
-j

"

'/

"

-_.,----._-

WAKE·COUNTY

Consent Order of
Interim Suspension

In re: Dwayne A. Bennett,
Attorney at Law

I

THIS CAUSE came before the und.ersigned Chair of the DisCiplinary Hearing
Commission pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chl;tptet 1, Subchapter B, Rule .0115(d)
ofthe Discipline & DIsability Rules of the Nor¢. Carolina S'tate Bar and by consent of the
parties apd upon good cause shown, the under$igned hereby makes the following

FINDINGS OF FACT
1i
Dwayne A. Bennett ("Bennett") was licensed to practice law in North
Carolina on August 18, 1995 and is and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina:State Bar and the laws of North Carolina.
2;
The current address ofrecord for Bennett with the North Catolina State
Bar is 11701 Watervi~w Dr., Apt. 403, Chester; VA 23831.
3.
On May 23,2006, a Bill ofInformation was filed against Bennett in the
United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina, Docket Number
3:06CRI25-V, alleging conspiracy in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371. On that same date, a
plea agreement signed by Bennett was filed in which Bennett agreed to enter a plea of
guilty. The Bill ofInformation describes a conspiracy to commit mortgage fraud and
describes Bennett's participation through his conduct in the course of closing real estate
sales and disbursing funds differently than as stated on the HUD-1 Settlement
Statements.
4.:

I

The date for entry of the plea and sentencing has not yet been set.

5.
One of the conditions of the plea agreement is that Bennett surrender his
license to :practice law in all states in which he is admitted to the Bar.
6. .
Bennett has filed his affidavit of surrender with the State Bar and awaits
presentation ofthe tender of his license to the Council of the State Bar at its July 2006
meeting. '

I

"

7.
Bennett freely and voluntarily, with the advice of coun~el, consents to the
entry of this Order of Interim Suspension while awaiting consideration by the Council of
his affidavit sllITendering his license to practice law. .',
Based upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT, the undersigned makes the
follow.ing

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
Th~ offense for which th~ Respondent, Dwayne A. Bennett, has entered
into a plea agreement and under which he will plead guilty is a serious crime showing
professional unfitness to practice as defined byRule .0103(17) of the State Bar Di$cipline
& Disbannent Rules and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b).
2.
Rule .0 1IS(d) of Subchapter B of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the
Stateaar authorizes the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commi$sioll to enter an order
suspending an' attorney's license in cases where an attorney pleads guilty to a serious
crime showing professional unfitness to practice law~
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following
ORDER

1.
The license to practice law in North Carolina of Dwayne A. Bennett is
hereby SUSPENDED until the conclusion of all ,disciplinary matters pending before the
North Carolina State Bar relating to his plea of guilty in the United States District Court
for the Western District of North Carolina of a serious crime showingprofe$sional
unfitness to practice law in file number 3:06CR12S-V.
.

I

2,
The effective date of this order of suspension shall be the date it is served
by certified mail on the office ofBennetes attorney, Charles L. Morgan, Jr.
.
3.
Bennett will comply with all requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter'B, § .0124 oithe North Carolina State Barpiseipline & Disability
Rules for winding down his law practice no later than thirty days from the date this order
is served by certified mail on the office of Bennett's attorney, Charles L. Morgan, Jr.

A

This the

Lifa

y of

....

~

~

.

,2006.'·

L~~'

F: Lane Williamson, Chair .
Disciplinary Hearing Commission
CONSENTED TO BY BOTH PARTIES (signatures on followingpage).

::.:',:

.

....--------:------------------------------..

.'

.

,

ORDEROF INTERIM SUSPENSION IN THE MATTER OF DWAYNE A. BENNETT
CONSENTED TO BY:

Respondbnt

I

c.eg-t~~· \f1
Charles L. Morgan, Jr.
Counsel for Respondent

Ifer A. 'll.a:I~­
Counsel for Petitioner
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

--

