/~1\fZ23'2~~
('()-,

/.'''j\) \.

'Z)"

~

~'

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

I

.;i

</

«#>~

~ ... tf.,}.

,~<'~' ~

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
rp
t"
"v
OF THE
,c7//
(.~ ORTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
, 1J169L~"?
06DHC15

()1t~~IP

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

v.
MARK E. RANDOLPH, ATTORNEY
Defendant

)
)
)
FINDINGS OF fACT
) CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
)
AND ORDER OF
) DISCIPLINE BY CONSENT
)
)
)

THIS MA'iTER was considered by a hearing committee ofthe DiscipliI1ary
Hearing Commission composed of T. Richard Kane, Chair; Charles M. Davis and
Michael J. Hauser. Dudley Witt represented the Defep.dant, Mark E. Randolph, and
Carotin Bakewell represented the N.C. State Bar. Both.parties stipUlate ancJ agre'e to the
findings of fact ano conclusions recited in this Qrder and to the discIpline imposed.
Defendant waives aU right to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Based
upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties hereto, the hearing committee
hereby finds by ~lear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1. The 'Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
CaroIlna, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
2. The Defendant, Mark E. Ranoolph~ ("Randolph"), Was admitteo to the
times referred to
North Carolina State Bar in March 1991 and is, and was at
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar and the laws ofihe State of North Carolina.

aU

3. During all of the periods relevant hereto, Randolph was engaged in the
practice oflaw in Winston-Salem, NOlih Carolina.

I

4. Randolph was properly served with the State Bar's summons and
complaint herein.

5:. On June 8, 1999, Randolph closed the sale qfproperty by Gregory and
Gretchen Knuffke ("the Kntiffkes") to Robin Brett Kerr ("Kerr").
6~ Prior to the Knuffke-Kerr closing, Randolph received a total of
$131,969.58 relating to the Knuffke-Ketr closing, and the funds Were deposited
into Ran40lph's trust account at Branch B~ing & Trust Co. ("BB&T trust
account").

7. Pursuant to the closing instructions, Randolph was .directed to disburse
$35,596.98 of the closing proceeds to the Knuffkes, to repay a bridge loan
provided: to th~~Knuffl(es by Ohio Casualty.

I

8. On or after the date of closing, Randolph gave the Knuffkeshis trust
account check for $35,596.98, which they forwarded to Ohio Casualty.
9, The $35,596.98 trust account check was never cashed' or negotiated
and the check was either lost in transit or after it Was received by Ohio Casualty.
10. In 2002, an attorney employed by Ohio Casualty notified the
Knuffkes that Ohio Casualty had no record bfreceiving the $35,596.98 check and
was demi,mding payment.
11. In June 2002, Randolph Was notified that the $35,596.98 payoff
check had not been negotiated and agreed to investigate the matter.
12. Randolph asked a staff member to, review the appropriate records to
determine what had happened to the $35,596.98 payoff check. The staff
member ~id not follow through on the matter and Randolph let the issue "slip
through the cracks."

13.

Randolph did not issue a replacement check or disburse any funds to
the Knuffkes or Ohio Casualty.

I

14. ln July 2002 Randolph was admonished by the N.C. State Bar for
committi~g various technical violations of the Rules of Profession~l Conduct
governing the mainten~nce oftrust accounts, including failing to reconcile the

BB&T trust account at least quarterly and failing to keep proper records.

1$.

After receiving notice of the complaint that led to imposition of the
July 2002 admonition, Randolph retained the services of a certified public
accountant. The CPA conducted a random review of 25 client files relating to the
BB&T account. This review did not indicate any shortage in the account or other
similar discrepancy. That fact, coupled with the state of the BB&T trust account

2

I

records and the volume of activity in the account made a complete audit
impractical. Instead, it was decided that Randolph would permit the BB&T
account to "wind down" and would begin using another trust account at Southern
Community Bank ("SCB trust account").
i

16. The Knuffkes' matter was not among the 25 files that were randomly
reviewed by Randolph's CPA and the CPA's revIew did not disclose the problem.
with the Knuffk¢ disbursement.
17. By May 2005, the balance in the BB&T trust accollnt had dropped
below $2,000. None of the funds in the BB&T trust account were paid to or oli
behalf of the Knuffkes although Randolph should have maintained at least
$35,596.98 in trust for them in the account at all times on'and after June 18, 1999.

I

18. The funds that should have been held in trust for the Knuffkes in the
BB&T account were disbursed to third parties other than the Knuffkes, without
their knowledge and consent, as a .result of accounting errors by Randolph and his
.
staff.
.....

19. Neither Randolph lior any member of his staff received any of the
Knuffkes' money and there is no evidence that the temporary misuse ofthe
Knuffkes' funds was the result of dishonesty.
20., In January 2005, a representative of Ohio Casualty again contacted
the Knuffkes and advised them that no replacement funds had been received from
Ral1dolph on their behalf.
21. Between January 2005 and April 13, 2005, the Knuffkes contacted
Randolph's office on at least eight occasions to ask him to replace the check to
Ohio Casualty and communicate with them about the matter.

I

22. Randolph did not respond to the Knuffkes' inquiries and did not
disburse any money.to Ohio Casualty.
23. Randolph failed to reconcile his BB&T trust account at least
·quarterly between June 1999 and May 2005 and failed to provide annual written
accountings to the Knuffkes regarding the funds that he was h0lding on their
behalf.
24. On April 18, 2005, the Knuffkes filed a grievance agaInst Randolph
with the North Carolina State Bar.
.
25. On or about May 25,2005, shortly after he received notice of the
Knuffkes' complaint, Randolph issued a replacement check to the Knuffkes in the
amount of $35,596.98 ("replacement check~') drawn on the SCB trust a<;;count.

3

I

5,,3

26. At the time that he issued the replacement check to the Knuffkes,
Randolph did not recall that their funds had never been deposited into the SCB
trust account. He did hot check the SCB trust records to ascertain that the
replacement check had been :drawn on the proper account.
27. Funds belonging to other clients of Randolph were used to fund the
$35,596.98 replacement check that Randolph issued to the Knufikes in May 200S,
without the knowledge or consent of those clients.
28. Randolph's conduct in failing to review the record relating to the SCB
trust accoUnt was negligent and led to the temporary, unintentional misuse of
funds in the SCB trust account.
B~sed upon

I

the fotegping Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee enters

the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

.::

1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the
Committee has jurisdiction over the defendant, Mark Randolph and the subject
matter of this proceeding.

'r

2. 'Randolph's conduct, as set out in the findings of fact above,
constitutes ground for discipline pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28(b) (2)
in that Randolph violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a) By disbursing all or a portion of the $35,596.98 that should have been
held intact for the Knuffkes to or for the benefit of third parties without the
Knuffres' knowledge or consent, Randolph failed to hold entrusted property
intact in violation of Rule 1.1S-2(a) and failed to deliver fiduciary funds as
directed by the client in violation of Rule 1.15-2(111).
b) By using client funds that should have been held intact in the SCB trust
account to repay the Knuffkes in May 2005 without the knowledge or consent of
the owners ofthe funds, Randolph failed to hold in trust property intact in
violation o:fRule l.lS-2(a) and failed to deliver fiduciary funds as directed by the
client in vibration of Rule 1.15-2(m).

I

c) By failing to reconcile his BB&T trust account at least quarterly
between June 1999 and May 2005, Randolph failed to comply with the minimum
reconciliatipn requirement set but in Rule 1.15-3(c).
I

d) By failing to provide annual written accountings to the Knuffkes
regarding the funds that he was holding on their beh~lfbetween June 8, 1999 and.
May 27, 2005, Randolph failed to comply with the minimum accounting
requirements set out in Rule 1.1S-3(d).

4

I

e) By failing to respond to the Knuffkes' inquiries betwe'en January and
April 2005, Randolph failed to keep clients reasonably informed about the status
of a matter in violation of Rule 1.4.

I

f) By failing to issue a replacement check to the Knuffkes within a
reasonable period of time after he learned that the original $35,596.98 check had
been misplaced, Randolph failed to promptly deliver entrusted funds to a client as .
directed, in violation of Rule 1.15..,2(m).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
Hearing Committee enters the following:

.:.

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. Randolph's conduct is mitigated by the following factors;
a. Cooperative attitude toward the Bat proceedings.
b. Acknowledgement of the wrongful nature of his conduct.
c. Remorse.
d. Restitution.
e. Lack of a dishonest or selfish motive.

2. Randolph's conduct is aggravated by the following factors:

I

a. Entry of an admonition in 2002 and a cehsure in 2003.
h. Multiple rule violations.
3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
4. The hearing committee has considered lesser alternatives and finds
that a public censure or reprimand would not sufficiently protect the Pllblic and
that a stayed suspension is necessary to pennit implementatjon of conditions to .
ensure the protection of the public and Randolph's future clients. B~cause of the
nature of Randolph's trust account violations, this Committee would have
considered an active suspension of RandQlph's law license, and perhaps even an
order of disbarment, were it not for the fact that he did not act with Ii dishonest
motive and the fact that a substantial period of tjme has passed since the trust

5

..

-------------------------------------------

-------

account violations occurred, with no further evidence of misuse of any fiduciary
funds.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings
Regardin~ Discipline, the H~aringCommittee enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.; The law license of the Defendant, Mark Randolph, is hereby suspended for
two year~, effective 30 days from service of this order. The suspension is stayed for a
period of,three years, so long as Randolph complies with the following conditions: '

I

a.; The Defendant will respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the N.C. State Bar by the deadline stated in the
communication.
b.: The Defendant will advise the Bar in writing of all address changes within 10
days of the change.
I

c' The Defendant will timely comply with his State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline.
l

_.. d.. The Defendant will not violate the laws of any state or of the United States.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a violation of state traffic and motor vehicle
laws will not be deemed to violate the terms of this order.
I

e. i The Defendant will permit the State Bar to conduct random audits of all
•I accounts over which he has signatory authority and into• which client or
fiduciary funds have been deposited. The Defendant shall provide the State
- Bar with all documents identified by the State Bar within 10 business days of
: receiving a request for such doc1ID1ents and shall be solely responsible for the
expense of complying with the random audit request.
I

'I

I

I

r.· The'Defendant shallllot violate any provision of the Revised Rt1les of
Prof~ssional Conduct.

I

g.

The Defendant, at his sole expense, shall retain a certified pUblic accountant
- who shall provide semi-annu!!l written reports to the N.C. State Bar,
• confirming that the Defendant's trust account(s) comply with all applicable
provisions of the Revised Rules of Pr.ofessional Conduct. The reports shall-be
received in the Office of Counsel each July 1 and Jan. 1 throughout the period
of the stayed suspension.
I

I

.

'

-

I

I

6

I

2. The Defendant will pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon by the State Bar.
3. If the stay ofthe\ suspension is lifted atany time and the suspension of
Randolph's law licertse is activated fOl~ any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his
license to practice law, Randolph must demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence that he has complied with each of the following conditions:

I

a. Complied with all provisions of27 NCAC IB .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules on a timely basis.
b. Complied with ~1(a) - (g), above.
c. Paid·the costs of this proceeding.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the knowledge and consent of the
other Hearing Committee members.
This the~dAay of

$L ,Y

~~~:..----~

T. Richard Kane, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

Seen and consented to:

I

~~

Carolin Bakewell
Plaintiffs Attorney

7

···1

'>S7.

