- /) 0&;27

:

____0_~---------~------~--~

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROL1NA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

I

TERRY T. ZICK, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commiss!ion composed ofT. Richard Kane, Chair, Charles M. Davis and Michael J.
Houser. Katherine E. Jean represented the plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Dudley A. Witt represented the defendant, Terry T. Zick. Both parties stipulate and agree
to the fill(~ings offact and conclUSIons of law recited in this consent order and to the
discipline~ imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal
the entry bf this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations or fact and the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee makes the following findings of fact by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. :
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duiy organized under the
laws ofN6rth Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
auth9rity granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rul~s and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promUlgated thereunder.

I

Defendant, Terry T. Zick, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on
2. i
or about March 19, 1994, was until October 8, 2004 an active member of the State Bar
authorized: to p~actice law in North Carolina, and was at all times referreq to herein
subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct 6fthe North Carolina,
State Bat and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.

Zick's license to practice law was suspended effective October 8, 2004.

4.
Prior to the suspension of her license, Zick was engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina ahd maintained a law office in the city of Wilmington,
. New Hanover County, North Carolina.
.

I

5.

Zick was properly served wi~ the summons and complaint

6.

Zick waived hearing and consented to e:Q.try of this Order.

in ,this action.

7.
In or about: July, 2004, Zick undertook to r~present George Taylor
("Taylor"), an inmate at a North Carolina correctional facility.
, 8.

I

Zick undertook to represent Taylor in a deportation case.

9.
Zick charged Taylor a flat fee of $15;000 and an additional $2,000 to visit
Taylor in the Pasquotank Correctional facility.
10.

Thelma Taylor, Taylor's mother, paid Zick $17,000 Oll Taylor's behalf.

11.

In October~ 2004, Zick's law license was suspended for 5 years.

12.
After her license was suspend~d in October,
authorized to practice l a w . '

~004,

Zick was no longer
,

13.

Zick did not complete the legal services for which she was retained by

14.

Taylor and Thelma Taylor demanded a refund frqm Zick.

15.

Zick failed to give Taylor or thelm~ Taylor a refund.

Taylor.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Committee and the
Committee has jurisdiction over defendant Terry T. Zick and over the subject matter.
2.
Zick's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,constitutes
gtounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84,.28(b)(2) as follows:

'ny failing to refund the unearned portion of the $17,000 fee"Zick collected a
~Jeatly excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a) of the Revised Rules of Professional
·Cond~ct

and failed to refund the unearned portion of the .f~e uIlQn termination of

efhployment in violation of Rule 1.16(d) of the Revised Rules ofProfessi()nal CondtJct.

-2-

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidenc~ and the conseht of the parties concerning appropriate discipline, the hearing
I

.

.

committee hereby makes additional
\

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The COminittee finds the following aggravating factors:
a. Zick has engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
b. Zick has engaged in multiple offenses; and

I

c. Zick has subst~tial experience in the practice of law.
2~

Zick's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors: ,
a. Zick has acknowledged her obligation to refund the unearned portion of

the fee
to Thelma Taylor and has acknowledged
the wrongfulness of her conduct
.
,
b. Zick has a cooperative attitude toward this disciplinary proceeding.
3.'

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.,

.Zick has engaged in conduct that has caused significant hann to Taylor

and to Theima Taylor.

5.,

Zick's conduct caused actual hann to the standing of the legal profession,

undermining Taylor's and Thelma Taylor's trust and confidence in lawyers and in the
legal system.

6.:

This DRC Committee has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a

public censure or reprimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of

I

the hann and potential ha,rm caused by Zick's conduct to the pUblic, to Taylor and to
Thelma Taylor.
7.

For those reasons, this DRC Committee believes and so fmds that an

Order ofPiscipline suspending Zick's license to practice law is necessary and
appropriate. Zick's conduct concerning Taylor is essentially part of the pattern of
misconduct for which Zick was disciplined in case 03 DRC 19 with a suspension of her
license for five years, which is the statutory maximum period qf time for which a

-3- .

I

5{Po '.

:,

..--

--------~~~~~--~-=--------------~--~--~--------~--~~~--~~~--

suspension can be imposed. The hearing committee will not enter a separate order of
suspension for Ziclc'S conduct concerning Taylor.
8.

The Hearing Committee does find it appropriate to enter an order
.

,

imposing a condition specific to Taylor that must be met by Zick in order to qualify for
rein~tatement,

in addition to the other conditions set out in the Order of Discipline

pr~viously issued in

I

9.

03 DHC 19.

Zick's clients Jack Liberstein, Donna Bowen, Faye Berwick and Warren

Wilson h~ve ~ade claims against the State Bar~ s Client Security Fund. The Client
Security'Fund has paid the claims ofLiberstein and Bowen in the amolllits of$2500.and
$2000, respectiv~ly. The State Bar has obtained judgments in Wake County District
Court against Zick on its subrogation claims for paY$ent of the Liberstein and Bowen
Client Security Fund payments. The Client Security Fund has' not yet made a
determinatio11 whether it will pay the Berwick and Wilson claims.
10.

The Hearing Committee nnds that it is appropriate to require Zick to

reimburse the State Bar's Client Security Fund' for all payments it has made or may ri1ak~
in the futlire to Liberstein, Bowen, Berwick and Wilson as a condition to Zicl<:'s
eligi1?ility to .apply for a stay of the last two years of the 5 year suspension imposed in 03
DHC 19 and as a condition of Zick's digibility to apply for reinstatement to active status.

Based llpon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and based upon
the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
The Order of Discipline in 03 DHC 19 suspended Zick's license to ,practice law
for 5 years and provided that the final two years of the suspension could b¢ stayed upon
Zick's satisfaction of enumerated conditions contained in paragraph 6 of the Order of
Discipline. Paragraph9 of the Order of Discipline in 03 DHG 19 further provides that'
Zick must satisfy the enumerated conditions contained in paragraph 6 in order to be
eligible for reinstatement to active status. The Order of Discipline in 03 DHC 19 is
amended as follows:

-4-

I
•

I

Paragraphs 6 and 9 of the Order of Discipline in 03 DHC

1.

19 are amended

to add the following requirements which Zick must satisfy by clear and
convincing evidence in order to be eligible to apply for a stay of the final two
years of her 5 year sl)spension and which Zick must satjs.iY in order to be eligible
for
to active status:
, reinstatement
p. Zick shall have refunded to Theltna Taylor the sum of$15,000.
q. Zick shall have repaid in full to the State Bar Client Security Fund any
amoUnts the Client Se~urity Fund has paid in satisfaction of claims by
any or all of the following clients: Jack Libyrstem (03 CSF 0033),
Donna Bowen (05 CSF 0103), Faye Berwick (06 CSF 0022), and
Warren Wilson (06 CSF 0099).
Except as specifically set forth herein, the Order ofDisc1pline entered in 03 DHC
I

19, including all conditions contained in paragraphs 6 apd 9 of the Order of
Discipline, shall remain unchanged.

Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the consent of the other

Hearing~mmitteemembers,tZ~

-..

,2006.

T. Richard Kane
Chairman, Disciplinary Hearing pommittee
CONSENTED TO BY:
I

I

udley'. itt
Attorney fo Defendant

y~----------~Katherin~ E. Jean
Deputy Counsel
. Attol1ley for rl~tiff
. ,
,

-5-

I

