i
i

I
NORtH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GR;IEVANCE COMMITTEE
OFTBE '
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0967

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF
Stephen E. Huff,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

, REPRlMAND

On Apri120, 2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances fiIedagainst you by Lisa R.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the ,North Carolilla:
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable ,cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as '''reasonable callse to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action,"
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee i11ay
determi:n.e that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Heating
Commission are notrequired, and the Grievan~e Committee,may iS~;ue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misc<?nc:fuct, the actu~l or potential injUry caused, and any
aggravating. or mitigating factors: The Grievance Cominitt~e may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censUre to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more se~ious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions oUhe Rules of Professional
, Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the admin;istratio;n of jllstice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct do,~s n?t T~~u~'e a censure.
The Gri~vanc.e C011ll)1ittee was of the opinion tlfat a' censur~' .i's,pot, required in this ca~e
and is'sues-this' repr,im@d'to you. ,As, chairman 'ofthe Qde:vante ,Committ~e Qftpe North
Carolina State -Bar; it i;;.now mY dutY to issue this reprlr?~n~, ' ,
.,
,

,

'

In February 2002, your father died. H~ leffhjs estate;to his ~!re,,~',qeorgine, and his minor
grandson, Benjamin; who is your nephew. Georgine teceive'dsome propertY and ultimately
.
renounced her remaining interest in the estate, leaving Benjamin 'as the sole b~neficiary.

I

Your '\lncle, Henry Huff, was the executor of the will as well as trustee of a trust created
for Benj amin pursuant to the terms of YOllr father's will. Huff later asked you to serve as
attorney of the estate. While'serving as the estate's attorney, you told Buff that you were
considering challenging the wilL; In April 2004, after various negotiations, Huff agreed to a
settlement wHereby you and your son received substantial amounts of property. Neither
Benjamin nor your sister Lisa, Who is Benjamin's guardian, were notified of these negotiations or
the settlement.
After Huff signed the settlement agreement on behalf of the estate, you drafted and filed a
petition seeking court approval for the settlement. The court signed the order on April 30, 2004.
Neither you nqr Huffnotified Benjamin or Lisa of the settlement or the petition until· May 12,
2004, at which time they entered notice of appeal.

I

By acting as attorney for your father's estate while simultaneously challenging his will,
you engaged in a conflict of interest in violation of Rule 1. 7 (a}.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this repr4nand, that it will be
Temembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that yOlJ. will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In 4tccQtdance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative ai;l.d investigative cpsts to any
attorney issued ,a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done arid ordered, this, the

If-.

day of

, 2006

I
BBW/lr

I

