.
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
. NORTH CAROLINA. STAtE BAR
05(}1060

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Glenn E. Gray,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 20,2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Baj· met and
considered the grievances t1Ied against you by the North Carolina Stato Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0 113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina,
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a pr~lil11inary hearing, After considering the
information available to it, intll!ding your respon;;e to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
di;;ciplinary action."

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing bfa complaint and a. hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commissiol'l are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition. a
reprimand, or a censure m the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued i!,
cases in which an attor'ney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules or Prof'essi.onal
Conduct and has caused harm or potenti'al harm to a client. the administration of justice. the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct docs not require I.l censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure 'is not required in this case .
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprim~nd.
sent a direct mail solicitation to a person who had been 'charged with scvei'al traffic
offenses. The advertising disclosure statement, "This is an advertis~ment for legal services:' did
not appear on the outside of the envelope in print as large as or larger than your '!1aine in the
return address. Furthermore, the advertising disclosure, "This is an advertisement for legal
services:' did not appear in print as large as or larger than your firm's name on your letterhead.
YOll

I

Your failure to have the disclosure statement in the proper size on the outside envelope and on
your statiOliery violated Rule 7.3(c) ('lfthe Revised Rules of Prnfessioryal Conduct.
The letterhead on which you sent the direct mail solicitation showed your firm's namc as
"Gray and ASsociates." At th@- time you s~nt that letter, you were a solo. practitioner, and thus it
was misleading to-use the name "Gray and Associates" when you had no associates in your law
office. Your conduct in that regard violated Rule7.5(a) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
The Grievance Committee was concerned about the content of your direct mail
solicItation, which in this instance, was sent to a person who was char.ged with DWI, and red
light and opeJi container violations. Your letter contained "general information about traffic
offenses;' instead of information pertaining tb the person's offenses. The Grievance Committee
believed that the letter was potentially misleading to the recipient because he may think that his
DWI case could be handled in a way that you handle less serious traffic offenses. The Grievance
Committee found that your letter could be misleading to the recipient, in violation of Rule 7.1 (a)
of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

The Gtievance Committee was also concerned about a statement in your letter that you
can "negotiate with the district attorney and the court so that no insuranc~ points or reduced
charges (and reduced insurance points) arc assessed against you:' The Grie\'ance Committee
found that it is misleading t() claim that you can negotiate with the court or a judgl:. This
statement also :violates Rule 7.1 (a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from ~dherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In acco~dance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the Ncnih
Carolina State ~ar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued 'a reprimand by the Grievance Coinmittee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done mjd ordered, this the

-P-

day of

I

, 2006

BBW/lr

I

