,

.,'

NORTH CAROLINA

:BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0827

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Clinton O. Light,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 20, 2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by L. P. M.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct jusfiiYing
disciplinary action,"

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
. Commission are not required, an<;l the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actuill or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The' Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition isstled in·
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the rnisconducfdoes not require a censure,
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
L.P.M. hired you on November 29, 1999 to pursue collection of an equitable distri1:>ution
claim. L.P.M.'s ex-husband subsequently filed a Chapter 12 bankruptcy action. Pursuant to an.
attorney agreement dated November 29, 1999, you agreed to handle complainant's case for onehalf of any recovery. You filed a proof of claim on L.P.M.'s behalf in the banlauptcy action.

I

According to L.P.M.; she fired you on December 10,2002. In February2005, your office
told L.P.M. t4at she needed to endorse a $10,000.00 check that you received, made payable to
you and L.P.M., from the bankruptcy court. L.P.M. endorsed the check on or about February 1,
2005 and waited to receive her part of the proceeds. In June 2005, L.P.M. received a check from
your office da,ted June 21, 200§ in the amount of $5,282.24, some four months after she endorsed
the check.
The Grievance Committee found that your one-half contingent fee in this matter was an
excessive fee since it appears that you did little more than file a proof of claim with the
bankruptcy court in this matter. The Grievance Committee also believed that your fee was
excessive because L. P. M. fired you on December 10, 2002. North Carolina case law holds that
when a client discharges a lawyer who agreed to handle a case on a contingent fee basis, the
lawyer is entitled to a quantum meruit recovery, which is usually not the originally agreed upon
contingent fee amount. Your conduct in this regard violated Rule 1. 5(a) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

I

The Gtievance Committ~e found that your delay in disbursing funds to L.P .M. violated
.
Rule 1. 1S-2(m) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

The Grievance Committee Was also concerned that you did not promptly respond to State
Bar Deputy Counsel's follow-up questions in a letter dated February 15,2006. You were given a
deadline of Februaty 24,2006 to respond to those questions. However, deputy counsel did not
receive responses to those questions until April 19, 2006, the day before the Grievance
Committee met to consider this matter. Your failure to respond promptly to the North Carolina
State Bar's investigation of this grievance was in violation of Rule 8A( d) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by: you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards or the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State l?ar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued ~ reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

I

Done anp ordered, this the jf:day of_f--F-....::.......!""--_ _ _ _, 2006

B

BBW/lr

I

570

