l

.I

. -- j

THE GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
WAKE COUNTY

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Petitioner

v.
MARK E. ROBINSON,

ATTORNEY
Respondent

}
)
)
)
ORDER OF RECIPROCAL
) DISCIPLINE PROCEEDING
)
)
)

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chair of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar by 27 North Caroljna Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter 13, §§
.0105(a)(12) and .0116(b)(3) of the North Carolina State B~r Discipline & Disability
Rules and based upon the record in this matter, the undersigned finds as follows·;
1. Respondent, Mark E' Robinson, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar
in 1992, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised Rules of ProfessIonal
Conduct.

I

2. By order filed June 24, 2005 the Wisconsin Supreme Court issued an order
revoking your law license for a period of six (6) month$ e:ffective August 6, 2005.
3. On or about June 6, 2006 the North Carolina State Bar was informed that your
Wisconsin license had been suspended.
4. On June 26, 2006 a Notice of Reciprocal Di~cipline Proceeding was served
'
upon you by registered mail.
5 . Your attorney, Marie Stanton, informed the North Carolina State Bar by letter
dated July 7, 2006 that you had completed your 'Suspension and was in the process of
petitioning for reinstatement o.fyour Wisconsin license. Ms. Stanton also acknowledged.
that you had previously failed to inform the North Carolina State Bar of your suspension
in Wisconsin as required by the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

6. By letter dated July 19,2006 you acknowledged that you could not show cause
that imposition of the identical discipline would be unwarranted, You asked that the
North Carolina State Bar consider reciprocal discipline on a retroactive basis.
7. On March 7, 2005 you petitioned the North Carolina'State Bar for inactive
status citing that you were no longer engaged iI). the practice oflaw. However, you
neglected to disclose that yom! Wisconsin license had been suspended. Your request for
inactive st*tus was therefore misleading.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS the Chair of the
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:

Griev~ce

1. The North Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the stlbject matter of this
proceeding and over the person of the .respondent, Mark E. Robinson.

I

2, The procedure for imposition of reciprocal discipline pursuant to 27 North
Carolina Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0116(a) ofthe North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules has been complied with.
3. iThe June 24, 2005 order of the Wisconsin Supreme Court found th~t Mark E.
Robinson ¢ngaged in multiple counts of misconduct with respect to the handling of
various client matters; all of which involved real estate transactions and engaged in other
viQlations ofthe Wisconsin Supreme Court Rules as detailed in the attached Order and
incorporated herein.
4. The order of Jline 24, 2005 imposed by the Wisconsin Supreme Court should
be imposea on Mark E. Robinson's right to practice law in the State of North Carolina.
5. iMark E. Robinson failed to notify the North Carolina State Bar of the
discipline imposed by th~ Wisconsin Supreme Court within 30 days after t4e entry of the
order of discipline as required by North Carolina Rule of Professional Conduct 8.3(d).
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED tHAT:
1. ,The North Carolina law license of the respondent, Mark E. Robinson, is
suspended for a period of six (6) months from the effective date of this order. The request
for retroactive discipline is denied.

I

2. ;Respondent shall forthwith surrender his North Carolina license certificate and
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
3. ,Respondent is hereby taxed with the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary.'

I

4. Respondent shall comply with the wind down provisions of27 North Carolina.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disbarment Rules.
This the 1 day of-+."--j.::::pr"-o'~_ _

') B. Weyher,

I

e Committee

BBW/npm

I

I

-ra~

. .;?,7 .

,

