-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:-

----

-,

-----~--~---.~--

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE

ORIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Bertram E. Brown, II,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

OF THE"
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
,.0SG0732

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

I

On April 20, 2006, the Grievance'Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and '
considered the grievance filed against you by D. D.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievarrce Conimitte~ conduCted a preliminary hearing. After .considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believcthat a lliember of the North
Carolina Slate Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules ptovide that after a finding of probable cau~.e; the Grievance Corrimittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and.a..hearing before ~ie DiscipHnary Hearing Commission ate
not required and :the Grievance Committee Tnay iss1.1e varioli-S .levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Com111ittee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form. of discipline more serious than a ;reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has VIolated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct ahd has callsed
significant harm or potential signIficant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspertsiqn of the attorneis license.

I'

The·Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the DisCiplinary Hearing Commission
.
is not required in Ithis case and issues this cellsure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina
, State Bar, it js now my
. duty to issue this censure.
,

You repre!)ented the ex-husband ofD. D.'s 'wife in a lawsuit filed against Forsyth County, and
D. D., both individually and in hi~ o:f:qcial capacity as an employee for Forsyth County. You spoke
with a reporter for the Winston-Salem Journal about this casco You said you were 'suing for "several
million dollars." You also said that YOH had a letter from an 'expert stating. that D. D. '.s actioriS were
malpractice, and the Forsyth County Department of Social Services was liable for D. D.'s actions'- You
further stated thatD. D.'s behavior had "crossed a well-defined ethical line:' Your comments to the
press violated Rill~ 3.6(b), as you talked about matters that were not contained in the public record.
You deposed D. D. during the course of this litigation. During a break at D. D.'s deposition,
you and D. D. exchanged words. At the end of the exchange of 'words, you said to D. D., "You want

I

some of me?" The Grievance COnimittee believed that comment was lll1l1ecessary, unprofessional, and
could have provoked a physical altercation, which fOliunately did not occur. The Grievance Committee .
found your comments to be in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules ofProfessioni:1l· Conduct.

I

You are herelly censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievanc.e Committee tr11sts that youwil1 ponder this censure, recognize the.
error that you have rnade, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and "
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, yoW clients, your
fellow attomeys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legai
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you,
Done and ordered, this

.

~ay of ~__, 2006.

'1-;./

I/~,

~'

~'~.~~.~~~~--~~~~----------~

Barbara ("Bonnie.
. Weyher; 'Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

