BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
,
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05Gl106

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

'r

-'

::'IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

Richard C. Boyd,
Attorney At L~w

REPRIMAND

I

On July 20, 2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by J. C..
Pursuant t6 Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolin,a
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information a~ailable to it, includiIl:g your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee fo~nd probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause~ the Grievance Committee may
determine that ithe filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Heating
Commission ~e not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depe,nding upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or ;mitigating factors. The Grievan~e Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or Ii censure to the respondent attorn.ey.
t

,

j,

I

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which .an attorney has violated one or mOre provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice; the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a,censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chaim1rul of~he Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this ~eprimand.
You were retained to represent B.W., the execl;ltrix of an estate. The State Bar received a
letter from J.C. :complaining about your administr~tion of this estate. The State Bar sent you a
letter of notice in this matter. You failed to provide a written response as required, despite
numerous extensions of time and contact by a State Bar councilor. The Grievance Committee

I

(Poo

found that you failed to respond to the inquiry of the State Bar in violation of Rule 8.1.
Accordingly, the Grievanc~ Committee has decided to issue you this reprimand.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct., The Grievance COIl1inittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be .
r~membered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the, legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
,9arolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amOUht
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ~day of~~~~=---..,...-.___, 2006

Barbara (" nni<~") B. Weyher, Chair'
Grievance Committee

BBW/lr

I

I ..
..', .

