f

/

~--

-, - --- _ L'____ ~ ____ ,

95'71
---------

-----

~---

BEFORE THE
o:iUEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0501128

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

om THE MATTER OF

)

Joseph L. Carlton,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On July 20,2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the !grievance.s filed against you by the North Carolina State Har,
Pursuaf,lt to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information av:Hlable to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee
found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a
member of the 'North Carolina State Bar is guilty of miscoilduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that ~he filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels ofdiscipline depending
upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors.
The Grievance Committee may issue an admoniticm. a reprimand. or a censure to the respondent
attorney.
A reprin1and is a written form of discipline mo~e serious than an admonition issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules ofProfessioJiai Conduct and
has caused hatrrl ot potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession, or a'
member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case anp
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Earl Dukes and his wife purchased a lot to build a modular home on it. You were the closing
attorney in this transaction. Mr. and Mr. Dukes signed a closing statement on May 26, 2005,
However. you were not present at the closing on the first phase of the construction loan for Mi'. and
Mrs. bukes. Instead, you sent a non-lawyer to oversee the execution of the closing documents. The
Dukes contended that they did not know what they were signing at the closing. The Dukes were also
concerned that they did not receive a copy of a title insurance policy for which they were charged at
the closing.
.

.'.

The Grievance Committee was concerned that you were not present at the closing to answer
questions for the pukes in violation of Rule J .4(a)(2). 'The Grievance Committee was also

I

concerned about the extent 'to which yOll actually supervised the non-lawyers who were ilivolve'a.in
the closing this construction loan, a loan which is not the typical residential real estate closing.
The ethics opinions indicate that a lawyer may delegate the direction ofthe execution of documents
and disbursement of closing proceeds to a non-lawyer who is supervised by the lawyer provided that
the non-lawyer does not give leg~l advice to the parties. However, the State Bar Ethics Committee
has opined that "as is the case with any task that a lawyer delegates to anon-lawyer, comp~tent
practice requires tMt the lawyer determine that de\'egation is appropriate after having evaluated the
_~omplexity of the tran~action, the ,degree of difficufty of the particular task, the training and ability 'Of
. the non-lawyer, the client's sophistication and expectations, and the course of dealings with the ,
Glient." (See 02fEO 9) Under the circumstances in this closing, where there was a construction
loan, and the Dukes were unsophisticated cl icnts, the Grievance Committee found that you should
have provided more competent representation and better supervision of hon.,lawyers 'assistants. Your
failure to d~ so was in violation of Rule 1.1, Rule 5.3, and Rule 5.5 ,oftne Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct. In issuing this reprimand, the GrievanceCornmittee took into consideration
your intention to be "fully involved by doing the work myself, supervising any paral'egals that assist
me and attending all closings."

of

I

The Grievance Committee was also con<,:erned that your i-ItJb-l statement may 'have been
misleading as non-lawyers were listed as receivIng legal fees for their services with respect to the
closing. Although you indicate that the hon-Iawyer's fee was paid out of your Glosing fee, it appears
from the HUD"1 that a non,.lawyer is rendering leg~1 servic~s,and beillg,paid for them,. Again, the
Grievance Com,mittee found that listing non-lawyers as receiving settlement proceeds forlegar
services is misleading to the client, in violation of Rule '1.1 (a)( I). In imposing this reprimand, the,
Grievance Committee took into consideration that you hoW believe that the "better practice is to '
place all 'attorney-related fees on the HU'D-l payable tome [respondent], which I will do in the
future."
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State ,Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee tl1lsts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again alfow youl'selfto
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted Oct6bcr 15. 1981 by the Councrl ofthe North C~ronna
State Bat regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs pfthis action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby
taxed to you .
. Done and ordered, this the

~y of

.t

,2006

Bl?Wllr

'•. "

............... " ......"-:,..,.""' ........ _ ...,.\" ........." .....r"~"'- .•. ~ ",.

I

,

,

