-

---~ -~ -

- - - ----

-- --~--

-

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMM1TTEE
OF tHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0'5G0'562

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

'r

~IN THE,MATTER OF

!--awrence 1. K\issling III
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)

"

"

)

I

On July 20',20'0'6 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the: above-referenced grievance filed against you. by The North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Catolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is qefined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary ac~ion."
The rules provide that after a finding of probabie cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a:censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprinland is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession,. or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
,

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is hot required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State B:ar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
On or before May 9, 20'0'5, you sent a postcard to a Greensboro resident that had just
received a traffic: citation. Your postcard solicited professional employment from the Greensboro
resident. The so~icitation was not placed in ~ envelope with "this is an advertisement for legal
services" on the outside. Your conduct violated Rule 7.3(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct. Though your postcard purported tq be a change of address notice, you had not sent the

I

Greensboro resident any prior communication such that you needed to notify her of a change of
address.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that ~t will ibe ben~ficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
.19 depart from adherence to the high .ethical standards ofth~ legal profession.
;;'

I

:::'"

Ip. accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs bfthis action in the amount

Of$50·:o:::~:::::::: j~y order I-

,2006.

&J~---,-Barbara ("Bo
Grievance Co

B. W'eyher, Chair
ittee

1 ')

BBWllr

I

I

'"

","

"

............~....---.""~.....""''''~ .....,..............~ .....-....'... ~~.~''~'.

. :.

''-''('-

