NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE

GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0521GR006 & 05G0752

WAKE COUNTY

:!N THE MATTER OF
Travis H. Simpson,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

------'

-.":'-~------'

I

----'--_..._-'---_.:-

On July 20,2006, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bat met and considered
th~ grievances ',filed against you by H. P and U. G.
Pttrsua$t to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievt:jl1ce Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, ~ncluding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State ~ar is guilty of misconduct just! fying disciplinary action."
,

The rulys provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required an~ the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, th~ actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, ~ reprimand, or a censure.

A cenSUl" is a written fonn of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions, of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm .or potential significant harm to Ii client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public; but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.

I

The Griyvance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required if! this case and issues this Censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You undertook :representation oru.G. in a personal injury case for injuries to her minor daughter.
Despite assurancys to D.G, tJ:lat you were working on the case between 2002 and 2005, you failed to file
a lawsuit in the matter when you were unable to settle the claim. You did not notify lJ.G. of your failure
to file the lawsuIt and you failed to respond to her attempts to communicate with you and learn the status
of her case. When you talked with U.G. in the summer of2005, you initially tried to have her end your
representation of her but eventually infonned her ofyollr opinion that you had let,the statute of
limitations expir¢ and she could no longer pursue a claim for her daughter's injuries. You were
contacted by both the Grievance Committee of the State Bar and the local grievance committee of the
21 st Judicial District,. notifying you of the grievance and requiring your written response. You failed to
respond to these jnquiries.

I

During about the same time period, in 2000 you undertook representation of H.P. in her persona]
injt!ry case. From 2000 - 2005, you failed to perform any meaningful work in her case. You did pot .
settle the matter, did not respond ~o inquiries from her health insurance provider, and you did not 'tIle a
'lawsuit on her behalf. A member of the 21 51 Judicial District bar attempted to assistH.P. by arranging a
meeting between YOll and H.P. When H.P. arrived at your office at the appointed time, however, YOll
were not there. The 21 sl Judicial District then opened a grievance file, notified you of the grievance, and
required your written. response .. You did not timely respond as required.

I

The Grievance Committee finds that you neglected client matters in violation of Revised Rule of
P.rofessional Conduct 1.3, failed to conmmnicate with clients in violation of Revised Rule 1.4, and failed
to-respond at all or Within thy time period directed to th~·local committee atld State BEl! in violation of
Revised Rule 8.1. The Grievance Committee considered the multiple ihstances of this condllctand your
prior discipljne to be aggravating factors in this matter. Accordingly, the Grievance Committee decided
to issue this censure.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Com_mittee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your tesponsibilityto the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative c·asts to any attorney issued ~l
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed·
to you.
Done and ordyred, this

I

:L~ay

of.L-.t....+t-='-''-----'

Barbara ("Bonni '"13. Weyher, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

.;.

.,

.,',

.

