BEFORE THE
CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
tM
OF
.. NORtH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06DHC 14

NORTH. CAROLINA

.

WAKE GOUNTY

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
Findings .Of Fact, CDnclusiDns .Of Law and
CDnsent Order .Of Discipline

v.

I

RONALO E. COOLEY, AttDrney,
Defendant

This matter was cDnsidered by a Hearing CDmmittee .Of the Disciplinary Hearing
CDmmissiDn cDmpDsed .Of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair, and members JDhn M. May and R.
Mitchell Tyler. Katherine E. Jean represented plaintiff, the NDrth CarDlina Stat~ Bar.
Ernest Jay Reeves, Jr. represented defendant, RDnald E. CDDley. BDth parties stipulate
and agree tD the findings .Of fact. and cDnclusions .Of law recited In this CDnsent .Order and
tD the dispipline impDsed. Defendant freely and vDluntarily waives any and all right tD
appeal the entry .Of this CDnsent .Order .Of discipline. Based upDn the stipulatiDns .Of fact
and the consent .Of the parties, this Hearing CDmmittee hereby finds the fDllDwing by
clear,cDg~nt, and cDnvincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACt
1. ' Plaintiff, the NDrth CarDlina State Bar, is a bDdy duly .Organized under the
laws .Of NDrth Carolina and is the prDper party tD bring this proceeding under the
authDrity granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the NDrth Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2., Defendant, Ronald E. CDDley ("CDDley"), was admitted to the NDrth
CarDlina State Bar .On August 18, 2000, and is, and was at all times .referred tD herein, an
attDrney at law licensed to practice in NDrth CarDlina, subject to the rules, regulatiDns and
Revised Rules .Of Professional Conduct .Of the NDrth Carolina State Bar and the laws .Of
the Stat~ DfNDrth CarDlina.
3. During all Dr a pDrtiDn of the periDds referred tD herein, CODley was actively
engaged in the private practice Dflaw iIi HillsbDrDugh, Orange CDunty, NDrth Carolina.
4. ,On OctDber 6,2004, JDan Jones ("JDnes") retained CDDley tD represent her in
a domestic case and paid CDDley a $500 retainer.

I
"

~j

5. COOley signed a Retainer and Fee Agreement which provides that the $500 is
i'nonrefundable" and is "fully earned when agreement to accept case is reached. "

6. Cooley and Jones agreed that Cooley would file a lawsuit on JOl1.es' behalf on
or before October 11,2004.
.
7. By November 7, 2004, Cooley had not prepared and filed Jones'complaint.

I

8. Cool~y told Jones he wouldn't do further wOJ;k on her behalf UIitil she made
payment on her bill.
.
9. Jones terminated the attorney-client relationship and demanded return of her
retainer.
.
10. Cooley refused to refund any portion of the retainer, telling Jones she owed
"over $500" for legal services rendered after the retainer was exhausted and telling her
that, according to a fee agreement, the retainer was "nonrefundable. '.'
11. Jones filed a petitiol1.. for resolution of disputed fee With the State Bar.
I2~

Cooley received written notice of the fee dispute petition on December 16,

2004.

13. Cooley did not respond withil) 15 days as the notice instructed him to do.
14. Cooley received the second/final notification of mandatory fee dispute
resohition on January 5, 2005.
15. In his January 6, 2005, written response to the second/final notification of·
mandatory fee dispute resolution, Cooley indicated Jones owed him '1$720 plus interest to
date."

I

16. In his February 25, 2005 response to follow~up questio~s sent by the State
Bar's Client Assistal)ce Program ("CAP") representative, Luella Crane ("Crane"), Cooley
said Jones then owed him $959 and said that !'[b]y yout office delaying the collection of
what I am owed, you are increasing the interest she owes and increaSing the fees for
collection activities related to her account."

17. An invoiGe produced with Cooley's February 25, 2005 letter, contains entries
charging Jones fees for time spent participating in the Bar's mandatory fee di$lmte
resolution prograIl:1.
.
18. On March 8, 2005, Crane sent a letter to· Cooley requesting clarification of the
invoice. Cooley did not respond to Crane's March 8, 2005, letter.

19. On July is, 2004, Charles Anderson ("Anderson") retained Cooley to
represent him in an employment matter.
20. Anderson paid Cooley a $1000 retainer.

2

. :."'.

21. Cooley and Anderson did not have a written fee agreement explaining how the
$1000 retainer would be applied.
22. Anderson believed that the $1000 would be applied to pay for legal services
rendereq by Cooley in the future.
23. Cooley later contended that the $1000 waS a flat fee.

f4. When he was retained by Anderson, Cooley had not previously represented
Anderson.
25. Cooley did not clearly communicate to Anderson the basis or rate of the fee
and expenses for' which Anderson would be responsible,

I

26. Cooley represented Anderson at a July 15, 2004 meeting.

27.

One of the services Cooley agreed to perform was to send a demand letter to
Anderson's former employer.
.
,

28. By July 29, 2005, Anderson had provided all information Cooley requested
for preparation ofthe demand letter.
29. Anderson telephoned Cooley on numerous occasions between July 15, 2004
and September 24, 2004, inquiring about the status of the demahd letter and
r~iterating the need to send the demand letter right away.
~O. Cooley did not respond to Aliderson's telephone calls.
I

.

31. As of September 24, 2004, Cooley had not completed the demand letter.
32. Anderson terminated the attorney-client relationship on September 24, 2004 •
and requested return of the $1000 retainer.
33. On October 15, 2004, Cooley provided a written response to Anderson's
tequest for return of the retainer, disputing Anderson's allegations of delay,
acknowledging termination of the attorney-client relationship, stating that
Anderson owed an additional "$1800+," and stating:

I

If you feel the need to file a Bar complaint, do as you feel
dbligated. What I have done in this case violates ho ethical rules
df the NC Bar and I am quite sure they will agree. Then again, the
dnly matter open I see for you to refer to them would be your
account, and if you would like to get their take on your outstanding
b'ala~ce, do so. Once they determine you owe me for the hours I
worked on your case, I will expect a ch~ck. Even though I may be
willing to walk away from some of this debt now, I will not if I
h~ve to waste my time answering Bar letters as they ten.d to piss
me off and my life has enough stress in it already. Per the terms of

3

I
:-:

.....

our retainer; I would also be adding whatever time I am forced to
expend in collecting what is owed. .
34. On December 7,2004, Anderson filed a small claims action seeking recovery
of the $1000 retainer.
,

35. In the small claims action, Cooley did not assert a counterclaim for recovery
of additional fees.

I

36. The magistrate dismissed Anderson's small claims action.
37. On March 14, 2005, CooleY'wrote a letter to Luella.. Crane stating, in part,
"Please confirm whether it is still true that once an account has been heard in court that
the client assistance fee dispute program has no jurisdiction. "
I

38. On May 3, 2005, Cooley wrote to Luella Crane stating in part "Please answer
my initial letter as to whether you have jurisdiction over this bill based on pr~vious court
action."
39. Cooley then wrote to Anderson dema~ding payment of$2313.89 and stating·
i'[y]OU would ordinarily have a right to refer this matter to the NC Bar Fee Dispute
Resolution Program if you believe you can show I am overcharging yOU per the terms of .
your retainer. Since you have already chosen to go to court on this aC<?6unt~this program' .
may not be available to you. "
.
40. Cooley's' representations set forth in finding of fact 39 are false and
misleading and were made for the purpose of discouraging Anderson from filing a fee
dispute petition.

I

41. Anderso~ filed a petition for mandatory fee dispute resolution with the State
Bar's CAP program.
. 42. In response to the fee dispute' petition, Cooley produced an invoice showing
a balance owed of $2373.89, $1010.85 of which was billed for time spent preparing for
and appearing at the small claims hearing and $22.50 of which was billed for time ~pent
writing a letter to Anderson demanding payment of legal fees. .
43. Cooley told Crane "[i]f you stall the resolution of this collection, as I have
experienced with your office in the past, the net result will be an increase in what he
owes."
44. On March 14, 2005, Cooley represented ·to Grane that the small ,claims·
magistrate "ruled that my billing was proper .and that [Anderson] had to pay what was
owed on his account. "
. 45. Cooley's representation set forth in finding of fact 44 was false.

4

I
. ',"

..

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

46. Cooley represented to Crane that the $1010:85 he sought to recover from
Ander$on was for "collection activities," which Cooley asserted his "Retainer and Fee
Agreement" permitted him to recover from Anderson.

4T Cooley's repres.entation set forth in finding of fact 46 was false.
4~.

Crane wrote to Cooley again, asking Cooley to forego the charges for time
spent on the small claims case.
-49. Cooley did not respond.:.and thereafter participated no longer in the mandatory
fee dispute resolution process.

I

50. On April 15, 2005, th~ Grievance Committee of the State Bar opened
grievanc¢ file #05G0736 against Cooley.
5~. In his written response to plaintiff's Letter of Notice, addressed to the Chair
of the~tC\te B&f's Grievance Committee, Henry B~bb ("Babb"), Cooley incorporated by
reference·the false representation set forth in finding of fact 44.

52. Cooley's attempt to collect $1010.85 from Anderson is an attempt to collect
an illegal ,and clearly excessive fee.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. - All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee
has jurisdIction over defendant, Ronald E. Cooley, and- over the subject matter.
2.
Cooley's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
ground's for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (3) as follows:
,

(a) By fajIing to respond to a direct request for clarification from Crane, Cooley
failed to participate in good faith in the State Bar's mandatory fee dispute
resolution program in violation of Rule 1.5(f) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct;
(b)

I

By increasing the amounts of the purported fee he was attempting to recover
from Jones for the time spent participating in the State Bar's mandatory fee
dispute process, Cooley failed to participate in good faith in the fee dispute
program in violation of Rule 1.5(f) and attempted to charge art illegal and
clearly excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct;

(c)

By representing in his Retaine:r and Fee Agreement and in his response to
Jones' request for a refund that Jones' was paying a $500 "nonrefundable"
, retainer which was "fully earned when agreement to accept case is reached,"

I

---

Cooley made a false and misle~ding representation in violation of Rule 7.1
of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

I

(g)

By failing to.respond to Crane's communications in the fee di$pute process,
Cooley failed to ,participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution program in violation of Rule 1.5Cf) of the ReVised Rules of
Professional Conduct;

(e)

By making. false representations to Crane and to Babb regarding the
magistrate's ruling in the sm~l1 claims action and by representing that
$1010.85 of his invoice was for "collection activities," Cooley failed to
participate in good faith in the State Bar's mandatory fee dispute program in
violation of Rule L5(f), made false .representations of material fact ip
violation of Rule 8.1(8.), and failed to respond to a 'lawful demand for
information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1(b).

(f)

By representing to Anderson tha,t his filing a small claims action :tnight make
him ineligible to participate in the State Bat's fee dispute resolutiopprogram, and by attempting to discourage Anderson from filing a petition
for resolution of the disputed fee,. Cooley failed to participate in good: faith
in the State Bar's mandatory fee dispute resolution program in violation of
Rule 1.5(f) of the Revised Rules ofProfessional Conouct;

(g)

By failing to respond to Andersonis inquiries about the stafils of Anderson's
legal matter, Cooley failed to keep Anderson tea~onablyinformed about the
status ofthe matter and. failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests
for information in violation of Rule 1:4(a) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
.

'Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the H~aring
Committee hereby makes, by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, the follOWing
additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

2.

Cooley's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Cooley cOIl11llitted multiple offenses;

h.

Cooley engaged in a pattern of misconduct;

Cooley's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

Cooley has no prior discipline;

6

I
.

. <:-

3;

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4,
Cooley has significantly harmed the reputation and standing of the legal
profession and has caused substantial harm and potential harm to his clients, jones and
Anderson.

5:
Cooley's fairll~e to cooperate and failure to provide, full; fair and timely
responses to the State Bar's CAP program and to the Grievance Committee have
interfered with the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys and undermined the privilege
oflawyet;s in this. State to reIi1~in self-regulating.

6.
This Hearing Committee has considered all alternatives and finds that a
public reprimand is appropriate and sufficient discipline given the gravity of the harm
and of the potential harm caused by the misconduct of Cooley and given the aggravating
and mitigating factors found above.

I

Based upon the foregoing factors and with the consent of the parties, the hearing
committe.e hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1..

Cooley is hereby reprimanded for his misconduct.

2.
Cooley shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
within ninety (90) days of the date this disciplinary order is served upon him.
. . Signed by the Chair with ~ the other hearing committee members,

tlnsfue~yof S~ .~ L~
•

Stephen E. Culbreth
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Committee

I

7

I
.:
"',

..: ..

CONSENTED to BY:

--"

~-----"""""------------

I

onald E. Cooley.·
Defendant

I

8

I
..

:

....

