------------,...-------------------- --- ..........------

---------- -~-

___

·-~I

h\~~\11819?/}>:
",-\"'''\
~

STATE OF NORTH CARO lNA

WAKE COUNTY

....t
$,41'

p/P
,fl.;;;"

2000

~-' )
Q

,-----------

9' .

BEFORE THE
DISC· INARY HEARING COMMISSION
UHf"IV
~
OF THE
~~ ORTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
~
06DHC 10

Plaintiff

v.
MARK F. REYNOLDS, Attorney,

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

Defendant

This matter was heard on August 25, 2006 before,a hearing COnimittee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, Charles M. Davis, and
members Karen Eady-Williams and Johnny A. Freeman. Jennifer A. Porter represented
the Plaintiff, the· North Carolina State Bar, Defendant; M~k F. Reynolds, did not appear
and Was not represented. Based upon the pleadings and the admissions considered
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(f), the hearing
committee hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laWs of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and :Regulations of the North Carolina. State Bar promulgated. thereunder:
,

2.:

The Defendant, Mark F. Reynolds, ("Reynolds"), was admitted to the
North Car6lina State Bar in April 1985 an<;l is, and was at all times referred to herein,
subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

I

3.
During all or a portion of the periods relevant hereto, Reynolds was a
resident ofHigh Point, North Carolina.
4.
Reynolds was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was
set, and the matter came before the hearing committee With due notic~ to all parties.
5.
On April 29, 2004, William Bean and Cathy Blake filed a petition
for resolution of a disputed fee ("Bean-Blake fee dispute") against Reynolds with
the North Carolina State Bar.

I

h

'(

.;

6.
On April 30, 2004, the North Carolina State Bar referred the BeanBlake fee dispute to the 18th Judicial District Fee Dispute Resolution Committee
for mediation.
.
7.
Robert A. Brinson ("Brinson") agreed to mediate the Bean..Blake
fee dispute and made numerous attempts to"contact Reynolds hetween May 1,
2004 and Janl.lary 24, 2005.
8.
Reynolds failed to respond to notices sent to him by Brinson
regarding the Bean-Blake fee dispute and failed to particip~te in the fee dispute
mediation process in good ,faith,
.

I

9.
On February 2, 2005, the North Carolina State Bar opened a
grievance file against Reynolds based upon his failure to respond to the notices of
the Bean-Blake fee dispute and his failure to participate in the fee dispute
mediation process in good faith. The grievance file was assigned file number
0500140.
.
10.
On or about March 14, 200S, the State Bar served Reynolds with a
letter of notice and substance of grievance regarding file number 0500140 by ..
certified mail, and dire~ted him to respond in writing within 15 days.
11.
Reynolds did not respond to the letter of notice, nor did he resp'ond
to a follow up letter of notice sent to him on April 8, 2005.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the'.
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Mark F. Reynolds, and the subject matter.
2.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Oen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

I

1.
By failing to respond to the potice of the Bean-Blake fee
dispute, Reynolds failed to participate in the fee dispute mediation
in good faith in violation of Rule I.S(f)(2) ofthe Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
2.
By failing t9 respond to, the letter of notice and follow up
letter sent to him by the N.C. State:Bar regarding file n\ll'l1ber 050
140, Reynolds failed to respond to a lawful inquiry from a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 of the Revised Rules
of Professiohal Conduct.

-2 ..

I
.;.

:. :-:

..

lo~:S-

.

II

'.(

, ..

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional
.
FINPINGS OF FACT REGARbING DiSCIPLINE
1.
Reynolds has been disciplined in federal and state court, as described in
detail below. T4e discipline by the courts predated the misconduct at issue in this case.
Reynolds also received a five year suspension by Order of the DHC in 05 DHC 5, entered
June 10, 2005. The Order in 05 DHC 5 was entered after the misconduct at issue in this
case.

2:

I

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the' following factors:
a.

Prior discipline, consisting of:
1.

Disbarment from practice in federal court by order of the
United States District Court for the Middle District of
North Carolina in February 2004 for multiple violations of
court orders;

if.

Censure by the Superior Court in Guilford County, North
Carolina, issued December 27,2002, for neglect of a client
matter and making a false representation to the Court; and

iii.

Two year suspension by the Superior Court in Guilford
County, North Carolina, by Order effective on February 14,
2004, for failing to comply with mental health examination
requirements in the Court's Deqember 27,2002 Order and
for false representations to the Court during the hearing
held by the Court on November 24, 2003 concerning
Reynolds' failure to comply with the Court's Order. 'this
suspension was in effect during the time of the misconduct
at issue in this case.

b.

Pattern of misconduct;

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

Bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings, by
intentionally failing to comply with the rules governing hearings
before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and Orders of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission;

e.

Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct; and

I

-3-

I
. :.":-:....

'f

.(

~"

f.
3.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the folloWing factor:
a.

4.

I

Substantial experience in the practice of law:

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factor.

5.
Reynolds' misconduct has caused actual hann and created a threat of
potential significant harm to his clients and to the profession. Reynolds' failure to
participate in the self-r~gulation. of the profession by the State Bar thwarts the State Bar's
ability to protect his former clients and the public and imperils the profession's privilege
of self-regUlation.
6.
Reynolds' failure to comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct by
which the State Bar would regulate his copduct echoes his prior failures to comply with
orders from federal and state courts and shows that Reynoldsipresents .an ongoing threat
of potential significant harm to his clients, the profession, and the administration of
justice.
7.
The hearing committee has considered lesser forms of discipline and finds
that a substantial period of suspension is the 'only 'Sanction that can adequately protect the
public for the following reasons:
a.

Reynolds' misconduct occurred over a substantial period of time
and therefore appears to be the result of a serious condition or
character flaw, rather than an aberration;

b.

An order .of discipline imposing less than a five year suspension
would not sufficiently protect the public because Reynolds has
failed to show that he h~ addressed whatever trait or problem that
caused his misconduct and therefore there is a risk that he would
continue to violate the Rules of Professional Conduct ifhe were
allowed to continue in the practice of law; ~d .

c.

Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would
fail to acknowledge the seriousness ofthe offenses committed by
Reynolds and would send the wrong message to attorneys ~d the
public regarding the conduct expected of m~mbers of the Bar in
this State.

-4-

I

i

. Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
L
Mark F. Reynolds' license to practice law is suspended for a period of five
years, commencing at the expiration of the five year suspension imposed by the Order of
Discipline entered in Case number 05 DRC 5.
2.
Reynolds shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within 30 days of service of the statement of costs upon him.

I

3.
Reynolds shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter 13, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.

4;
to be eligible for reinstatement at the end ofthe suspension imposed in
this Order~ Reynolds must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he has
satisfied the requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125 of
the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules and that he has complied with the
following:
.
a.
Attended, at his own expense, ten hours of mental health
continuing legal education instruction offered by a course provider approved by
the State Bat within the three years immediately preceding his application for
rdnstatement. Documentation of compliance must accompany the application for
re'ihstatement;
b.
Undergone, at his own expense, a mental health evaluation by a
qualified and licensed mental health professional approved by the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar within one year immediately preceding
hi~ application for reinstatement. A written report of the evaluation from the
provider must accompany the application for reinstatement. Reynolds will also
have signed an authorization form allowing the mental health provider to provide
information and records concerning the mental health evaluation to the Office of
Counsel ofth~ State Bar and will provide this form with his application for
reinstatement;

I

c.

Attended, at his own expense, five three-hour continuing legal
ed~cation courses in law office management offered by a course provider
approved by the State Bar within the three years immediately preceding his
application for reinstatement. Documentation of compliance must accompany the
application for reinstatement;
d.

Not violated any of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct;

- 5-

I
::.:-

e.
Not violated any laws of the State of North Carolinf!, or orthe
United States;
f.
Paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
within 30 days of service of the statement of costs tJpon him;.
g.
Kepttbe North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home address;
h.

Responded to all communications from the North Carolina State

:Bar received after the effective date of this order within 30 days of receipt or by
the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner; and
1.

Paid all dues, late fees and assessments owed to the Nc;>rth Carolina

State Bar.
l I

Signed by the C~fthe other hearing Colll1l)ittee members,
,2006.

this the ~ day of .

.
.
Charles . Davis ..
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Committe~

I

-6-

I

