---

~

- --------

-

-.--

~I

I

:2 77 ( . : Ltl(i\2~':~-~

~~~.

- -------,-~----------~---7"<\r.)

.."'..
l~

~~.

. '..

•

c;:A

(~~---

I

f

_-------~-

_ _--'

$~

tJ ~~~

.
BEFORE THE

~~

.

Dl$ IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
~;>
OF THE

'I

.7$.$, ,t~ (s;

-,-7·0

r""

vO,

.

NORl1H CAROUN {"~~"

-----~

<;,),

...J

$t."
A P <I'

.
. tfJ
WAKE COUNTY ~~

~_<

~~

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

)
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR )
PLAINTIFF
)
)
v.
)
)
THOMAS F. LOFLIN III and
)
ANN F. LOFLIN, Attorneys
)
DEFENDANTS
)

06 DHC 18

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

:This matter was considered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of F. Lane Williamson, Chair, Tommy W. Jarrett
and Donald G. Willhoit. Mar.garet Cloutier represented plaintiff. Defendants
Thomas F. Loflin III and Ann F. Loflin appeared pro sa. Defendants have agreed
to waiv~ a formal hearing in the above-referenced matter. The parties stipulate
and agree to the discipline imposed herein and Defendants waive their rights to
appeal this consent order or challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings
by consenting to the entry of this order.
The Chair of this Committee, based on the pleadings filed herein. upon
motion' of Plaintiff and pursuant to Rule 12(c) of the Rules of Civil Procedure· and
§.0114' of the State Bar Discipline and Disabmty Rules, entered Judgment on the
Pleadings setting forth Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. The Judgment
Was signed by the Chair on August 29, 2006 and filed with the Clerk of the DHC
on August 31, 2006. The Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law contained in
that Judgment are repeated below and incorporated herein.

1-

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring t~is proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General

I

&3.0

Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar p(omulgated thereunder.
.
2. Defendant, Thomas F.Loflin III. was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar on August 14., 1970 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the NQrthCar()lina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
.

I

3. Defendant, Ann F. Loflin, Was admitted to the North Carolina State ear
on August 14, 1971 arid is, and was· at all times referrea to herein, an Attorney at
Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the NQrth Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.
4. During the times relevant herein, Defendants actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Durham, Durham County, North Carolina.
5. Defendants unlawfully and willfully failed to file state individual income
tax returns and/or pay state individual income taxes for tax years 1998, 1999,
2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 as required by N.C.G.S. §§105..152 and 10&-1-57.
6. On June 6, 2005, before the Honorable Robert Rader? Wake County
District Court J.udge presicling over the Wake County District Court, Defendant
Thomas F. Loflin, III entered a plea of guilty to, and was found guilty :of, six

counts of Willful Failure to File North Carolinalneome Tax Return, a
misdemeanor under North Carolina General Statute §105-23~(9).

I

7. On June 6, 2005, before the Honorable Robert Rader Wake County
District Court Judge presiding over the Wake COUhty District Court, Defendant
Ann F. Loflin e'ntered a plea of guilty to, and was found guilty of, six counts of
Willful Failure to File a North Carolina Income Tax Return, a misdemeanor under
North Carolina General statute §105-236(9).
.
8. Willful failure to file a state income tax return or pay state income taxes
when due is a misdemeanor under N.C.G.S. §105-236(9).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

-----------------------------------------------

1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over Defendants and the subject matter ofthis
proceeding.

2.

Defendahts' foregoing actions constitute grounds for disciplhie
pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28{b)(2) in that Defendants violated one or more of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as
follows,: by unlawfully and willfully failing to file and/or pay state income taxes
when t~ose t~xes were due, Defendants committed criminal acts that reflect
adversely on their honesty, trustworthiness. or frtne~s in other respects in
vio,lation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c)..
i

_

I

,

3. In addition, Defendants' convictions in state court of Willful Failure to
File Federal Income Tax Retums constitute misconduct and grounds for
discipline in that such convictions are criminal offenses showing professional
unfitness pursuanUo N.C.G.S. §84-28 (b)(1) and N.C.A.C. 1B §.0115.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and
with th~ consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee also enters the following
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. Defendant Thomas Lonin's misconduct is aggravated by the following
factorsj
a. his conduct reflects a pat1em of misconduct in that he failed to file his
North Garolina State income tax returns and pay the taxes due in a timely
manne~ over multiple years;
b. he has substantial experience illl the practice of laWj and

c. he Obstructed in bad faith these disciplinary proceedings by
intentionally failing to comply with the rules or orders of this disciplinary agency
as articulated
below.
.
i

I

2. Defendant Thomas Loflin's misconduct is mitigated by the following
factors:'
.

a. absence of a prior disciplinary record;
b. imposition of other penalties; and
c. his good reputation in the community.

I

3. Defendant Ann Lotlinls misconduct is aggravated by the following
factors:
a. her conduct reflects a pattern of misconduct in that she failed to file,
her North Carolina State income tax returns and pay the taxes due in a timely
manner over multiple years;
b. she has substantial experience in the practice of law; and

I

c. she has prior disciplinary offenses in that
i. she r-eceived a Public Censure from the DHC on October 24,
1980 in case number 80 DHC 7, and
~

~

~

ii. she was suspended from the practice of law for three years' by
Otderofthe DHC on April 6, 2004 in case number 03 DHC,17.
4. Defendant Ann Loflin's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. imposition of other penattias; and

b. her reputation in the community.

6. 1n both instances, the aggravating factors outweigh the
factors.

I

~

mitig~ting
~

6. Defendants' failure totils taxes on a timely basis and their subsequent
criminal convictions have the potential to cause significant harm to the standing.
afthe legal prOfession in the eyes of the public because it shows disdain for their
obligations as citizens and as officers of the court to obey the law Such erosion
of public confidence in attomeys tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters
disrel)pect for, the profession as a whole.
7. Defendant Thomas Loflin failed to attend a properly noticed deposition
and failed to voluntarily comply with discovery requests OfPlaintiff. Despitethl$
Committee's order to comply with Plaintiffs discovery requests. Defendant
Thomas Loflin only partially complied. His obstruction of these disciplinary
proceedings warrants more severe discipline than had he demonstrated a
cooperative attitude toward these proceedings.
8. A deposition of Defendant Ann Loflin was taken by Plaintiff and the
expenses incurred by Plaintiff for that d.eposition ware reasonable and nec$$sary
in the litigation of this case. The expense of the deposition should be taxed to
the Defendant Ann Loflin.

I

9. The Hearing Committee has carefully considered all of the different
forms 'of discipline available to it and finds that any of the sanctions Jess than
suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed
by Defendants and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public
regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar.
Based upon the foregoing Findungs of Fact; Conclusions of Law, and
Findings Regarding Discipline, all found by cl$ar, cogent and convincing
evidence, the Hearing Committee enters the following

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

,1. The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of Defendant
Thomas F. Loflin III is hereby suspended for three years from the date this Order
of Discipline is served upon him. The period of suspension is stayed for three
years 'as long as Defendant complies and continues to comply with the
conditions hoted below. In addition to the terms of the stay, Defendant Thomas
F. Loflin III shan serve an active period of suspension beginning December 1,
2006 ~nd ending December 31,2006.

:2. The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of Defendant
Ann

F:. Loflin is hereby suspende(t for two years. The period of suspension is

stay~ for two years as long as De'fendant complies and continues to comply
with the conditions noted below. This suspension shall run at the expiration of
the sl:l,spensionin 03 DHC 17 and shall not aiter in any manner the provisions of
that order.

: 3.. By January 10. 2001, Defendant Thomas Loflin shall provide to
the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar an affidavit showing
that dUring the periOd of active suspension he refrained from the practice
of law; including an affirmation that he did not perform any service of any
nature for current clients and did not accept any new retainer or engage in
providing services for any new or potential client.

I

:4. During the periods of stay, each Defendant individually shall
comply with the following conditions:
.a. Within 60 days of the date of service of this Order upon them,
Defen(.lants shall file any delinquent tax returns with the Internal Revenue
Service ahd/or North CarOlina Department of Revenue, as appropriate, for
the ta~ years preceding the 2006 tax year. Within 30 days of filing such
returns. Defendant shall provide to the Office of Counsel evidence of
receipt ,of such returns byth~ Internal Revenue Service or the Departm~nt
of Revenue.

I
• __ ,r

0._.'

·;.

-'

_, . . _....._...... _~........._ . . . .

w ...... '''', ...

'r................... ····---.. ..·-'---··''·

b. By January 15, 2007, Defendants shall provide to the, Office of
CQun{iel proof of payment of all delinquent federal Or state taxes,
penalties and interest for the tax years preceding the 2006 tax year or
copies of any agreements to pay aU unpaid taxes. penalties and ,interest
for those years. If Defendants enter into repayment agreements with the
tax.ing autl'lorities, Defendants shall comply with such repaym~nt plans
and provide to the Office of Counsel proof of compliance therewith within
ten days of each payment date.
.

I

.c. Defendants shall file state and federal tax returns for all future
tax years on a timely basis and shall timely pay all amounts owed to the
taxing authorities. Defendants shall provide written proof of filing and
payment to the Office of Counsel within ten days of flUng each r~tllm or
request for extension and within ten days of each payment.
d. Defendants will execute any writt~n waivers and releases
necessary to authorize the Office of Counsel to confer with the Internal
Rever:lue Service or the North Carolina Department of Revenue for the
purpose of determining if Defendants have cooperated and. complied with
all requirements of this Order. Defendants will not revoke the waivers and
releases at any time during he period of stay.
e. Defendants shall provide to ttw Office of Counsel copies of all
correspondence sent to or received by them from any taxing authority
about their tax obligations within ten daY$ of receipt.
f. Defendants shall not violate any state or federaillilws or any
proviSions of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct during the period
of the stayed suspension.

I

g. Defendants shall respond to all State Bar requests' for
information by the earlier of the deadline stated in the communication or
within 3Q days of the date of theCOnimunication, as required by Rule
8.1 (b) ,of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
h. Defendants shall not violate any provisions of .the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct.
i. Defendants shall timely comply with all State Bar membership
and Continuing Legal Education requirements.
j. Defendants shail keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of their reslPective current home and business street'
(not P.O. Box) addresses and telephone numbers.

I
'"

•

~

• ._ ..... •• !"'"_.. _

~ ~

.... ... ..............,_.." ....

,~~ .. _ ....~ ....~ ........., .....,......~;.,.. , .._#r'

•

5. If either stay granted herein is revoked or the suspension of either
Defendant's license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of
his orher license to practice law; Defendant(s) must show by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence that ·he or she has complied with each of the following
conditions:
a. Submitted his or her license and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order
susp~nding .his or her law license;
: b. Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § ;0124 of the State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules on a timely basis following the order suspending
his or her law license;

·1

!

·c. Complied with the ccmditions set forth in Paragraph 4 (a) through (h)
above.
6. Defendants are taxed with the costs of this action. Defendant Ann
Loflin is taxed with the costs of her deposition taken on September 1, 2006. The
costs shalJ be paid within thirty days of service of the notice of costs upon the
Defendants by the SecretarY.
, Signed by the, undersugned Chair with the full kn9Yf~dge and~9~ of
the other members of the Hearing Comrpittee. this d5(1:tay of ~ •
2006.1
.~...'

·/~~
F. LANWiLLIAMSON, CHAIR
EARING COMMITTEE

Consented to: ~
~v

tY~rI·
Thomas F. Loflin III, D

Ann

I

F. Loflin, Defendant

Margaret C outier, Deputy Counsel
Counsel for Plaintiff

I
.- ......................-....--_............"....-......'"""',.."'...,.....,..,..... .. ,.-. -, .. _.. -".... ...--."

