BEFORE TIfE .
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06G0438

NORTH CAROLINA
, WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

.

I

~eginald

a. Kell;y,

Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 20, 2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against youby the North ,Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
'State Bar, the Gri~vance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the GrievMce Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Comrpittee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggrav~ting or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

I

A reprimand.is a written form of discipHne more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the aclministration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not ,require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was cif the' opinion that a censure is not required in this caSe
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairmariofthe Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Your law firm posted aD. ad on the internet about its services. The ad indicated that one
needs "the best Winston-Salem personal injury lawyer available," which was a reference tq your
law firm. this statement compares your firm's services with other lawyers' services and th~t
comparison cannot be factually substantiated in violation of Rule 7.1 (a)(3) of the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct. Furthermore, the ad indicated that a person needed the best WinstonSalem personal injury lawyer available, anq your firm does not have an office in Winston-Saletn.

I
.:..

,I

I
I

I
I

,personal injury lawyer available, and your firm does not have an office in Winston-Salem. The '
Grievance Committee believed that the above referenced statement implied that a lawyer in your
firm was the hest Winston-Salem person,al injury lawyer available, and that statement contained a
material misrepresentation of fact, in violation of Rule 7.1(a)(l) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
The ad! further states that your fi1111 is the "top choice" in Winston-Salem and throughout
the state ofNo,rth Carolina for personal injury representation. Again, this statement compares
your law firm's services with other lawyers' services and that comparison cannot be factually
substantiated, in violation of Rule 7. 1(a)(3).
I
I

Finally, your website indicated that "You don't owe us any fees until we recover for your
personal injury claim," The Grievance Committee found this statement was misleading and
violated Rule 7.i(a)(1) because there is no mention that the client may be ultimately responsible
for reimbursing your law firm for costs or litigation expenses your firm advanced on behalf of the
client, even if there is no recovery.

I

You ar~ hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bat for your professional
_misconduct. 11te Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
..remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, ] 981 by the Council of the N0l1h
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued:a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

A

Done and ordered, this the ~y of ~ /

B

, 2006

I

BBWllr

I

