- - - _ _ "Y- _ _

_

-

-

___

___

_

~

_ _ -...,

I

\1;911i'77};~~

70

~ J:,ocr!~ '<~," . _- BE;~~~HE---·----

STATE OF NORTH eARO
.

~ '3 7

N

Jl..~ODISCiPLfNARY HEARfNG COMMISSION

'lie

WAKECbUNTY

",~~ORTHCAR~L~~STATEBAR
06 DHC 24

'.;:;l·

Plaintiff
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law
and Order of Discipline

v,
RICHARQ BROADNAX, Attorney,

I

Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Tomtny W. Jarrett, Chair, and members John M. M~y and
Rebecca Brownlee. Katherine E. Jean represented plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
The defendant Richard Broadnax was not represented by counsel and did not appear~
Based upon the pleadings and the evidence ~ntroduced at the hearing, the heating
committee hereby enters the following
1

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Richard Broadnax ("Broadnax"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on March 22, 1997, and is, and was at all times referred to herein
subject to the rules, regulations and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the
.
North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

I

3. Broadnax personally signed the certified mail receipt reflecting that Broadnax
persorii,llly received the summons and complaint in this action and had actual
knOWledge of the pendency of this proceeding. Broadnax was served with notice of
this he¥in.g by United States Mail.
4. i Broadnax did hot file an ansWer to the complaint in this matter, did not
participate in a pretrial conference and did not appear at the hearing in this matter.
5. During a portion of the times pert~nent to the subject matter of the complaint in
this action, Broadnax was engaged in the practice of law in Reidsville, Rockingham
County:, North Carolina.

I
".'

6. During calendar years 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, ~001 and 2002, Broadnax
received sufficient income to require Broadnax to file federal and state individual
income tax returns.
7. For each of the tax years 1997, 1998, J999, 2000, 2001 and 200Z, Broadnax
knew the deadlines for the filing of his federal and state income tax returns and for·
payment of any tax liability.

I

8. Broadnax failed to file his federal individual income tax returns fot taX years
1997, 1998, 1999,2000,2001 and 2002 within the times re'quired by law.
9. Broadnax failed to pay his federal individual income tax liability due for taX
years 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 within the times required by law.
10. Broadnax failed to file his state individual income tax retullls for tax years
1997,1998, 1999,2000,2001 and 2002 within the times required by law.
11. Broadnax failed to pay any state individual income tax liabUityd1,le for tax
years 1997, 1998, 1999,2000,2001 and 2002 within the times required by law.
12. Broadnax's failure to file the required federal and state, income tID{ returns
and pay any final tax liabilities due on a timely basis for each tax year 1997, 1998,
1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 was willful.
'
13. As a result of Broadnax's failure to file tax returns and to pay tax~s, the State
Bar opened grievance file # 0400915.

I

14. Broadnax pled guilty in W,ake County District Court on September 28, 2004,
to two counts of failure to file or pay North Carolina taxes for the years 1997 and
1998. Broadnax Was sentenced to 90 days in jail. The period of incarceration was
suspended and Broadnax was placed on 36 months probation. Broaclnax was ordered
to pay $19,553 in costs, fines and restitution.
15.
On Feb1'l.lary 9, 2004, Broadnax's trust account was reviewed by the State
Bar's Staff Auditor in the North Carolina State Bar's random audit program. At the
conClusion of the random audit, grievance file # 0401102 was opened.
16. Broadnax failed to reconcile his trust account, failed to identify the source of
deposits, failed to deposit in his trust account amounts which included both trust an.d
non"'trust funds, failed to m&intain a ledger of client ±\mds, failed to maintain a ledger
of Broadnax;'s funds improperly deposited and maintained in the trust account, failed
to provide an Amended Directive to the banking institution which held his trust
account instructing the banking institution to provide the State Bar with notice when
Broadnax wrote a trust account check against insufficient funds, failed to indicate on
checks from which client balance the funds were drawn, and failed t6 provide the
North Carolina State Bar with assurance that the trust account had been reconciled.

2

I

17.
Broadnax was served with a Letter of Notice' in file number 04G 11 02 on
March 17,2005, requiring him to explain the circumstances set forth in paragraph 16
above.
Broadnax did not respond to the Letter of Notice sent to him in 04G1102.

18.

Broadnax was sent a follow-up letter on April 8, 2005 and asked to
19,
provide the requested information on or before April 14, 2005.
20!.

Broadnax did not respond to the State Bar's follow-up letter.

21 ~ In grievance files #s 04GD915 and 04G 1102, Broadnax was properly served
with a: subpoena to appear on July 19, 2005 and produce to the State Bar Grievance
COmniittee specified tax retums and trust account reconciliations.

I

22: Broadnax appeared in response to the subpoena but did not provide the
documents he was required to produce pursuant to the subpoena.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I,. All parties are properly before the hearing co:rmnittee and the committee has
jurisdiction over defendant, Richard Broadnax, and over the subject matter.
2. Broadnax was properly served with process) a hearing in this matter was set,
and th~ matter came before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.
3. Willful failure to file or pay a federal tax when due is a misdemeanor under 26
USC §.7203.
I

4. Willful failure to file or pay a state income tax when due is a Class 1
misdemeanor under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236(9).
5. Broadnax's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (3) as follows:

I

a. By failing timely to file the required federal and state individual income
tax returns and failing timely to make required federal and state income
tax payments when due, Broadnax committed criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in
violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,.
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; and

3

I

~1V

b. By failing to reconcile his trust account, failing to identify the source of
deposits into his trust account, not depositing in his trust account amounts
which contained a mix of trust and non-trust funds, failing to maintain a
ledger of ,client funds deposited in the trust account, failing. to maintain a
ledger of his own funds deposit~d into the trust account, failing to provide
an Amended Directive to the banking institution at which he maintained

I

his trust account, failing to indicate on checks from which client balance
the, funds were drawn, and not providin~ the North Carolina State Bar with
assurance that the trust account had been reconciled, Broadnax violated
Rules 1.1~-1, 1.15 ..2 and 1.15-3 of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct;
c. By failing to respond to the Grievance COininittee's Letter of Notice. and
follow-up letter and failing to comply with the subpoena requiring him to
produce documents and records, Broadnax failed to respond to lawful
demands for information from a disciplinarY authoi-ity in violation of Rule
8.1 of the Rev.ised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the pleaqings, admissions and evidence of record, the hearing
committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional
FINDiNGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1. Broadnax was the defendant in a 2004 proceeding before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission, 04 DHC 20. Broadnax failed to appear at the DHC hearing in 04
DHC20.
2. In 04 DHC 20, the DHC imposed a three year suspension of Broadnax's
license for, Emlong other misconduct, failure to respond to a letter of notice sent to him by
the Grievance Committee in violation of Rule 8.l(b) and failure to respond to notice of
fee dispute petition sent to him by the Client Assistance Program of the North Carolina
State Bar in violation of Rule 1.5(f).
'
3. In 03G0638, the Grieval1ce Committee of the State' Bar imp·osed 'a reprimand
against Broadnax for failing to respond to a letter of notice and failing to respond to
follow up communications sent to him by the Grievance Committee in violation of Rule
8.1 (b).
'

4

I

4.' In 03 G 1055 and 03 G 1211, the Grievance Committee of the State Bar imposed
an admon,itiop against Broadnax for, among other misconduct, failing to respond to two
notices of fee dispute petitions sent to him by the Client Assistance Program of the Stat~
Bar ,in vio'lationofRule I.5(f).
5.' Broadnax's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. Prior disciplinary offenses;

I

b. Pattern of misconduct;
c. Multiple offenses;
d. Bad faith obstruction of disciplinary proceedings by intentionally failing
to comply with rules or ord~rs of a disciplinary agency.
6. The hearing committee finds no mitigating factors.
7 . Broadnax's mIsconduct interfered with the State Bar's ability to regulate
attorneys ~d undermined the privilege of lawyers in this State to remain self-regulating.
8. ;Broadnax's misconduct in failing properly to maintain his trust account and
failing properly to maintain records regarding entrusted funds created a substantial risk of
harni to Broadnax's clients.
9. The hearing committee has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a
public censure or reprimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of
the potential harm caused by Broadnax's misconduct, because Broadnax has had
substantial.prior discipline, and because Broadnax has demonstrated an inability or an
unwillingness to recognize the authority cifthe State Bar to regulate attorney conduct in
North Carolina and the authority of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
10. The hearing cominittee finds that Broadnax's conduct caused
significant potential harm to the public and significant actual and potential harm
to the profession, and that a discipline more severe than public censure or
reprimand is necessary to protect the public and the profession.

I

11. Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail
to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Broadnax, would be
inconsistent with orders of discipline entered by this body in similar cases and
would send.the wrong message to /:!ttorneys and to the public regarding the
obligation of all attorneys to obey the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
12. For those reasons, the hearing committee believes and so finds that an
Order imposing discipline short of a suspension of Broadnax's law license would
not be apprqpriate.

5

I

Based upon the foregoing factors, the hearing committee hereby enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

1. Th~ license of defendant, Richard Broadnax is hereby suspended for
five (5) years. This five year suspension shall begin imhlediately upon the earlier
of (1) the effective date of any stay which may be· granted of any portion of the
three year suspension imposed by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission in 04
DHC 20 or (2) the expiration of the three year sllspension imposed by the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission in 04 DHC 20.
2. If he has not alre~dy done so, Broadnax shall submit his license and'
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar immediately.
3. If he has not already done so, Broadnax. shall comply with the wind down
, prQvisions contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Supchapter B, § .OI24(b) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Broadnax shall file an affidavit
with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of
this Order, certifying he has complied with the wind down rule.
4. Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order, Broadilaxshall provide the .
State Bar with l:Ul address at which clients seeking return of files Can obtain such files and .
shall promptly return all files to his clients upon request.
5. After he has served three (3) years of this five year suspension, Broadnax may
apply stay of the final two (2) years of this five year suspension. To be eligible fot a stay"
ofthe final two years of this five year suspension, Broadnax must show by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence all of the following:

I

a.

That he properly wound down his law practice. and complied with
the terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability R.ules.

b.

That he paid the costs ofthls proceeding within thirty (30) days of
service of the statement of costs upon him.

c.

That he has responded to any Letter of Notice or request for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by thedea,dline for.
compliance set forth in each such letter of notice or request for
information.

d.

That he has advised the State Bar in writing by of any address
changes within ten (10) days of any change.

6

I
.....

-

~

....

..

~

..

' ~

(p.77 .

e.

That he promptly accepted all certified mail from the North
Carolina State Bar.

f.

That he has timely complied with his State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and that he has paid all fees and costs
assessed by the CLE Committee within the applicable deadlines.

g.

That he has not violated the laws of the State of North C~olina,of
any other state, or of the United States.
That he has not violated any provision of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

1.

That he has timely paid all membership dues and any other
assessments made by the State Bar.

J.

That within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this Order, he
has provided the State Bar Office of Counsel with the names,
addresses and telephone numbers of all persons or entities for
whose benefit he·hplds any fi:Qlds in any trust account.

k

That a,ny trust account he maintained prior to the time his license
Was first suspended was properly wound up and that the funds
were. properly distributed all in accordance with the requirements
of Revised Rules of Professional Conduct 1.15-1, 1.15-2, and 1.153 and in accordance With the rules applicable to winding up a
practice upon a suspension.

1:

That he .has paid all of his state and federal taxes, including all
principal, penalties and interest, for the years 1997 through 2002.

m.

That he has paid all of his state and federal tax obligations in full
for every year up to and includiIlg the year prior to the year in
which he seeks a stay of any portion of the five year suspension.

n.

That he has provided to the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar releases authorizing state and federal taxing
authorities to release to the Office of Counsel all records,
information and documentation relating to Broadnax's filing or
failqre to file and payment or failure to pay any tax of any kind.
The releases must be in a fOmi satisfactory to the Office ·of
Counsel and must recite that they are irrevocable. Broadnax must
also show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has not
revoked any such release.

I

I

7

I

o.

At the time of or prior to his application for stay, he has filed with
the State Bar documentation from the North Carolina Departnwnt
of Revenue and from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) showing
his compliance with conditions k-m above.
..

p.

That not less than sixty (60) days before he seeks a stay of any
portion of the S year suspension, he has been evaluated by the.
Lawyers Assistance Program or by a psychiatrist approved by the
State Bar Office of CounseIand .that he has complied With and
continues to comply with any and all treatment recommendations
of the LAP program or of such psychiatrist. The medical
evaluation and treatment shaH be obtained at the def~ndant's
expense.

q.

That within ten (10) days of obtaining the LAP or psychiatric
evaluation described in paragraph 0 above, he' has signed and
provided to the State Bar Office of Counsel releases authorizing
the Office of Counsel to obtain from the LAP personnel ot from
the psychiatrist all information, records artd documentation relating
to his evaluation, treatment an4 compliance or lack of compliance:
Such releases must recite that they are irrevocable.

r.

That he has not revoked any release proyided as described in
paragraph p above.

s.

That he has complied with any and all requests by the North
Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel for any reports, medical
records, LAP evahlations or mental health evaluations at his own
expense.

t.

That he has submitted clear, cogent and convincing evidence that
he is not suffering from any mental or physical condition that
significantly impairs his professional judgment, performance or
competence.

li.

That he has satisfactorily completed a law office management
course approved by the State Bar Office of Counsel.

v.

That he has complied with all requirements of § .012S(b) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.

I

I

6.
At the end of this five year suspension, to be eligible for reinstatement to
active practice Broadnax shall bear the burden ofshowing by clear, cogent and .
convincing evidence that he has complied with all of the conditions Sea) throu~h S(Y)
above.

8

I

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-

7,
If the suspension is stayed and Broadnax is reinstated to practice during
any portion of the five (5) year suspension, throughout the entire period of any such stay
of the suspension Broadnax shall perform monthly reconciliations of any and all trust
account(s) maintained by him and shall provide the State Bar with ql.larterly audits of
such trust account(s) performed by a certified public 'accountant at Broadnax's expense.
If Broadnax successfully seeks a stay of any portion of this five year
8. .
suspension, such stay will continue in force only as long as he cOlltinues to comply with
all of con4itiorts Sea) through 5(v) above. If any portion of this five year suspension is
stayed, and Broadnax is thus reinstated to practice dming any portion of the five year
suspension, and if during such stay period Broadnax fails to comply with anyone or more
of the con4itions 5(a) through 5(v) above;then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted and the suspension activated as provided in § .0114(x) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.

I

9.
If any stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Broadnax must show by clear, cogent, and conVincing evidence that he
complied -With all of the conditions Sea) through 5(v) above before he will be eligible to
seek reinstatement to active practice. .
I

the Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed
suspension.
Signed by the Chair with the cOilsent of the other hearing corrimittee members,
this the 10th day of
October
_, 2006.

Tomtny
Chair, Disciplinary

I

9

I
",.1

