BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OFTBE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

06 DHC 28

Plaintiff

I

v.

FINDiNGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

JACOB E. SETZER, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing committee ofthe DiscipHnary Hearing
Commission duly appointed in this case. Jennifer A Porter represented the Plaintiff, the
North Carolina State Bar. Alan M. Schneider repre~entedthe Defend~t, Jacob E. Setzer.
Both patties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in'
this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and volUntarily waives
any and ~l right to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Bas~d upon the
stipulations offact and the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby'firids by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolin~ State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the 'proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
D~fendant, Jacob E. Setzer ("Setzer"), was aQmitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 2004 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attomey at law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina,
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relev~t p~riods referred to herein, Setzer W~
engaged in the practice of law iIi the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
4.
Setzei was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set,
and the matter c@l11e before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.

I

.

'~
"

\

5;.
On or about December 18,2005, Setzer entered a Lowes' Home
Improvement store, ("Lowes"'), and purchased a power washer for the amount of
$388.00.:

6.
Setzer used his receipt to take two power washers from Lowes, one for
which he had paid and one fot whiCh he had not paid.
7~
On or about April 7, 2006, Setzer pl~d guilty and was convicted of
misdemeanor larceny in case number 06 CR 216234, Mecklenburg County, North
Carolina, Setzer was sentenced to 45 days in jail and ordered to pay a $200.00 fine. The
period of incarceration was suspended and Setzer was placed on supervised probation for
two years.

·1

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.:

All. the parties are propedy before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Jacob E. Setzer, and the subject matter.

2.1

Misdemeanor larceny is a criminal offense showing professional unfitness
IB § .0103 (17).

asdefine~by27N.C.A.C.

3.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline as follows:

a.
Pursuantto N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1), for conviction of
misdemeanor larceny, a criminal offense showing professional unfitness;
and
b.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), for engaging in conduct
in violation of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the
time of his actions as follows: by unlawfully and willfully committing
misdemeanor larceny, a criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects, in violation of Rule
8.4(b) and by engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
.
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

I

Based upon the stipUlations of fact and the coils~nt of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Setzer's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Dishonest motive.

-2-

I

2.

I
3.

The Defendanf s misconduct is mitigated by the followin,g factors:
a.

Timely good faith ~ffort to make restitution or to rectify th~
consequences;

b.

Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

c.

Imposition of other penalties or sanctions, t() wlt: criminal
sentence as described above;

d.

Setzer suffered from personal problems at the -time of the
misconduct;

e.

No prior discipline; and

f.

Remorse.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

4.
Due to the dishonest nature ofthe conduct involved, the hearing
committee fmds that discipline of le$S than a suspension would fail to adequately
address the conduct and protect the public.

I

5.
As part of the plea arrangement agreed to by Setzer and pursuant to which
he pled guilty, Setzer agreed tosurtenderhis license to practice law fora period
of six months, commeQ.cing on the date of his conviction, to wit: April 7, 2006.
The plea arrangement further provided that Setzer could seek reinstatement at the
conclusion of the six months by filing a petition with the State Bar and
demonstrating by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that during his six month
suspension he had complied with the following:
a.

Had not engaged in the practic~ of law;

b.

Had not violated the laws of the United States or of any state;

c.

Had not engaged in conduct that would constitute a violation of the
Rules ofProfessioIlal Conduct; and
.

d.

Had paid all sums owed to the North Carolina State Bar.

- 3-

I
..."""

~

."

Based upon the foregoing factors and with the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1..

The license of the Defend~t, Jacob E. Setzer, is hereby suspended for two

(2) years'.
2.
Setzer shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon him.

I

3:
Setzer shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. ~ode Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules. Setzer shall file an affidavit With the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying he
has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
After serving the six month active suspension of his license -imposed by
the Court, which began on April 7, 2006, Setzer shall be eligible to have the remaining
suspension time imposed by this Order stayed. In order to have the remaining suspension
imposed by this order stayed, Setzer shall file a petition with the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar demonstrating the following by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence:.
a.

Compliance with the conditions imposed by the Court, as recited
above;

b.

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the terms of27 N~C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,. SUbchapter B,
§ .0124 of the Stat~ Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

c.

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon hini; and

d.

That he has made arrangements to receive counseling during the
course of the stay of his suspension from a qualified and licensed'
North C~o1illa psychologist or psychiatrist approved in advance
by the North Carolina State Bar. Any consultations and counseling
will be at Setzer's expense. Setzer shall sign a form authorizing
the mental health provider to release irtformation and records
concerning Setzer's treatment to the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State J3ar and shall provide a copy of the authorization to
the mental health provider and a copy to the State Bar prior to or at
the time·ofhis petition for reinstatement.

I

-4-

I

.'
5.
If any period of the suspension imposed in this case is stayed, such stay
will remain in effect only while Set?er complies with the following.:

a.

Setzer shall comply with all treatment recomUlended by the
psychiatrist/psychologist from whom he has arranged to receive
counseling. Setzer shall ensure that the treating
psychiatrist/psychologist provides written reports to the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina Stat~ Bar concerning Setzer's
compliance with the treatment plan each quarter during the stayed
suspension of Setzer's law license.. The reports shall be due each
Jan. 1, April 1, July 1, and Oct. 1 throughout the stayed
suspension. Such treatment and reports shall be at Setzer's
expense:

b.

Setzer sball not revoke any authorization for release of information
from his treating psychologist or psychiatrist to the Office of
Counsel of the State Bar signed by him pursuant to this Order.
Set?er shall comply with any requests for execution of additional
authorizations upon request.

c.

Setzer will respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the N.C. State Bar by the del:id1ine stated in the
communication.

d.

Setzer will advise tlle Bar in writing of all address changes within
10 days of the change.

e.

Setzer will timely comply with his State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by
the applicable deadline.

f.

Setzer will not violate the. laws of any state or of:the United S~tes.

g.

Setzer will not violate any provision of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.

I

I

6.
If during the stay of any period of the suspension ordered in this ,case
Setzer fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated above; then the stay
of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
7.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted aildthe 8uspemsion is activated for .
any reason, Setzer must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he compliecl
with each of the following conditions before seeking reinstatement:
.

~5-

I
\'

'"'

p---------------------------------------~---------------

a.

Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective
date of the order activating his suspension;

b.

Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1.
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules on a timely basis;

c.

Not violated any of the Revised Ruies ofProfessiortal Conduct;

d.

Not violated any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States;

e.

Paid any additional costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within 30 days of receipt of the statement of costs;

f.

Kept his address of record with the North Carolina State Bar
current; and

g.

Accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar.

--

I

8'.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retaiit jurisdiction of this
matter P?rsuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B. § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Sign~ by the Ch~b~-consent of the other hearing committee members,
this the ,/1
day of fJt _ !tV"
, 2006.

hair,. Disciplinary Hearing Cortnnittee

I

CONSENTED TO BY:

~acobE. ffei

Je . - A. Porter
eputy Counsel
Attorney for Plaintiff

Defendant

-6-

I
','(

