NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G1508

WAKE COUNTY

I

IN THE MATTER OF

)

Carey 1. Ewing,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On·July 20,2006, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and,con$ldered.
the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina .State .
Bar,the Grievance Committee conducte4 a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to th~ letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasbnablecause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina: State Bar is gUilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
•

_

•

w

_ .

,_

,_

The rules provide that after a finding of probable caUSe, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Bearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
miscondtlct, the actual or potential injury cal,lsed, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.

I

A cenSure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued incases in which .
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession 9r
>a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension ofthe attomey'~ license.
.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Gri~vance Cotnmitteeof
the North Carolina State Bat, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
In 2001 you were the closing attorney for a series·oftransfers of real property located at l010
Southshore Parkway, Durham" NC~and 417 Mountain Lake Drive, Raleigh~ NC, by which 8KE Properties,
LLC, ("SI<.E") a company of which you were part owner, ultimately acquired these Properties and thens(>ld
them at a higher price to buyers.

In the course of one transfer of the Southshore property, you notari2ed a deed by which you certifie4:
that the individuals selling the Southshore property to another part owner of SKE appeared before you ~d
acknowledged the execution oftbe deed., When asked, you gave contrary descriptions about the
notarization of the deed, one to an attorney for one of the sellers admitting the sellers had not appeared
pefore you, and one to the State Bar stating the sellers had appeared before you. This evidence shows Y0lt .'

I

w'.,.P

\.

executed a false jurat of the signatures of the sellers and that you misrepresepted the circumstances under
which the notarization occurred, conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8A(c).
In the transfers from SKE to buyers, you undertook representation of the buyers and lenders,
despite beipg part owner of SKE. In the course of these transfers from SKE to the buyers; you prepareq
HUD-l Settlement Statements that you certified as accurate. The HUD-l Settlement Statements did not
accurately state the amount of money brought by the buyerslborrowers to the closing, however. In one
transaction, you,Wfote a check labeled "closing costs:' from SKE's account covering the amount that
should have been contributed by the buyer/borrower. In the other, you reduced the proceeds SKE
should have received according to the terms of the HUD-l Settlement Statement by the amount-the
barrower should have brought to the closing. Knowingly preparing and certifYing as true inaccurate
HUD-l Settlement Statements is conduct involving.dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of.Rule 8.4(c). Additionally, when asked by the State Bar about the soUrce of funds the
borrowers were to provide for closing in which you wrote the SKE check, you first stated the borrowers.
provided the fun,ds and later stated the SKE check was for repairs, both misrepresentations in violation
of Rule 804(c). :YoUf representation of the buyers and lenders in real estate closings in which you had
an inter~st in the property being transferred constituted a conflict of interest in violation of Rule 1.7."
Last, by falling to ensure the HUD-l Settlement Statements accurately reflected the funds provided by
the borrowers, )'pu failed to protect the lenders' interests in violation of Rule 1.3.

I"

In mitigation the Grievance Committee considered that this conduct occurred five years prior
to the issuance. of this censure, that the State Bar has received no evidellce that you engaged in similar
misconduct in other real estate transactions, and that the two loans as to which you failed to ensure the
lenders received :accurate information about the contribution of the borrowers to the closings have not
defaulted 0'1' otherwise resulted in monetary harm to the lenders.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Collduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for'you to weigh carefully in the future your respon~ibi1ity to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys lind the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.

1

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15,1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs oft is action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
I

Done and ordered, this

()

e..-

CLI- day of

, 2006.

I

