·

r- -_. --.----.-----.------.----

1

I

Q058

1

---~~--~----

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

tHE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PI~intiff

v.
EDWARD V. ZOTIAN, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

)

On Jun~ 30, 2006, this matter came on to be heard before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Charles M. Davis, Chair; Tommy W. Jarrett, and
R. Mitchel Tyl~r. A. Root Edmonson represented the North Carolina State Bar and Alan M.
Schneider represented Edward V. Zotian. Based upon the admissions in the Answer, the
stipulations offactin the Pre-Hearing Order, and the evidence presented at the hearing, the
hea,ring committee finds that the following has been established by clear, cogent and conVincing
evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina, and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State :Sar promulgated thereunder,
2. The defendant, Edward V. Zotiah (hereinafter, "Zotian"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on July 1, 1979, and at all times mentioned herein, was subject to the ruies,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of
the State of North Carolina.

I

3. After a hearing on August 18, 2004, Zotian was suspended from the practice of law in
North Carolina:by an order of discipline entered on September 3, 2004 and served upon Zotian
on September 15,
2004 in 04 DHC 1 ("order of discipline").
,
4. Pursuant to 27 N.C. A4min. Cod~, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(a), Zotian was
required to promptly notify by certified mail, return receipt requested, all clients being
represented in pending matters of his suspension, the reasons for the suspension, and his inability
to act, as an attorney after the effective date of his suspension.
I

I

"

5. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .OI24(c), Zotian was
required to complete all of his clients' matters by the October 15,2004 effective date of the order
of discipline.
6. At no time since the effective date of the order of discipline has Zotian been reinstated
to the active practice of law in North Carolina.

I

7. On or prior to October 4, 2004, Zotian prepared an II-page proposed sales contr.act
("sales contract") for his clients, C. Doug and Adrianne Witcher ("the Witchers"), setting forth
the Witchers' terms for purchasing a lawn care equipment business in Ronda, NC from J & B
Greene, a North Carolina General Partnership ("J & B Greene").
8. On October 4, 2004, Zotiail emailed the proposed sales contract and a two-page noncompetition agreement ("non-compete") to a business broker, Bob Baker ("Baker").
9. Baker forwarded the sales contract and non-compete Zotian had prepared to Michael
Duncan ("Duncan"), the attorney who was representing J & B Greene in the prospective sale.
10. Between October 5,2004 and October. 7, 2004, Zoti~ made revisions to the sales
contract and non-compete and prepared a closing agenda that had a checklist of things that
needed to be completed prior to closing ("checklist"). The closing agenda listed Zotian as
counsel for the purchaser. Included in the revisions to the sales contract was a change
substituting a corporation for the individual purchasers.
L

11. On October 14,2004, Zotian responded to numerous requests for modifications to
the terms of the sales contract suggested by Duncan.

~ales

I

12. On October 16, 2004, Z:otian sent Duncan a clarification of some of the terms of the
contract

13. After further negotiation with Duncan about the terms of the sales contract, Zotian
revised the sales contract and non-compete and emailed the revised documents to Dunc~ on
October 20, 2004.
14. On October 22, 2004, Zotian emailed Duncan to determine when they could discuss
the outstanding items on the checklist that needed to be addressed before the pf;l1,1:ies could clOSe
the sale of the business.
15. On November. 3,2004, Zotian sent Duncan modifications to the sales contract and
inqllired about items that needed to be concluded to close the sale of the business.
16. Between November 8, 2004 and November 10, 2004, Zotian negotiated with Dunc~
concerning items that needed to be concluded for the parties to close the sale of the busiIwss.

I

17. On November 10,2004, Zotian emailed Duncan by-laws he had prepared for the
corporation the Witchers intended to form to purchase the business.
18. InDecember 2004, the Witchers ceased their attempt to purchase the business.

19. In his communications with Duncan concerning the business purchase, before and
after October is, 2004, Zotian held himself 'Out as the attorney for the Witchers. Zotian failed to
inform Duncan of his suspension.
20. On May 9, 2005, Zotian appeared before the Forsyth County Board of
Commissioners ("Commissioners") on behalf of Clarence Walker, his wife, and others in
opposition to the petition of Stephen K. Stultz and wife (the Stultz's) to amend the zOning map
and a previous: site plan relating to their comrtlercial property on Bethel Church Road in
Kernersville.

I

21. DUring the May 9, 2005 meeting, the Commissioners first conducted a public hearing
on the zoning ~endment and, after some discussion among them, then conducted a public
hearing on the amendment to the site plan.
22. When Zotian first spoke to the Commissioners on the zoning amendment, he said: "I
represent the residents that oppose this rezoning petition."
23. Zotian also made a legal argument to the Commissioners while speaking in
opposition to the zoning matter. Zotian read an excerpt from a case and argued. that the zoning
petition before. the Commissioners was an "illegal spot zone."

24. Afler the public hearing on the zoning matter was closed, there was some discussion
among the Commissioners about the matter. During this discussion, Commissioner Marshall
referred to Zotian as an attorney 'although Zotian had informed Commissioner Marshall and the
other Commissioners of his slispension.
25. During the public hearing on the site plan amendment, the Stultz's .attorney,
Raymond D. Thomas ("Thomas") told the Commissioners: "We have met with the attorney, Mr.
Zotian, in regatd to this matter in trying to find a resolution in regards to certain things in that site'
plan." Prior to: May 9,2005; Zoti,an had ~nformed Thomas of his suspension.

I

26. Zotian then spoke in opposition to the site plan amendment without correcting
Commissioner:Marshall's or Thomas' erroneoUs reference to him as being an attorney.
27. Zotian -also made a legal argument to the Commissioners while speaking in
opposition to ~l).e site plan amendment. He argued that the existing sp~cial use plan was an
ordinance, that purchasers of the property had "constructive knowledge" of it, that it constituted
an "encumbrance" on the land and that the courts are unified on this: "Ignorance ofthe law is no
excuse."

I

28. On October 31, 2005, the Authorized Practice Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar issued an opinion to Zotian generally authorizing his appearance in zoning matters before aCity Planning Board or before the City Council, with certain limjtations. The opinion cautio:ned
Zotian that the general prohibitions of the unauthorized practice of law statutes still applied to
him. By making legal arguments to the Commission, Zotian violated one of the limitations.
29. After the North Carolina State Bar became aware of the allegations set out above, a
grievance was opened against Zotian that was designated a~ 04G1504.

I

30. On or about June 15,2005, pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter!, Silbch~pter
B, § .0112(b)(3), Zotian was sent a letter of notice i~sued in the name of the Chair of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar.
31. On June 28, 2005, pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapterl, SnbchapterB, §
.0112(c), Zotian responded to the letter of notice. In his response, Zotian made the following
false statements or misrepresentatio?s to the Grievance- Committee:
Relating to the Witchers Matter

I

(a)

"Later drafts of the contract did not contain theZotian, PtLC trust account
language which was in the earlier version. " Drafts tl:lat Zotian prepared and sent
to Duncan after the effective date of his suspension contained the Zotian, PLLC
trust account language.

(b)

"I know I did not intentionally mislead Mr. Duncan about my license stat1Is andliever submitted anything to him after my suspension that indicated I was acting
as an attorney." Without telling Duncan that his license- had been suspended,
Zotian continued to negotiate with Duncan and send him drafts of legal
documents as though he was an attorney after the effective date ot his
silspension.

32. On October 19,2004, Z6tian executed an affidavit that he filed with the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission in 04 DHC 1 that averre4 that the letters required pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 were sent certified mail, return receipt requested.
33. At the time that he executed the affidavit, Zotian had not notified the Witchers of his
suspension by certified mail.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of fact, the hearing committe-e makes the
following:

I

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission i;md the hearing committee has jurisdiction over Zotian and the subject matter.
2. Zotian's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline ptIrsuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 8:4-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Zotian violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
as follows:

(a.)

'by continuing to engage in the practice of law on behalf of the Witchers after the
: effective date of his suspension, Zotian practiced law in a jurisdiction where doing
so violated the regulation of the legal profession in that jurisdiction in violation of
Rule S.S(a);

(b)

by failing to notify Duncan of his slispension while he continued to represent the
, Witchers in their attempt to purchase the business, and by holding himself out to
buncan as attorney for the Wichers, Zotian held himself out as being admitted to
practice law in this jurisdiction in violation of Rule S.5(b)(2);

(c)

by making legal arguments to the Commissioners while representing the Walkers
: and others in opposition to the Stultz's petition to amend the zoning map and a
, previous ~ite plan while suspen<;ledJrom the practice of law in North Carolina,
, Zotian practiced law in a jurisdiction where doing so violated the regulation of the
• legal profession in that jurisdiction in violation of Rule 55(a);

(d)

, by making false statements to the grievance committee in his June 28, 2005
i response to the letter of notice, Zotian offered evidence that he knew waS false in
violation of Rule 3.3(a)(3) and knowingly made a false statement of material fact
in a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.1; and

(e)

by making a false statement to the Disciplinary Hearing Commission concerning
'his compliance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124,
,Zotian offered evidence that he knew was false in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(3); and:
, knowingly made a false statement ofmaterial fact iIi a disciplinary matter in
, violation ofRule 8.1.

I

I'

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the evidence
presented at the hearing and the arguments of counsel, the hearing committee hereby makes the
following:
.
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARbING DISCIPLINE
1. Zotian's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

(a)

a prior disciplinary offense in 04 DHC 1;

I

I

(b)

a pattern of ~iSCOhduct;

(c)

multiple offenses;

(d)

bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by intentionally
failing to cOniply with rules or orders of the disciplinary ctgency;

(e)

submission of false evidence, false statements, or other-deceptive practices
during the disciplinary process;

(f)

refusal t9 aclmowledge the wrongful nature ofms conduct; and

(g)

substantial experience in the practice of law.

2. Zotian's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a)

a cooperative attitude toward the proceeding; ahd

(b)

remorse.

3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing COnimittee specifically finds that Zotian's conduct involved his
continuing to practice law and represent clients after the effective date of his suspension iIi 04
DHC 1,

I

2.
ZOtiail failed t9 p,otify an attorney with whom he was working on the effective date of his suspension in 04 DHC1 of his suspension.
3.
ZQtian made false statements to the North Carolina State Bar Grievance
Committee when he lmew the statements were false.
4.
Suspension of Zotian's license is the only sanction that can ctdequately protect the
public for the following reasons:
(a)
An order of discipline less than suspension would nQt sufficiently protect
the public because Zotian's misconduct involved a flagrant and total disregard for orde.rs
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
(b)
Zotian's false statements to the Grievance Committee during the
investigation of this matter undermines the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys and
undermines the privilege of attorneys in this state to remain self-regulating.

I

(c)
Entry of an order imposing lesser di$cipline would fail t6 aclmowledge the
serious1,less of the offenses that Zotjan committed and would send the wrong message to
attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in North
Carolina.
,(d)
A suspension to run concurrently with the suspension imposed in 04 DHC
1 would not provide adequate protection to the public.
I

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and the arguments of
counsel, the hearing committee hereby enters the follOWing:

I

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The! Defendant, Edward V. Zotian, is herebY suspended from the practice of law for a
period of five years to begin at the expiration of the suspension imposed in 04 DHC 1.
2. The costs of this proceeding are taxed to Zotian ap,d shall be paid as assessed by the
Secretary with 90 days of the entry date of this order.
Signed.by the Chair with the consent of the other members of the hearing committee th.is
the

-tldaY ~f t&{..i~

2006.

Charles M, Davis
Chair
Hearing Committee

I

'-

I

,70;(

