STATE OF NORTH cARoLlN1Lft,
COUNTY OF HAYWOOE>

E' D IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

2fln6iOCT 2"6 PM,3:··t:.:i

SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
NO.: 03 CRS 52472
"

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
:
, VS.
HI>l~(f~'lDr~,e-ll}WNrf~f{~dJ~:~?~~~;~' ORDER RE CONTEMPT
BRIAN R. GENTRY
. .

I

On October 24, 2006, Albert Neal was ordered to appear before this court to show
cause, if any there be, why he should not be punished for contempt for willful or grossly
negligent failure to comply with schedules and Practices of the court resulting in
substantial interference with th~ business of the court.
The he~ing was had on 2:00 p.m., Thursday, October 26, 2006. The Court makes
the following fmdings of fact beyond a.reasonable doubt:
FINDINGS OF FACT
Over the past several months, during 2006 at least, there have been many times
that Mr. N<eal was needed in court and for one reason or another did not appear. The
Court has been made aware of Mr. Neal's ongoing medical probl~ms, as well as his son's
ongoing medical problems. The court has attempted to work with Mr. Neal in regard to
his schedule, his medical problems, his son's medical problems,a;s well as his schedule of
the court. Cases have been continued for Mr. Neal based upon various representations to
the court reg~ding his medical condition, as well as the medical condition of his son.
'. . .. There have been ongoing'failures of-Mr. ·Neal·to·.communicate with his clients, ·at· .' .
least as represented to the court when his case~ have been called for trial, as was·the case
with Mr. Gentry.· There has been ongoing failure to appear when notified. The efforts
made on Tuesday by Ms. Escaravageand others to find out where Mr. Neal was, where
he needed'to be and why he was not in court when he had been informed to be in court
are typical of the kind of experiences had wifu Mr. Neal regarding his appearanceS in
court.
.
The Court,finds and concludes as a matter oflaw that Mr. Neal should be
punished for willful and grossly n~gligent failure to comply with schedules and practices
of the court resulting in substantial interference with the court.
At this time the Court censured Mr. Neal so that this matter is a matter of recQrd.
The Court will not order that he be fined or imprisoned, but now that this is a matter of
record in the Superior Court, it may be reported to the State Bar and may also be
'
considered in any further hearings, if they be necessary, in regard to Mr. Neal's ability or
ina~ility to comply with the schedules of the court.
,This, the 26th day of October, 2006.

ERK OF SUPllfttOR COUJrl'
HAYWOODCOUN'h 1\1. C.

I

( .. ( (

