t
:..

~.'

COUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE 'GENERAL COURTS OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION

NORTH CAROLINA

O~

M g"Jq

THE NORTH CAROLINA ~lIA_JI;...6AR-,-)--.... ,-" -.
Plaintiff
)
)

I

v.

)

ROBERT SHAWN WELLONS
Defendqnt

)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER
'OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard by the undersigned Judge
of Superior Court of Wake County upon the consent of the parties. The Defendant,
'
Robert Shawn Wellons, was represented by Tharrington Smith, L.L.P.. A. Root,
Edmonson represented the Plaintiff. Based upon. the 'consent of the parties, the' Court
makes the following:
FINDINGS'.QF r=ACT
1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under ,
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding, under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 o'f the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, promulgated thereunder. .

I

2.
The Defendant, Robert Shawn Wellons ("Wellons"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in August 1995 and is, and was at all, times referred to herein,
an attorney at law licensed to practice 'in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.
'
3.
During all of the periods relevant hereto, Wellons was engaged in the
practice of Jaw in Raieigh, North Carolina.
'
4,.
In November, 2005, Wellons was served with a subpoena to appear and
produce documents before a Federal Grand Jury sitting in the Western District of North,
Carolina.
5.
After receipt of the subpoena, W,ellons met with Attorney X because
Wellons knew Attorney X to be experienced in federal grand jury matters and familiar
with the matters described in the subpoen~.
"

I

--------...,....--------------,-----------------

--- --

----

--- ......

I

6.
At Attorney X's request, Wellons produced for Attorney X's review the
documents he had planned to·produce in response to the subpoena. After reviewing
the docume.nts, Attorney X adVised Wellons that some of the documents h.e was
planning to produce Were potentially embarrassing to Attorney X, and were not
responsive to the ,subpoena. Attorney X further told Wellons that those particular
documents were not relevant to what the Grand Jury was investigating, and Attorney X
asked Wellons to redact those documents from his production.
7.
Wellons a'sked Attorney Xwhat would happen if he did this, and Wellons
was then asked about it in the Grand JUlY: Attotney X told Wellons that b~cause this '
was not what the Grand Jury was interested in, i~ would likely never come up., He said if
it did come up, Wellons should just say that he produced everything he had that was
responsive to the subpoena.
'

I'"

8.
Wellons redacted his document production as requested by Attorney X,
and he turned the production over to the U. S. Attorney, as redacted. Thereafter,
. Wellons was in fact asked about his production in the Grahd Jury and was confronted
'with evidenctk -that he had indeed redacted some- of the production. When so
cohfront~d, Wellons lied about what he had done and Why.
\

,

"

9.
,It was Wellon's personal belief, at the time that he acceded to Attorney
X's requests,' that what Attorney X asked him to do was dishonest, deceitful, and a
misrepresentation under Rule 8.4(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Accordingly, subsequent to Wellon's receipt of the Grand Jury subpoena,
10.
he engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit and misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

, 11. Wellons initiated contact with the North Carolina. State Bar about this
matter before the North Carolina State Bar had any knowledge of any issue relevanno
this action. Wellons stated that he believed that the voluntary surrender of. his license
to practice law was appropriate and Wellons has fully cooperated with all aspects of the
North Ca'rqlina State Bar's review of this situation and agrees with the action being
taken herein.
'

1-

.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

.

1.

/3y withholding relevant items from the documents produced to the U.· S.
Attorney purs\Jant to a Grand Jury subpoena and by lying about it when confronted,
Wellons engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit and misrepresentation
in violation ofiRule 8.4(c) bfthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
2.
The Courts of this State have the inherent authority to taKe disciplinary
action against attorneys practicing therein.

1

7!0

3.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person of the Defendant, Robert
Shawn Wellons, and of the subject matter of this proceeding.
,4.

Wellons has engaged in professional misconquct warranting,disbarment.

THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED '
1.

Robert Shawn Wellons is hereby disbarred, effective immediately.

2.
Robert Shawn Wellons shall not petition for reinstatement of his law
license ul')til the expiration of at least 5 years from t~e dat,e of this order.

I

3.
Robert Shawn Wellons' law license shall' not he reinstated until he has
demonstrated to the s~tisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the
Council oithe N. C. State Bar that he has complied with 27 NCAC 1 B. 0125.
,

,

, 4.Robert Shawn Wellons shall comply with ,all provisions of 27 NCAC 1 B. 0124:.

"12.., '

This the

dD. day of February, 200,6.
ke County Superior Cou.rt

Seen and consented to:

«Jd

~ Lr)Jk·,e€'/'

Robert Shawn Wellons

~cd~·~
I
.

ade M. Smith, Defendant'

ttorney

A. Root Edmonson, Plaintiffs Attorney

I

..'~

,

~ "

,

,'"

~

'.::

7/7
,J

