.......--~~--~-----

----------

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0714

NORTH, CAROLiNA
WAKE COUNTY

)
)
)
)
)

IN THE MATTER OF
THOMAS E. ~ROCK,
Attorney At Law

REPRIMAND

I

On April 20, 2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Catolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the North Caroli~a State Bar.
Pursuarit to Section .00013(a) oithe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee fouhd probable cause. Probable cauSe is defined in the tulys as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct ju~tifying
disciplinary action."

a

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Discipiinary Hearing
Commission ar¢ not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct,. the a9tual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance ComItlittee may issue
admonition, a
reprimand, or at censure to the respondent attorney.

an

A repri$and is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a,memper of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In the course of your practice, you routinely conduct real estate c10sings for lenders that
are selling properties obtained in foreclosure proceedings through your REO ("Real Estate
Owners") Divisjon. When a buyer agrees to purchase a lender's property, the hlJ.yer is asked to
sign an addendum to the standard Offer to Purchase and Contract that permits the seller, rather
than the buyer, to select the closing attorney. YOur firm's REO Division is routinely selected by

I

a certain group of lenders.

The buyer is advised that the buyer may choose to have an attorney of
their choice present at the closing at their own cost and expense. You prepare an affidavit to be .
presented to the buyer at closing in which the buyer agrees that you will also represent the buyer
on a limited basis at the closing. The buyer is not told that the buyer will be.billed by your finn if
the buyer chooses their own lawyer. The buyer is not made aware of the contents of the affidavit
prior to closing.

I

In June 2005, a closing was scheduled for property on Dusty Loop Road iIi Statesville
being purchased by a person with the last name of Webb. Webb chose to retain a lawyer of
Webb's choice to represent Webb's interests at the closing. After befng advised of the buyer's
:-choice, your finn attempted to charge Webb a $200 "cancellation fee" for 'cancelling the closing
your office expected to conduct. No such cancellation fee had ever' been a part of the contract·
addendum and had not been disclosed to Webb.
Your failure to disclose the existence of the so-called cancellation fee to Webb, who was
not a regular client of yours, violated Revised Rule 1.5(b). Your failure to disclose to the buyer
your limited representation of the buyer until the buyer is present for the closing, and your failUre
to infonn Webb of the exi~tence of the cancellation fee, $0 that the buyer and Webb could make
infonned decisions about the representation, violated Revised Rule 1.4(b).
You ate hereby reprimanded' by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that.it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards 6fthe legal profession.
.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15,.1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.QO are hereby taxed to you.
.
Done and' ordered, this the

~. day of '

, 2Q06

BBW/lr

I

f

·7;27

.

