NORTH CAROLINA-- - - -- ---- ------------

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0622

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATT~R OF
JANET W. BROWN,

)
)
)
)
)

AITORNEYAT LAW

CENSURE

I

On October 19,2006, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
consiqered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant'to section '.Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committ~e conducted ~ preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
, cause. Probable!cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State B~ is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
I

The rules! provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a heating before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and 'the Grievance Committee may is~;ue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
I

,

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant hanri to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public,but the misconduct does not requite suspension of the attorney's license.

I

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in:this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now 'my duty to issue this censure.
You repr~sented two buyerslborrowers in a total of three teal estate closings that were referred
to you by Isaac Woods. You had a preexisting attomey",client relationship with Woods. In the
transactions at issue, you represented the borrowers and, for at least some purposes, the lenders. You
also provided sworn opinions ofthle to the title insurance company. The lenders were all entities
controlled by Wopds. The lenders were also either the sellers in the transactions or recent prior owners
of the propertie~. You never met or spoke with the borrowers. When your title searches revealed
circumstances that were indicators of possible wrongful conduct, you sought clarification frqm Woods
rather than from the borrowers. Since the transactions, it has been shown that the loan documents for at
lelitst one of the bqrrowers are forgeries ;:rnd that all three transactions were fraudulent. The, Grievance
Committee found that you were ignorant of the fact that Woods was using your legal services to
1

I
"

.',

",

p~rpetrate fraud. The Grievance Committee concluded that you were naive and that you lacked the

necessary competence to recognize the fraudulent nature of the transactions. The Grievance Committee'
determined that your conduct violated Rules 1.1, 1.3, 1.4(a) and (b), 1.7(a) and 5.4(c) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee found as a mitigating facto! that you have
practiced twenty years with no prior discipline.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State gar'for your violation of the Rules of
Prof~ssional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourselftQ depart from adherence to· the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censur~ should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you dymean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
,

.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Caroiina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action jn the amount of$50.00 are h~reby taxed, .
to you.
A~
'I
..
Done and ordered, this

~y of

'tYev-ck, 2006.

, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

I

I

.

