...------------------.,-----------------------BEFORETHB
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G1361

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

R. MICHAEL BRUCE,
ATTORNEY 4TLAW

---

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

I

On Qct<;>ber 19,2006, the Grievance Committee of the North CaroliI)a State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Mr. D.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing in your case. After
considering the' information available tO'it, including your responses to the letter of notice, the
Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as
"reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The Rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, ot a censure to the respondent attorney.
A repriqland is a written form of discipline mote serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which attorney has violated one or more provisions of the ReVIsed Rules of
Profes~ional Cdnduct and has caused harm or potential hanrt to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct doeS not require a censure.

an

I

,The Grievance Comrtlittee Was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues tbi's reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, His now my duty to issue this r,eprimand.
You represented Mr. D, executor of the estate ofDD, in a lawsuit involving the estate's
right to utilize a: driveway. In November, 2004, the lawsuit was dismissed by the court under
Rule 12(b)(6), which is a dismissal with prejudice. You believed, erroneously, that a dismissal
under Rule 12(b)(6) was without prejudice. You did riot notify Mr. D of the dismissal for two
months. Yo~ refiled the lawsuit in September, 2005., When opposing counsel sought Rule 11
sanctions, you voluntarily dismissed the lawsuit in November, 2005 without Mr. D's lmowledge

I

_.

or cpnsent. In November, 2005, you told Mr. D that it was too late to appeal the November,
:2004 qismissal, that the only CO'\lTse of action was to petition the Court of Appeals for certiorari
to review the November, 2004 dismissal, and that you would .file a petition for certiorari. In
January,2006, you told the State Bar YOlJ expected to :tile the petition within the week. You did
not mail the petition to the Court of Appeals until May'23, 2006, after the GrievanceCommitt~e
contacted you for a status report. You did not return.Mr. D's telephone calls. You left
documents you believed Mr. D should have about the case in the courthouse box of another
attorney, Mr. R, and assumed Mr. D would receive the documents. The Committee found that
yoUr conduct violateq Rules 1.1, 1.3 and 1.4 of the 'Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. The
Committee found as an aggravating factor that you have substantial prior discipline.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that.you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to YOll, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
, In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative andinvestig'ative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this a~tion in the amount
, of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the

~ay of"
,

/

, 2006.

t

BBW/lr

I

I

7.31

