---------,

_____ LI_I(c3 3

.'

-~-~.~--------,

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0400061

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
_ BENITA W.:GIBBS,
- Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

, REPRIMAND

I

On OGtober 19, 2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered th~ grievances file,d against you by Gerard & Angelique Falzon.
Pursuant to Section .0113{a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Griev~ceCommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee fo-i,md 'probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is gullty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary ,action."
The tUles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine thatthe filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary iiearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various l¢vels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

A teprirpand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in

I

~ases in which ~ attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional

Conduct and has caused hann or potential hann to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a: member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Cbmmittee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
The loan refinan,cing for the Falzon's Qccurred on December 12,2003. However; you did
not pay offthe loan in a timely manner in violation of Rule 1.3, Diligence. An audit of your trust
account revealed that you have several problems including failure to make timely deposits,
receiving notices for insufficient funds, and failure to reconcile. Although you represented to the
Bar that you had l hired someone to assist with reconciliation ofthe trust account, you have not

--'

I

",

done so. You have therefore violated Rule 8. 1(a), Bar Admission and Disciplinary Matters, Rule
1. 15-2(a)(d), General Rules 'and Rule 1.15-3(a)(c), Records.and Accountings. You also failed to
respond to a request for additional infonnation regarding a Non Sufficient Funds Notice dated
June 3, 2005 and therefore hav~ violated Rule 8.1 (b), Bar Admission and Disciplinary Matters ..
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it Will he
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again ~llow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina StaJe Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance .committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00areh~reby taxed to you.
'

.iJ

Done and ordered, this the

RB/lr

I

I

.b a y

OftJl~

,2006

