BEFORE tHE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06G0325.

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
~hristopher

Mauriello;
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On Oct,Ober 19,2006 the Griev&I1ce Committee of the North Carolina State Bat met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a.preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of n:otice, the Grievance
Committee fot1;nd probable cause ..Probabl~ cause is defiped in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The niles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that ithe filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ru,-e not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or :mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A repri:J;nand is a written form of discipline more' serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which ian attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hahn or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or ~ member of the pUblic, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

i

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bat, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
CapiiolClosings & Title Agency (hereafter, Capitol Closings) holds itself out as able to
perform legal services for the public, including the preparation of deeds, abstracting title, and
updating the title search before recording documents from the closing. In offering these legal
services to the public, Capitol Closings engaged in the unauthorized practice of law. You
contracted with Capitol Closings to provide certain legal services in connection with those

I

,73~

closings. The legal services you provided included revieWing the title abstract and any
supporting doctllIlents on property for an opinion of final title, as well as reviewing and assisting
in the preparation of the deed. As a result ofyolJ providing legal services to Capitol Closings,
you assisted Capitol Closings in the unauthorized practice of law, which is in violation of Rule
5.5(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

In this instance, the Grievance Committee found that art attorney-client relationship was
established between you and the buyers, Mr. and Mrs. J, and your responsibility to the buyers
went beyond simply certifying title to the property. The closing was delayed for over a month
due to the delay in getting the actual payoff amount on the seller's property. Mr. and Mrs. J
Indicated that a representative of Capitol ClosIngs called them and said there was a problem, that
they would have to move out of the house, and that their deed had been "unrecQrded." This
situation was extremely stressful for Mr. and Mrs. J, and delaYed their move into their new home.
YO\.l are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative qO&tsto any
attorney issued a. reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of,this action hi the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
.
Done and ordered, this the

cf:day of+"'l-ks;4l~~~:"--~_:' 2006

Barbara ("BonnI " B. Weyher, Chair
Grievance Com ittee

BBW/lr

I

737

