/L/3t(

I

NORTH CAROLINA-~---------------:

BEFORE THE
,
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G0136
,

WAKE COUNTY

.,

IN tHE MATTER OF
John C. Frue, :
'A.ttorney At Law
I

!

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On October 19,2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the, grievances filed against you by D. C.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee cqnducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee fo~d probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable caus,e to
believe that a member of the NorthCaroliQ.a State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
'
disciplinary action."
The rul'es provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that.,the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Co~ittee may issue various levels of
disCipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, 'and any
aggravating or :mitigating, factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or Ii censure t6 the respondent attorney.
A repti~and is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which ran attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and ha.s caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
pr~fession, or q. member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
,

I

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
I

From awproximately 2000 to 2003, while engaged in the practice of real estate law, you
neglected to ensure that title insurance premiums were disbursed from your trust accol.lnt and title
insurance policies issued in approximately 200 closings. You also neglected to .ensure
disbursements to pay prior mortgages and other obligations'timely occurred after certain closings
durip.g this tim~ period. You had entrusted these post-closing tasks to a non-attorney assistant

I

73t'.,

I

and failed to ensure that such tasks were completed. Furthermore, during this same time period,
, 'you disbursed more funds from your trust account than you had received for certain clients. You
improperly had funds other than client funds in your trust account and the evidence does not
indicate that other clients' funds were used to fund these overdisbursements. You did not ensure
your trust account was proper~y reconciled each qu~er and you were unaware ,of the
overdisbursements. You had entrusted the bookkeeping and: reconciliations tasks to a nonattorney assistant and failed to ensure it was properly done. Your failure to supervise your
assistant enabled her to overdisburse funds from your trust account to your operating account and .
then to embezzle from your operating account. You failed to properly s-qpervise anon-attorney
assistant in violation of Rule 5.3, failed to ensure all tasks for closings were completed in
.
-violation of Rule 1.3, failed to properly maintain and disburse entrusted funds in violatio~ of
Rule 1.15-2, and failed to ensure proper quarterly reconciliations and accounting of trust funds in
.
violation of Rule L 15-3.
In mitigation, the Grievance Committee recognized that there is no evidence indicating
you'knew of, participated in, or benefited from the overdisbursements or your assistant's
embezzlements. The evidence indicates you were unaware of your assistant's failures to
complete client matters assigned to her and of her overdisbursetnents and embezzlements until
you were contacted by the State Bar during this investigation. The Grievance Committee noted
that due to other funds in your trust account, the evidence did not show other clients' funds w~re
used to fund the overdisbursements from your tfllst account. The Grievance' Conunittee
recognized your diligent efforts to remedy the deficiencies in your tni:;t account procedures and
\ your post-closing procedures once these problems were brought to your attention, including the
firing of the non-attorney assistant, your thorough review of your records, the audits you had
done of your trust account, and your cooperation with the State Bar's investigation. Furtherm()re"
the Grievance Committee recognized your deposit of significant persorial funds into your tr.us~
account to ensure sufficIent funds were present until completion of the auditing of your wst
account and identifica~ion of all funds.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and tha~ you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
, Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administra~ive and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Commi
the costs of this action in the amount"
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
.
Done and ordered, this the

L

day

, 2006

Barbara ("Bonn e" B. Weyher, Chair
Grievance Com ittee
BBW/lr

I

