NORTI I CAROLINA -~~~-~

BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0172

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
RICHARD D, HALL, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

I

On April 20, 2006, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by H. Mc N.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the 'Grievance Committee conducted preliminary hearings in your case. After
-considering th~ information available to it including your response to the letter of notice, the
Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as
-'reasonable c~use to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of
misconduct jU$tifying disciplinary action,'"
The Rules provide that after a finding of probable 'cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ate not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or ~ censure to the respondent attorney.

A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which ,an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You were retained by H. Me N. to assist with handling his mother, Mrs. Me No'!'l finances.
Mrs. Mc N. was your client. You never spoke with Mrs. Me N. You did not conduct any
investigation to' deternline whether your client was mentally competent or to determine if the
actions you were taking at H. Mc No's request wete consistent with your client's wishes. You
prepared a power of attorney giving H. Mc N. broad powers to impact your client's affairs and
property. You prepared a deed of Mrs. Mc No's real property to H. Mc N. to be executed by H.

I

-

Mc N. as attorney in fact for Mrs. Mc N. The transactions you facilitated were presumptively
fraudulent. You accepted payment from H. Me N. withput your client's knOWledge. or infprmed
consent. You allowed H. Mc N. to direct and interfere with YPUf profession/:l.l judgment. You
did not prptect Mrs. Mc N.'s confidential information. The Grievance Committee determined
that your conduct violated Rev.ised Rules of Professional Conduct 1.4(a)(2) and {3), l.4Cb).
5.4(c). and 1.8(i):~the Grievance Committee considered your lack ofpriol' discipline as a
mitigating factor.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina'State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trtlsts that you will :heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession..
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative arid investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimanci by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxJd to you.
Done and ordered; this the

_L1::af_~. . .,~.,~_~_~__~__,

2006.

BBW/lr

I

..

I
'\

I

.
'

.

~

