NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE SECRETARY

i,

WAKE COUNTY

IN RE REINSTATEMENT OF
ROGER
RIzK
I
'

w.

ORDER OF REINSTATEMENT

THIS' MATTER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to a
Petition for Reinstatement filed by Roger W. Rizk (hereafter, "Rizk") on November 27, 2006.
Based upon ~ review of the records of the North Carolina State Bar, the Secretary makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I

.

1.
On October IS, 2004, a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Ilearing,
Collllnission(hereinafter, "DHC") issued its Findings of Fact, Conchlsions of Law, and Consent
Order of Discipline in, a disciplinary case, file number 04 DHC 6. The DHC found Rizk had
willfully failcid to file ahd pay his individual federal and state income taxes and his finn's federal
and state withholding taxes for employees between 1995 and 2002.
2.
The Consent Order of Discipline suspended Rizk's license to practice law for a
period of five years. The Order of Discipline provided that Rizk could apply for a stay of any
remaining ptmod of suspension after serving two years of the active suspension and upon
compliance with conditions stated in the Order of Discipline.
I

3.
The Consent Order of Discipline was served on Rizk on October 16,2004. The
effective date of the Order Was November 15, 2004. Rizk completed the two years of active
suspension on November 15,2006.
4.
, Rizk submitted a petition on November 27,2006 requesting reinstatement subject
to the conditions and requirements of the Consent Order of Discipline.
'

I'

5.
The Consent Order of Discipline requires that Rizk be in compliance with the
conditions set o-qt in the 'aider of Discipline to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of
suspension.
j

6.
:in his p,etition, Rizk described the a,ctions he has taken to comply with the
conditions in the Conseht Order of Discipline for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension
~d he has provided supporting documentation.
7.
:The Consent Order of Discipline required Rizk to file and pay applicable taxes in
a timely manner and to supply the documentation to the State Bar. The documentation supplied
by Rizk shows he has timely filed and paid applicable federal and state taxes during the period of
his active suspension.
'

I

.

~

8.
The Consent Order of Discipline' also required Rizk to b~ evaluated by the
Lawyer Assistance Program (LAP) or by a mental health professional and to comply with all
treatment recommendations. Rizk provided the appropriate authorizations to the State Bar and '
the State Bar confif:!lled he wa$ evaluated by LAP and is in compliance with its treatment
recommendations.
I

I

9.
After conducting an investigation of the requirements set out in Rule .0125(b) of
, the North Carolina State B.ar Discipline ap.d Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125(b), and set out in the Consent Order of Discipline in 04 OHC 6,
counsel for the North Carolina State Bar did not file a response objecting to the petition for
reinstatement subject to the conditions and requirements of the Consent Order of Discipline.
:eASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Secretary makes the following: ,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
The pt:ltitioner, Roger W. Rizk, has satisfied the requirements set out in Rule
.0125(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and the conditions in
the Consent Order of Discipline for reinstatement to active status subject to the tenns of the
'
Consent Order of Discipline.

2.
Rizk's reinstatement to active status is conditioned upon compliance with the
c'oriditions and requirements in the Consent Order ofDiscipHne in 04 DHC 6 and is subject to the
tenils of that Order.
THEREFORE, pursuant to Rule .0125, it is hereby ordered:

I

1.
Rizk is reinstated to the active'practice oflaw, subject to the tenns, conditioils, .
and requirements of the Consent Order of Discipline in 04 DHC 6..Rizk's.status a~ an active
member of the North Carolina State Bar between the effective date of this order and Novel1iQer
15, 2009 is contingent upon his compliance with all of the conditions set forth in th~ Consent
Order of Discipline, which is attached hereto and hereby incorporated by reference.
.
2.
In accordance with Ru1e .0125(b)(2) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline' .
and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Suhchapter B, Section .0125(b)(2), Rizk
is eligible for reinstatement subject to thetenns of the Consent Order of Discipline on bec~mber
27, 2006. Reinstatement under this ordershall be effective on that date.
6'1"

This the ~ day of December, 2006.

L. Thomas Lunsford, II, S

The North Carolina State

-2-

I
"
, ;.

'I

.

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
['

THE NORTH CAROLINA STA I~~
Plaintiff

v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

ROGERW. RIZK, Attorney,

I

Defendant'
This matter came before a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commis$ion composed of Stephen E. Culbreth, Chair, M. Ann Reed, and Marguerite P.
Watts. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Alan
M. Schn~ider represented the Defendant. Both parties stipulate and agree to the fmdings
of fact mid conclusions of law rec.ited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed.
Further~ ~y entering into this consent order of discipline, Defendant freely and voluntarily
consents ito the order of discipline, waives a fomal hearing iIi. ,this case, and waives all
right to appeal this order or challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings, the
conclusions, or the discipline imposed. Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following
FJ.NDINGS OF FACT
1"
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
allthority'granted it in Chapter 84 of the Gen~ral Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules a,nd Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promuigated thereunder.

2.
Defendant, Roger W. Rizk ("Defendant"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1995 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licenSed to practice in North Carolina, subject to, the laws of the State of North ' ~
Carolina, the Rules ,and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised
Rules ofPtofessional Conduct. Defendant Was admitted to the Florida Bar in 1970 and
represent~d Florida clients through approximately 1998.

I

3.:
During all or part oftbe relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged i)ltbe practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Catolina.
'
4. '
Defendant was properly served with process and a hearing in this matter
was set with due notice to all parties.

I

5.
During all or part of the :relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant
operated his law practice as a professional association:. holding the law practice out as
"Roger W. Rizk, P .A." Defendant was the principal responsible for filing all returns and
paying all taxes on behalf of the association.

.

6.
Defendant's law practice, operated as· a professional association, employed
personnel other than himself from 1995 through April 2002.

I

7.
Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely file the state
withholding tax returns on behalf of Roger W. Rizk, P.A. for the third ancl fourth quart~ts
of 2002 and for all quarters of2003.
. .
8.
Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely pay the state income
tax withheld from his professional association's employees' wages as required by N~.c.
Gen. Stat. §§ 105-163.2 and 1.05-163.6, from. 1995 through 2002.
9.
Defendant Unlawfully and willfully failed to timely file the federal
withholding tax returns on behalf of Roger VI. Rizk, P .A. for the third and fourth quarters
of2002 and for all quarters of2003.
10.

Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to timely pay the federal income

tax withheld from his professional association's employees' wages as required by 26

U.S.C. §§ 3402 and 6151 from 1"995 through 2002.

".

11.
Defendant unlawfully and willfully failed to thnely pay state individual
income taxes for sQme or all of the tax years from 1996 through 2002 as requirecl by' N.C.
Oen.Btat. §§ 105-152 and 105-157.
12.
Defendant owed the North Carolina Departn1ent of Revenue
approximately $13,000.00 in past dqe withholding taxes and owed the Internal Revenue
Service approximately $87,000 in past due withholding taxes.

I

13.
Defendant owed the North Catolina Department
approximately $2,000.00 in. past due individual income taxes.

of Revenue

14.
Defendant failed to pay his federal individual income taxes during "this
same time period and owed the Internal Revenue Service $83,000.00 for unpai4 petS6nal
income taxes through the year 2002.
15.
Willful failure to file a state tax return or pay state ·income Up{ .
withholdings when due is a Class 1 misdemeanor under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236 (9).
16.
Willful failure to file a federal tax return or pay federal income tax
withholdings when due. is a misdemeanor under 26 U.S.C. § 7203.

-2-

I

.~

7 '-17"

17.
Willful failure to file or pay a state income tax wh~n due'is a Class 1
misdeme,anor under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236 (9).

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

"
It
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over'the Defendant, Roger W. Rizk, and the subject matter.

2:

The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (3) as
follows: '

I

(a)
By unlawfully and willfully failing to timely file and/or pay state
income taX withholdings when those taxes were due, Rizk committed
crIminal' acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4 (b) and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty; fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8A (c).

(b)
By unlawfully ~d willfully failing to timely pay state individual
income taxes when those taxes were due, RlZk "Committed criminal acts
that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other
respects in violation of Rule 8.4 (b).
(c)
By unlawfully and willfully faillng to timely file and/or pay federal
income tax withholdings when those taxes were due, Rizk committed
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4 (b) and engaged in
conduct ~volving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4 (c).

Bksed upon the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby makes
additionai

I

'"

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
i

1. :

Defendants' misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Prior discipli~e, to wit:
1. Reprimand, North Carolina State Bat, 2001 (reciprocal with
Florida)
2. Reprimand for client neglect> Florida, 2001

~3~

I
,

"

.

.

3. Suspension for] 0 days, North Carolina State Bar, 2000
(reciprocal with Florida)
4. Suspension for 10 days' for client neglect, Florida, 2000
5. Censure for client neglect and filing a frivolous lawsuit,Notili
Carolina State Bar, 1999
6. Reprimand and probation, Florida, 1999 (reciprocal with North
Carolina)
7. Suspension stayed for 4 years for commingling funds, North
Carolina State Bar, 1998
8. Reprimand fot filing a frivolous lawsuit, North Carolin~ State
Bar, 1997;

I

Pattern of misconduct;

2.

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

Dishonest or selfish motive; and

e.

Substantial experience ill the practice oflaw.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.

Personal or emotiop.al problems;

b.

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution;

c.
Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings; and

d.

I

3.

Remors~.

The aggravatin~ factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.
The Defendant has significantly participated in volup.tary bar, ciVic,
church and community .organizations for IJlany years, including during the time period at
issue in this case.
. "'
5.' Although Defendant does not state that depression caused,hiJn to engage
in the misconduct stated above, Defendant feels depression he suffered dwing this time
period significantly impaired his ability to appropriately prioritize ahd honor'his
responsibilities in thisare~. Defendant has had a mental health evaluation performed .by
a psychologist, who diagnosed depression. Defendant also ,consulted with Don Carroll of .
the North Carolina State Bar Lawyer Assistance :program. Defendant has entered into a
LAP contract and is following Mr; Carroll's recommendations~ Defendant is curr~htly
being treated by a therapist.

-4-

I
"

,
"

6:
Defendant feels he could not afford to pay the withheld t~es to the
appropriate state and federal authorities because of his fmancia} problems, which
ultimateiY.resulted in personal bankrt.lptcy, foreclosure of his home, and changes to his
'office location to cheaper alternatives.
7.
From the income taken in by his law practice, Defendant paid the business
rent, utilities, and employee salaries minus withholdings. The remainder was his
personal income~
,
8:
From his personal income, Defendant paid alimony, mortgage or rent,
utilities, food expenses, car expenses, and ente$inment expenses.
,

9.
In conjunction with failing to pay the withheld income taxes to the North
Carolina pepartment of Revenue and the Internal Revenue Service, Defendant failed to
pay Withholdings for Medicaiq and -Social Security for his employees. Defendant has
significmt experience with disability and social security claims, and was aware during
the time frame at issue that to qualify for social security disability benefits a claimant
must havy had quarterly contributions paid into the system for a specified time frame.

I

10.
Defendant was aware during the time period at issue in this case that
failure to Ipay the withheld income taxes to the appropriate authorities might result in the
credit ail ~mployee would take for the amount of withheld taxes not being allowed.
DefendaI\t was further aware that failure to pay Medicaid and Social Security
withboldmgs created a risk that his employees' ability to qualify for certain benefits
might be compromised.
i

11.
Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail to
acl9lowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by DefendflDt. would be
inconsistent with orders of discipline entered by this body in similar cases and would
send the \}'long message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the
Bar in this State.
i

12. Discipline of a level no less than suspension is also necessary in light of
the fact that Defendant engaged in this misconduct despite, and contemporaneousiy with,
being disqiplined by North Carolina and Florida for other disciRlinary violations.

I

Based upon the foregoing factors and the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. .
The license of the Defendant, Roger W. Rizk, is.hereby suspended for five
years, begpming 30 days from the date of service of this order upon the Defendant.

-5-

I
,\

2.
Defendant shaH submit his 1i~ense and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State B~ no later than 30 days following service of this order upon'
Defendant.
.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions conUiined in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the .~0J:1h Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date Qftbis order!> certifying
he' has complied with the wind down rule.

I

4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this order Defendant shall provide •
the State Bar With an address at which clients seeking return offiles can obtain such files'.
and shall promptly return all files to his clients upon request.

5.
After serving two years of the active suspension of his license, Defendant
may apply for reinstaiementupon ftlfug apetition with the Secretaty of the North
Carolina State Bar demonstrating th~ following by clear, .cogent, and convincing
evidence:

I

a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I!> Subchapter a,
§ .0124 ofthe State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

b.

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of ~ervice
of the statement of costs upon him;

c. .

That not less than 60 days before seeking reinstatement Defendant
was evaluated' by the' Lawyers Assistance Program or by a melltal
health professional approved by the State Bar at his own expense!>
and that he coinplieq and continues to comply with any and all
treatment recommendatioIls of the LAP program or the psychiatrist
and that he is not under any disability ·at that time. The medical
. evaluation ariel treatment shall be obtained at Defendant's ex;p¢nse; ...

d.

.That within ten days of obtaining the evaluation described above,
Defendant signed the appropriate releases and medical
autllorizationsand provided the releases to the North Carolina . ~
State Bar Office of Counsel, authorizing counsel to speak with his
mental health professional or the LAP personnel and obtain copies
of his medical records from the mental health professional ,and/or
other records from LAP. Defendant shall not revoke these'
releases;

e.

That Defendant complied and continues to comply with any alid all
requests by the North Carolilla State Bar Office of Counsel for any
reports, medical records, LAP evaluations or mental health
evaluations at his expen~e;'
.

-.6 -

I

. {s-:(

f.

That Defendant complied with and continues to comply with the
terms of all agreements with the Internal Revenue Service and the
North Carolina Department of Revenue in existence during the
stay;

g; .

That Defendant provided the State Bar with documentation from
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) showing compliance with the
terms of any agreements with the IRS, documenting compliance
from the date of the entry of this order through siXtY (60) days
prior tp application for any stay of remaimngsuspension or for
reinstat~ment and filed with the State Bar with any application for
stay or reinstatement;

h.

That Defendant filed and paid all taxes in a timely manner during
the period of suspension (whether active or stayed)~

i.

That Defendant provided .the State Bar with copies of ail tax
returns filed during the suspension (whether active or stayed) and
proof of payment of taxes due during the suspension (whether
active or stayed), filed with the State Bar contemporaneously with
filing with the Inte~al Revenue Service or the North Carolina
Department of Revenue;

J.

That he nas kept the North Carolina State Bar Member~hip
Department advised of his current business and home address;

k.

That he has responded to all COllimunications from the North
Carolina State Bar received after the effective date of this order
within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;

1.

That he has not violated the R~vised Rules of Professional Conduct
or the laws of the United States or any state~ and

m.

That he paid all Membership dues and Client S~curity Fund
assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice dUI'ing
the suspension.

I

I

6.
If Defendant sllccessfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as he continues to comply with the
condition.s set out in paragraph 5.
.
·7.'

If an orcIer staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defend~t fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions referenced in
Paragrap~s 5 and 6; then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided In § .0l14(x) of the North Carolina. State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.

-7-

I
"

.

~

..

8.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portionoffue suspension of
his law license or if some part of the suspension is st~yed and thereafter the stay is
revoked,Defendant must comply with the conditions set out in paragraph 5 above before
seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law.

I

9.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction. of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Adnlin. Code Chapter 1, Subch~pter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules thrOllghout the period of the
stayed suspension.
..

. . Signed by the Ch~onsent of the other hearing cOlDlllittee members,
this the
day of 6/4
.
•2004,
.

/L

Stephen . Culbreth
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Connn.ittee

CONSENTED TO BY:

~

I

.. Deputy Counsel
Attorney for Plaintiff

~

rk-f/tt, ~~

Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

Ro· W. .
Defendant

-8-

I

