-~--------------------------------------

!C)fIY
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF-THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06BCR 1

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATtER OF:
REINSTATEMENT OF ROBERT WINFREY

)
)
)
)

ORDER RECOMMENDING
DENYING REINSTATEMENT

I

This mAtter came on to be heard and -was heard by a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Karen Eady-Williams, Chait, T. Richard Kane
and Rebecca Brownlee; with the petitioner, Robert Winfrey ("Winfrey") appearing pro se and
with A. Root Edmonson representing the North Carolina State Bar. Based upon the evidence
presented at the hearing and the arguments of the parties, the hearing committee makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT .
1. Not more than six months or less than 60 days before filing his petition for
reinstatemeIlt, Winfrey's notice of intent to seek re-instatement was published in the official
publication oftbe North Carolina State Bar. The notice infonned members offue Bar about
petitioner's intent to file an application for reinstatement. Further, it requested that all interested
individuals file 'notice of their opposition or concurrence with the secretary within 60 days after
the date of publication.

2. Win;frey attempted to notify the complainant in regard to the conduct that led to his
disbarment, Teresa Pierce Perry, of his intent to seek reinstatement but the notice was returned as
undeliverable.

I

3. Winfrey was never convicted of a criminal offense and never lost his citizenship.
4. Wi¢ey properly wound down his law practice before-the effective.date of his.
disbarment.
.
5. Winfrey complied with all applicable orders of the North Carolina State Bar and the
courts relating to the matters resulting in disbarment.
6. Winfrey did not engage in the unauthorized practice of law during his disbarment.
7. Winfrey did not engage in conduct during the time of his disbarment that would be
grounds for discipline.

I
"

"

8. Winfrey to.ek a three heur CLE en cenflicts and a three heur CLE on real estate.
9. The erder ef disbannent feund that Winfrey had reimbursed his victim.
10. The Client Sec~ity Fund did net pay any claims to. any efWinfi;ey'-s clients,
11. Winfrey paid ,all dues and fees

I

ew~d to. the Nerth

Carelina Stat~ Bar.

Winfrey was the sole witness at the hearing. Because Winfrey's testimony w~s
uncorroborated by any other evidence, the hearing'committee does not find the remabling
p~ragraphs o~ this order to be "facts," but incl~des them as Winfrey's representations to
the hearing committee.
12. After earning & J.D. fre~ Campbell Univ~rsity in 1981, Winfrey entered Harvard
University Divinity Scheol in 1990. There he earned a Masters in Theelegical,Science, having
fecused en werld religiens, in 1992.
.
13. In 1994, Winfrey began teaching varieus classes fer Shaw University in High Point,
NC. In the fall ef 1999, he was asked by the new directer efShaw's satellite campus in
Kannapelis, NC to. teach two. additienal classes there. While teaching two. ethics classes,
Wi,nfrey develeped an understanding ef a fundamental errer in his belief system. Winfrey had
believed that ~'the end justified the means." He felt justified in using accessible reseurces that
belonged to ethers as leng as he had no. intent to steal, because the reseurces allewed him to. help
'
ethers who ceuld net pay him.
14. Winfrey came to. understand a fundamental premise upen which the nenvielent
philesephies ef Gandhi and King were .based: "the means determined the 'goal that is ultimately
reached." What Winfrey came to. understand Was that the means teaccemplish a geal was as
impertant as the geal itself.

I

15. Winfrey wa$ tested when he was ferced to. make a deci~ien between henering his
revised belief system er suffering severe financial less. He explained that:
a. In an effert to. pretect his heme and car while henering his debts, Winfrey feund ·it
necessary to. ,file het ene, 'but two., Chapter.13 bankruptcy Petitien~~
b. The significance efthe multiple filings was ~t, since the petitiener had
previeusly filed a Chapter 13 case, the rules ef the Bankruptcy Ceurt ef the
Middle District efNerth Carelina requited autematic dismissal if a scheduled
payment was missed during the fIrst-year.
c. In June 2003, Winfrey faced an ethical dilemma in his werkplace. He had begtUJ.
werking as the assistant to. the publisher fer a small newspaper in Greensbere,
NC. His financial arrangement with that newspaper previded sufficient inceme to.

I
"

pleet his financial obligatio~s, including the scheduled bankruptcy payments.
d. Winfrey leamed that the newspaper's actual circulation was drastically smaller
than what was being told to potential advertisers. His solution was to stop his
efforts to sell advertising &nd to focus on increasing circulation.
I

•

e. Winfrey's employer then modified his compensation such that he was required to
~el1 more advertising to equal the compensation that he had been receivin~.
f.

Winfrey refused to engage in the unethical conduct qf using false circulation
pumbers in order to sell advertising even though he knew that it would result in
the loss of his job, his home arid his car.
I

I

•

16. In the last three years, Winfrey has been employed in tWo positions where the
handling of money has been an integral part of his duties. The first employment was with a
nonprofit agency, The Practical Science Institute, Inc. There, Winfrey was responsible for the
handling and tracking of all funds that came into the organization. The second position was as
the assistant manger at The HoneyBee Health Food Store. Both employers praised Winfrey for
his level ofinte'grity.
17. Winfrey is presently.involved with a project with Dr. Robert Powell, Sr. publishing a
book on Sacred Geometry.
.
18. Between September 1991 and April 2004, Winfrey received spiritual counseling
from Rev. Barbara Lynn Freed.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committe~ makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Winfrey had the burden of proying all ofthe elements of 27 NCAC IB, §
.0125(a)(3)(A-ij) and (4)(A), the Discipline and Disability Rules, by clear, cogent and
convincing eviclence.

I

2. Winfrey published adequate notice of his intent to seek reinstatement in compliance
with Rule .0125(a)(3)(A).
3.. Winfrey attempted to notify the complainant that led to his disciplinary proceeding of
his intent to seek reinstatement in c01l1pliance with Rule .0125(a)(3)(B).
4. Winfrey railed to prove, pursuant to Rule .0125(a)(3)(C), that he has reformed and
presently possesses the moral character required for admission to practice law in this state, taking
into account the gravity of the misconduct which resulted in the Order of Disbarment.

I
"

5. Winfrey failed to prove, pursuant to Rule .0125(a)(3)(D), that his reinstatement to the
practice oflaw will not be detrimental to the integrity and standing ofthe bar, the achninistration
of justice, or the public's interest.
6. Winfrey did not have to prove that his citizenship has been restored incompliance
with· Ru1e .012S(a)(3)(E).
.
7. Winfrey wound down his law practice after his disbarment in compliance with Rule'

I

.0125(~)(3)(F).

8. Wii:lfrey complied with all applicable orders of the North Carolina State Bar in
.
compliance with Rule .0125(a)(3)(G).
9. There were no orders of the courts related to the offense, for which he was disbarrecl
for Winfrey to comply with pursuant to Rule .012S(a)(3)(H).
10, Winfrey did not engage in the ~authorized practice of law during his disbarment in
compliance with Rule .0125(a)(3)(I).
.
11. Winfrey did not engage in conduct during the time of his disbarment that would b~
grounds for discipline under G. S. §84-28(b) in compliance witb.·Rllle.0125(a)(3)(J).
12. Winfrey failed to prove that he Ul'l,derstands the current Ru1es ofProf~ssional
Conduct in compliance with Ru1e .012S(a)(3)(K).
13. The provisions of Rule .012S(a)(3)(L) and (M) did not apply to Winfrey's
re~nstatement petition.
14. Winfrey paid all dues and fees owed to the North Carolina State B~in compliance
with Rule .012S(a)(3)(N).

I

IS. Winfrey failed to prove that he has the competency and learning in law required to
practice law in this state in compliance with Rule .012S(a)(4)(A).
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
commi~ee enters the following Order:
1. The hearing.committee considered all of the evidence offered at Winfrey's'
reinstatement hearing and recommends to the Council that Winfrey's petition for reinstatement to
the practice oflaw in North Carolina be denied,
2. If Winfrey chooses not to ask the Council to review the decision of this hearing
committee, this order will constitute the final order in this matter.
Signed by the Chair of the hearing committee with the full knowledge and consent of the

I

~rCJ

--

other members of the hearing committee this theLL::'day of_\~'~""'-)lo!!l1:t..Jt'\~UCt~r:....:J-+-_ _- 2007.

I

I

I
'\

.;

