NORTH CAR01..lNA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0600462 & 06G0044

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

)
)
)
)
)

_THEOPHILUS O. STOKES,
.- Attorney At Law

REPRIMAND

On October 19, 2006 the Grievance Copnnittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances· filed against you by the State Bar (06G0462) and Jose Macies'
(06G0044).
.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Caroljna
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, il1.c1uding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
di$ciplinary action.'"
.

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee rp.ay
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Bearing
Commil?sion are l1.ot required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the l:j.chlal or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respond~nt attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
. Conduct and has caused hann or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice,· the
profession, or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance COlll11littee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this' case
and issues thi~ reprimand to you. As chl:j.inhan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
The first matter invoives your representl:j.tion of Marcial Najera in a criminal matter.
Yanley Hernandez filed a fee dispute petition against you. A grievance file was oPened as a
result of your failure to participate in the Fee Dispute Resolution program pur$uant to Rule
1.5(f), Fees. Your decision not to pursue the remaining $5,000 from Ms. Hemap,dez did not

I
.",'

.

absolve you of your responsibility to participate in the fee dispute process. fu addition, your
response to the Letter of Notice was con&idered late in violation of Rule 8.1(b), Bar Admission
and Disciplinary Matters.
The second matter involves your representation of Jose Macies in a criminal matter. You
failed to provide a respopse to the Letter of Notice in a timely manner in violation of Rule 8.1 (b),
Bar Admissioij. and Disciplinary Matters.
You are hereby reprimanded by the NorthCatolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
--remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from:adherenceto the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and inve~tigative costs to any
attomeyissue~ a reprimand by the Grievance comml02ttee,e costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

~ of

U:,

2006

BBW/npm

I

I
.',

.

