I

,

NORTH CAROLINA

( 3 7qt.j

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0061

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF'

)
)
)
)
)

'fERRY MASTROMICHALIS,
ttomey At Law

REPRIMAND

On Octob~r 19, 2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
consider~d the grievances filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Disciplil1e and Disabjiity Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it; including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasol1abl~ cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

l

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Cotnmittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplil1ary Hearing
C<?mmission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
, discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, aud any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
eprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

.

A repriman,d is a written form of discipline more serious thal1 an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has viQlated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has c~used harm or, potential hmm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a me\nber of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance COl;nmittee was of the opinion that a censure is not required ill this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar,·it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
\

The subject, of the grievance surrounds your representation of Candido Alvarez. The
Grievan~e Committee detenninea' that you did know Alvarez prior to your tip to Mexico and that
you failed to make a full disclosure to this fact in your written response to the Bar. You have
therefore violated Rule 8.1 (b), Bar Admission and Disciplinary Matters. You also failed to

I
.... -

173

respond to a request for additional infonnation regarding this matter also in violation of Rule
8.1 (b), Bar Admission and Disciplinary Matters.
You are'h~rebY'teprimanded·.by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered byyou, that it will by beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from ~dht(r~nce to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
,

In accordance with the policy adppted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
._ Carolina State Bar regaJding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued ar~prim~d by the Grievance CO$lllittee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50,00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done anil ordered, this the

f'-

/7

day of

~

I

,2006

RB/lr

I

I

