NORTH CAROLINA

c2rtf! !

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G1066 & 06G0380

WAKE COUNTY

IN. THE MATTER OF

I

)
)
)
)
)

PAUL M. SYLVIA,
- ~ttorney At Lfj.w

REPRIMAND

On October 19, 2006 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by Kelley Wiggs (06G0380) and Darlene Swinson
(05GI066) .
.Pursuant to Section .OJ 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State B¥, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After cop,sideringthe
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter'ofnotice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
C01ll1nission are not required, and the Grievance Cormnittee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance COIl1ll1ittee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand," or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
bases in whidh an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and p.as cau$edhan.nor potential hann to a client, "the administration ofjustice, the"
profession, Of; a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
"

"

The qrievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a censure is not reqUired in this cf).Se
and issues-this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance COmmittee of the" North
Carolina Stat~ Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Youclosed two teal estate transactions for K;elIey Wiggs in late November 2005 and
early Decemb¢r 2005. The Grievance Committee detennined that you failed to c~mmunicate
with Ms. Wiggs and BB&T regarding the closing and the problems related thereto. You have
therefore viol~.ted Rule lA(a)(3)(4), Communication. The Grievance Committee also

I

---------------.....,.----------------.,.---------------detennined tMt you failed to provid~ a final title opinion in a timely manner and failed to record
the deed in a timely manner in violation of Rule 1.3, Diligence. A review of your trust account
revealedth~t your records are in a state of disarray and you have failed to reconcile your trust
account in violation of Rule 1.15-3(c). In addition, you failed to answer the Letter of Notice until
a B~ Inve§tigator persorially served you and you did not respond to the B~' s telephone
messages. You have violated Rule 8.1 (b), Bar Admi~sion and Disciplinary Matters.
i

i

In theDarlene Swinson matter, you closed a real estate transaction on February 28, 2005.
you did not pay the property t~es or the title insurance premium and cancel a prior
deed of trust Until some eight months later. You have therefore violated Rule 1.3, Diligence.
~ You were als9 slow to respond to the Letter of Notice and only 4id so after receiving personal
service by a Ear Investigator ~d you failed to respond to the Bar's telephone messages. You
. have therefore violated Rule 8.1 (b), Bar Admission and Disciplinary Matters.
How~ver,

I

You ~e hereby reprimanded by the.North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance C01llJ.1littee trusts that you will heed this ryprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from' adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
I

In accOrdance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State: Bar regarding the. taxing of,the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, t e costs of this action in .the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done dud ordered, this the _

~-=---

I
BW/npm

I

11ft.·

--

-

