BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISsioN
OF THE
TH CAROLlNASTATE BAR
06DHC2l

STATE OF NORTH CAROL
WAKE COUNTY

I

Plaintiff

v.

, FlNDINGSOF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

LAWRENCE U. DAVIDSON, ill, Attorney,

Defendant
This matter was heard on January 25,2007 befqre a hearing committee bfthe
Djsciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, Charles M. Davis~ a,nd
members John M! May and DonaldG. Willhoit. Jennifer A. Porter represented the
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Lawrence U. DavIdson, III, appeared
pro se. Defendant was present initially but chose noHo remain for the entire hearing.
Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated facts, and the evidence introduced at the hearing,
the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following
FINDINGS OF FACT

:1

. 1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General StatJ}tes ofNort:h Carolina, and the
Rules and Re~lations of the NQrth Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Lawrence U. Davidson, III, (hereinafter "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on March 19, 1983,. a~d is, and Was at alltimes
referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules, regulations and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct' of the State of North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Defendap.t actively engaged in the
practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Charlotte,
Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.

..

4.
In or about July 2001, Defendant established an attorney-client
.relationship with Ivis. Lucille Morrison ("Ms. Morrison").

I
...:

Defendant und~rtook to represent Ms. Morrison, who waS a named
in a civil action entitled, Estate of Thomas Graham, and Kay Frances Fox
Taylor, Plaintiffs v. Lucille Morrison, John Hallman, and Ladd Morrison, Defendants,
file no. 01 CVS 11809, Mecklenburg County Clerk of Superior Court (hereina:fter the
"Litigati0n"). The subject ofthe litigation concerned the validity of Ms. Morrison's
purported ownership of real property loc!ited at 411 Sardis Road,. Charlotte, NC (hereafter
the "Sardis Road Property".
5.

d~fendant,

6,
The initial fee agreement between Defendant and Ms. Morrison provided
for an hourly r~te of $350.00.
I

7.
At some point, when Ms. Morrison could no longer afford to pay the
hourly rate, the initial fee arrangement was modified from an hourly rate to a contingent
fee arrangement.
8.:

I

The qontingent fee arr~g~m$nt provided in part as follows:

A$ agreed and explained to you, my fee will be as follows: It will be contingent
on the success of the outcome of the above entitled action. My fee is one third of
the value of the properties en9t!IDbered by the litigation referenced above.
Accordingly, a promissory note and deed of trust will be completed in the amount
of$251,448.18 for filing on the property at 433 Sardis Road. THIS IS A
CONTINGENT FEE AGREEMENT, IF THIS CASE IS NOT DECIDED IN
YOUR FAVOR, I WILL NOT BE pAID. (Emphasis in original).
I

"

9.
Defendant's contingent fee was secured by a deed of trust, executed by
Ms. Morrison, on certain property Which was the subject of the Litigation, referred to in
paragraph 5 above.
10.
On November 9, 2001 the plaintiffs in the Litigation filed a motion for
partial slffiUnary judgment. Defendants in that case, inGI\lding Ms. Morrison, filed a
motion for spmmary jud~ent on December 7, 2001.
11.
On February 25,2002, partial summary judgment was granted for the
plaintiffs voiding deeds to Ms. Morrison, John Hallman and Ladd Morrison, on the basis
that the power of attorney, by which the properties were conveyed, did not specifically
authorize ~fts. Ms. Morrison's motion for summary judgment was denied.

I

"12:.
Ms. Morrison appealed the summary judgment in favor of Plaintiffs in the
Lit,jgatiQ;n;to the North Carolina Court of Appeals.
13.
On February 18, 2003, the North Carolina Court of Appeals rendered an
opinion; reported at I~6 N. C. App. 154,576 S. E. 2d 355 (2003), reversing the trial
court' s or~er voiding the deeds to Ms. Morrison and re.tnanding the case for a factual
determination of whether the"deeds were gifts or conveyances supported by valuable
consideration. Defendant represented Ms. Morrison during the appeal to the Court of
Appeals. '

I

"717

14.
On remand to the trial court, the jury determined on April 3,2003, that
valuable consideration supported the conveyances to Ms. Morrison and judgment was
entered on behalf of Ms. Morrison. Defendant represented Ms. Morrison during these
proceedings in the trial court.
15.
The plainttffs .appealed the jury verdict and the jU(lgm~t entered by the
trial court in favor of Ms. Morrison to the North Carolina Court of Appeals on about
.
April 4, 2003.

I

16.
On or about March 4, 2004, during the pendency of the second appeal in
the North Carolina Court of Appeals, Ms. Morrison contracted to seI1 the Sardis Road
Property, which was the subject of the Litigation and the appeal, to Lennar Carolina, Inc.,
(hereinafter "Lennar") for the price of $894,760.00.
17.
Prior to the signing of the contract of sale, Defendant reviewed some of
the proposed contracts of sale to determine if the CQntract was in Ms. Morrison's best
interest. Defendant had a personal interest in the s~eof the Sardis Road Property
because he would get paid on the closing of the property.
18.
The closing for the Sardjs Road Property took place on July 29,2004.
Adam Foodman (hereinafter "Foodman") was the closing attorney and settlement agent
.
for the dosing.
19.
Prior to the closing, during the title search ofthe SardisRoad property Qn
behalf of Lennar, Foodman found the deed of trust {attached hereto as E~ibit B),
executed in favor of Defendant and a Notice of Lis Pendens, filed on June 15, 2001,
against Ms. Morrison and the Sardis Road Property.

I

20.
Sometime after the title search disclosed the deed of trust to Defendant
and the Notice of Lis Pendens, but before the closing on July 29, 2004, Foodman had
communications with Defendant regarding the deed of trust, tis Pendens? and the sale
and closing of the Sardis Roa,d property,
21.
On May 6, 2004 Defendant wrote Foodman and stated, in part, that he
represented Ms. Morrison and others in regards to three pieces of property, including the
Sardis Road property which was to be the source of his attorney fees. Defelldantfurther
stated that "[T]he litigation was successful" and that "[T]he fimil bill for legal services
rendered is $330,473.61."
22.
During telephone conversations prior to the closing Defendant misled
Foodman about the status ofthe Sardis Road property litigation. Davidson led Foodn'1!U1
to believe that the Litigation was resolved, when in. fact the case was on appeal to the
.
North Carolina Court of Appeals.

.

23.
On the occasions Defendant spoke to Foodman, prior to the closing,
Defendant knew that the appeal was proceeding in the Court of Appeals, that the Court' of
Appeals would review the judgment of the trial court, and that the Court of Appeals could

I
.': :

revers~

the trial court, the:r~by divesting Ms. Morrison of a1lintetest in the Sardis Road
property.
24.
Defendant did not disclose to Foodman, prior to the closing that the
Litigation concerning the Sard,is Road property was on appeal to the North Carolina
Court of App~als and took no action to halt or delay the closing.

On July 29,2004, the sale of the Sardis Road property from Ms. Morrison
25.
to Lennar was closed by FOoQrnan. Shortly therea{ter Defenclant was paid $330,473.61
out of t11;e closing procee)ds to payoff the deed of trust which secured his contingent
attorney fee arrangement with Ms. Morrison.

I" "

.

26.
Defendant received and accepted these funds knowing that the Litigation
cOllcernipg the Sardis Road property had not been finally resolved and had not been
fipallyd¢cided in Ms. Morrison'~ favor.
27.
Subsequent to the 'dosing, the Litigation contiuued in the Court of Appeals
r~g¥djng the Sardis Road property and was heard in the Court on October 12, 2004.
28.
On Jatiuary 18,2005, the North Carolina Court of Appeals filed an
oPipiOll, :report~d at 168 N. C. 'App. 63, 697 S. E. 2d 295 (2005), reversing the trial
court's ju~gment in favor of Ms. Morrison and granting the Plaintiff's motion for
judgment notwithstanding the j:ury verdict in favor of Ms. Morrison. The deed by which
Ms. Morrison took title to the Sardis Road property, which she sold to Lennar, was set
a~ide. The deed of trust in f~vor of Defendant executed by Ms. Morrison on the Sardis
Road property ,to secure Defen,danes contingent fee arrange)ment was also set aside;
29.
Defendant cea~ed representation of Ms. Morrison following the decision
of the NQrth Carolina Court of Appeals and failed to return the contingency fee of
$330,473.61, which h~ collected from the sale of the Sardis Road Property.
30.
On or about April 26, 2005, Defendant was sent a copy of the grievance
m~~e agamst him by the North C~olina State Bar in file nUlPber 05G0322. Defendant
w~~ ~sked to reSpond to this wieyance.

I

31.
After Defendant :filed his initia,l response to the grievance, he was
requested to provide further informatiou to Cqunsel for the State Bar.
32.

Upon Defendant's unsatisfactory response to Counsel's request for further

informat~on,

33.

Counsel for the St~te Bar caused a subpoena to be issued a,nd served on
D~f~ndari.t for his appearance and testimony and for the production of documents, in
r~gards to grievance file number 05G0322,at the North CaroJina State Bar on September
29, 2Q05 .at 2:00 o'clock p.m.
34.
Defendant did not appear at the North Carolina State Bar on September
29, 2005 as required by the subpoena.
I

•

I
...:

35.
On or about July 6, 2004, Defendant signed a written Agreement for
Purchase and Sale of Real Property (hereinafter~ "Contract") concerning the pur~hase of a
tract of real property located adjacent to Poplar Tent Road in Cabarrus County, North
Carolina by an' entity named Ambassador Development, LLC.
36.
Defendant signed the Contract on behalf of the sellers, who are listed on
the Contract as "Leonidas Davidson Heirs" and referenced in the Contract as "Seller."

I

37.
The Contract describes the property being sold as "All those contiguo"lls
.acres, net of floodplain, located on Poplar Tent Road, Cabarrus County, NC, whose
ownership is Leonidas Davidson :Heirs and whose legal description is as follows: Parcel
ID 4671752586, as shown on attached map" (hereinafter; the "PoplarTent Road
property"). .
.
38.
The Contract describes the purchase price as "the sum of $50,000 pet acre
net of floodplaip as determined by final survey."
The Cont;ract states in Section 5 that "Seller agrees to convey fe¢ siIi1ple
39,
marketable title to the Property by generfl1 warranty deed,. subje~t only to theexc~tions
hereinafter described. Seller represents and warrants that Seller is the fee simple owner·
of the ?roperty, and at Closing, Seller shall deliver to Buyer good and marketable fee
simple title to said Property, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances fll1d defects of title
other than zotrlng ordinances affecting the Property, utility eas~ents of record serving
the Property, taxes not yet due and payable, road rights-of-way of record and those oth~r
encumbrances, reservations, restrictions and easements and other exceptions set forth on
Exhibit C attached hereto ("Permitted Exceptions")."
40.

Th~re' was

no Exhibit C attached to the Contract when it was executed.

41.
No exceptions to the Seller's cortnnitment to convey fee simple
marketable title to the Poplar Tent Road property by general warranty deed as stated in
Section 5 of the Contract and described above were identified in the Contract Qr in any
exhibit attached to the Contract.
42.
The.Contract called for the Leonidas Davidson Heirs. to convey a 100%
fee simple ownership interest in the Poplar Tent Road property.
43.
The Poplar Tent ;Road property was held by Defendfll1t ~d at least28
other heirs of Leonidas Davidson as tenants in common.
44.
Defendant did not have authority to act on behalf of all of the other heirs
with whom he owned the Poplar Tent Road property as tenants in common.
45.
Defendant was authorized to act on behalf of only 18 of the other heirs
regarding sale of the land held by the heirs as tenants in common (hereinafter, "the i8
heirs") ..

I

46.
Defendant knew he was only authorized to act on behalf of 18 of the heirs
regarding the sale of the Poplar Tertt Road property when he signed the Contract on
behalf of the Leonidas Davidson heirs.
47.
Defendant did not have authority to convey fee simple marketable title by
general warranty deed in the parcel ofland identified in the Contract and referenced
h~rein ~s. the Poplar Tent RQ~d property when he sign~d the Contract on behalf of the
LeoniQas David~op. h,~irs.
48.

Defendant knew he did not have authority to convey fee simple
market~ble title by general warranty deed in the parcel' of land identified in the Contract
and referenced herein as the Poplar Tent Road property when he signed the Contract on
behalf of the Leonidas Davidson heirs
49.

I

Defendant did not disclose to Ambassador Development or any agent for

AnlQ~~sMpr Develop;ment that he did not have authority to act on behalf of all of the

other heirs with whom he hel4 the Poplar Tel1t Road property as tenants in common.

50.

Defendant did not disclose to Ambassador D¢velopment or any agent for

Ambass~dor Development that he did n9t have authority to convey fee simple marketable

title by gener/;ll warranty deed in th~ parcel of land identified iIi the Contract and

referenc~d herein as the Poplar Tent Road property prior to or at the time he sighed the

Contract on b~half of the Leonidas Davidson heirs.
51..
On or about August 5, 2004, Defendant filed a Petition to Partition as a
spe<;ial proceeding before the Clerk of Court in Cabarrus County, North Carolina,
as!?ignedcase nUmber 04 SP 666 (hereinafter, "Petition").

52.
The Poplar Tent Road property was one of two tracts ofland Defendant
alleged i:t;l his Pe~ition that he and 28 other heirs of Leonidas Davidson owned as tenants
in common and that he requested be partitioned.

I

53.
Defendant proposed in his Petition that the Poplar Tent Road property be
given to him apd 18 other heirs ~d that the other tract ofland be given to the remaining
10 heirs.
,

I

54.
the 18 other heirs to whom Defendant proposed in his Petition that the
Poplar T~nt Road property 'be given, along with hhnself, were the same 18 heirs for
whom Defendant was authorized to act regarding the sale of the Poplar Tent Road
property @lereinafter the "18 heirs").
55.
Without this Petition being granted and Defendant and the 18 heirs being
given fee ~imple i~terest in the Poplar Tent Road property by the Clerk, Defendant and
the 18 heirs could not convey fee simple marketable title by general warranty deed in the

I

.{ ~(

~'

parcel ofland identified in the Contract and referenced herein as the Poplar Tent Road
property to Ambassador Development.
'
56.
The closing on the Poplar Tent Road property was scheduled for
September 30, 2004.
'
57.
Ambassador Development discovered the existence of the Petition shortly
before the scheduled closing date of September 30, 2004.

I

58.
Defendant did not notify Alnbassador Development or any agent of
Ambassador Development of his filing of the Petition, at the time he filed the Petition or
at any time prior to discovery of the Petition by Ambassador Development.
59.
Defendant did not notify Ambassador Development or any agent of
Ambassador Development at any time prior to discovery of the Petition by Ambassador'
Development that Defendant and the 18 heirs could not convey fee simplf! marketable
titlf! by general wammty de~d in the parcel ofland identified in the Contract and
referenced herein as the Poplar Tent Road property unless the Petition was granted and
Defendant and the 18 heirs were 'given fee simple interest in the Poplar Tent Road
property by the Clerk.
6{).
Defendant and the 18 heirs did not hold, 100% fee :simple interest in the
Poplar Tent Road property on September 30, 2004.
61.
Ambassador Development and the Leonidas Davidson Heirs did not close
on the Poplar Tent Road property on or before September 30, 2004.

.

I

,

62.
On March 24, 2005, Ambassa40r Development filed a lawsuit against
Defendant and the 18 heirs in the Superior Court,Cabarrus County, North Cm'olina" .
assigned file number 05'CVS00938 (hereinafter "Ambassador lawsuit").
63.
The An,1bassador lawsuit alleged that Deren4ant and the 18 heirs h~d
engaged in breach of contract, fraud, and unfair and deceptive trade practices.
64.
The Ambassador lawsuit sought damages it projected to be in excess of
$2,000,000.00 and punitive damages in an amount exceeding $10,000.00 from Defendant
and the 18 heirs. .
65.
Defendant filed an answer to the complaint in the Ambassador lawsuit on
behalf of himself and the 18 heirs on May 3, 2005.
66.

Defen4~t undertook; to represent the 18 heirs in the Ambassador lawsuit..

67.
The Ambassador lawsuit included allegations concerning the statements
and representations made by Defendant in negotiating and entering into tbe Contract.

I

68.
In light of the alleg~tiQns concerning statements'and representations made
by Defendant in the cQurse of negotiating and entering into the Contract, Defendant was
likely to: be a necessary witne§s in the Ambassador lawsuit.

69.

Defendant serVed as counsel for the 18 heirs until removed by order of the
Court filed January 23, 2006.

10. Defendant and the 18 heirs were at risk in the Ambassador lawsuit of
being fotll~d to have engaged in breach of contract, fraud, and/or unfair and ,deceptive
trade pr~ctices.
7,1.
Defendant and the 18 heirs were exposed in the Ambassador lawsuit to a
substantial risk of a large award of mOJletary damages, including possible punitive and/or
treble damages, against eacp and all of them, jointly and severally.

I

7~.

The liability ~d exposure for dan;1age~ of the 18 heirs mainly arose from
the statetp.ents and repte$entatipns made by Defe:Q.dant purportedly on their behalf during
the negotiation and execution of the Contract.

73.

It was in Defendant's personai interests to implicate the 18 heirs in any
wrongdoIng for which he might be found liable in order to spread any financial loss
among the group.

74.

It was in Defendant's personal interests to avoid having the 18 heirs raise

q~fep.ses ba~ed on lack of apthority and/or to bring cross claims against him based on

ll:).ck of a1,lthority to act as he did on their behalf.
75.
The personal interests ofDefertdant were of stIch a natqre that they would
materially limit his representation of the 1g heirs.
76.

The 18' heirs did not each give informed consent, confirmed in writin,g, to
repre~en~a,tion in the Ambl:lssadot lawsuit by Defendant with Defendant's existing ,
personal interests.
77.

I

In the answer Defendant filed to Ambassador Development's complaint,

Defenq~t ~dmitted on behalf of the 18 heirs that "EIlI actions taken by Davidson as.

cOJllpl&ined of herein were t*en by DavidsoJl with the actual and apparent authority of
the remaipipg Defendants."
78.
Defendant did not inform at least some, if not all, ofthe 18 heirs of
potential defenses they may have had'in the Ambassador lawsuit, including but not
limited to ,defenses b~ed on the exte~t of the authority Defendant had to act on their
behalf.

I

79.
Davidson did not raise ~y defenses or make any cross claims on behalf of
any of the 18 heirs based on. the extent of the authority Defendant had to act on behalfof
such heirs.
80.
Defendant did not inform at least some, if not aU, of the 18 heirs Of
Ambassador Development filing a motion for summary judgment in the case.

I

81.
Defendant did not inform at least some, if not all, of the 18 heirs of the
potential effect that an order granting Ambassador Development's motion for sUhlmary
judgment would have on the case generally and in terms of their liability and exposure to
money damages.
82.
Defendant did liot inform at least some; ifnot a11~ of the 18 heirs ofthe
date of the hearing on Ambassador Development's motion for summary judgment.
83.
Defendant did not inform at least some, if not all, of the 1-8 heirs that the
Court had entered an order granting partial summary judgment iIi f~vor of Ambassador
Development.
. .
84.
Defendant did not inform at least some, if not all, of the 18 heirs of the
effect of the entry of partial summary judgment ,in favor of Ambassador Development~ on·
the case generally anciJor in terms of their liability and exposure to money damages.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hea,ring committee enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdictjon over the Def~ndant, Lawrence U. Davidson, III, and the
subject matter.
2.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in. the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a.

By collecting his contingency fee in the amount of $330,473.61, prior to
the successful outcome of the Sardis Road litigation (2001 CVS 11809) in
favor of Ms. Morrison, Defendant collected a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule I.S(a);

b.

By failing to refund the unearned $33Q,473.61, Defendant failed, at the
termination of the representation, to refund ~ fee that was noteatned in
violatidn of Rule 1.16(d);

c.

By entering into a contingent fee arrangement with Ms. Morrison for the
amount of$25l,448.18 and actually collecting $330,473.61, but failing to

I
,

".::

set out in writing. how th~ actual fee was to be det~ined, Defendant did
not clearly state the method by which the fee was to be detennined in
violation ofR"Qle 1.5(c);
d.

By reviewing the contracts of sale for the Sardis Road Property on Ms.
Morrison's behalf, while having a personal interest in the sale ofthe
property, Defendant engaged in a conflict ofinterest in violation of Rule
1.7;

e.

By failing to disclose to Foodman, prior to the July 29, 2004 closing on
the Sardis Rq~d property, that the litigation conc~rning said property was
on appeal to the North Carolina Court of Appeals, Defendant made a false
statement of a material fact by knowingly omitting to tell Foodman of the
appeal in violation of Rule 4.1 and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

f,

By representing to Foodman that "[T]he litigation was successful" and that
his contingent attorney fees were owed, Defendant made false statements
of a material fact in violation of Rule 4.1 and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, dec~it and misrepresentation in violatio:t;l of
Rule 8.4(c);

~.

By failing to re$pond to a, lawful demand for information from a
disciplinary a,uthority, pursuant, to a subpoena, Defendant violated Rule
8.1(b) and also violated N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3);

h.

By negotiating to sell the'PoplarTentRoad property to Ambassador
Development without specifying that he only had authority to act on
behalf of some of the heirs who owned the Poplar Tent Road property and
could only convey their limited undivided interest in the land, Defendant
misrepresented to Ambassador Development that he had authority to
convey 100% fee simple interest in the Poplar Tent Road property and
could convey fee simple marketable title to the Poplar Tent Road property,
thereby making a false statement of a mat~rial fact in viola,tion of Rule 4.1
and engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

,

lr

I

By entering into a contract to convey fee simple marketable title to the
Poplar Te:t;lt Road property by general warranty deed without limitation or
exception to Ambassador Development, Defendant misrepresented to
Ambassador Development that he had authority to convey 100% fee
simple interest in the Poplar Tent Road property and could convey fee
simple marketable title of the Popl{ll' Tent R9~d property, thereby making
a fl;llse statement of a material fact in violation of Rule 4.1 and engaging in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit and misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);

I

/

j.

By representing the 18 heirs in the Ambassador law$uit, from the filing of
an answer on th~ir behalf until removed by order of the Court, in a case in,.
which his prior statements and representations were at issue, Defendant
acted as an advocate in litigation in which he was likely to be a necessary
witness in violation of Rule 3.7;

k.

I
1.

~y representing the 18 heirs in the Ambassador lawsuit in which his

personal ipterests conflicted with the interests of some or all of the 18
heirs without havin,g obtained informed consent, confirmed in writing, to
such representation from each such heir, Defendant engaged in
t~presentatjon that 1l1ay be materially limited ~y his personal interests in
violation of Rule 1.7; and
By failing to advise some or all of the 18 heirs of their potential liability,
of their potential defenses based on the extent of the authority Defendant
had to act on their.behalf, and/or of significant events in the case such as
the filing, hearing, and result of Ambassador Development's motion for
summary judgment, Defendant failed to keep his client$ re~onably
informed about the. status of the matter an.d failed to explain matters to the
extent reasonably necessary to permit his clients to make informed
decisions ~bout the representation in violation of Rule 1.4.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conc1usiops of Law and uppn the
evidence and arguments presented' at the hearing concerning appropriate disciplilJ.e, the
hearillg committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional
FINDiNGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated

hy the following factors:

a.
Prior disciplinary offenses. Defendant was disciplined by order
dated July 18, 1989 for making misrepresentations of fact to third parties
and to the State Bar, engaging in conduct prejudicial to the administration
of justice, engaging in offensive tactics, taking action merely to harass or
maliciously injure another, handling a legal matter without adequate
preparation, and neglecting a legal matter. Defendant's law license was
suspended for 6 months, such suspension stayed for 1 year upon
compIlance with the conditions stated in the order;

b.

.Dishonest or-selfish
, - motive;

c.

A pattern of misconduct;

d.

Multiple offenses~

-

I

7!C

e.
Bf,ld f~ith o~~trp,ction ofth~ discip1ill~ proceedings by
intentionally failing to comply with rules or orders of the disciplinary
agency;

, 2.

f.

R.efu~al t6 acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;

g.

Vulnerability of victim, his client Lucille Morrison;

h.

Supstantial exp~rience in the practice oflaw; and

i.

Indifference to making re~titution.

a.
3.

I

Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
Remoteness of prior offense.

The aggravating factors substantially outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.
De:fendant's'conduct has resulted in significant harm to his clients. Due to
r
his conflicts of interest, Defendant failed to act in his clients' best interests and
harm.~d hi$ clients. In order to receive his fee for representing Ms. Morrison, he
allowed her to sell her propetty while litigation on the property was still ong9i:p.g.
As a result of his misrepresentation to Adapl FOQ9mlll), the closing on the Slll'dis
i
Road property occtiiTed while litigation on that l~.d was still pending. As a
consequence of the ultimately unsuccessful outcome of that litigation, Ms.
Morrisoil was divested of title in that land and sued by Investor's Title.
, Additiqnally, Defendant's conflict of interest in representing his co-defendants in
the lawsuit by Ambassador Development led to his admission on their behalf that
they had authorized his misrepresentations and led to his failure to assert defenses
or clmms bas~d on lack of authority, both ofwhlch significantly hanned their
in,terests in that lawsuit.

result~djn

5.
Defendant's conduct
significant harm and potential significant
hann to the profession. The legal profe~sjon i~ entrusted with the privilege of
self-regulation. The State Bar can only regulate the profession if its members
respond to inquiries of the, State Bar and otherwise participate in this selfregulation. Defendant' $ failure to pfll1icipate in this self-regulation by failing to
comply with the State Bar's request for infortnation and failing to comply with
the State Bar subpoena jeopardizes the profession'.s ability to remain selfregulating. Fu,rthennore, Defendant's dishonesty with his fellow attorney, Mr.
Foodman, also constitutes harm to the profession. Attorneys have a duty to deal
honestly With each other. When attorneys do Dot <1,0 so they engender distrust
among (ellow lawyers, thereby hanning the profession as a whole.

I'

6.
Defend~t's conduct ha~ resulted ill hann to members of the public,
including Le1l1lar Carolina, Inc. and Ambassador Development, LLC. These

I

7%7

companies sought to conduct business in standard commercial transactions and
have been significantly harmed by Defendant's dishonesty and the consequences
thereof on those respective transactions.
-

I

7.
The hearing committee has considered lesser sanctions and finds that
disbarment is the-only appropriate discipline in this case. The hearing committee
finds that disbannent is the only sanction that can adequately serve to protect the
public from future transgressions by this attorney given the clyaf demonstration of
knowing and intentibnalmisrepresentations, the pattern of misrepresentations and
con.flict of interest, aIld his failure to acknowledge the wrongfulness -of his
misconduct. Furthermore, entry of an orqer ilJlPosing lesser discipline than
disbannent would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed
by Defendant and would send the wro1}g message to attorneys regarding the
c<;mduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
Basyd upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, &nd Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The Defendant, Lawrence U. Davidson; III, is hereby DISBARRED from
the practice oflaw in North Carolina.

I

2.
The costs of this action are taxed to Defe11dant, includitig costs of the
depositions taken in this case as follows: court reporter costs; videogtapher and
videotaping costs; transcription -costs;- shipping, handling; and: transmittal costs; and
witness costs. Defendant must pay the costs within 30 days of service of the statement of
costs by the Secretary.
.
~~by the c~r with the consent of the-other hearing ~ommittee members,
this the ...·dayof _~ 2007.

a~

Charles M. Davis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Co:t1111J.ittee

I

