"
. NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COJJNTY

IN RE REINSTATEMENT OF
JOHN G. FREEMAN
,

BEFORE THE SECRETARY
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07 BSR l

ORDER OF REINSTATEMENT

THIS MATIER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bat pursuant to a
Petition for Reinstatement filed by John G. Freeman (hereafter, "Freeman") on January 19, 2007.
Based upon! a review of the records of the North Carolina State Bar, the Secretary makes the
following:

I

FINDiNGS OF FACT
1. On November 4,2005, a Rearing Committee of the DisciplinaryHearin~ Commission
. (hereinafter; ·"DRC") issued its Consent Order in this disciplinary case, file number 05 DRC 10.
The DRC found that Freeman, who suffers from bipolar disorder, began taking his medication
irregularly and abusing alcohol and cannabis, which contributed to an incident for which
Freeman pled guilty to two misdemeanors.

2. Th€? Consent Order suspended Freeman's license to practice law for a period ofthree
years. The Consent Order provided that Freeman could apply for a stay of any remaining period
of suspension after serving one year of the active suspension and upon compliance with
.
conditions stated in the Order.
3. The Consent Order was served on F~eeman on November 10~ 2005. The effective
date of the Order was December 10, 2005. Freeman completed the one year of active suspension
on December 10, 2006.
4. Freeman submitted a petition on January 19, 2007 requesting reinstatement subject to
the conditions and requirements ofthe Consent Order.

I

5. The Consent Order requires that Freeman be in compliance with the conditions set out
in the Order to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of suspension.
6. In his petition, Freeman describeq the actions he has taken to comply with the
conditions in the Consent Order for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension and he has
provided supporting documentation.
7. After conducting an investigation of the requirements set out in Rule .0125(b) of the
North CaroHna State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125(b), and set out in the Consent Order, counsel for the North Carolina
State Bar did not file a response objecting to the petition for reinstatement subject to the
conditions,aiid requirements of the Consent Order.

I

~I/.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Secretary makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The petitioner, John G. Freeman, has satisfied the requirements set out in Rule
.OI25(b) of the North Carolin& State Bar Disciplin~ and Disability Rules aIldthe conditions in
the Consent Order for reinstatement to active status subject to the terms of the Consent Or4er.

I

2. Freeman's reinstatement to active status is conditioned upon compliance with the
conditions and requirements in the Consent Order in 05 DHC 10 and is ~mbject to the terms of
that Order.
THEREFORE, pursuant to Rule .0125, it is hereby ordered:
1. Freeman is reinstated to the active practjce Qf1aw, subject to the terms, conditions,
and requirements of the Consent Order in 05 DHC 10. Freeman's status as an active member of
the North Carolina State Bar between the effective date ofthis order and December 10, 2008 is
contingent upon his compliance with all of the conditions set forth in the Consent Order.
This the

t ~ 'day of February, 2007.

L. Th mas Lunsford, n~ S~'l'rAl-!i1"tT

The North Carolina State B

I

-2- .

I
.,_.......... "......._ ......................,_.~......, ,....~...."'''~ "._.fT'I." ..... ~'\"' ..' ,.__ or

.·~I~,·

