----

NORTH CAROLINA

--.,.-

--

-.~-

,

11(0,-

-- -

----~-- -

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06G0831

---~-----~-

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

MICHAEL W. STRICKLAND,
Attorney at Law

REPRIMAND

I

On Jant;lary 18, 2007 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Owen B. Moore, Jr.

...

Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and DisabIlity Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, inclUding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary actIon."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Cbmmi~sion are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the fuisconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or acensute to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and ha~ caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Gri~vance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Formal Ethics Opinion 99 FEO 4 states: "'[I]n accepting employment in regard to an
estate,ah attorney undertakes to represent the personal representative in his ~r her official
capacity and the estate as an entity.' After undertaking to represent all of the co-.executors, f!
lawyer may not take action to have one co-executor removed." Your conduct in this case was in

I
:",::
-:
.;

.

:" :

:: .

'

direct contravention of the conflict-of-interest principle.articulated in, 99' FED 4, and therefore
violated Rule 1. 7 (Confli~t ofInterest - Cl,.l,rrent Clients).

I
....

The trial court expressly f9und that the removal of Mr.. Moore asco.,executor was '~not
warranted under the facts or under the law," which indIcates that you violated Rule 3. I 's
prohibition on bringing an acti'on "unless there is a basis in law and fact for doing so that is not
frivolous." The court also noted that your excessive delay in scheduling the hearing at which you
challenged Mr. Moore's guardianship feeswas "unreasonable," and "worked to the disadvantage,
injury and prejudice" of Mr. Moore. Accordingly, your unjustified delay also violated Rule
4.4(a)'s prohibition on "using mecms that have no substahtial purpose other than to embarrass,
delay, or burden a third person."
In a follow-up letter regarding this grievance, the State Bar asked who paid your fees after
you "ceased doing any work for the estate." You indicated that Mr. Rodwell paid your fees in the
action to have Mr. Moore removed as co-executor, but made no mention of the separate action to
set aside a prior order awarding guardianship fees to Mr. Moore. The trial court expressly found
that your fees for representing Mr. Rodwell in the action to recover guardianship fees were paid
out of the estate. Your partial response to this follow-up question was therefore misleading in
violation of Rule 8.1(a) (Bar Admission and Disciplinary Matters) .
Finally, by failing to respond to the letter of notice regarding this grievance by the
deadline specified therein, and failing to respond to a follow-up letter from the State Bar by the
deadline specified therein, you failed to respond to lawful demands for information fr9m a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b) (Bar Admission and Disciplinary Matters).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never ~gain allow yourself·
t6 depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. '
.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance. Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
.

,

~. day of 0~

Done and ordered, this the

. .

2007

~

JRFlIr

I
.
:."
.: '
"

~

.
.

..

.:'
"

:

:

.....

.,

