--- -

:

........ -

--- ..
~

---

-~

1~_1~_

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAJ(E COUNTY

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
JOHN G. MccoRMICK,
j
Attorrtey,

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLlNE

Defenchmt.

This matter was considered by 'a hearing committee ofthe Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed:ofM. Ann Reed, Chair, and members Theodore C. Edwards and
Michael J. Houser. Katherine E. Jean represented plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant John G. McCormick was not represented by counsel and did not appear.
. Based upqn the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing
committee hereby enters the followhlg
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Plaintiff, the North C~olina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
grante4 it in Chapter 84 of the General Statqtes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

I

2. Defendant, ~ohn ,G. McCormick, (hereip.~er "Mc~orin,ick"), was ad~itted to the
Nort? Carolma S~ate Bar o~ Al.lgust 22, 1~76,.and IS, and wa.s at all ~Imes referred to
herem; 'an attorney at law hcense4 to practIce m North Carolma, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of:the State ,of North Carolina.
I

3. Du,ring ttll or a portjon of the relevant periods referred to herein, McCormick was

actively engaged in 'the private practice of law in the town of Chapel Hill, Orange
County~ North Carolina.

'!

I

4. Plaintiff attempJd to serve McCormick by certified mail at the !!ddress McCormick
provided to the State B~. The State Bar also attempted to serve McCormick by
certified mail at two additional addresses. The State Bar, ~ttempted to serve.
McCormick by personal service by the Orange County Sheriff. When none of those.
efforts was unsuccessful, McCormick was served by publication.

I

5. Between June 2 and June 27,2006, McCormick closed the sale of five tracts of real
property owned by p. R. Horton Inc., ("D. RHorton") to various buyers ("the June
closings").
6. Pursuant to the closing instructions in each oftheJUlleclosings, McCormick was to.
disburse a total of$804,185.82 from the Jun~ closings to D.R. Horton.
.
7. After making all appropriate disbursem~nts from the sales proceeds for ordinary costs
associated with r~al estate closings, such as real estate commission checks ana title·
insurance premiums, McCormick retained and held in trust for th~ benefit ofD.R.
Horton $802,185.82.
I

8. D.R. Horton did pot authorize McCormi9k to apply the $802,185.82 for McCortnick's
own use or benetit or for the use or ben~fit of any third party!
9. D.R Horton instructed McCormick to deliver the $802,185.82 to D.R. Horton.
10. McCormick failed to deliver any of the $802,185.82 from the Junec10sings to D. R.
Horton.
1 L D.R. HortQl1 made numerous efforts to communicate with McCormick about the
funds owing to DJt Horton from the June closings.

I

12. McCormick avoided D.R Borton's attempts to COmIilunicate with McCbtmick about
the proceeds of the Jim~ closings. McCormick exited by th~ back door of his law
office when he learned that an attorney sent by D.R. Horton to conftonthim about the
funds was waiting to· see him.
r·

13. McCormick applied the $802,185.82 for his own use and benefit or applied it for the
use ~d benefit of a· third party without authorization.
14. McCormick mitappropriated the $802,185.82.
15. In addition to the $802,185.82 misappropriated from D;R. Horton, between Janqaty
1, 2Q06 and July 13,2006 McCormick applied at least $256,498.00 in funds held in
his trust account for the benefit of at least four other clients to his own use or benefit
or tQ: the use o~ benefit of a third party.
.
16. The :beneficial owners of the $256,498.00 did not authorize McCormick to apply the
fund~ to his own use or benefit or to the use or benefit of any third party.

I

.

:.

~

..

1; '. '. '. ~ -

I. . .

17. McCormick misappropriated the $256,498.00.
18. McCQpnick's IP~sappropriatiQn of the $802;185.82 and orthe $256,498.00 was
willful and inte~tional
19. McCormick embezzled the $802,185.82 and the $256,498.00.
20. 'on or about July 10; 2QQ6, M~Cormiqk djs,appeared.
21. On or about July 11, 2006, McCormick abandoned his automobile in Durham, North
Carollna.

I

22. McCormick has not retun'led to his law practice since July 11, 2006.
23. McCoJ:'ll1ick abandoned his law practice.
Based upon the preceding finqings of f~ct, this H~aring Committee makes the following

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
.

I

.

1. By fraudulently, rillfully, and ~owingly convertin~ $802,185.82 which he held in
trust for D.R. Horton, and by usmg those funds for hls own benefit or for the benefit
ofthir4 persons ~thout ~p.thqrization from D.R. Horton, McCormick used entrusted
property for his personal benefit or for the benefit of third parties without
auth,orjzation in violation of Rule 1.15,..20), engaged in criminal conduct,
embezzleJ;Ilent, that reflects adversely On his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness to
practice in violation of Rule 8.4(b), intentionally harmed his client quring the course
of the professional relationship in violation of Rule 8.4(g), and engaged in conduct
involving fraud, deceit, dishonesty, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).
2. By fraudulently, willfully, and knowingly converting at least $65,000.00 (proven at
trial to 'be at least $256,498.00) held by him in his trust accoUht fot clients other than
n.R. Horton for his oWn use or benefit qr for the use or benefit of third parties without
authQri;z;ation from the beneficial OWliers of the funds, McCormick used entrusted
prop~rty for his personal benefit or for the benefit of third parties Without
authorization in violation of Rule 1.15-20), engaged in criIllinal conduct,
embezzlement, that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness to
practice in violation of Rule 8.4(b), il}teptionally harmed his client during the cOUrse
of the p,rofessional relationship in violation of Rule 8.4(g), and engaged in conduct
involving fraud, fe~eit, dishonesty, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

I

I
!

I.
\

.

.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law, the, !fearing Co~ittee
makes by clear, cogen~! and convincing evidence, the following additional

F~NDINGS
OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I
~

~

~

1. On January 6, 2P06, McCormick misappropriated $62,500.00 delivered to him in
trust for the benefit of his client, Diamond Springs Water.
.

I

2. At the time McCormick abandoned his law practice, the total balance in
McCormick's trust accounts at S\Ultrust Bank, accounts numbers 20117477 and
201058444, was at least $1,125,335.30 le,ss than the amount that should have heen
held on deposit in those accounts for the benefit of clients.
3. McCormick embezzled entrusted funds belonging to at least $ix clients.

4. Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. dishonest or selfish motive;
b. a pattern of misconcluct;
c. mUltiple offenses;
d. vulnerability of one or more of the victims; and
e. substanti~l experience in the practice of law.
5. Defendant's inikcopduct is mitigated by the following factor:.
a. absence 0f a prior disciplinary record.
6. The aggravatipg fa~tors outweigh the mitigating fa¢tor.

I

7. A lawyer's duty to 'preserve a client's funds entrusted to the lawyer is one of the tnost.
sacred. duties that a lawyer undertakes. A laWYer should never violate that duty or the
trust the client has placed in the lawyer. McCormick violated that trust repeatedly by
misappropriating entrusted funds from multiple clients over an extended period of
t- iI m e . '
.
8. Mc90rmick's misconduct caused significant harm to his clients. Eachclientfrom
whom McCormick, embezzled entrusted funds suffered substantial, actual harm. In
addHion to loss of embezzled funds, D.R. Horton expended at.1east $30,000;00 in
attorney fees to address related problems capsed by the embezzlements,

9. Defendant's miscon4uct caused significant harm to the legal profession. McCormick's
theft of entrust~d funds and abandoIiment of his law practice was widely reported in
the pews medid. Clients ofD.R. Horton who had purchased D.R. Horton homes in
clo~ings condubted by McCormick and who were aware of the media reports
coptacted D.R.:Hop:on expressing concern about whether their transactions had been

I
I .

.871

h$dl¢d appropriately and about whether they would suffer negative repercussions
from McCormick's actions. The State aar's Client Security Fund is expected to pay in
exces,S of $19,QOO.00: at its April, 2007 meeting to compensate daniaged clients of
McCormick. It isl unknown whether the CIlentSecurity Fund will pay claims at future
meetings. The St~te'Bar has paid in excess of $53,000.00 to compensate the trustee
an4 a4I)1inistrativ¢ personnel retained to wind down McCormick's law practice. This
ex:pend~ture was necessary to protect the interests of McCormick's abandoned clients.
The Client Security Fund payments and the payments to the trustee and administrative
per~onnel are funded by dues and asses&ments paid by members of the Bat.

I

10. This Hearing Committee h~s considered all alternatives and finds that no discipline
other than disbarment will adequately protect the public and the profession given the
clear demon~tration'ofmis~ppropriations of multiple clients' funds over a period of
at least six months and the pattern of dishonesty establisp.ed by the evidettce. Entry
of an order imposing discipline less than disbarment would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by defendant and would send the wrong
message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this
State..
Based upon the foregoing findings of faqt, conclusions of law and additional findings of
fa~t rygardi~g discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the foHowing

1. John G.::M:cCormick 'is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law.
2. McCorI)1ick shall sm;render his law license and membership card to the Secretary of
the State Bar no hUer than 30 days from service of this order upon him.
I

"
"

3. McCOrm,i9k shan pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar, including DHC costs and including the appearance fee of
the court reporter at this hearing, within 90 days of service upon 'him of the statement
of costs by the Secretary.

I

4. McCormick shall comply with all provisions of27 NCAC 1B § .0124 of the North
Carolin~ State Bar Discipline,*, Disability Rules ("Discipline Rules").
.
~igned by the C~~ consent of the other hearing committee members,
thIS the t()~ day of . ~.
,2007.

.

L-zn. !Lv R~

M.AnnReed
~
~hair, Disciplinary Hearing COfQ.Il1ittee

'~,

I

