"

15557
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITtEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G1634

WAKE COUNTY

I

\

IN THE MATTER OF

)

ALLEN W. ROGERS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)

On January 18, 2007, the Grievance COmhlittee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by The North Catolina State Bat.

....

Pursuant to Section .01l3(a) of the Dif)cipIine and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing in yoUr case. After
considering the information available to it, including your responses to the letter of notice, the
Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the niles as
"reasonable cause to beiieve that a member of the N0rth Carolina State Bar is guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
the Rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline dependillg upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, 'and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
repriIhand,'oracensure to the respondent attorney, '

I

A reprimand isa written form of disciplille more serious than an admonition issued irt
cases in which an attorhey has violated one or more provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potentialhann to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance 'Committee was of the opinion that a 'censure is not required in thi.s case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Cotnplitt,ee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is noW my duty to issue this reprimand.
Beginning in early Summer 1997, you represented T.L. in a personal injury case, You'
filed a complaint for Y.L. in November 1999 but failed to serve the named defendant and failed
-to keep the Summons alive via endorsement or alias and pluries suthmons. You made no effort
to contact the named defendant until FebruarY 2000 when you made an unsuccessful effort. This
attempt failed because you did not provide the necessary information about the named defendant
to the locator service you employed. In March 2000, court personnel notified you that the case .

I

had been removed from the active calendar. You did not inform T.L. that the case had been
removed from the active calendar and instead represented falsely to T.t. that the case was
moving along appropriately. When T.L. learned that the case had been transferred by court
personnel to inactive status and confronted you, you assured her that the case was proceeding
appropriately., On or about August 23. 2000, you filed a Notice of Service by Publication,
knowing when you did .so that the .service by publica,tion was ineffective because by the time the
publication occurred the statute of limitation had already run. The Committee found that your
c.onduct Violated Rules 1.3, 1.4 and 8.4Cc) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. The
Committee foUnd that a reprimand was the app:ropriate disposition because you are already
serving a license suspension imposed upon you by the Disciplinary Hearing Comrhission in 05
DHC 26 for substantially similar misconduct committed during substantially the same period as
the misconduct involved in this matter.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Ca,rolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the co'sts of this action in the amount
of $50~OO are hereby taxed to you.
Done aJ;d ordered, this the

8Q.~

day

o;..f~~~.~~~_~__ , 2007.

JRF/lr

I

I

