NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06G0276

WAKE COUNTY
,

IN THE MA'ITER OF

)
)

~CHARD

Vi BROADNAX,
ATTORNEYIATLAW

)

REPRIMAND

)
)

I

, .J
I

•

On January 18, 2007, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against YOli by The North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuapt to Section .OII3(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing in your case. After
considering the information available to it, including your responses to the letter of notice, the
Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable calise is defined in the rules as
"reasonable ca:use to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of
misconduct ju~tifyil1g disciplinary action."
The Rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that 'the tiling of a complaint and a hearing before (he Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ate not required, and the Grievance Commi~tee may issue various levels of
discipline depe,nding upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A repri¢and is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

I

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censUre is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is noW my duty to issue this reprimand.
On May 17, 2006, the Grievance Committee sent you a Letter of Notice regarding alleged
VIolations ofth~ Revised Rules of ProfessIonal Conduct by certified mail. You personally signed
the return receipt for the Letter of Notice on May 26, 2006. You were required to respond to the
Letter of Notice' by June 11, 2006. You did not respond to the Letter of Notice'.. The Committee
found that your 'conduct violated Rule 8.1 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will :never again aUow yours~rf
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards ofthe legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
.
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the cunount
or$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the;2;{~ dey of

JRF/lt

I
,
\

I
"

"

...

• 2001.

