• _.-!-..... -

'.

NORTH CAROLINA

i_ _ _ _

9759

BEFORE THE
COMMITIEE

-----~--~-~---dR1EVANCE

WAKECO~TY

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA8TATE BAR
06G0228

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)
)
)
)

J.W. COVINGTON, .
ATTORNEY AT LAW

CENsURE

I

On January 18,2007, the Grievance Col1.1rt1ittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
,

Pursuani to section .0 1l3(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conduded & preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your respOnse to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause .. Probable cause is defined in the rules as i'reasonable caUSe to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rule~ provide that after a :fjnding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detetmine that the filing or a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
hot required and the Grievance Committee may issue various leveis of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the'actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. the
Grievance Committee may issue ·an admonition,a: reprimand, pr a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which

an attorney has violated one or mote provisions ofthe Rules or Professional Conduct and has caused

I

significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
I

'IThe Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required it). this caSe and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Caroli~a State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure, I am certain that you will
understand fully :the spirit in which this duty is perfonned. .

You represented the Investors and the Brokers involved in a mobile billboard investment that
was later detennIned to be an illegal Ponzi scherp.e. :Based on the legai allegations, the Brokers may
have had some cblpahillty in the Ponzi scheme and thus may have been liable to the Investors. You
failed to address the i'ssue with your clients or consider whether the possible conflict could be waived.
You therefore had a conflict of interest pursuant to Rule 1.7(a)(b), Conflict of Interest: Current Clients.
In represepting the Investors, you had an ethical duty to make.a full disclosure to the Inv~stors,
including providip.g
hotice that a temporary order to cease and desist was issued against the Brokers,
,
~

I
......

.

,\

thereby giving the Investors sufficient infotmation to make informed decisions. You therefore violated
Rule l.4(a), COinmunication.
'you also accepted payment of your legal fees from Rainey, a third party payor, which would require
you to keep information con~dential and not allow the third 'party payor to interfere with your professional
judgment. .You aHowed Rainey to make all the decisions" including the decision to not Pl1rsue ~he matter.
further after the court dismissed the action, which in no way affected Rainey, but absolutely affected the
Investors. You therefore violated Rule I.8(f). ill addition, you never informed the Investors about an
appeal process or whether the action could be re-filed in the apptopriate jurisdiction, which is a violation of
Rule 1.4, Communication and Rule 8.4(d), Mi~conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice.
.,

I

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bat for yobr violation of the Rules of
Ptofession~l Conduct. The Grievance Comtnittee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the

error that you have m.ade, and that. you will never agaiJ;l allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a ~trong reminder ~d
inducet]lent for you to weigh catefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, y()ur
fellow attorneys and the coutts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be telied up"on without question.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North·Catolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the adl11inistrativeand investigative costs to any attorney isst:led a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and' ordered, thi,;::x),J) day of

I

......: ....

:'

"

:"

:-

'

.

~~, 2007,

