----------------------=-----------------------

-----STATE OF NORlll CAROI.JNA .

BEFoRE THE

GRIEVANCE 0JMMITl'EE

coUNTY OF WAKE

IN THE .MA'ITER OF

RoBERr L. SAUNDERS,
ATroRNEY! AT LAW

OF 'IRE
NORIH CAROLINA STATE BAR
87(; 0550(III)

)
)
)
)
)

IUBLIC CENSURE

I

At its regUlar. qUarterly ~ting on october. 26, 198.8, the Grievance
Committee of the. North carol:ina State Bar cortdilcted a preliminary hearing
Under Section 13 of Article IX of the Rules and Regulations of the North
carolipa ,state ~regardin<] the grievance file9:against you l;>y B;tyllis,
McCall. 'The conmuttee consJ.dered all of the eVl.dence before J.t, _moludmg
your :written response to the Ietter of- Notice. PurSuant to Section 13 (10)qf
the rtil.9$, the connnittee found prob9blecatlSe. :i?robable cause is def:ined under
the ruleS as "a finding by the Grievance Cdrrfmittee that there is reasonable
cause to ;believe that a member of '!he North carolina state Bar is guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action. II The rules also provide that if,
after a finding of probable cause, the COrmnittee detel4nines that a conipla.:int
and a hE!al:"ihg are not wcu;ranted, it may order a PtIDlic CensUre upon the
acceptance of the Censure by the attorney. iJ:hat detertnination has beei1 made
by the cqmnittee and the Cortunittee is~es this Public censure to you.
As chainnan of the Grievance Connnittee of the North carolina state Bar it
is nCJVl my duty to issue this PtIDlic Cehsure to you, and I a:fn certain that you.
understand fully the spirit :in 'Which this duty is perfonned. I am sure that
you will! tmderstand the censure, and appreciate its significance. '!he fact
that a P!J1;:>lic Censure is not the most serious discipl:ine that may be iInposed
t .
by
£?ttatte
lt~~~td
not be~~cten by YO::'~\o.lindicatel thathart
any~:_~~~fCathtrOlina
lLl=L~ 0
e comnu:
. ee Barf
e·
w.¥i your Col!U.U - was exvu:::.au e or . ess
a serious and. substantial violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

You were errplo:yed by Phyllis McCall to represent_ her :interest as_a
:in caprJ.com Electronics, Inc. As a result of Ms. _Mccall's
dispute with capricorn Electronics, you filed a lawsuit against the company on
October 14, 1985.
shareholq~

The-, at:t0rtleys for cal?ricorn Electroiu.-cs _~ed yoti with a MotiOn to
c:on-pel Dl.scoveJ:Y of certam documents. ACCdrdincj to M? McCall, she prorrptly
deliv~~the. documents she had in ,her possessiot: to you qur~ May of 1986.
In additJ.on, on June 4, 1986, caprJ.com Electromcs sel:Ved notJ.ce on you of a
June 20, 1986 deposition of Ms •. McCall. Ms. McCall informed you that she
would be out of the .country from june 1j, 1986 to June 29, 1986. According to
Ms. McCall, you indicated that the deposition could be rescheduled to sometime
:in early J~y.
Ms •. McCall clailns that after her return from h~ ·tr:f.p to liong Kong, She
spoke with you on or about July 1, 1986. At that time, you both discussed an
off~r receiVed from 'Capricon1 Electronics to settle the matter. HCJVlever,
. ;

I

.

there was no discussion ---about the documents reqUested purstlant to
the deposition.
"

disoov~

Qr

From mid-Juiy, i986 until July 29, '1986, Ms. McCall tried to contagt::. yq~
to determine the status of her case. She- was. ttilable to reach yoU on her
weeklyattetl'pts to gain intonnation.

Ms... .

I

As you are aware, Caprico:rn Electronics had moved for ciismissal of
McCall's COl:tg;)lairtt for her failure to corrtply w;i.th the Order ot D:j.$COVe:ty and
for h~ failure to ap~ at t}:le deposition. r:that motion was the subj~ 0:1:
the July 28, 1986 hearing. Judge Claude S. Sitton ruled that Ms. Mi::Cal1
:
should produce, and copy at: h~ ~ tb,ose documents requested by capriCorn
Electronics and they should be tu:rned over to the company. You were ord$:ted
to produce those qOC\.;lnlents. by August 1, 1986. Ms., MCCall was ,also ordel:'ed to
pa¥ t1:te att0n:t~y~s_ fees and ~ incurred by capriGO:rn.Electroni~ :!n', ,
brIngIng the mot10n. You gave not1ce of appeal of Judge S1tton's dec1s1on to
the North carolina Court of Appeals. Your motion was denied by order of the
court on August 7, 1986.
'
AccOrding to Ms. Mccall, you did not inform her ,of the July 28, 1986
hearing and the motions filed by the opposing party Urttil July 29 , 1986.

On AU,gust 19, 1986, the defendants filed motions to dismiss Ms. McCall's
complaint for her failure to boITtPly with Judge sitton's order of July 28,
1986. You were 9'iven notice of that hE$ring which was Scheduled fo+, September
8, 19S6. According to the court records, neither you nor Ms. Mc:CaJ:I were
present in court on September 8, 1986. SdltleOne inforined the col,lrt that you
were not present becaUSe of a dEXith in ¥our fa!(lily and a continuance was
requested. '!he court grcmted that contmuanceun1;:il Septen)ber 10, 1986.
~. Mccall's matter came bqck fot hearing hefore Judge Peter w. Hairston
'on september 10. You were not present ahd J"udcje Ha~toh dismissed Ms~
_
Mccall. 's action with prejUdice. In Pis o:rder of diSl:nissal" Jud':1e lfa4'ston "
cited your neglect and dereliction of dUty as the reasons for dismissal of t.he
case.

I

You did not inform Ms. McCall of the defendant party's motion to disr:niss
her action ,and you did not infom Ms. McCall that her action had been
dismissed by J"uclge Hairston on September 10; 1996. When Ms. McCall was
finally able to reach you on or about September 18, i986, you, infonned her
that you would not nave t:i,me to handle her case and She would heed to get
another atto:rney. . Even at that time, you had not adVised Mg;. MGCall of the
disposition of her qase. Sh~ was forced to learn that h~ laWSUit had been
dismissec;l by one of the defendants in the action.
Your conduct in this matter violated Rule 6 of the Rules of Professionai
Rule 6(B) (1), (2') and (3) require that a laWyer shEill:
'

Conduct~

10

. Keep the client reasonably infotmed about the status of
a matter and promptly comply with reasonable, requests
for 'information,
Expiain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to
penn,it the client to :make an Worrneci decision regard.ing
the representation, and
'

3.

I

Act. with r~rtabie diligenCe
repreSenting the client.

and

proh'ptne$s ' in·

Your faiiure to infonn Ms. McCall of the various motions filed. in her
case clrlcl. the dismissal of her clairtt was .in~cusabie. Your lack of
COllUlli.lni<;:ation with your client goes to the very heart of the
attomey-client relationship: i.e. the attorney's duty to keep the client
ihfonned.
You sliotil.d have advised Ms. Mccall of every facet of her case,
particuJ,arly the dismissal of h~ action. Ms. McCall did not have an
opportunity to cure the ills which resulted in the dismissal of het case
because you did not tell her about the defendant's motions for dismiSSal or
sanctions. 'ihus, your client's claim was prejudiced 0;1: damaged. due to yoUr
inadequate cdIfum.lhications and stich conduct violated Rule 7 .1(A) (3) of the
Rules of P+ofessional Conduct.

1-

You. ihfo:nned the Grievance Conunittee that you filed. with the court a
I1lQtioh to continue the September 8 hearing and you subtnitted a medical
excuse from your doctor :indicating that you were put oh two weeks medical
leave on. September 8, 1986. The letter from Dr. Barr indicated oruy that
''Mr. Robert Saunclers is presently under our care and will be on medical
leave until septetnber 22, 1986 effectiVe inunediateiy.t, me Grievance
Conunittee donsidered that infonnation and noted that the court took notice
of the letter from Dr. John F. Barr. The court denied your motion a!rl you
were notified by the office of the Clerk of SUperior. Cow,t of the
resch~ed hearing. N<? one
present at the hear~ on sept~ 10 to
defend M$. McCall's actJ.on agaJ.nst the defendant's clallnS. Agam, your
conduct prejudiced or damaged Ms. McCall's claim in violation of Rule
7 .1(A) (3).

wc:s

Aft~ weekS of no conuttunication with your diient; yoti ihfonned her
that she. would need to seek an attorney beCaUSe you woUld not have time to
handle her case any longer. At the time that yoti info~ her of this, Ms.
McCall was in need of an attoJ¢.ney within less tharl 24 hours sO that she
coUld attend a corporate meeting of capricorn ElectroniCs. Your conduct in
·this regard violated Rule 2.8(A) (2) of the 'RUles of Professional Conduct.
TherUl~ require that a laWyer shall not withdraw from e:rrployment until he
has taken reasonable steps to _avoid foreseeable prejudice to the rights of
his client, includirig giving due notice to his client, allowing time for
enployment of other counsel, and delivering to the clieJ:1t all papers and
property to which the client was entitled. Your abrupt withdrawal from Ms.
McCall's .daSe did not corrply with that provision.

In tPe Matter of Britt, the KansaS supreme Court publicly censured an
attorney ;for neglect"""Tng a legal matter. '!he court noted that "neglect
invelves indifference and a consistent failure to carry out the obiigations
which the lawyer .has asSUined to his client or aconscibUS disregard for the
responsibility owed to the client ••. " . It appears. from your actions that
you shOVVe(;:l indifference and a consistent failure\ to carry out the
obligat:i,ons owed to Ms. McCall in her atteIppt 'to sue capricorn Electronics.

, T.h~ 9bI1imittee is; confident that this PIib~ic Censure will be heeded by
you, t.ha;t· it will be r~ b:y you, and will be beneficial to you. The
connni~:is COnfident. that yOti wJ.Il never again allow yourself to depart
from strict adherence to the high~t standal::dS of the profession. Instead
of being a bUrden, this Public censure shoUld serve as a profitable and
ever pr~t reminde+:" to weigh carefUlly your responsibilities to your
clients, to the pUblic, to your fellow attorneys, and to the cow:ts.
PUrpuant to Section 23 of the rules, it is ordered that a certified
copy of this Public censure be foJ:'W?ll"ded to the. superior CoUrt of.
Mecklenbm:g Courity for entry upon the judgment docket and to the SUpreme

I

-.

..
Court of North carolina for entry in its minutes.

'lhl.s Public.CenSure wil~

entered by the Grievance Committee, you qre net'eby
adinirtistrative costs in this action.

~ed

aJ.$O be maintained as a pemanent record in the judgment;: 1:xJok of the NOrth
carolina state Bar ~ PurSuant to policy 'adopted by the Council of the North
carolina state Bar on the taxing of costs in CqSes where disCipline is

.

T

~

t

/J
;f

..~.

-

V J';4r--,'~/

.
A. l.Cker', Cha:u:nian
'!he Grievance Committee
.

#172

I

./2-- day of !~-l1/v,V~1;;V:::;"·19'89.
,0

I

I

This the

$50.00 as the

