1f J314)
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06G0672 & 06G0908

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

I

Clarke K. WittsttUck
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)
)

On Aptil19, 2007 the 'Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by H. L and W. C.
Pursuant to Section .0l13(a) of the Disdpline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary heating. After considering the
infon'natjon available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Cpmmittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as '!reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State
is guilty ofmisconductjl)stifying
disciplinary action."
"

ear

I

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing befote the Disciplinary Hearing
Commjssion are not required, and the Grievance COn1niittee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline mote serious than an admonition issued in
-cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, hl,lt the misconduct does not reqllire a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not requited in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
CarofinaState Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You were retained by JL in January 2005 to assist her in changing her datlghter's birth
certificate. Several months passed and JL did not receive any communication from you
regarding the matter. It appears documentation was prepared' in about May 2005 but JL found
that her daughter's -birth date was incorrect and the documentation needed to be revise-d. It
appears arrangements we:t:e made to have aU required individuals come in to sign dOCUmentatIon

I

.--------------------.,....--,------------------·----c .---------

in July 2005 but that the doc'umentation was not filed at that time. JL attempted to ascertain the
status of the matter through e-mails to you in July and August 2005. Upon leartling in September
2005 that th¢ dOcumehtation had still not been filed, JL 'e-mailed you terminating the
reptes¢nta~ion and demanding a refund of the $500.00 she had paid you. You responded by email offering to refund the legal fee b~t promising to finish the case notwithstanding the refund.
JL accept~d this arrangement. You refunded $400.00 of the $500.00, retaining $100.00 for the
filing fee' and costs. Yet as of June 26, 2006 you had still not filed the documentation for JL.
You timely responded to the letter of notice in this matter. You admitted you had neglected 1L's
matter but stated you were ready to finish her case if she so desired. You failed to timely respond
to the supplemental inquiry of the State Bar asking you to confirm that you had reso-Ived JL's .
matter or that she had terminated your representation. The evidence shows you neglected a cllent
matter in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to keep a client informed about the status of the matter in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), and failed to timely respond to the State Bar in violation of Rule 8.1.

1-

You ate also being; reprimanded for yburcontinued neglect and failure tq· communicate in
.
your represel)tatlon of WC. The State Bar communicated with you regarding this matter
previously. YOll responded to the letter of notice in that file in 2006, at which time you admitted
you had neglected WC's matter but were ready to conclude the matter for him and Were
attempting to contact him. The State Bat decided to disPliss that grievance with a letter of
warning in April 2006. Subsequently, however, WC notified the State Bar that you continued to'
fail to respond to his attempts to COmrhunicate with you and that you still had not resolved his
legal matter. ,The State Bar open.ed a new grievance file and sem you a letter of notice. You
failed to tim~ly respond to the letter of notice, despite obtaining an extension oftime to do so.
The evidence shows you neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 1.3, railed to keep a client
informed about the status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), and failed to timely respond
to the State Bar in violation of Rule 8.1.
The Qtievance Committee considered your prior disciplinary history as an aggravating
factor, to wit: an admonition in 1997 that involved client neglect and an admonition in 2003 that
involved failure to respond to the State Bar. The Grievance Committee also considered as an
aggravating factor the letter of warning referenced above involving client neglect.

I

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered py you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina Stat¢ Bar regarding the taxing ofth~ administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand 'by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

I
-~

.

Q60

.'

:

Done and ordered, this the"- day of_jy\-...:;...,,~,0iM~"~(S~--,----;---,-,, 2007

I

:TRFtlr

I

I
~

.

