NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
II G0327

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
CIllistopher A. Walker,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 14, 20 II the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. R.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including yom response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent atlorney.
A reprimand is a written fornl of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an atlorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rilles of Professional
Conduct and has caused hanll or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
TIle Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In August 2010, you agreed to represent Mr. R. in a personal injury claim. You claim that
Mr. R. agreed to settle the case for $3,000.00. Mr. R. claims that he never agreed to such a
settlement. You also claim that Mr. R. gave you "verbal pennission" to sign the settlement check
and place it in your trust account.

The defense attorney in the case sent you the settlement check and a release for Mr. R. to
sign. The defense attorney conditioned the disbursement of the settlement funds upon you
receiving a signed release from Mr. R. You did not get Mr. R. to sign the release prior to
disbursing the proceeds from the settlement check, including disbursing your attorney's fee. You
advised the Grievance Committee that you overlooked those conditions that the defense attorney
set forth in his letter regarding disbursement of the settlement funds. The Grievance Committee
found that your failure to abide by the defense attorney's conditions as set forth in his letter
violated Rule 8A(d).
The Grievance Committee reviewed your fee contract with Mr. R. You had language in
your fee contract that indicated that you had a right to a charging lien. North Carolina case law
provides that a charging lien may not be asserted by a lawyer whose representation ended prior to
the judgment or settlement of the case. This provision in your contract violated Rules 7.1 (a)(l)
and 1.5(a) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
In addition, your fee contract provided that if a client refuses to accept a settlement that
you believe is reasonable, the client is indebted to pay for the reasonable value of your services,
"which shall be presumptively in the anlOlmt of the attorney's fee and cost and expenses here and
above provided for based upon the offer of settlement recommended by the attorney." You are
entitled to the reasonable value of your services under the circumstances, but the reasonable
value of your services may not be the attorney's fee that you would have received under the
contingent fee agreement. This provision violatcs Rulc 7.1 (a)(l).
Finally, your fee contract indicated that a client could not discontinue his case or
discharge you without your consent. A client does not need a lawyer's consent to discharge the
lawyer. Again, this statement in your fee contract violates Rule 7.1 (a)(l) as it is a false or
misleading statement about your services.
The Grievance Committee was greatly concerned about whether you had authorization to
sign your client's nanle on the settlement check. You indicated that you had verbal
authorization, as well as authorization from your fee contract to sign Mr. R' s name. There is
nothing in your fee contract to suggest that you had authorization to sign your client's name to
the settlement check. Mr. R. claims that he never authorized you to sign his name to the
settlement check, or settle the case for $3,000.00. You are strongly advised to get written
authorization from your client to settle a case.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council or the North CaTalina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the ---7'/'------ day of----/-~~~~='=dl:.::__, 2011.

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

