NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF TI-IE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
10G0196

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Melvin L. Wall, Jr.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 22, 2010, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by K. K.
Pursuant to section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee fOlmd probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written fOim of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the N0l1h Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
On July 2, 2009, Mr. K. K. retained you to obtain a divorce for him. You filed the action in late
August in Rowan County District Court. You drafted an answer for Mr. K.' s wife's signature and
mailed it to her in late December. From late December 2009 until March 2010 when you received
notice of this grievance, you took no substantive action to obtain Complainant's divorce. The
Grievance Committee found that you neglected Mr. K.'s case in violation of Rule 1.3 of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. Furthermore, you violated Rule 4.3(a) of the Rules of Professional Conduct
when you prepared an answer for Mr. K.'s wife's to sign.
In issuing this censure, the Grievance Committee considered as an aggravating factor your prior
disciplinary record.

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. TIle Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
elTor that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Conmlittee, the costs of this action in the amount of $ I00.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this 13 day of

-d~~~=:;-c,

2010.

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

