NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13G0542

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

Melvin L. Wall, Jr.,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 23,2014, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Z. Q.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In 2010, H. 1. was j ailed on worthless check charges. H. 1. was a member of your
Musalla AL-Qur'an and Sunnah, Inc. (hereafter, Musalla). You posted Mr. J. 's cash bond in the
amount of $1,124.00 by using Musalla funds and your personal funds to bail Mr. 1. out of jail.
You represented Mr. 1. at the hearing where he pled guilty to a number of worthless check

charges. You were listed as a source of the bond. You also authorized payment of restitution
from the bond.
At the conclusion of Mr. J's case, you received a check made payable to you for the
balance of the funds from the bond. You cashed that check and placed the proceeds in your
home safe as pmt of a "Rainy Day Fund" for use by the Musalla. A member of the Mus all a
questioned you about the money that the Musalla gave to post bond for Mr. J., but you denied
receiving a refund. You stated that as a result of "growing discord about the refund," you turned
over $3,000.00 in the Rainy Day Fund to the Musalla.
The Grieva~ce Committee found that you served as a surety on Mr. J.'s bond in violation
ofNCGS Section 15A-541, Rules 1.7(a)(2), 1.8(e) and 8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
The Grievance Committee also found that you comingled your personal funds with the
Musalla's entrusted funds in your home safe. Your coming ling of entrusted funds with your
personal funds violated Rule 1.15-2(a).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow you'self
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the NOlth Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

~ 0.-\-1.-. day of

fa ~\4t ~y

,2014.

~twl. ~

John . Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

