NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09GI489

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Stephen F. Wallace,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)

)

CENSURE

)
)

On October 28, 20 I0, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by C. T.
Pursuant to section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the infonnation
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bm is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a heming before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written fom1 of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a heming before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You wcre plaintiffs counsel in A1cMillan v. Swift et ai, Wake County file no 05 CVS 9881. In
August 2006, the court entered summary judgment in favor of McMillan defendants Eric Sommer and
Emma Swift. In July 2009, you filed an amended complaint containing claims against Swift and Sommer
upon which they had previously been granted summary judgment. The amended complaint also included
a claim for civil conspiracy. You had previously brought a claim for civil conspiracy against these
individuals, and had been sanctioned by the court for doing so. The Grievance Committee did not accept
your explanation that the inclusion of claims against previously-dismissed parties was mere oversight, as
your an1ended complaint contained upwmds of 20 references to dismissed parties as "defendant/s," and
multiple characterizations of dismissed parties' conduct as "fraudulent." By filing this amended

complaint, you made frivolous claims in violation of Rule 3.1 and used means that had no substantial
purpose other than to embarrass, delay, or burden third persons in violation of Rule 4.4.
In the McMillan case, you also sought attorney's fees and costs incurred in connection with a
motion for discovery sanctions. The court granted the sanctions motion and your request for associated
fees and costs. Although you submitted an affidavit requesting $2,340.00 in attorney's fees and
$559.97 in costs associated with the sanctions motion, the court erroneously entered an order awarding
you $18,495.00 in attorney's fees and $719.97 in costs. Consequently, you lmew or should have known
that you were not entitled to the portion of the fees awarded in error. Nonetheless, you pursued an order
to show cause based on the opposing party's failure to pay the amount of fees recited in the order. By
failing to seek clarification from the court regarding the disparity between the amount of fees you
requested and the amount of fees the court awarded, and by seeking to compel the opposing party to pay
fees to which you knew or should have Imown you were not entitled, you engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4C d).
The Committee notes that you were previously disciplined for misconduct in the Mclvlillan case
but that neither court sanctions nor professional discipline has deterred your improper behavior. The
Committee concludes that your relentless pursuit of the dismissed McMillan defendants irrespective of
prior court rulings and without regard to the merit of your methods, was harmful to tllird parties and the
administration ofjustice.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to tlle public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yomself as a respected member ofthe legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by tlle Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding tlle taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $1 00.00 is hereby taxed to
you.
Done and ordered, this

8

day of -.b'v.:'l-===---__, 2011.

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
TIle North Carolina State Bar

