NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
1OG0226

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Bambi F. Walters,
Attorney At Law

)
)

REPRIMAND

)

On October 28, 20 I0 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar and R. G.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
inforn1ation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the tIling of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinm-y Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hanll or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censme.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairnlan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You have operated a law oftlce in Virginia while not licensed to practice law in Virginia.
Yollr letterhead identified your office as The Law Office of Bambi Faivre Walters, PC with the
address of Williamsburg, Virginia but with no disclosure that you are not licensed to practice law
in Virginia. Although your letterhead listed meas of practice of patents, trademmks, and
copyrights, there was no disclosure that your practice was limited to practice before federal

agencies and federal courts before which you were authorized to practice. Additionally, your
office brochure and your office's information on the LinkedIn website identified you as licensed
to practice law in Virginia. Holding oneself out as qualified or authorized to practice law in
Virginia is considered the practice of law in Virginia, which is restricted by Virginia statute to
persons licensed by Virginia to practice law.
Additionally, you provided legal services on Virginia state matters. You represented
parties in Virginia state court and before the Virginia State Corporation Commission without
having been admitted to practice law in Virginia. You signed and filed documents on behalf of
parties, identifying yourself as counsel for the party and listing your Virginia address, with no
identification that you were not licensed to practice law in Virginia and without having been
admitted to appeal' as counsel pro hac vice.
You were served with a letter of notice from the North Carolina State Bar in this file on
April 3, 2010 concerning a specific instance of unauthorized practice of law, to which you
responded. You were later served with a supplemental inquiry from the North Carolina State Bar
in this file on June 10,2010 expressing concerns about the manner in which you held yourself
out on your letterhead and in filings with the Virginia state court, to which you failed to respond.
You engaged in the unauthorized practice of law both by the manner in which you held
yourself out and by your appearances in Virginia state court alld before the Virginia State
Corporation Commission for various palties, in violation of Rule 5.5(a) of the North Carolina
Rules of Professional Conduct. Your reference to yourself as an attomey with your Virginia
address and no disclosure that you were not licensed to practice law in Virginia, including on
your letterhead and in your signature blocks on COUlt filings, communicated false information
about your status and ability to practice law in Virginia and thereby were misleading
communications about your services in violation of Rule 7.l(a)(I) of the North Carolina Rules of
Professional Conduct. Your failure to respond to the North Carolina State Bar's supplemental
inquiry was in violation of Rule 8.l(b) of the North Cmolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
In mitigation, the GrieVallCe COimnittee considered that you have talcen remedial
measures. You have corrected the infOimation on the LinkedIn website. You have withdrawn as
counsel in the matters still pending before the Virginia State Corporation Commission. Your
staff reported you have been more conscientious about what you Call and cannot do in Virginia.
You have notified clients and individuals you identified who had received your brochure that you
are not licensed to practice law in Virginia. After consideration of your conduct and these
mitigating factors, the Grievance Committee determined that the appropriate discipline to be
imposed is a reprimand.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depalt from adherence to the high ethical standmds of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regmding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any

attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$100.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ,9? 2.... day of

£VJ.

,2010.

/2p~

Ro~r, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGBllr

