NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
IVANN. WALTERS, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter is before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of J. Michael Booe, Chair, and members Robert F. Siler and Karen B. Ray.
Brian P.D. Oten and Carmen Hoyme Bannon represent Plaintiff, the North Carolina State
Bar. Defendant, Ivan N. Walters, filed a document with the DHC indicating that he did
not intend to participate in this matter and no counsel of record has appeared on his
behalf.
On Plaintiff's motion, judgment by default was entered against Defendant. Based
upon the pleadings and admissions pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0114(f) and Rule 8(d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, the hearing panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Ivan N. Walters (hereafter "Defendant" or "Walters"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1993 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State ofNorth Carolina.
3.

Defendant was properly served with process in this action.

4.
Walters is also licensed to practice law in South Carolina. During all or
part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Walters was engaged in the practice oflaw

in the State of South Carolina and maintained a law office in Rock Hill, York County,
South Carolina.
5.
From 2003 through 2005, Walters served as closing attorney in multiple
real estate transactions involving Kyle Edward Wimmer, who was later convicted of bank
fraud and money laundering in connection with a real estate investment scheme.
6.
During this period, Wimmer was the sole managing member, operator,
and registered agent of Real Estate Investment Capital, Inc. ("REIC"), a South Carolina
corporation. Wimmer also owned and operated an entity called Landmark Remodeling.
7.
Branch Banking and Trust (BB&T) was the mortgage lender in all of the
real estate transactions described herein for which Walters served as closing attorney.
BB&T's accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), a
federal agency.
8.
It is a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1014 to knowingly make a false statement
upon any application for the purpose of influencing in any way the action of any
institution the accounts of which are insured by the FDIC.
9.
In 2003, Vicky and Charles Snyder ("the Snyders") were the sole owners
of Snyder Enterprises, Inc., a company that invested in rental properties. In or about July
2003, the Snyders agreed to sell seven of Snyder Enterprises' rental properties in
Lexington, South Carolina, ("the Lexington properties") to Wimmer.
10.
The Snyders agreed to sell the Lexington properties to Wimmer for the
payoff amounts of the outstanding mortgage loan on the properties. Accordingly, the
Snyders did not expect to make a profit on the sale, seeking only to be relieved of the
debt associated with those properties.
II.
Neither Wimmer nor anyone else provided a down payment or any other
funds to the Snyders or to Snyder Enterprises in connection with the sale of the
Lexington properties.
12.
At Wimmer's instruction, the Snyders went to Walters's law office to
complete paperwork for the sale of the Lexington properties to Wimmer.
13.
At Walters's direction, Vicky Snyder signed seven blank HUD-I
Settlement Statements ("HUD-I s") and seven blank deeds.
14.
Instead of purchasing the Lexington properties himself, Wimmer arranged
for individuals from Utah to buy the Lexington properties. These buyers obtained
mortgage loans from BB&T to fund the purchases.
15.
Walters completed four of the HUD-Is signed by Vicky Snyder to reflect
that Snyder Enterprises was selling the properties identified on the HUD-I to an
individual from Utah for a purchase price of $125,000.00 per property. These four HUDIs prepared by Walters also reflected that the buyer had paid a $25,000.00 deposit to

-2-

Snyder Enterprises per property, and that the buyer brought approximately $1,900.00 to
closing per property.
16.
Walters's statements on the HOD-Is described in paragraph 15 above
were false in that:
(a) The Snyders, on behalf of Snyder Enterprises, did not agree to a
$125,000.00-per-property purchase price for four of the Lexington
properties;
(b) None of the buyers in these four transactions paid $25,000.00 deposits;

(c) The Snyders, on behalf of Snyder Enterprises, did not receive $25,000.00per-property deposits in connection with the sale of four of the Lexington
properties; and
(d) None of the buyers
$1,900.00 to closing.

III

these four transactions brought approximately

17.
Wimmer paid the approximately $1,900.00 per closing which was shown
on the HOD-Is as cash from the buyers.
18.
toBB&T.

Walters provided the four false HOD-I s described in paragraph 15 above

19.
For each of these four transactions, BB&T loaned the buyer $100,000.00.
After closing costs, Walters disbursed the remainder of the proceeds from each of the
$100,000.00 loans as follows:
(a) $79,343.31 to pay off the existing mortgage; and
(b) $17,330.34 to Wimmer's company, Landmark Remodeling.

20.
Landmark Remodeling had not performed any servIces on these four
properties to earn the $17,330.34-per-property payment.
21.
For the remaining three Lexington properties, Walters prepared HUD-ls
reflecting that the individuals from UtalI were refinancing properties they already owned.
At the time he prepared these three HUD-l s, Walters knew that these individuals were
not the record owners of the properties and that the purpose of the loans was to enable
them to purchase the properties.
22.
toBB&T.

Walters provided the three false HOD-I s described in paragraph 21 above

23.
For each of these three "refinance" transactions, BB&T loaned the
borrower $100,000.00.

-3-

24.
For each of these three transactions, Walters disbursed the loan proceeds
remaining after closing costs as follows:
(a) $79,343.3 I to pay off the existing mortgage; and
(b) Approximately $15,800 to Wimmer's company, Landmark Remodeling.
25.
Landmark Remodeling had not performed any services on these three
properties to earn the approximately $15,800-per-property payment.
26.
Wimmer directed Walters to make the disbursements to Landmark
Remodeling described in paragraphs 19 and 24 above.
27.
Walters knew or should have known, at the time he prepared the HUD-ls
and made the disbursements for the sales of the Lexington properties, that Landmark had
not performed any services on the Lexington properties.
28.
Walters prepared the deeds transferring the Lexington properties from
Snyder Enterprises to the various individuals from Utah.
29.
The deeds Walters prepared for the transfer of the Lexington properties
falsely reflected that the purchase price for each property was $125,000.00.
30.
Walters caused the deeds reflecting false purchase prices for the Lexington
properties to be filed in the public record.
31.
In May 2003, Walters served as closing attome,K for a transaction in which
properties located at 807 Chesterfield Avenue and 1137 6 Street in Chester, South
Carolina ("the Chesterfield Ave and 6th Street properties") were transferred on the same
day from William & Diane Glassberg to REIC and from REIC to Robert Ellis.
32.
The purchase price for REIC's purchase of the properties was $45,000.00.
The purchase price for Ellis's purchase of the properties on that same day was
$113,000.00.
33.
Ellis obtained a $90,400.00 mortgage loan from BB&T to fund his
purchase of the Chesterfield Ave and 6th Street properties.
34.
Walters prepared the HUD-l Settlement Statement for Ellis's purchase of
these properties. The HUD-l prepared by Walters showed REIC as the seller and
reflected that the purchase price for the Chesterfield Ave and 6th Street properties was
$113,000.00. The HUD-l prepared by Walters also reflected that Ellis had paid REIC a
deposit in the amount of$21,716.31, and that Ellis brought $2,415.50 to closing.
35.
false in that:

Walters's statements on the HUD-l described in paragraph 34 above were

- 4-

(a) At the time the HUD-1 was prepared and submitted to the lender, REIC was
not the record owner of the property;
(b) Ellis did not pay any deposit to REIC;
(c) The purchase price reflected on the HUD-1 was artificially iuflated; and
(d) Ellis did not bring any cash to closing.
36.
The HUD-1 prepared by Walters in connection with Ellis's purchase of
the Chesterfield Ave and 6tl1 Street properties also stated that $90,126.90 of the loan
proceeds would be disbursed to the seller, REIC. This statement was false, in that
Walters actually disbursed only $44,316.90 to REIC. The remaining $45,810.00 of
Ellis's loan proceeds were used to fund REIC's purchase of the Chesterfield Ave and 6th
Street properties.
37.
Walters did not disclose to his client, Ellis, information that he learned
from his representation ofREIC, to wit: That the properties securing the $90,400.00 loan
to Ellis were being sold to REIC for $45,000.00 earlier that day, and that the loan
proceeds for Ellis's purchase were used to fund REIC's purchase of the properties.
38.
In May 2003, Walters served as closing attorney for a transaction in which
seven properties located in Lancaster, South Carolina were transferred from William &
Diane Glassberg to REIC and, on that same day, four of those seven properties were
transferred from REIC to Kendrick Hicks ("Hicks").
39.
The total purchase price for REIC's purchase of the seven properties was
$75,000.00. The purchase price for Hicks's purchase of the four properties on that same
day was $116,000.00.
40.
Hicks obtained a $92,800.00 mortgage loan from BB&T to fund his
purchase of these four properties from REIC.
41.
Walters prepared the HUD-1 Settlement Statement for Hicks's purchase of
these four properties. The HUD-1 prepared by Walters showed REIC as the seller and
reflected that the purchase price was $116,000.00. The HUD-1 prepared by Walters also
reflected that Hicks had paid REIC a deposit in the amount of $23,200.00, and that Hicks
brought $3,030.70 to closing.
42.
false in that:

Walters's statements on the HUD-1 described in paragraph 41 above were

(a) At the time the HUD-1 was prepared and submitted to the lender, REIC was
not the record owner of the property;
(b) Hicks did not pay any deposit to REIC;
(c) The purchase price reflected on the HUD-1 was artificially inflated; and

-5-

(d) Hicks did not bring any cash to closing.
43.
The HUD-l prepared by Walters in connection with Hicks's purchase of
these four properties also stated that all $92,800.00 of the loan proceeds would be
disbursed to the seller, REIC. This statement was false, in that Walters actually disbursed
only $16,651.65 to REIC. The remaining $76,148.35 of Hicks's loan proceeds were used
to fund REIC's purchase of all seven of the properties.
44.
Walters did not disclose to his client, Hicks, information that he learned
from his representation ofREIC, to wit: That the properties securing the $92,800.00 loan
to Hicks were being sold to REIC for less than $75,000.00 earlier that day, and that the
loan proceeds for Hicks's purchase were used to fund REIC's purchase of all seven of the
properties.
45.
In May 2004, Walters served as closing attorney for transactions in which
properties located at 130 Saluda Street in Chester, South Carolina and 8 Elliott Street in
Chester, South Carolina ("the Saluda and Elliott Street properties") were transferred on
the same day from Eric McLaren and Carl Campbell, respectively, to REIC and from
REIC to Sheila Pincock ("Pincock").
The total purchase price for REIC's purchase of the properties was
46.
$38,661.97. The purchase price for Pincock's purchase of these properties was
$136,000.00.
47.
Pincock obtained a $108,800.00 mortgage loan from BB&T to fund her
purchase of the Saluda and Elliott Street properties.
48.
Walters prepared the HUD-l Settlement Statement for Pincock's purchase
of the Saluda and Elliott Street properties and provided the HUD-l to BB&T.
49.
The HUD-l prepared by Walters showed REIC as the seller and reflected
that the purchase price for the Saluda and Elliott Street properties was $136,000.00. The
HUD-l prepared by Walters also reflected that Pincock had paid REIC a $27,200.00
deposit, and that Pincock brought $2,032.75 to closing.
50.
false in that:

Walters's statements on the HUD-l described in paragraph 49 above were

(a) At the time the HUD-l was prepared and submitted to the lender, REIC was
not the record owner of the properties;
(b) Pincock did not pay any deposit to REIC;
(c) The purchase price reflected on the HUD-l was artificially inflated; and
(d) Pincock did not bring any cash to closing.

- 6-

51.
Walters did not disclose to his client, Pincock, information that he learned
from his representation of REIC, to wit: That the properties securing the $108,800.00
loan to Pincock were being sold to RE1C for $38,661.97 that same day.
52.
In January 2004, Walters served as closing attorney for a transaction in
which REIC bought a property at 1301 N. Lafayette Street in Shelby, North Carolina
("the Shelby property"). REIC bought this property for $49,600.00.
53.
Several days later, Walters served as closing attorney for a transaction in
which REIC sold the Shelby property to Marcus Beeson.
54.
Beeson obtained an $84,100.00 loan from BB&T to fund his purchase of
the Shelby property.
55.
As closing attorney for Beeson's purchase of the Shelby property, Walters
represented the buyer/borrower and the lender in the transaction.
56.
Walters prepared the HUD-1 Settlement Statement for Beeson's purchase
of the Shelby property. The HUD-1 prepared by Walters reflected that the loan was a
refinance loan.
57.
false in that:

The HUD-1 prepared by Walters and described in paragraph 56 above was

(a) At the time the HUD-1 was prepared and submitted to the lender, Beeson
was not the record owner of the property;
(b) The loan proceeds from BB&T were used to fund Beeson's purchase of the
property.
58.
In September 2004, Walters served as closing attorney for a transaction in
which REIC bought a property at 130 Cushman Drive in Chester, South Carolina ("the
Cushman property"). REIC bought this property for $22,500.00.
59.
Several days later, Walters served as closing attorney for a transaction in
which REIC sold the Cushman property to Jennifer Satterlee.
60.
Satterlee obtained an $83,000.00 loan from BB&T to fund her purchase of
the Cushman property.
61.
Walters prepared the HUD-1 Settlement Statement for Satterlee's
purchase of the Cushman property. The HUD-1 prepared by Walters reflected that the
loan was a refinance loan.
62.
The HUD-1 prepared by Walters and described in paragraph 61 above
was false in that:

-7 -

(a) At the time the BUD-I was prepared and submitted to the lender, Satterlee
was not the record owner of the property;
(b) The loan proceeds from BB&T were actually used to fund Satterlee's
purchase of the property.
63.
Walters provided the HUD-ls described in paragraphs 56 and 61 above to
the lender, BB&T.
64.
BB&T underwrote the loans as if they were refmance loans rather than
purchase loans.
65.
Walters knew that BB&T would loan more money to the borrowers for a
refinance loan than for a purchase loan.
66.
Walters prepared these false refinance BUD-Is to enable the borrower to
borrow more money than otherwise would have been approved for a purchase loan.
67.
By submitting a false refinance BUD-I to BB&T, Walters knowingly
made false statements to an institution the accounts of which were insured by the FDIC
for the purpose of influencing the action of that institution in violation of 18 U.S.C. §
1014.
68.

Walters disbursed the proceeds of Beeson's loan as follows:

(a)

$49,375.00 to REIC; and

(b)

$32,981.00 to Landmark Remodeling.

69.

Walters disbursed the proceeds of Satterlee's loan as follows:

(a)

$21,284.77 to REIC; and

(b)

$60,328.73 to Landmark Remodeling.

70.
Landmark Remodeling had not performed any services on the Shelby or
Cushman properties to earn the $32,981.00 and $60,328.73 payments, respectively.
71.
Wimmer directed Walters to make the disbursements to Landmark
Remodeling described in paragraphs 68 and 69 above.
72.
Walters knew or should have known, at the time he prepared the BUD-Is
and made the disbursements described in paragraphs 68 and 69 above that Landmark had
not performed any services on the Shelby or Cushman properties.
73.
In the following additional transactions, Walters also prepared BUD-I
Settlement Statements that falsely reflected that the loans were refinance loans when in
fact the borrowers used the loan proceeds to purchase the properties:

- 8-

Property

Borrower

Seller

Date

Frederick Atherley

Southeastern Regional
Housing Cooperative, Inc.

12/12/2003

3/8/2004
&
3/912004

737 Ellis Avenue, NE
Orangeburg, SC
718 Sweeney Street
Chester, SC
&
215 Sanders Street
Fort Mill, SC
568 2nd Street
&
538 4th Street
Chester, SC

Shawna Beeson

Rhett Hasell
&
REIC

Janie Wade

Richard A. Hall

8118/2004

521 2nd Street
Chester, SC

Russell Home

REIC

1112/2005

74.
In connection with each of the real estate closings on the list above,
Walters provided the false HUD-1 to the lender, BB&T.
75.
BB&T underwrote the loans as if they were refmance loans rather than
purchase loans.
76.
Walters knew that the lenders would loan more money to the borrowers
for a refinance loan than for a purchase loan.
77.
Walters prepared the false refinance HUD-1 s to enable the borrowers to
borrow more money than otherwise would have been approved for a purchase loan.
78.
By submitting false refinance HUD-1s to BB&T, Walters knowingly made
false statements to an institution the accounts of which were insured by the FDIC for the
purpose of influencing the action ofthat institution in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1014.
79.
Wimmer was convicted of bank fraud and money laundering in connection
with the real estate investment scheme described in the preceding paragraphs. The
United States District Court for the District of South Carolina sentenced Wimmer to 63
months in prison and ordered him to pay $4 million in restitution.
80.
On 28 April 2008, Walters was charged with misprision of felony in
connection with Winuner's real estate investment scheme.
81.
The elements of misprision of felony are: (1) having knowledge of the
actual commission of a felony; and (2) concealing and failing to report the felonious
conduct. See 18 U. S. C. § 4.

- 9-

82.
On 18 June 2008, Walters pled guilty to misprision offelony in violation
of Title 18 U.S.C. § 4, South Carolina District Court file number 6:08-CR-385.
Judgment was entered on 30 September 2008.
As previously found by default judgment and now recited herein, based on the
foregoing Findings of Fact the hearing panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All the parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Ivan N. Walters, and the subject matter.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1), for his conviction of one
count of misprision of felony in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 4, a criminal offense showing
professional unfitness.
7

3.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, also
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By directing the Snyders to sign blank HUD-Is and deeds and then
completing those documents with false information, Walters engaged in
conduct involving fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c);
(b) By following Wimmer's directive to disburse loan proceeds to Landmark
Remodeling in connection with closings on the Lexington properties when
he knew or should have lmown that Landmark had not performed any
remodeling services on the properties, Walters assisted his clientWinuner-in conduct he knew was criminal or fraudulent in violation of
Rule 1.2(d), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
(c) By knowingly preparing HUD-Is containing false information about the
transfer of the Lexington properties, and providing those HUD-I s to the
mortgage lender, Walters engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and committed
criminal acts reflecting adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as
a lawyer-to wit: violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1014--in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
(d) By knowingly preparing and filing in the public record deeds that reflected
false purchase prices for the Lexington properties, Defendant engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(c);
(e) By lmowingly preparing a HUD-I containing false information for the
transactions involving the Chesterfield Ave and 6th Street properties and

- 10-

providing that HUD-l to the mortgage lender, Walters engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c) and committed criminal acts reflecting adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer-to wit: violation of 18 U.S.C. §
IOI4--in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
(f)

By disbursing funds loaned by BB&T to Robert Ellis in a manner differing
from the disbursements listed on the HUD-l he provided to BB&T, Walters
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation
in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(g) By acting as closing attorney for transactions in which he could not and did
not disclose material information to his client, Robert Ellis, Walters engaged
in representation involving a concurrent conflict of interest in violation of
Rule 1.7(a);
(h) By knowingly preparing a HUD-l containing false information about
Hicks's closing and providing that HUD-l to the mortgage lender, Walters
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation
in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and committed criminal acts reflecting adversely
on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer-to wit: violation of 18
U.S.C. § IOI4--in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
(i)

By disbursing funds loaned by BB&T to Kendrick Hicks in a manner
differing from the disbursements listed on the HUD-l he provided to BB&T,
Walters engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

G)

By acting as closing attorney for transactions in which he could not and did
not disclose material information to his client, Kendrick Hicks, Walters
engaged in representation involving a concurrent conflict of interest in
violation of Rule 1.7(a);

(k) By knowingly preparing a HUD-l containing false information about the
transfer of the Saluda and Elliott Street properties and providing that HUD-l
to the mortgage lender, Walters engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and committed
criminal acts reflecting adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as
a lawyer-to wit: violation of 18 U.S.C. § IOI4--in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
(I)

By acting as closing attorney for transactions in which he could not and did
not disclose material information to his client, Sheila Pincock, Walters
engaged in representation involving a concurrent conflict of interest in
violation of Rule 1.7(a);

(m) By preparing and providing BB&T with false refinance HUD-ls in the
closings on the Shelby and Cushman properties, Walters engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
- 11 -

8A(c), committed criminal acts reflecting adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer-to wit: violation of 18 U.S.C. §
IOI4-in violation of Rule 8A(b), and (with respect to the Shelby property
transaction in which he represented BB&T) intentionally prejudiced his
client-the lender--during the course of the professional relationship in
violation of Rule 8A(g);
(n) By following Wimmer's directive to disburse a portion of Beeson's and
Satterlee's loan proceeds to Landmark Remodeling when he knew or should
have known that Landmark had not performed any remodeling services on
the properties, Walters assisted his client-Wimmer-in conduct he knew
was criminal or fraudulent in violation of Rule 1.2(d), and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8A(c);
(0) By preparing and providing BB&T with false refinance HUD-Is in the
additional transactions identified in paragraph 73, Walters engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8A(c) and committed criminal acts reflecting adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer-to wit: violation of 18
U.S.C. § IOI4-in violation of Rule 8A(b); and
(P) By engaging in the felonious conduct for which he was convicted, Walters
committed a criminal act that reflects adversely upon his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8A(b), assisted his
client-Wimmer-in conduct he knew was criminal or fraudulent in
violation of Rule 1.2(d), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8 A(c).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
panel hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The fmdings in paragraphs I through 82 above are reincorporated as if
fully set forth herein.
2.

Walters has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

3.
Walters was obligated, as closing attomey, to produce accurate HUD-I
statements for the transactions he closed. Accurate HUD-I s are necessary for the system
of finance in real estate to function.
4.
The falsely inflated purchase prices and false down-payments shown on
the HUD-Is Walters provided to BB&T were designed to mislead the lender about the
value of the properties which served as collateral for the mortgage loans.

- 12-

5.
Banks are not nonually thought of as vulnerable entities. Nevertheless,
lending institutions are placed at risk by the conduct of attorneys who circumvent or
knowingly facilitate others' circumvention of safeguards employed to avoid fraud.
6.
Walters's preparation and submission ofHUD-ls that failed to accurately
show the receipt and disbursement of funds for numerous transactions evaded the
safeguards relied upon by lenders in mortgage loan transactions.
7.
Walters's preparation and submission· of HUD-I s that made purchase
transactions falsely appear to be refinance transactions resulted in significant harm in that
it furthered and helped effectuate a scheme whereby the bank loaned significantly more
than it otherwise would have for a given transaction.
8.
The buyers in the transactions described herein were Walters's clients. As
buyers, one of their goals was not to pay an unnecessarily inflated price for properties
they were purchasing. Walters's failure to disclose to his clients that the properties they
were purchasing had just been sold for far lesser sums impaired the buyers' ability to
avoid paying unnecessarily inflated prices.
9.
Walters engaged in multiple and similar instances of conduct involving
misrepresentation and deceit over a substantial period of time.
10.
Clients are entitled to attorneys they can trust. Walters, by engaging in
conduct involving misrepresentation and deceit over a substantial period of time, has
shown himself to be untruStwOrtilY.
11.
Walters engaged in criminal conduct while acting in his capacity as a
lawyer. His criminal conduct involved dishonesty.
12.

Walters's criminal conviction is a matter of public record.

13.
When a lawyer is convicted of a serious crime, particularly a crime
involving dishonesty, it brings tile legal profession into disrepute.
14.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different fonus of
discipline available to it in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and upon consideration of the factors set forth in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(w), tile hearing panel hereby
enters the following additional
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.CAC. IB § .OI14(w) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.
The hearing panel finds evidence of the following factors:

- 13 -

(a) From Rule .Oll4(w)(l):
1.

Intent of Defendant to cause the resulting harm or potential harm, in
that Walters lmowingly prepared and submitted false HUD-ls to the
banks in order to assist Wimmer in fraudulent activity;

11.

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable: Our financial system is dependent upon accuracy and
truthfulness in disclosure, and harm or potential harm is foreseeable
anytime a financial institution is asked to malce a loan decision based
upon false information;

lll.

Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness
or integrity;

IV.

Impairment of clients'
representation; and

v.

ability to achieve the goals of the

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication. Walters
deceived BB&T by preparing and submitting false HUD-ls and
admitted (by virtue of his plea) to knowingly concealing and/or failing
to report Wimmer's bank fraud and money laundering scheme.

(b) From Rule .Oll4(w)(2):
1.

11.

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication, as stated
in the Rule violations found and further articulated in these [mdings
and conclusions regarding discipline; and
Commission of a felony.

(c) From Rule .Oll4(w)(3):
I.
11.

Dishonest motive;
A pattern of misconduct

lll.

Multiple offenses; and

IV.

Substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.
Walters's conduct resulted in at least potential significant harm to the
profession due to the public nature of his criminal charges and conviction.
3.

Walters's conduct resulted in significant harm and/or potential harm to
BB&T. Walters's conduct evaded safeguards relied upon by BB&T. BB&T loaned
significantly more than it otherwise would have in the transactions Walters falsely

- 14-

characterized as "refinances," and may have approved other loans based on false
information submitted by Walters.
4.
Walters's pattern of dishonest conduct poses potential significant harnl to
the public that may seek to retain him or those who may deal with him in other capacities.
When a lawyer violates the trust clients and others should be able to have in attorneys, it
harms the public and the profession.
5.
The hearing panel has carefully considered admonition, reprimand,
censure, suspension and disbarment in considering the appropriate discipline in this case.
6.
The hearing panel finds that admonition, reprimand, censure or suspension
would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of harm to clients, the public,
and the profession in the present case.
7.
The hearing panel concludes that discipline short of disbarment would not
adequately protect the public for the reasons stated above and for the following reasons:
a.

Walters committed misdeeds involving moral turpitude and violations of
the public trust, including fraudulent conduct, material misrepresentations,
and deceit. Misconduct involving misrepresentations and deceit are
among the most serious that an attorney can commit. Such offenses
demonstrate that the offending attorney is not trustworthy. Clients are
entitled to have trustworthy attorneys;

b.

Walters repeatedly engaged in criminal acts reflecting adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer.

c.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Walters committed, would be
inconsistent with discipline issued in prior cases involving sinlilar
misconduct, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.

d.

The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that Walters
not be permitted to resume the practice of law until he demonstrates the
following: that he has reformed; that he understands his obligations to his
clients, the public, and the legal profession; and that pernlitting him to
practice law will not be detrimental to the public or the integrity and
standing of the legal profession or the administration of justice. Disbarred
lawyers are required to make such a showing before they may resume
practicing law.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel hereby
enters the following

- 15 -

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant, Ivan N. Walters, is hereby DISBARRED from tbe practice of

law.
2.
Defendant shall surrender his license and membership card to tbe
Secretary of tbe North Carolina State Bar no later tban 30 days following service of tllis
order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall pay tbe costs of tbis proceeding as assessed by tbe
Secretary of tbe North Carolina State Bar. Defendant must pay tbe costs witbin 30 days
of service upon him of the statement of costs by tbe Secretary.
4.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions of27 NCAC IE § .0124 oftbe
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

qtt

sigue3~Y

day of

Chair witb tbe consent oftbe otber hearing panel members, this tbe
,2010.

'1-.tt~

9J2:~~
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

- 16-

