STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

WAKE COUNTY
INRE:
HALLETT SYDNEY WARD, III,
ATTORNEY

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chair of the Grievance Committee of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0118(b). Brian P.D. Oten
represented the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"). Hallett Sydney Ward, III represented
himself. Based upon the information presented and with the consent of the member and of the
Office of Counsel, the undersigned makes the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar") is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
Hallett Sydney Ward, III ("Ward"), was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar
on 9 September 1988 and is, and was at all times refeITed to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State ofNOlih Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Ward was engaged in the practice of law in the
State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Washington, Beaufort County, North
Carolina.
4.
Ward cUlTently suffers from physical and mental health conditions which
significantly impair his professional performance as an attorney.
5.

Ward voluntarily consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

6.

The State Bar consents to Ward's transfer to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
There is clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Ward is disabled within the
meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0103(19).
1

2.

Ward should be transferred to disability inactive status with the State Bar.

3.
Ward and the State Bar voluntarily consent to Ward's transfer to disability
inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .01l8(b).
4.
Any pending
period of disability.

01'

future grievances against Ward should be stayed during the

THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:

1.

Hallett Sydney Ward, III is transferred to disability inactive status. This order is
effective upon filing.
2.
Ward shall not practice law in North Carolina until he is no longer disabled and
has been retumed to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to the
procedures set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125(c).
3.
Any pending or future grievances against Ward are hereby stayed during the
period of disability until such time as Ward retums to active status. The State Bar may continue
to investigate allegations of misconduct and preserve evidence as necessary pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .01l8(e).
This, the a.Cf*day of ~ ,2016.

CONSENTED TO:

Hallett Sydney Ward, III ~

BrianP.D.Oten
Deputy Counsel

2

