~
<;;\~\\'ltili11!
'j...

,.(~
'. '0

/;"

STATE OF NORTH

~,f"

--

$

CAROL~.~!'~ "~.-.
'0 '1..1}.:Il
~
;~_
II \.

WAKE COUNTY

DS'-

(f,&. _
"'¢".
;:P'

BEFORE THE

.~ct, ,NARYHEARINGCOMMISSION
.' -'5.'\~.~" ~
OFTHE

~~~'

'-t?
~
THE NORTH CAROLINA ST ATE't4~3fl ~~19-'

~. TH CAROLINA STATE BAR

fVjJ 15 BSR 12 & 12 DHC 14

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF REINSTATEMENT

v,

DA WN DONLEYCOTT JOHNSON
WARREN, Attorney,
Defendant
~------------~-.----

- -.._-_._-----.-

This matter was considered by a hearing panel ofthe Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DHC) composed of the Chair, Barbara W, Weyher, and members Irvin W,
Hankins, III and Randy Moreau, Mary D, Winstead represented Plaintitf, the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Dawn Donleycott Johnson Warren (hereinafter
"Warren"), was represented by David B. Freedman, This matter is before the DHC upon
petition by Warren for reinstatement following three years suspension imposed in the
Order of Discipline in this case. Based upon Warren's petition and supporting materials,
the State Bar's response and materials, and the consentQf the pru1ies, the hearing panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I,
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of N011h Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNo11h Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar, Chapter I of Title 27 of the North
Carolina Administrative Code,
2,
Defendant, Defendant, Dawn Donleycott Johnson Warren (hereinafter
"Warren" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 26,
2003, Warren's law license was suspended for three years by the Order of Discipline
entered in this matter, 12 DHC 14, tiled 20 September 2012 and effective on 31 October
2012,

3.
The Order of Discipline provided that after serving one year ofthe
suspension, Warren could apply to have the remainder of the suspension stayed upon
filing a petition and showing compliance with the following conditions stated in the
order by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:

(a) That within six months prior to Defendant's application for a stay, she has
received a comprehensive psychiatric evaluation by a board cel'lificd
psychiatrist who has been approved in advance by the Office of Counsel
of the NOIth Carolina State Bar and that she has complied with any
recommended treatment, including, but not limited to, psychotherapy;
(b) That Defendant has provided the State Bar with written authorization
allowing the State Bar to provide to the treatment providers(s) information
and documents obtained during the disciplinary process that the State Bar
deems relevant to Defendant's mental health issues;
(e) That the psychiatrist has certified under oath, based on his/her independent
comprehensive evaluation of Defendant, that in hislher professional
opinion, 1) Defendant is in compliance with the prescribed course of
treatment, including the taking of prescribed medication(s) and is in
compliance with any recommended psychotherapy, 2) the treatment plan
is controlling any diagnosed psychiatric condition(s) and/or disorder(s),
and 3) Defendant does not suffer from any mental, psychological, 01'
emotional condition that significantly impairs her professional judgment,
performance, 01' competence;
(d) That DeFendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current business and home addresses and
notified the State Bar of any change in address within ten days of such
change;
(e) That Defendant has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in
the communication, whichever is sooner, and has participated in good
faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition
received after the effective date of this Order;
(f) That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct

01' the
laws of the United States or orany state or local government during her

suspension;

(g) That if Defendant proposes to practice law in North Carolina as a sole
practitioner if the stay is granted, she has asked a member in good
standing with the State Bar who practices law in the county where she
proposes to practice and who has been approved by Office of'Counsel, to
serve as a practice monitor and that the selected monitor has agreed to so
serve and has agreed to submit monthly reports to the Otrice of Counsel;
(h) That she has made restitution in the amount of $1 0,000 to Ricky Moore:
and

(i) That Defendant has otherwise complied with the requirements of27
N,C,A.C, IB §.0125(b).
4,

Warren completed one year of active suspension on 31 October 2013.

5.
Warren applied to have the remainder of her suspension stayed by filing a
Petition for Order Staying Suspension and Reinstatement on 22 May 2015.
6.
On22 June 2015, the State Bar filed an Objection to Petition for Slay. The
State Bar's concerns giving rise to the objection were as follows:
(a) Warren's petition did not address her compliance with Rule .0124(d)
which provides: "Within 10 days after the effective date of the disbarment
or suspension order, the disbarred OJ' suspended attorney will file with the
secretary an affidavit showing th~t he or she has fully complied with the
provisions of the order, with the provisions of this section, and with the
provisions of all other state, federal, and administrative jurisdictions to
which he or she is admitted to practice. The affidavit will also set forth the
residence or other address of the disbarred or suspended member to which
communications may thereafter be directed."
(b) Warren did not provide documentary proof of her payment to Ricky
Moore; and·
(c) The evaluating psychiatrist had rendered her opinion without reviewing
Warren's medical records which the State Bar had in its possession.
7.

The hearing on Warren's petition was scheduled for 31 July 2015:

8.
On 28 July 2015, Warren filed an afl1davit with the Clerk of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission stating that on the effective date orthe Order of
Discipline, she did not have any clients or pending administrative or litigation matters
and providing her address.
9.
On 31 July 2015, a hearing panel of the DHC held a hearing upon
Wan-en's Petition for Order Staying Suspension and Reinstatement.
10.
On the day of the hearing, Warren provided the undersigned Deputy
Counsel with: 1) a letter from the evaluating psychiatrist stating that she had reviewed the
records provided by the State Bar and continued to hold the opinion that Defendant does
not suffer from any mental, psychological, or emotional condition that signiflcantly
impairs her professional judgment, performance, or competence and 2) a copy of the
cancelled check evidencing payment to Ricky Moore.
II.
After hearing the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing panel
denied Warren's petition.

12.
31 October 2015 marked three years from the date Warren's suspension
went into effect.
13.
On I December 20 IS, Warren filed a verified Petition for Reinstatement.
Warren, through counsel, recited actions taken to comply with the conditions in the Order
of Discipline and attached documentation in support of her compliance with some of the
conditions. Warren appropriately filed the petition with the Secretary ofthe State Bar
and served a copy on the Office of Counsel of the State Bar.
14.
Pursuant to Rule .0125(b)(3), an attorney seeking reinstatement after
. suspension must file a verified petition with the Secretary, and must show by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence that she is in compliance with Rule .0124 and all
applicable orders of the DHC.
15.
The Office of Counsel of the State Bar examined Warren's compliance
with the requirements for reinstatement pursuant to Rule .0 I25(b) of the State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code I B § .0 l25(b), and the Order of
Discipline in this malter.
16.
On 10 December 2015, the State Bar filed a response to Warren's petition
for reinstatement repOlting that Warren:
(a) Has paid the costs and administrative fees required by the Order of
Discipline, although not timely;
(b) Has complied with Rule .OI24(d) although not timely; and
(c) Has otherwise complied with the Order.
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Dawn Donleycott Johnson Wanen, and the subject matter.
2.
Wan-en has completed three years of active suspension trom the practice
of law as ordered in 12DHC 14.
3.
Although Warren did not timely comply with the tiling of the affidavit
required by Rule .0124 and the payment of costs, she complied with those provisions to
the extent possible prior (0 filing the Petition for Reinstatement and the lack of
compliance is not such that she should be denied reinstatement at this time.
4.
In accordance with Rule .0 125(b)(2) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125(b)(2), Warren is
eligible for reinstatement.

THEREFORE, based upon the foregofu~FltidingsofFact,Conclusjo1ls of Law,

.!lnd the consent of the p!lI:lies, the beacingpanel hereby orders
1. That Dawn DonleycottJ<ihnson Warren is hereby reinstat~d to the. practice of
law.
2. Warren i$ tl\Xed with the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding,
which Petitioner shall pay within 30 days of the date of this Order.
I q,r-Signed by t/,W;C1;t¢t with the consent of the 0
,0 <lay of
~U
,2016.

~~~=:-IW
Mary D. VI. nstead
Depuly Co sel
NOl'th Carolina State Bar

