STATE OF NORTH CARO

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

CHRISTOPHER T. WATKINS, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members Donald C. Prentiss and Christopher
Bruffey, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §
.0 115(i). Plaintiff was represented by Katherine E. Jean. Defendant, Christopher T. Watkins,
represented himself. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter. The parties stipulate and
agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order, and consent to the
discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant knowingly,
freely, and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way
the sufficiency of the findings and conclusions herein.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following
Findings of Fact
1.
Ptaintit1~ the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
Defendant, Christopher T. Watkins (hereafter "Defendant" or "Watkins"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 18 August 1984 and is an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the NOlth Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Watkins was actively engaged in the
practice oflaw in Graham, Alamance County, North Carolina.
4.

Watkins was properly served with the summons and complaint in this matter.

5.
Watkins maintained a trust account in connection with his law practice at Wells
Fargo Bank, account number ending in 1831 ("trust account").

Page 1 of 12

----"--""""""""-"""----.~--""'-"-~.---

.., - - - -

---

""""","",,-,"",""","",-""""","""", " " , " " - " " " " " _ . - " ' " , " - - -

6.

Watkins used his trust account as a general trust account.

7.
On 3 September 2014, the State Bar conducted a random procedural audit of
Watkins's trust account.
8.
The audit revealed numerous failures by Watkins to properly monitor and maintain
the records for his trust account as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct. Specifically,
the audit revealed that Watkins engaged in the following conduct:
a.

Watkins failed to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust
account;

b.

Watkins rarely provided written accountings to a client at least annually for
funds held more than 12 months or at the completion of disbursement;

c.

Watkins advanced funds tt'om the ttust account leaving some clients with a
negative balance;

d.

Watkins failed to maintain a 1edger of attorney funds to service the trust
account;

e.

Watkins failed to escheat unidentified/abandoned funds as required by N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 116B-53, to wit: Watkins has been unable to identify the
owner(s) of over $30,000 deposited in his trust account since at least 2003;

t:

Watkins failed to promptly remove earned fees or costs fi'orn his trust account;
and

g.

Watkins failed to promptly pay to the client funds in his possession belonging
to the client, to which the client was entitled.

9.
The State Bar previously conducted random procedural audits of Watkins's trust
account located at Wells Fargo Bank in 1991, 1999, and 2008.
10. The 1991,1999, and 2008 audits found similar deficiencies in Watkins's handling
and monitoring of entrusted client funds as those noted in the 2014 audit.
11. As a result of the 2014 random audit, the State Bar requested all of Watkins's tlUst
account records to conduct a full audit.
12. The trust account records provided by Watkins were disorganized, often
contradictory, and inadequate in terms of accuracy and comp1eteness.
13. The evidence derived fi'om the full audit determined that, in addition to the
deficiencies noted in paragraph 8 above, Watkins engaged in the following additional conduct
regarding his trust account:
a.

Watkins failed to consistently maintain accurate client ledgers that identified
and tracked, per client, the entrusted funds received and disbursed for each
client;

2

_

.._...

__._ _ - - - - - - - - - ..

b.

Watkins failed to always identify the source of entlUsted funds deposited into
his tlUst accounts on the corresponding deposit slips and failed to accurately
identify the client(s) against whose balance in the tlUst account aU
disbursements were made from his tlUst account; and

c.

On occasion, Watkins disbursed funds from his trust account to or on behalf
of clients using funds belonging to other clients, resulting in negative client
balances within the tlUst account and funds being used for the benefit of
someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel makes the following

Conclusions of Law

J.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the DHC has jurisdiction over
Defendant, Christopher T. Watkins, and over the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)

By failing to reconcile his trust account on a monthly and quarterly basis, Watkins
failed to conduct the requisite reconciliations of his !tust account in violation of
Rules 1.15 3(d)(1) and (2);
w

(b)

By failing to identify the cIient(s) on all deposit slips of entrusted funds into his
trust accounts, Watkins violated Rules 1.15 2(a) and 1.15-3(b)(1);
w

(c)

By failing to accurately identify the client(s) on all disbursements made from his
ttust accounts, Watkins violated Rules l.15-2(a) and 1.15-3(b)(2);

(d)

By failing to consistently maintain accurate client ledgers that identified and
tracked, per client, the entrusted funds received and disbursed foJ' each client including a ledger of attorney funds to service the trust account - Watkins failed
to maintain ledgers containing a record of receipts and disbursements for each
person for whom llmds were received and showing the cmrent balance of funds
held in the trust account for each person in violation of Rules 1.15-2(a) and 1.153(b)(5);

(e)

By failing to provide clients with the required written accounting of the funds
held in his tt'ust account, Watkins failed to provide a written record at least
annually to clients if funds were held more than 12 months or at completion of
disbursement in violation of Rule 1.1S-3(e);

(f)

By failing to promptly remove eamed fees or costs fl:om his trust aCC01.U1t,
Watkins failed to hold entrusted property separate from propeliy belonging to

3

._----_._------_......_-------_ ......_._--------_..•.- _ . - . _ - - - -

himself in violation of Rules 1.15-2(a), (t), and (m) (presently codified as Rule
1.15-2(n»;
(g)

By advancing funds for a client from funds belonging to another client who was
not the beneficiary of those funds, Watkins used or pledged entrusted property for
the personal benetit of a person other than the legal or beneficial owner of that
property in violation of Rule 1. 15-2(a), Rule 1.15-2(j) (presently codified as Rule
1.1 5-2(k», and Rule 1. 15-2(m) (presently codified as Rule 1. 15-2(n)); and

(b)

By maintaining a balance of over $30,000 in unidentifiable funds in his trust
account since at least 2003, Watkins failed to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to promptly
deliver entrusted propeliy as directed by his client in violation of Rule 1.1S-2(m)
(presently codified as Rule 1. 15-2(n)), and failed to take appropriate steps to
escheat abandoned property in accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 116B-53 in
violation of Rule I .15-2(q) (presently codified as Rule 1.15-2(1'».

Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following

Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
).

Watkins has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.
There is no evidence of misappropriation or improper disbursement of entrusted
funds to Watkins. There is also no evidence that Watkins intended to harm his clients and there
is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of Watkins.
3.
Watkins's failure to conduct the required quatierly reconciliations, failure to
otherwise monitor his trust account, and failure to supervise his staff to which he delegated trust
account responsibilities caused potential significant harm to his clients. Conducting quarterly
reconciliations of the trust account is the lynchpin of proper maintenance and protection of
entrusted funds. Watkins's continued failure to reconcile his trust account and failure to
maintain proper trust account records - particularly after having been previously cited on three
separate occasions for the same deficiencies in his trust account management via the random
audit process - demonstrate a pattern of misconduct and demonstrate Watkins's intent to commit
acts where the potential halm was foreseeable.
4.
Watkins's conduct placed entrusted funds at risk and has the potential to cause
significant harm to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows his
disregard for his duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to
sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the
legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
5.
Watkins has prior discipline.
In 1990, Watkins was reprimanded by the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission for failing to properly communicate with a client, for
undeliaking a representation in which he did not have sufficient competence, and for engaging ip.
a conflict of interest. In 2010, Watkins was suspended for three years - with the entirety of the

4

........•..._------_...

_-_ _ - ...

suspension stayed - by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission for failing to timely file and pay
his state and federal income taxes.
6.
Watkins fully cooperated with the State Bar throughout the disciplinary process,
and was candid in his responses to the State Bar's inquiries. Watkins acknowledges that his trust
account practices were insufficient and caused potential significant harm to his clients and the
individuals for whom he held entrusted funds.
7 _ The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also entcrs the
following
Conclusions Regarding Discipline

1.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.Ol 16(f) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the NOlth Carolina State Bar.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.0116(f)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes
the following factors wanant suspension of Defendant's license:
(a)

Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the hann or potential harm is
foreseeable;

(b)

Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on his clients' and the
public's perception ofthe legal profession.

3.
The Heating Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0116(f)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes
no factors arc present that would wanant disbarment.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.0116(f)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes
the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

(b)

Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;

(c)

Defendant engaged in multiple offenses; and

(d)

Degree of experience in the practice of law.

5

- - - - - _.-._--------------_..._--_ ...

5.
Defendant's failure to properly safeguard entrusted client funds and properly
supervise his non-lawyer assistants caused potential significant harm to his clients whose funds
were placed at risk while entrusted to Defendant's care.
6.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses significant
potential harm to future clients and to the profession.
7.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, and suspension, and the Heming Panel
concludes that discipline short of a suspension would not be sufficient because of the gravity of
the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that discipline shori of a
suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant
and send the wrong message to attomeys regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar
in this State.
8.
The Hearing Panel concludes that Defendant's conduct warrants and can only be
addressed through imposition of a suspension on Defendant's law license. The Hearing Panel
further concludes that Defendant should have the opportunity to apply for a stay of suspension
upon satisfying certain conditions and upon continued compliance with conditions outlined
below that will ensure the public is protected from futme transgressions by Defendant as well as
ensure Defendant's adherence to the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings of fact
and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following

Order of Discipline
1.
Defendant, Christopher T. Watkins, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for three years. This order shall be effective 60 days after the date of service of this order upon
Defendant.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action. Defendant
shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within
60 days of service of the statement of costs and administrative fees upon him.
3.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretaty of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 10 days following the effective date of this Order.
4.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0128 of
the NOlih Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules (27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0128),
although Defendant shall have 60 days to wind his practice down as noted in paragraph 1 above.
Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 10
days of the effective date of this order, certifying he has complied with the wind down rule.
5.
Within 10 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide the State
Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can

6

.----_._._---_._.. __..

_---

__._-------_ _ _._._._-_.._-_

.__.

.. .....

....

_-----------_._ .._--_..- - - - - -_.-_...__... _......

............._._.

-- -----.---_...._._---

----

communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant shall promptly retum all files
to his clients upon request.
6.
If Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0128 and the
Court appoints a trustee to wind down any portion of Defendant's practice, Defendant shall
reimburse the State Bar for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding down Defendant's
practice. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility fees, rent payments,
moving expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage or other mailing expenses,
and compensation paid to the trustee and/or the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated
with the trusteeship. After the Court has discharged the trustee, the State Bar shall send an
invoice of wind-down expenses to Defendant at Defendant's last known address of record with
the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he has
reimbursed the State Bar for all wind-down expenses incurred.
7.
After serving no less than six months of the suspension, Defendant may apply for a
stay of the remaining petiod of suspension imposed by this Order by filing a verified petition
with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. In addition to complying with the general
provisions for reinstatement listed in Rule .0129 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules, to be eligible for a stay of the remaining period of suspension, Defendant must
demonstrate compliance with the following conditions by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence:
(a)

Defendant has timely complied with paragraphs 2-6 ofthis section of the Order of
Discipline, including payment of any costs and administrative fees assessed as a
result of this disciplinary proceeding or any related administrative fees imposed
by the North Carolina State Bar;

(b)

Defendant shall make one final attempt to identify the funds remaining in his
Wells Fargo trust account (account number ending in 1831) with the assistance of
an accountant approved of in advance by the Office of Counse1. Defendant shall
ensure the accountant provides the Office of Counsel with a final report on the
attempted identification of ftmds and a proposed disbursement plan, including all
documentation suppotting all identifications made and proposed disbursements.
Defendant shall cooperate with the State Bar to the extent necessary to obtain the
State Bar's approval of the disbursement plan;

(c)

Defendant is presently enjoined fTom handling entrusted funds pursuant to an
order of preliminary injunction entered against Defendant in Wake County
Superior Court (file no. 17 CVS 8071). After completing the final attempt to
identify the owner(s) of all remaining funds and obtaining the State Bar's
approval for the disbursement plan as described in paragraph 3(b), Defendant
shall file a motion with the Wake County Superior Court to disburse all remaining
funds to the rightful and identified owner(s) of the funds and escheat any
remaining unidentified funds in accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 116B-53.
After disbursing all funds from Defendant's tmst account pursuant to court order,
Defendant shall close the account. Until the trust account is closed, however,

7

Defendant shall continue to monitor and complete all required reconciliations of
all trust accounts utilized by Defendant for his law practice;
(d)

Defendant shall complete six hours of trust account continuing legal education
programs, approved in advance by the Office of Counsel, including at least one
that includes discussion of qualterly reconciliations of the trust account taught by
Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar;

(e)

Defendant has kept the NOlth Carolina State Bar membership department advised
of his cunent physical home and business addresses and telephone numbers;

(f)

Defendant has accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar and
responded to all letters of notice and requests for infonnation from the NOlth
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or within fifteen
days of receipt of such communication, whichever is earlier;

(g)

Defendant has timely complied with his State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements, and paid all fees and costs assessed by the State Bar
and the Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline;

(h)

Defendant has participated fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;
and

(i)

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
federal laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of suspension.

8.
Defendant may file a petition seeking a stay of the remaining period of suspension
and setting forth the above requirements up to 30 days prior to the end of the six month period
but sha11 not be reinstated prior to the end of that six month period.
9.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license pursuant
to this Order, the stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies with the
following conditions:
(a)

If the Wake County Superior Court lifts the injunction cunently in place and
penuits Defendant to handle entrusted funds, Defendant shall employ an
accountant approved in advance by the Office of Counsel to assist Defendant
in monitoring and reconciling his trust account(s) as required by the Rules of
Professional Conduct should Defendant choose to handle entrusted funds in
association with his law practice.

(b)

Should Defendant be penuitted to handle entrusted funds and should
Defendant choose to handle entrusted funds in association with his law
practice, Defendant shall open a new IOLTA nust account at a bank approved
by the North Carolina State Bar for use in his law practice.

8

(c)

Defendant shall provide the State Bar with reports of all quarterly
reconciliations as required by Rule 1.15-3 for all trust accounts and fiduciary
accounts to which Defendant has access andlor in which Defendant deposits
entrusted funds as follows:
I.

In addition to the three-way reconciliation reports, for the months
covered by the submitted report, Defendant shall provide: (i) client
ledgers for each client whose funds are held in the trust account
during the stay, (ii) any ledger for any personal funds maintained in
the trust account(s) for bank or credit card fees, (iii) generalledger(s)
for each trust account to which Defendant has access, and (iv) the
bank statements, cleared checks, deposit slips, and deposit items
associated with the repOlts;

11.

The reports are due no later than 30 days after the end of each
quarter (first quarter's report due April 30, second quarter's report
due July 30, third qumter's report due October 30, and fourth
quarter's report due January 30);

iii. Defendant shaH certify with each quarterly report that he has
personally reviewed the reconciliation repOlt(s) and all relevant
ledgers, bank statements, cancelled checks, deposit slips, and deposit
items associated with the repOlt(s), and Defendant shall further
celtify that no cntmsted funds received by him or his law office have
been deposited into any account other than his tmst aeeount(s);
iv. If any of the quarterly repOlts referenced above note any
it1'egularities or deficiencies, Defendant shall promptly take all
remedial action necessary to bring the trust account(s) into
compliance with thc Rules of Professional Conduct and shall provide
proof of the remedial action and compliance to the Office of Counsel
of the State Bar within 30 days of the date of the repOlt;
v. All reconciliations and reports referred to herein will be completed
and submitted at Defendant's sole expense; and
VI.

(d)

Failure of the Defendant to timely submit any report required by this
Order shall be grounds to lift the stay and activate the remainder of
Defendant's suspension.

Defendant shall celtify annually on or before June 30 to the NOlth Carolina
State Bar that all general trust accounts, dedicated trust accounts, and
fiducialyaccounts maintained by Defendant or his law firm are administered,
to the best of his knowledge, in compliance with the requirements of Rule
1.15 (including all subparts) or that he is exempt from this provision because
Defendant does not maintain any trust or fiduciary accounts for North
Carolina client funds;

9

-----.-----.------

- - _ . - •....•.---.-----..

~-

..-.- ....

-.---

(e)

Defendant shall successfully complete at least one hour of continuing legal
education (CLE) in the area of tlUst account management during each
calendar year of the period of stayed suspension :in which Defendant operates
a tlUst or fiduciary account in association with his law practice. Defendant
shall provide written proof of successful completion of these CLE courses to
the State Bar within ten days of completing the course;

(t)

Defendant shall have sole signatory authority on all general tlUst accounts,
dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by Defendant and
shall not allow the use of signature stamps, or electronic signature in lieu of
his hand affixed signature;

(g)

During the period of stayed suspension, Defendant shall permit audits of his
trust and operating accounts by the NOlih Carolina State Bar. Such audits will
be conducted at Defendant's expense, and all costs incurred during the course
of the audit shall be paid by Defendant within thirty (30) days of the assessed
costs being served upon Defendant. The North Carolina State Bar will not
exercise the right to audit the Defendant's bank accounts more than twice a
year. Such limitation on random audits will not preclude the North Carolina
State Bar from conducting any audits for cause pursuant to the Rules of
Professional Conduct. Furthermore, any information or documentation gained
by the North Carolina State Bar while conducting said audit(s) may result in
further disciplinary proceedings being brought against Defendant;

(h)

Defendant shall comply with any requests :from the Office of Counsel to
provide any infonnation regarding his t111st accounts or to sign and provide
any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to obtain
infonnatiol1 directly fi·om any bank in which Defendant maintains a trust
account, by the deadline stated in the request;

(i)

Defendant's failure to timely submit any report or materials required by this
Order shall be grounds to lift the stay and re-activate the suspension;

U)

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical home and business addresses and telephone
numbers;

(k)

Defendant shall accept all celtified mail :from the North Carolina State Bar
and respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the NOlth
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or within
fifteen days of receipt of such communication, whichever is earlier;

(I)

Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements, and pay all fees and costs assessed by the State
Bar and the Client SecuIity Fund by the applicable deadline;

10

---.~

..

-.--.-..-.-.. ...•- - - . -....--.--.- ......... ....._-----_.-......
~

,

---

•.......

__......•.__ ..•................-

....•..

__

- - - _ .•.- .

..........

__

.•.

(m) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed
fees; and
(n)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
federal laws other than minor traf1ic violations.

10. If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in
Paragraph 9 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0118 et seq. of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
11. If Defendant does not seek a stay of any active period of suspension, or if some part
of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must provide in his
application for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of the following:
(a)

Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0129 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules; and

(b)

Compliance with the conditions set out in paragraphs 7(a)

(c)

Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of his
current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box), telephone
number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his suspension;

(d)

Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address on
record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State Bar
throughout the period of the suspension;

(e)

Defendant responded to all1etters of notice and requests for information from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full and
complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the peliod of
his suspension;

(f)

Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding CLE or
membership obligations at the time of the filing of his petition for
reinstatement;

(g)

Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the suspension;

(h)

Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period ofthe suspension; and

(i)

Defendant paid all costs and fces of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.

11

Cd);

12. Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar trom investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct discovered
or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct addressed in this Order.
13. Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to § .0 118(a) of the North
Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdicti on until all conditions of the
stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the
stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and
ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the three year suspension in whole or in part
if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension
and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until
resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
Signed by the Disciplinary Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other heating

pan@~~~~\~;o~~~ ~
Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

~~-------Katherine E. Jean, Counsel
Attorney for the North Carolina State Bar

~-JJJr~

Christopher T. Watkins
Defendant

12

- - --

-

- -------_

..__... -..._.

__....._-_._-....._._.__.---_._--

- - - - - -- - -- - - - - - _.._.._----_.._----_.

