rHf

NORTH CAROL\1\A STATE 13\1'.
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCiPLINE

v.

CI[R[STOf'IIFR '1, \\I;\TKI1\S, Altorney.
Defendanl

This malter came belLxc a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Theodore C. Edwards. II. Chair. Steven D. Michael and Dr. Charles L
Garrett. .II'. I.eanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff Defendant represented himsel!".
Delendan[ waives a f01111al hearing in the above reJerenced malter. The parties stipulate
and agree to the lindings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order. The
partie,; eO[bent to the disciplinc imposed by this Drder. Defendant knowingly. frec'ly ,md
voluntarily waives his right to appeal this conscnt order or to challenge in any way the
sunicieney of the Endings by consenting to the entry 01' this order.
Based on the Il,regoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
makes by clear. cogent and convincing evidence the {l)lIowing:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. PlaintiJT the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"). is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ol'North
Carolina. and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. Defendant. Christopher T. Watkins (hereinafter ·'Defendant'·). \vas admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1984 and was at all times referred to herein.
an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in Nonh Carolina. subject 10 the rules, regulations
and Rules of Professional Conduct ol'the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the
State orNorth Carolina.

3. During the timcs relevant hcrein. Defendant actively engaged in the practice 01"
law in the State 01" North Carolina and maintained a I3w ortiee in Graham. Alamance
County. North Carolina.
4. During calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007. Watkins received sufficient
income to require Watkins to file federal and state individual income tax returns.
5. For each of the tax years 2005. 2006 and 2007. Watkins knew the deadlines for
the filing of his federal and state income tax returns and for payment of any tax liability.
6. Watkins Illiled to Jile within the times required by law his fedcral income tax
return showing his tax liability I(lr tax years 2005. 2006 and 2()D7.
7. Watkins lailed within the times required by law to pay his fcderal individual
income tax liability due for tax ycars 2005. 2006 and 2007.
N. Watkins lailed to file within the times required by law his state individual
incomc tax return showing his tax liability for tax ycars 20D5. 20D6 and 2007.

9. Watkins failed within the times required by law to pay his state individual
income tax liability due I,)\" tax years 2005. 2006 and 2007.
10. Watkins· failure to lile the required federal and state income tax returns and
his Illilure to timely pay tax liabilities due I"r tax years 2005.2006 and 2007 was willful.
11. Watkins pled guilty in Wake COUllty District Court on 30 April 2009 to three
counts of willful failurc to ille North Carolina Stale Illdividuallncomc Tax returns.

Based on the forcgoing Findings of Fact. the I-Iearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
I. All parties are properly bcf()IT the llearing Panel andthc Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant. Christopher T. Watkins. and over the subject matter.
2. Ddendanfs conduct, as set I()rth in the Findings of Faet above. constitutes
grounds I,lr discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-24(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a.

2

By lailing to timely JlIe and pay his state and ICderal income tax
returns for tax years 2005. 2006 and 2007. Defendant committed
criminal aets that relleet adversely on his honesty. truslwOlihiness
or iitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b).

Based on the flwegoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions 01' Law. the Hearing
Panel enters the 1()llowing:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DlSCIPUNE
I. DcICndant was suffering from severe depression at the time of his misconduct.
'")

Defendant has since filed his 200). 2006 and 2007 fedcral income tax returns.

3. Uelendant has since filed his lOU). !()U6 and 2007 North Carolina statc
incolne tax returns.

4. DelCndant paid the North Carolina Slate taxes due.
5. Defenda11l paid the courl costs that werc asscsscd by the court.
6. Delendant has sought trealment I(lr his depression.
7. Delendant has a "highly regarded reputation" in the Alamance COUilty Bar
;-\ssnci~lti on.

R. The Grievance Cu!nrnittcc urthe State Bar reprimanded Defendant in 1990 for
incompetence and eonllict of interest in a real estate matter.
13asl'd un the foregoing rinding~~ of Fact. Conclusions of
Fact Regarding Discipline. the Hearing Panel enlers the following:

LUlY

and Findings 01'

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLlNF
I. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the diflerent forms of
discipline available to it. including admonition. reprimand. censure and suspension.
2. The Hearing Panel has considercd all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
I B ~ .0 I 14( w)( J ) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and finds the
J()llowing factors are applicable:
a.

circumstances rellecting the deJendant"s Jack of honesty.
trustworthiness. or integrity:

b. negative impact ol"the DeICndan(s aetions on publie·s perception 01"

3

the prolession:
c. experience in the practice ol'law:
d. prior disciplinary offense:
e.

remoteness of prior disciplinary oflense:

I'.

timely good L1ilh eHixts to make restitution or to rectify consequences
of misconduct:

g. effect of menwl disahility and il11paimlent on the conduct in question:
h.

interim rehabilitation:

1.

full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings:

.1.

remorse: and

k.

good character and reputation.

3. 'rhe llearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a censure,
reprimand or admonition would be insunieient discipline because of the potential hann to
the legal profession caused hy Delendant's conduct.
4. The Hearing Panel lind, that though Defendant's conduct is serious enough to
than a censure it does not \valTanl an active suspension of his license.

\\arrant 1110rC

5. The Hearing Panel linds that a Sl8yed suspension of Defendant's law license is
warranted lor the li1110wi ng reasons:
a.

Delendant's conduct relleets adversely on his trustworthiness or fitness
as a lawyer:

h. Entry of an order imposing less severe discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the misconduct and would send
the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct
expected ofmernbers of the Bar of this State.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel
hereby enters the following:

4

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The law license of Defendant. Christopher T. Watkins. is hereby suspended for
three (3) years effective ll'om the date this Order of Discipline is served upon him. The
period of suspension is stayed for three (3) years as long as Defendant complies and
continues to comply with the following conditions:

a.

Defendant shall execute any written waivers and releases necessary to
authorize the Otllce of Counsel to confer with the lntemal Revenue
Service or the North Carolina Department of Revenue for the purpose
01" determining whether Defendant has cooperated and complied with
all requirements of this Order. Defendant will not revoke these
waivers and releases at any time during the period of stay:

b. Defendant shall timely lile during the period of stay his federal and
slate income tax returns along with any nssnciatcd schedules and

attachments thereto and shall provide proof of these tilings to the
Officc of Counsel within 30 days of lIIing:
c.

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or of any state or local government during his
suspension:

d. Defendam shall pay all taxes. tines. penalties and estimatedlaxes
during the stay period:
e.

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home addresses and
shall notify the Bar of any change in address within ten (10) days of
such change:

t:

DeCendant shall respond to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar. including communications from the Attorney
Client Assistance Program. within thirty (301 days of receipt or by the
deadline stated in the communication. whichever is sooner. and shall
pm·tieipate in good faith in the State Bar's lee dispute resolution
process fix any petition of which he receives notice afier the efTective
date of this Order:

g. Defendant shall promptly accept service of all eerti lled mai I from the
State Bar that is sent to him:

5

h. Defendant shall respond to all communications from the Internal
Revenue Service and the North Carolina Department of Revenue:
I.

Delendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements:

2. If Defendant Elils to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
provided in paragraph I(a) ~ (i) above. the stay of the suspension may be lifted as
provided in ~ .(1l14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Diseipline and Disability Rules.
3. If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendanfs license is
activated I()r any reason. befixe seek ing reinstatement of his license to praet ice law.
Defendant must show by clear. cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied with
each ofthc 1()llowing conditions:

6

a.

Dctendant submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar within thirty (30) days after the
date of the order lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension
of his law licensc:

b.

Delendant complied with all provisions 01'27 N.C.A.C. 113 § .0124 of
the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following the
order lifting the stay and/or aetivating the suspension of his law
license:

c.

Derendant kcpt the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and homc addresses and notified
the Bar of any change in address within ten (10) days ofsueh
change:

d.

Delendant responded to all communications li·om the North Carolina
State Bar. including communications Ji·omthe Attorney Client
Assistance Program. within thirty (30) days of receipt or by the
deadline stated in the eommunication. whichever is sooner. and
has participated in good faith in the State Bar·s fee dispute
resolution process for any petition ofwhieh he receives notice
after the efleetive date of this Order:

e.

Defendant promptly accepted all certilled mail sent to him by the State
Bar:

1'.

That at the time 01" his petition f(1I· stay, DcJendant is current in
payment of all Membership dues, fees and costs. including all
Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or

surchal'ges the State Bar is authorized 1O collect Ii'om him. and
including all judicial district dues. fees and assessments.
g.

That 3tthe time of his petition fl.)r stay. there is no deficit in
Defendant"s completion of mandatory Continuing Legal
Education (CLIO) hours. in reporting of such hours or in
payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLIO
programs.

h.

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws ofthc United Statcs or of any state or local government
during his suspension:

I.

Defendant has paid the administrative fees am! costs of this proceeding
as rellected on the statement of costs served upon him by the
Secretary of the State Bar:

I.

Defendant has complied with any other conditions deemed necessary
for reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel pursuant to the
order lilling thc stay Dfthe suspension of Defendant's law
license.

4. Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary whieh Defendant shall pay within thirty (30) days of service of
the notice nr ensls IIpon the Defend8nt.
Siuned bv the undersiuncd Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
members 7,1- the ilcaring Panel. this is the r:; ~day 01'._ ~q+;'\"""'.2010.

__:JLl- (, _~~-=0-.
Theodore C. Edwards_ II. Chair
I-tearing Pane!

7

_

