BEFORE THE

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
ROBERTN. WECKWORTH, Jr.,
Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was heard on April 7 and June 20, 2017 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of R. Lee Farmer, Chair, and members N. Hunter
Wyche, Jr.and Michael S. Edwards pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by G. Patrick Murphy. Defendant,
Robert N. Weckworth, Jr., ("Weckworth" or "Defendant"), appeared pro se.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and the evidence
presented at hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rwes and Regwations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
Defendant was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on Febmary 28, 1989, and
was, at all times refelTed to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject
to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regwations of the North Carolina State
Bar, and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was engaged
in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Guilford County,
North Carolina.
4.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before the
Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
5.
Defendant was retained by Scott and Caroline Canithers ("Carrithers") in
December 2013 to represent them in their effort to obtain custody of a minor child, SM.
1

6.

SM's birth mother is Lisa Anne Chasten ("Chasten").

7:
On or about September 26, 2013, SM was placed in the custody of the Guilford
County Department of Social Services ("GCDSS") pursuant to a Petition and Order for Non-secure
Custody filed in a Guilford County juvenile proceeding ("juvenile proceeding") alleging SM was
neglected and dependent .
8.
SM had been placed with the CmTithers for a period of time in 2013 but GCDSS
removed SM fi'om the CmTithers' residence in November 2013.
9.
Chasten was represented in the juvenile proceeding related to SM by Danielle
Caldwell ("Caldwell"). Caldwell was appointed to represent Chasten on or about September 26,
2013 and continued in that capacity until she was allowed to withdraw fi'om the case by court order
.
on January 30,2014.
10.

Robert W. Brown III ("Brown") represented the GCDSS in the juvenile proceeding.

11.
On or about December 23,2013, Chasten was at the CmTithers' residence with
Defendant and the Carrithers. At that time, Defendant and Chasten discussed the custody of SM.
12.
At the time Defendant and Chasten discussed the custody of SM at the Carrithers'
residence, Chasten was aware that the Carrithers had talked about retaining an attorney in their
effort to contest the removal of SM by GCDSS, and to obtain custody of SM.
13.
At the time Defendant and Chasten were at the CmTithers' residence, Defendant
Imew Chasten was represented in the juvenile proceeding by Caldwell, and Defendant did not have
the consent of Caldwell to communicate with Chasten about the custody of SM.
14.
At the time Defendant and Chasten were together at the Carrithers' residence,
Defendant and Chasten talked about Defendant representing Chasten and Defendant advised
Chasten that he could not represent her because that would constitute a conflict of interest.
15.
On or about December 20-23, 2013, Defendant left a voice mail with Caldwell
stating that he was going to be representing the Carrithers and that he thought Chasten supported
what he was doing on behalf of the Carrithers.
16.
Carrithers.

On December 26, 2013, Defendant signed a fOlmal retainer agreement with the

17.
The Carrithers talked with Chasten about Chasten providing an affidavit in suppOli
of the legal action that Defendant was preparing on behalf of the CmTithers.
18.
Defendant told the Carrithers that a statement by Chasten would be helpful to their
legal action because it would show "everyone's on the same page."
19.
Defendant never sought or obtained Caldwell's consent for the CmTithers to talk
with Chasten about Chasten providing an affidavit in suppOli of the Carrithers' legal action.

2

20.
On or about December 27, 2013, Defendant called Connie Bowman ("Bowman"),
a foster care social worker with GCDSS, who was assigned to SM's juvenile proceedings.
21.
At the time Defendant called Bowman, he lmew GCDSS was represented in the
juvenile proceeding by the Guilford County Attorney's Office.
22.

Defendant asked Bowman about her thoughts on returning SM to the Carrithers.

23.
Defendant told Bowman that he had been retained by the Cairithers to file a motion
to intervene in the juvenile proceeding related to SM.
24.
proceeding.

Bowman told Defendant that Brown was the attorney assigned to SM's juvenile

25.
On or before January 3, 2014, the Ca11'ithers delivered to Defendant an affidavit
signed by Chasten. The affidavit was dated JanuaTy 2, 2014.
26.
Defendant never informed Caldwell that he had obtained an affidavit fi'om her
client or obtained Caldwell's consent to use Chasten's affidavit in support of the Ca11'ithers' legal
action.
27.
On Janmuy 3, 2014, Defendant filed a motion to intervene in the juvenile
proceeding on behalf of the Carrithers.
28.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §7B-200, the District Court has exclusive, original
jurisdiction over any case involving a juvenile who is alleged to be abused, neglected, or
dependent.
29.
011 Januaty 3, 2014, Defendant also filed a civil action, Carrithers v. Lisa Anne
Chasten, Jason Morgan, and Guilford County DSS, 14 CVD 2538 ("civil complaint"), on behalf
of the Carrithers in Guilford County District Court seeking, among other relief, immediate,
temporaty, and exclusive care, custody and control of SM pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 5013.5(d)(2)(3).
30.
Defendant attached Chasten's affidavit to both the motion to intervene in the
juvenile proceeding, and the civil complaint.
31.

The civil complainant references the parallel juvenile proceeding.

32.
Attorney Edward Branscomb ("Branscomb") represented Charles Jason Morgan,
SM's father, in the juvenile proceeding.
33.
On JanuaTy 6, 2014, Defendant approached the Honorable Michelle Fletcher,
Guilford County District Court Judge, and communicated with her ex parte requesting that Judge
Fletcher immediately consider granting the Carrithers temporary custody of SM.
34.
Defendant told Judge Fletcher that it was important that Judge Fletcher hear his
concems about the placement of SM as soon as possible.
3

35.
Defendant knew that Branscomb was representing Morgan in the juvenile
proceeding at the time Defendant engaged in his ex parte communication with Judge Fletcher.
36.
Defendant did not notify Brown, Caldwell or Branscomb before he communicated
ex parte with Judge Fletcher about granting emergency temporary custody ofSM to the Ca11'ithers.
37.
At the time Defendant contacted Judge Fletcher, GCDSS had not been served with
the civil complaint.
38.
Judge Fletcher told Defendant to return at 2:30 p.m. to the office of the district COUli
judges in order to address the CatTithers' request to emergency custody.
39.
Judge Fletcher contacted Brown, who works in High Point, on January 6, 2014 at
approximately 1:30 p.m., and told Brown about Defendant's request for an emergency custody
hearing.
40.
Brown immediately drove to Greensboro to attend a heat'ing at 2:30 p.m. on
Defendant's request for emergency custody.
41.
Defendant did not contact defendants Chasten or Morgan, or their attorneys in the
juvenile proceeding, to notifY them of his plan to communicate ex parte with Judge Fletcher or to
notifY them of the hearing scheduled for 2:30 p.m. on January 6, 2014.
42.
request.

At or about 2:30 p.m., Judge Fletcher conducted a heat'ing based on Defendant's

43.
Chasten and Morgan, the parents of SM and named defendants in the civil action,
were not personally present or represented by counsel at the hearing on Defendant's request for
emergency custody.
44.
The civil complaint alleged, based on information and belief, that SM had lost
weight, from 18 pounds, 4 ounces to 17 pounds, 3 ounces, within the first 11 days after being
removed from the Ca11'ithers' residence.
45.
The civil complaint also alleged SM had been born prematurely and had a greater
risk to contract common illnesses if left in foster cat'e since the foster system promoted the use of
day cat'e facilities.
46.

At the heat'ing, Defendant did not present any witnesses.

47.
Defendant did not present any evidence or information to prove when SM had
weighed 17 pounds, 3 ounces, why SM had lost weight, or whether the weight had been regained.
48.

SM had been removed from the Carrithers residence on or about November 19,

2013.

4

49.
After the hearing for emergency temporary custody, Judge Fletcher entered an
order finding the Carrithers had failed to allege or show grounds sufficient to support an award of
temporary custody pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 50-13.5(d)(2)(3).
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction over
Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b )(2) as follows:
a.

By failing to obtain Caldwell's consent prior to the use and filing of Chasten's
affidavit with the Carrithers' complaint in Guilford County Civil Proceeding 14
CVD 2538, Defendant violated Rule 4.2(a); and

b.

By failing to notify opposing counsel Brown, Caldwell and Branscomb before his
ex parte communications with Judge Fletcher on January 6, 2014, Defendant
engaged in an ex parte communications with a judge without adequate notice to an
opposing patty in violation ofRule3.5(a)(3).

3.
The evidence was not sufficient to find by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
that Defendant's communication with Bowman violated Rule 4.2(a) as alleged in paragraph b of
the Complaint; or that Defendant brought or asselted a frivolous claim in violation of Rule 3.1 as
alleged in paragraph c of the Complaint.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the evidence
presented at hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant has prior disciplinary offenses in North Carolina. Defendant received
an Admonition by the State Bar's Grievance Committee in In Re: Robert N. Weck;l'orth, Jr.,
12Gl035 & 13G0434 (2013) and a Reprimand by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission in The
North Carolina State Bar v. Robert N. Weckworth, Jr., 7 DHC 14 (2008).
2.
Defendant was admitted to the NOlth Carolina State Bar in 1989 and has substantial
,
experience in the practice oflaw.
3.

Defendant refuses to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct.

4.
Chasten has a history of substance abuse and was in a recovery program at Mary's
House in Greensboro in 2013 when the events leading to DSS obtaining custody of SM and the
Carrithers' legal actions began to urrroid.

5

5.
At the time Defendant obtained Chasten's affidavit, he knew she was represented
by Caldwell and that Chasten's uncounselled disclosures were damaging to Chasten's interests in
reunifying with SM.
6.
The orderly and efficient resolution of legal issues and the concept of judicial
impartiality are compromised when a lawyer fails to provide adequate notice to all parties and
lawyers interested in a legal proceeding before communicating ex parte with the tribunal.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings Regarding
Discipline the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
available.

The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline

2.
The Hearing Panel has also carefully considered all the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code § lB .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and determines the following factor is applicable:
a.

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code § lB .0114 (w)(2) and concludes no factors are present that would wanant disbarment.
4.
In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code § 1B .0114(w)(3) and determines the following factors are applicable:
a.

Prior disciplinary offenses in this State;

b.

Multiple offenses;

c.

Defendant's refusal to aclmowledge the wrongfulness of his conduct;

d.

Vulnerability of the victim; and

e.

Defendant's degree of experience in the practice oflaw.

5.
Defendant's conduct resulting in the rule violations found by the Hearing Panel
caused potential significant harm to the administration of justice and the legal profession.
6.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a reprimand or
admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the significant potential harm to the
administration of justice and the legal profession caused by Defendant's conduct.
7.

Although Defendant's conduct is serious, it does not wanant a suspension of his

license.
6

8.
A censure is walTanted because entry of an order imposing less severe discipline
would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the conduct and would send the wrong message to
attorneys and the public about the conduct expected of members of the BaT of this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
. ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Robert N. Weckworth, JI'., is hereby Censured for his conduct with the
following additional conditions:

a.

Defendant will respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in the communication;

b.

Defendant will advise the Bar in writing of all address changes within 10 days of
the change;

c.

Defendant will timely comply with his State Bar continuing legal education
requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;
and

d.

Defendant will not violate the laws of any state or of the United States.

2.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs ofthis action as assessed
by the Secretary which Defendant shall pay within thirty days of service of the notice of costs upon
Defendant.

day of

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
OdoC.Cl'
,2017.

R. Lee Farmer, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

7

"til.

