WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE OF
JAMES T. LEE

)

)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

)

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council ofthe
North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Rule. 0117 of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar, upon
an affidavit of tender of license pursuant to Rule .0117(a) executed by James T. Lee and
filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on October 19, 1999.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that the conduct of James T. Lee is
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28(b)(2) in that James T.
Lee misappropriated client funds in violation of Rule 1.15-1 (a) and (d) and Rule 1.15­
2(g) and (h) of the North Carolina State Bar Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon motion duly made and seconded, the Council enters the
following order:
1. The tender of surrender of license of James T. Lee is hereby accepted.
2. James T. Lee is hereby DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North
Carolina.
3. James T. Lee shall forthwith surrender his license and membership card to the
Secretary. He shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Rule
.0124 of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
4. The costs of this action are hereby taxed against James T. Lee.

Done and ordered this the 22nd day of October, 1999.


Robert C. Sink, President
The North Carolina State Bar

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY
AFFIDAVIT
TO: The Council of the North Carolina State Bar
I, James T. Lee, hereby tender my license to practice and desire to resign from the
North Carolina State Bar. My resignation is tendered freely and voluntarily, is not the
result of coercion or duress, and I am fully aware of the implications of submitting the
resignation

I am aware that there are presently pending investigations or other proceedings
regarding allegations that I have been guilty of misconduct, to wit: misappropriation of
client funds.
I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the complaints are predicated are
true. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if charges were predicated upon
the misconduct under investigation I could not successfully defend against them.
I understand that the North Carolina State Bar Council will consider the affidavit
of surrender of my law license at its meeting on Fri~ , 1999 and I waive
~
/'
further notice of the hearing.
This the 18th day of October, 1999.

Sworn and subscribed before me

~'2jJ=' 1999.
Notary Public

My commission expires

Id _q -.:l () '0 2.


