NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG051?

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
William E. West, Jr.
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 28, 20 10, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infOlmation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committcc may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused haml or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented C.M. in a Florida probate matter. C.M. is the beneficiary of her late
husband's trust. C.M. sought to increase her monthly benefit. C.M. retained you to represent her
interests. C.M. signed a written contingency fee agreement allowing you to collect 22.5% of
whatever increase in benefits you obtained. At the time C.M. retained you, she told you she was
collecting $50,000 a month. C.M. was actually receiving $85,000. After you became involved,

you learned that C.M.'s monthly allowance was actually $85,000. You maintained that your
involvement in the matter resulted in the increase from $50,000 to $85,000. Your only
involvement at the time was reviewing the file and collecting information from other involved
professionals. You nevertheless collected 22.5% of the difference or $7,875 a month for four
months. Because you did not provide legal services that caused an increase to C.M.'s monthly
benefit, you collected an excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a).
C.M.'s probate matter involved Florida law. You are not licensed to practice law in
Florida. You knew you needed to seek pro hac vice admission and associate Florida counsel in
order to represent C.M. Although you contacted a Florida law firm, you failed to complete the
pro hac vice process. You represented C.M. at mediation. You negotiated a settlement wherein
C.M. would receive $10,000,000 in assets. Pursuant to your fee agreement, your fee was to be
$2,250,000. Because C.M. did not have cash with which to pay your fee, you reduced your fee to
$1,000,000. You thereafter negotiated an immediate $1,000,000 payment to C.M. in order to
satisfy your fee. Because you failed to obtain pro hac vice admission, you engaged in illegal
unauthorized practice of law. Charging C.M. a fee based on illegal activity constitutes charging
or attempting to collect an illegal fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a).
The Grievance Committee took into consideration that your fees were the subject of
contested litigation in Florida. The Committee further considered that you were ordered by the
Florida Court of Appeals to disgorge the fees you collected from C.M. and struck the $1,000,000
fee.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding thc taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the --.:.:2--=---:=- day of

Q~

/J
/'
ROilllld G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB!lr

,20 I0

