NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
llG0690

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Vickie 1. Whitley,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 26,2012 the Grievance Committee of the NOrtll Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the Nmth Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infornmtion available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjustiJYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented T.B. in various transfers of his property to LLCs you created for him,
and for him and A.M. In the course of these transfers, you executed falsejurats of the signatures
of A.M. and B.B. in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and (c). Although you believed A.M. and B.B.
consented to T.H. signing their names on the deeds at issue, you executed false jurats indicating
A.M. and B.B. had appeared before you when they had not. Additionally, in the course of these

transfers, you advised A.M. regarding transferring property without T.H.'s knowledge and
contrary to T.H.'s interests out of one of the LLCs into which T.H.'s property had been
transferred engaging in a conflict of interest in violation of Rule 1.7(a). Last, you utilized nonattorney assistants to search title but you were not knowledgeable of all that they needed to
search, such as where they would need to search to discover a lis pendens, in violation of Rule
1.1.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of$350.00
is hereby ta'{ed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

Ifeif:.

day of

~

,2012.

~iA~-

Margaret . Hunt, Chair
Grievance Committee

MMH/lr

