4Si-~
uc0

,{'\.,'"'c

lOV

WAKE COUNTY

Ill!

,~ ~\
1/0//"
~~

k

BEFORE THE
r~ ,~,/( -t 319~ ~CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
NORTH CAROLm~
"-"I) ~g;l
OF THE
~~;,:;.
,<rb"
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
'~91"
,""'6
99 DHC I 9

'(.lit,
C

~"
-

I

"I'"o\'t'''''
~,~

)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff

)
)

)
)
)

v,

J. WES COVINGTON, ATTORNEY
BRIAN BEASLEY, ATTORNEY
RALPH STRICKLAND, ATTORNEY
Defendants

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS
OF LAW AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)
)
)
)

)

This matter canle on to be heard and was heard before a Disciplinary Hearing
Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Richard T. Ganmlon,
Chair; Elizabeth Bunting and Anthony Foriest on Oct. 27 - 30, 1999. Janles B.
Maxwell represented Defendant J. Wesley Covington; Richard Watson represented
Defendant Ralph Strickland; and Edward Embree represented Defendant Brian Beasley.
Root Edmonson and Carolin Bakewell represented the N.C. State Bar.
Based upon the evidence and the stipulations, the Hearing Committee hereby
makes the following:
Findings of Fact
1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding lmder the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated therel111der.
2. The Defendant, J. Wesley Covington (hereafter, Covington), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar in 1981, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
ofNOlih Carolina.
3. The Defendant, Brian T. Beasley (hereafter, Beasley), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1997, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and

Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.
4. The Defendant, Ralph B. Strickland, Jr., (hereafter, Strickland), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar in 1975, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.
5. During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, all Defendants were
actively engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained
offices for the practice oflaw in the City ofDurhan1, Durham County, North Carolina.
6. All Defendants were properly served with process herein and the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission had jurisdiction over the persons of all Defendants and over the
subject matter of this proceeding.
7. On Feb. 6, 1998, Dr. Kenneth A. Podger, Jr. (hereafter, Dr. Podger), was
arrested and charged with driving wIlile impaired (DWI) in Durham, N.C.
8. Prior to Dr. Podger's arrest, Durham police Officers Mike Evans and R. A.
Wiggins (hereafter Officer Evans and Officer Wiggins) observed Dr. Podger operating a
vehicle on Highway 147 in Durhan1. Officers Evans and Wiggins detained Dr. Podger
after they saw Dr. Podger's vehicle skid and spin around in the northbound lane of
Highway 147.
9. After detaining Dr. Podger, Officer Wiggins administered several field
sobriety tests to Dr. Podger, all of which Dr. Podger failed.
10. After Officers Evans and Wiggins stopped Dr. Podger, a third police officer,
Officer Terry Cullinan, (hereafter, Officer Cullinan), responded to their call for
assistance. Upon Officer Cullinan's arrival, he arrested Dr. Podger and Officers Evans
and Wiggins left the SCene. Officer Cullinan recognized Dr. Podger has his personal
dentist, but did not offer Dr. Podger any leniency or special consideration based upon this
relationship.
11. Office Cullinan did not personally observe Dr. Podger operating his vehicle
on Feb. 6, 1998.
12. Following his arrest, Dr. Podger submitted to a chemical breath test, which
revealed that he had a blood alcohol level of .15. Thereafter, Dr. Podger was charged
withDWl.
13. In 1992, Podger had been charged with driving while impaired and
subsequently entered a plea of guilty to DWI in July 1992. Consequently, Podger's 1998
arrest was his second DWI charge within 7 years.

2

14. Within a week or two after Dr. Podger's Feb. 6, 1998 arrest, Covington
undertook to represent Dr. Podger respecting the 1998 DWI charges.
15. Shortly after Dr. Podger retained Covington to represent him respecting the
1998 DWl charge, Covington told Dr. Podger that Covington was a close friend of Jim
Hardin (Hardin), the elected District Attorney in the 14th Judicial District. Covington
indicated that if anybody could do anything for Dr. Podger in his current circumstances,
that Covington could, by virtue of his relationship to Hardin.
16. Covington also told Dr. Podger that there were "ways around" tile DW1
charge pending against Dr. Podger and tlmt it was possible that some favorable result
might be achieved in tile case. Covington furtller stated that if tile case "worked out" as
hoped, Dr. Podger would be pleased and that he should be "grateful." Dr. Podger
interpreted this remark to mean that Covington desired him to make some contribution to
Hardin.
17. In the spring of 1998, Covington conferred with Officer Evans and Officer
Cullinan about Dr. Podger's arrest. Covington was therefore aware that only Officer
Evans and Officer Wiggins had seen Dr. Podger drive. Covington also acknowledged to
Officer Evans that the state had had probable cause to stop Dr. Podger on Feb. 6, 1998.
18. Covington asked Officer Evans ifhe would be displeased if Covington
resolved Dr. Podger's case WitllOut Officer Evans being present. Officer Evans stated
tlmt he did not have a problem with that, but that he (Officer Evans) would appear in
court if he was subpoenaed to appear.
19. In July 1998, Covington met Witll Stricldand, who was then an Assistant
District Attorney in the 14th Judicial District and was chiefly responsible for the
negotiation of traffic matters in district court. Covington told Strickland tlmt he
represented Dr. Podger and tllat Dr. Podger was facing his second DWl charge in seven
years. Covington also told Strickland that Podger had "spun out" on the Durham freeway
and iliat he had blown a .15 on tile breathalyzer test following his Feb. 6, 1998 arrest.
20. During the July 1998 meeting, Covington asked Strickland to dismiss the
DWl charge against Dr. Podger and permit Dr. Podger to plead to a charge of careless
and reckless driving. Strickland declined this request.
21. Nevertheless, Strickland advised Covington that Durham County District
Court Judge Craig Brown (hereafter, Brown) had recently entered a judgment of careless
and reckless driving following the trial of a DWl case involving a Duke professor named
Debraeckleer, despite the fact that Debrackleer was not charged witll careless and
reckless driving. Strickland also agreed that Covington could request Judge Brown to
hear Dr. Podger's DWl case.

3

22. At the time of the July 1998 meeting and conversation, Strickland and
Covington were aware that careless and reckless driving was not a lesser included offense
of DWI. Both were also knew that Judge Brown could not properly enter a judgment of
careless and reckless driving in Dr. Podger's case, unless the state dismissed the DWI
charge and filed a new misdemeanor statement of charges against Dr. Podger.
23. Strickland, Covington and Beasley were aware that it was the written policy
of James Hardin, the District Attorney of the 14th Judicial District (hereafter, Hardin), not
to "break down" any DWI cases in which the defendant's blood alcohol level at the time
of arrest exceeded .09. It was also Hardin's policy to require his staff to try all DWI
cases in which the defendant had a prior DWI conviction, even if it was obvious that the
state could not win the case owing to a flaw in the state's evidence. Beasley had no
authority to "breal( down" any DWI case.
24. In late August 1998, William C. Fleming Jr. (hereafter, Fleming) joined
Covington's law firm as an associate. In the first day or two of Fleming's employment
with Covington's firm, Covington bragged to Fleming of Covington's close friendships
with Hardin and Brown. Covington also instructed Fleming to tell potential new clients
that Covington had an "in" with the DA's office and could therefore "get things done" in
criminal cases that other lawyers were nnable to accomplish.
25. On Sept. I, 1998, at Covington' request, Fleming accompanied Covington to
the Durham Connty Courthouse.
26. Wlnle at the courthouse, Covington sought out Judge Brown and asked to
discuss a matter with Inm. During tins conversation, which took place in a hall outside a
courtroom, Covington told Judge Brown that he represented a dentist named Dr. Podger
who had been charged with DWI earlier in 1998 after "spimling out" on the Durham
Freeway. Covington stated that Dr. Podger had pled guilty to a DWI charge in 1994,
aliliough he had had a blood alcohol level of .08 in the prior case. Covington asked
Judge Brown to hear Dr. Podger's case on Thursday, Sept. 3, and to impose ajudgment
of careless and reckless driving in the pending DWI case. Covington suggested that Dr.
Podger should have been permitted to plead to careless and reckless driving in the earlier
case and that it would tllerefore be equitable to enter a judgment of careless and reckless
driving in the 1998 case. Covington indicated that he had spoken to the District
Attorney's staff and that they did not object to the imposition of a judgment of careless
and reckless driving.
27. Covington further advised Judge Brown that Podger was a rich dentist, that
he had paid a "huge fee" in the pending DWI case and that if Judge Brown convicted Dr.
Podger of careless and reckless driving only, a part of tile fee would "flow to the
appropriate campaigns." Fleming interpreted that statement to mean that part of the fee
paid by Dr. Podger would be donated to political campaigns for Hardin and/or Judge
Brown. After this discussion, Judge Brown agreed to hear the Dr. Podger case on
Thursday, Sept. 3, 1998 and to find Dr. Podger guilty of careless and reckless driving.

4

28. Although he was originally assigned to traffic court for the week of Aug. 3 I Sept. 4, 1998, Judge Brown was re-assigned to domestic violence court for that week and
a visiting judge was assigned to traffic court.
29. After the hallway conversation with Judge Brown, Covington and Fleming
proceeded to Strickland's office. Beasley, who was an Assistant District Attorney in the
14th Judicial District primarily assigned to traffic court, was present in Strickland's office
for at least a portion of the conversation.
30. Covington told Stricldand that Judge Brown had agreed to hear Dr. Podger's
case at noon on Sept. 3, 1998. Strickland asked Covington who the State's witness
would be. Covington told him that the State would call the arresting officer on the scene
as the witness in the case. This step would leave missing a vital link in the state's case
against Dr. Podger, since Officer Cullinan had not witnessed Dr. Podger drive on the
night of his arrest. Strickland agreed that Covington would be responsible for getting the
State's witness to the hearing on Sept. 3.
31. Beasley offered to handle the Podger case for the State, whereupon Strickland
told him that he might not want to do it because the case was one which Beasley "would
have to lose."
32. Between January 1998 when he began work at the District Attorney's Office
and September 1998, the only DWI cases which Strickland had tried were those matters
which the State could not win, owing to a fatal defect in the State's case. Because of the
District Attorney's policy regarding DWI cases, it was Strickland's practice to call these
cases, sometimes referred to as "losers," for trial and permit the judge to dismiss the case
against the defendant.
33. As of September 1998, Beasley had been employed with the Durham County
District Attorney's office for approximately 1I months. During that time period he had
been chiefly responsible for handling traffic cases in district court and had tried
approximately 160 - 180 DWI cases.
leaVInI[! Strickland's office, Covington invited Fleming to accompany
him to the office of Aim Robinson, the secretary for the Superior Court judges in Durham
County.
35. Covington inquired into Ms. Robinson's health and she responded that she
was in considerable pain and stated that she "could use some Valiwn."
36. Covington told Ms. Robinson that he would obtain some Valiwll for her,
whereupon he telephoned Upchurch's Drugstore and asked the phannacist on duty to
prepare 6 or 8 dosages of Valium and to charge it to his (Covington's) bill. Covington
indicated that the Valium was for a friend and stated that Ms. Robinson would come by
later in the day to pick up the Valium.

5

37. Covington ordered the Valiwn with the intent and purpose of giving the
Valium to Ms. Robinson.
38. After ordering the Valiwn from Upchurch's Phannacy, Covington telephoned
his personal physician, Dr. Eugene Wright, and asked Dr. Wright to telephone
Upchurch's Pharmacy to authorize the prescription for the Valium. Covington did not
tell Dr. Wright that Covington intended to give the Valiw11 to Ms. Robinson or any other
individual.
39. Ms. Robinson was not a patient of Dr. Wright's and Dr. Wright would not
have telephoned in a prescription for the Valium ifhe had known the medication was for
someone other than Covington.
40. On the morning of Sept. 2, 1998, Fleming telephoned Carl Fox, the elected
District Attorney in District 15B, for whom Fleming had worked while Fleming was in
law school. Fleming told Fox what he had seen at the Durham County Courthouse on
Sept. 1, 1998 and sought Fox's advice concerning the appropriate course of conduct.
41. At Fox's suggestion, Fleming reported what he had witnessed on Sept. 1,
1998 to the State Bureau oflnvestigation (SB1). The SB1 began an investigation of the
matter and suggested that Fleming accompany Covington to court on Sept. 3, 1998 when
Dr. Podger's case was set for resolution.
42. On the morning of Sept. 3, 1998, Covington told Fleming to come with him
"to see a bogus trial." Fleming accompanied Covington and Dr. Podger to the Durham
County Courthouse.
43. Podger's case did not appear on any trial calendar for Sept. 3, 1998 and that
day was not a regular court date for Officers Evans, Wiggins or Cullinan. In fact, the
Podger case was calendared for Sept. 14, 1998.
44. Although Covington contacted Officer Cullinan and subpoenaed him to court
on Sept. 3, none of the defendants subpoenaed Officer Evans or Officer Wiggins to court
on Sept. 3, nor did any of the defendants herein advise Wiggins or Evans that the Podger
case would be resolved on Sept. 3.
45. Covington, Dr. Podger and Fleming went to the Domestic Violence
courtroom where Juudge Brown was holding court, and approached the bench.
Covington reminded Judge Brown about the Podger case and stated that Judge Brown
was "going to find Podger guilty of careless and reckless driving, fine him $1,000 and
give him 48 hours of conununity service."
46. Following this conversation, Covington sent Fleming to search for Strickland,
who had not yet appeared. Fleming found Strickland and Beasley on the second floor
and reminded them that the Podger case was ready to be resolved. Srickland advised
that he or Beasley would be up shortly.

6

47. While they were awaiting for Strickland or Beasley to appear, Dr. Podger
approached Officer Cullinan and offered him a discount on future dental services.
Officer Cullinan declined the offer.
48. Shortly thereafter, Beasley appeared in Judge Brown's courtroom and
requested time to fmd the shuck relating to Dr. Podger's case and to speak with Officer
Cullinan, who had arrived in court at the same time as Covington and Fleming.
50. While searching for the shuck and speaking with Officer Cullinan Beasley
learned that Dr. Podger's case was calendared for Sept. 14, not Sept. 3, and that Officer
Cullinan was only the charging officer and had not seen Dr. Podger drive on the night of
Dr. Podger's anest.
51. After Beasley retumed to the Domestic Violence cOUliroom, Covington told
him he did not need the shuck to dispose of the Podger case. Following this
conversation, Judge Brown left the bench and asked the participants in the Podger case to
join him in the hall behind the courtroom. Covington, Fleming, Beasley, Officer
Cullinan and Dr. Podger followed Judge Brown into the hallway.
52. While in the hallway, Covington identified for Judge Brown the individuals
who were present and gave a brief summary of the facts of the Feb. 6,1998 arrest.
Covington pointed out that Officer Cullinan had not seen Dr. Podger drive but that Dr.
Podger was willing to accept some responsibility in the case and therefore would not
oppose a judgment of careless and reckless driving.
53. Beasley indicated that the State did not object to Covington's proposal.
Beasley did not attempt to call Officer Evans or Officer Wiggins nor did he object to
proceeding with Dr. Podger's case on a date on which it was not scheduled and in the
absence of an essential witness.
54. Judge Brown then entered an order finding Podger guilty of careless and
reclciess driving, fined him $1,000 and ordered him to perfonn 48 hours ofcommUlllty
service.
55. With the exception of the conference at the bench, all of the proceedings
before Judge Brown regarding Dr. Podger's 1998 DW1 occurred in the hallway outside
Courtroom 402, and not in open court.
56. No swom testimony was given and no court reporter or courtroom clerk was
present during the proceedings.
57. The judgment entered in Podger's case reflects that the DWl charge against
Podger was voluntarily dismissed, although there was no signed dismissal in the file and
no indication that the State in fact dismissed the charge. The file does not contain a
misdemeanor statement of charges for careless and reckless driving.

7

58. Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 20-138.4, the State is required to file a detailed
explanation concerning the reasons for a reduction or dismissal of a charge involving
impaired driving. Although Stricldand and Beasley were aware of this requirement, no
such explanation was provided in the PodgeI' case.
59. Reckless driving is not a lesser included offense of driving while impaired
and Covington, Stricldand and Beasley were each aware that a judge could not legally
find a defendant charged with DWI guilty of careless and reckless driving.
60. After Dr. Podger's case was resolved in the hallway of the Durham COlmty
Courthouse, Covington told Fleming that this was the "kind of deal that everyone must
keep quiet." CovingtOlill also cantioned Dr. PodgeI' not to discuss the outcome of the
case.
61. The disposition of the PodgeI' case in a hallway of the Durham County
Courthouse was designed to and had the effect of improperly removing the proceeding
from the public domain.
62. After the disposition of the PodgeI' case in the hallway of the Durham County
Courthouse, Covington advised PodgeI' that PodgeI' owed him an additional fee of
$9,000. PodgeI' later paid this amount to Covington. PodgeI' had previously paid
Covington a $1,000 retainer.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee, mal,es the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DEFENDANT COVINGTON
I. By arranging and participating in the disposition of Podger' s DWI case in the
back hall of the Durhanl County Courthouse rather than in open court, and by arranging
the absence of a material witness to the PodgeI' case, Covington engaged in conduct
prejlldicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.

2. By arranging and participating in the resolution ofPodger's DWI case
by the entry of a judgment of careless & reckless driving in contravention of
the normal judicial process for the purpose of obtaining a large fee, Covington engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) and
engaged in dishonest conduct in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3. By requesting and facilitating the entry of a judgment of careless and recldess
driving in Podger's DWI case when the State had not tal,en a dismissal of the DWI
charges and had not charged PodgeI' with careless and reckless driving, Covington

8

engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d)
ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
4. By requesting and assisting Judge Brown to circumvent the law and ordinary
judicial processes in the resolution of the Podger DWI case, Covington knowingly
assisted a judge in conduct that is a violation of applicable rules of judicial conduct or
other law, in violation of Rule 8.4(f) of the Revised Rules of Rules of Professional
Conduct.
5. By obtaining Valium, a Schedule IV controlled substance, by falsely telling
his physician that the Valium was for his own use when in fact Covington intended to
distribute it to and did in fact distribute the Valium to a third party, Am Robinson,
Covington engaged in conduct involving misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of
the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee, makes the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DEFENDANT STRICKLAND
I. By agreeing to and facilitating the entry of a judgment of careless and
reckless driving in Podger's DWI case upon Covington's request rather than upon the
merits of the case, Stricldand engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. By agreeing to and facilitating the entry of ajudgment of careless and reckless
driving in Podger's DWI case when the State had not taken a dismissal of the DWI
charges and had not charged PodgeI' with careless and reckless driving, Strickland
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d)
of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Committee, makes the

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DEFENDANT BEASLEY
I. By agreeing to and assisting in the entry of a judgment of careless and reckless
driving in Podger's DWI case when the State had not taken a dismissal of the DWI
charges and had not charged PodgeI' with careless and reckless driving, Beasley engaged
in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the evidence and arguments of counsel respecting the appropriate
discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following

9

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DEFENDANT COVINGTON
RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
1. Covington's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)

dishonest or selfish motive
multiple offenses
substantial experience in the practice of law
refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of conduct
submission of false statements during the disciplinary hearing

2. Covington's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a) good character or reputation
b) no prior discipline
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon the evidence and arguments of counsel respecting the appropriate
discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DEFENDANT STRlCKLAND
RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
1. Srickland's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a) substantial experience in the practice oflaw
b) refusal to aclmowledge wrongful nature of conduct
c) submission of false statements during disciplinary hearing
2. Stricldand's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

b) no prior discipline
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
Based upon the evidence and arguments of counsel respecting the appropriate
discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DEFENDANT BEASLEY
RELEVANT TO DISCIPLINE
I. There are no aggravating factors.

10

2. Beasley's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)

good character or reputation
no prior discipline
inexperience in the practice oflaw
remorse
absence of dishonest motive
cooperation with the N.C. State Bar.

3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Additional
Findings of Fact Relevant to Discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE REGARDING DEFENDANT COVINGTON
I. The Defendant, J. Wesley Covington is hereby suspended from the practice of

law for a period of three years. All but the first 180 days of the suspension of
Covington's law license is hereby stayed for five years on the condition that Covington:
a) violates no provisions of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
b) violates no laws of the State of North Carolina or the United States
c) pays 1/3 of the costs of this proceeding within 30 days after service of
the disciplinary order upon him
d) complies with all provisions of Section .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules.
2.
Covington's active 180 day suspension of his law license shall commence
as soon as Covington files the affidavit required by Section .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules with the State Bar. If no affidavit is filed by Covington
prior thereto, the suspension shall commence on Jan. 1,2000.

Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Additional
Findings of Fact Relevant to Discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE REGARDING DEFENDANT STRICKLAND
1. The Defendant, Ralph Strickland is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for a period of three years. All but the first 120 days of the suspension ofStricldand's
law license is hereby stayed for five years on the condition that Stricldal1d:
11

a) violates no provisions of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
b) violates no laws of the State of North Carolina or the United States
c) pays 1/3 of the costs of this proceeding within 30 days after service of
the disciplinary order upon him
d) complies with all provisions of Section .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules.
2. Strickland's active 120 day suspension of his law license commenced on
November 2, 1999, the date he filed his affidavit required by Section .0124 of the State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules with the State Bar.
Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Additional
Findings of Fact Relevant to Discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE REGARDING DEFENDANT BEASLEY
1. The Defendant, Brian Beasley, is hereby reprimanded.
2. Defendant Beasley shall pay 1/3 of the costs of this proceeding within 30 days
of service of the order of discipline upon him.
Signed by the Chair of the Hearing Committee with the consent of the other
Hearing Committee members.

This

tha.2-q~ of November, 1999.

r

Ric ard T. GanmlOn, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

12

