NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
11 G0979

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Staten L. Wilcox,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 24, 2013 the Grievance Committee of the NOith Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by P. I.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission m'e not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating ot' mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this replimand.
You represented P.r. in a personal injury case. When you received a settlement from the
insurance company, you directed your employee to sign P.r.' s nmne on the release fonn and
settlement checks, and to falsely notarize the release form. This conduct was a criminal offense
and a dishonest act in violation of Rules 8.4(b) and (c). In determining that reprimand is the
appropriate discipline in this case, the Committee took into account that your actions did not

cause harm to the client, you did not act with a selfish motive, and that you have been practicing
law for thirty-five years without prior discipline.
You are hereby reprimanded by the NOlth Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depalt from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the NOlth Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of$350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

l <6+1.

day of

;Jo \J t:.M "'E.~

John . Sllverstem, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

, 2013.

