NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
18G0202 & 18G0458

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
AL TON R. WILLIAMS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 25, 2018 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by T. W. and L. P. The grievances were assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staff s investigation of
these matters.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential hmm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure,
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In 2014, Mr. T. W. retained you to represent him in driving while impaired and speeding
charges. Mr. W. lived out of state and you had to request continuances of his case because he
could not be in North Carolina for court hearings. On one occasion, Mr. W. was called and
failed for his failure to appear in court. According to Mr. W., you did not tell him that he had
been called and failed and he learned about that disposition by calling the clerk's office.

Although you stated that you told Mr. W. that he was called and failed in court, you had no proof
that you had communicated this to him.
Mr. W. ' s case was finally resolved in October 2018, after Mr. W. filed this grievance
against you. The Grievance Committee found that your failure to diligently attend to this case
violated Rule 1.3 of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Your failure to diligently communicate
with Mr. W., especially about the called and failed entered in COUlt, violated Rule 1.4(a)(3).

In June 2009, Ms. L. P. retained you to handle a personal injury case. You settled her
case in March 20 12. You disbursed funds to yourself, medical providers and Ms. P., and you
retained $6,000.00 in your trust account to satisfy a subrogation claim against Ms. P.'s
settlement. You indicated that you communicated with the subrogation claim holder, as well as
Ms. P. over the six years that you retained the money in your trust account. However, you had no
proof that you had communicated with Ms. P. about the status of the funds in your trust account
and you had no proof that you had communicated with the subrogation claim holder about the
status of the case.
The Grievance Committee found that you failed to diligently attend to Ms. P. ' s case in
violation of Rule l.3 and you failed to diligently communicate with Ms. P. in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(2)(3). In issuing this reprimand, the Grievance Committee noted that you were
admonished in 2015 for neglect and failure to keep your client informed of the status of his case
and you were also admonished in 2016 for failure to communicate with your client regarding the
status of his case and failure to respond promptly to deputy counsel's follow-up questions
regarding the grievance.
You are hereby reprimanded by the NOlth Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

DM/lb

Ii ~

day of

A. 2

;>J

f"Y1...0 1 - ,2018

