"

WAKE COUNTY

",,' .1)
"

I ",

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER

DEBORAH L. WILLIAMS, Attorney,
Defendant

Defendant, Deborah L. Williams ("Williams" or "Defendant"), was ordered to
appear and show cause why the stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of
Discipline entered in this case on 21 November 2011 should not be lifted and the
suspension activated. This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Harriett T. Smalls, Chair, Walter E. Brock, Jr., and
Patti Head pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x). Plaintiff, the North Carolina
State Bar ("State Bar" or "Plaintiff') was represented by Brian P.D. Oten. Defendant
represented herself. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties
stipulate and consent to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order
and to the disposition imposed. By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant
waives any right to appeal this consent order or to challenge it in any way.
Based upon the pleadings and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
finds by the greater weight of the evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On 21 November 2011, the DHC entered an Order (hereinafter "Order of
Discipline") rmding that Williams had violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in
several respects.
2.
The Order of Discipline suspended Williams' license to practice law for
one year and stayed the suspension for three years on condition that Williams comply
with the requirements set out in the Order of Discipline.
3.

The Order of Discipline was served on Williams on 30 November 2011.

4.
Williams has failed to comply with a number of the conditions imposed on
the stay of the suspension of her license, listed as follows:

1

a. Williams failed to complete twelve (12) hours of continuing legal
education ("CLE") in the area of trust account management as required by
paragraph 2(a) ofthe Order of Discipline;
b. Williams failed to retain a certified public accountant ("CPA"), approved
in advance by the Office of Counsel, to audit her RBC and First Citizens
trust accounts as required by paragraph 2(c) ofthe Order of Discipline;
c. Williams failed to retain a certified public accountant ("CPA"), approved
in advance by the Office of Counsel, to audit her new trust account (as
required by paragraph 2(b) ofthe Order of Discipline) on a quarterly basis
to ensure compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct and failed to
provide the Office of Counsel with any quarterly report from the CPA as
required by paragraph 2(1) of the Order of Discipline;
d. Williams failed to timely comply with the yearly CLE requirements
imposed by the North Carolina State Bar as required by paragraph 2(k) of
the Order of Discipline. Williams' failure to comply with her yearly CLE
requirements resulted in her being administratively suspended on 8
October 2012 for failure to do the following:
i.

Williams failed to complete 3 of the required 12 hours of
CLE for the year 20 II; and

ii.

Williams failed to pay attendance and other administrative
fees totaling $292.00;

e. Williams failed to pay all costs and administrative fees ofthe disciplinary
proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within 30 days of service of the
statement of costs as required by paragraph 2(n) of the Order of
Discipline. The statement of costs was mailed to Williams on 23
November 2011 and was not returned to the State Bar's offices. Williams
failed to pay costs and administrative fees in the amount of$894.84: and
f. Williams failed to accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State
Bar as required by paragraph 2(1) of the Order of Discipline. On 11
September 2012, the State Bar sent Williams a letter via certified mail
informing Williams of her various deficiencies in complying with the
Order of Discipline. The 11 September 2012 certified mailing was
returned to the State Bar in October marked "vacant - unable to forward."
Additionally, after Williams failed to pay the costs and administrative fees
as described above, the Clerk of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
sent Williams the statement of costs via certified mail on 26 September
2012 and 9 October 2012. Both certified mailings were returned
"unclaimed - unable to forward."
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the
following
2

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Deborah L. Williams, and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Williams failed to comply with the following conditions of the stay of her
suspension contained in the Order of Discipline:
a. That she complete twelve hours of continuing legal education in the area
of trust account management, approved in advance by the Office of
Counsel, during the first year of the stayed suspension as required by
paragraph 2(a) of the Order of Discipline;
b. That she retain a CPA, approved in advance by the Office of Counsel, to
audit her RBC and First Citizens trust accounts and provide the State Bar
with monthly reports on the audit's progress as required by paragraph 2(c)
of the Order of Discipline;
c. That she retain a CPA, approved in advance by the Office of Counsel, to
audit her new trust account on a quarterly basis and to provide the State
Bar with quarterly reports confirming Williams' and the new trust
account's compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct as required
by paragraph 2(1) ofthe Order of Discipline;
d. That she timely comply with all continuing legal education requirements
as required by paragraph 2(k) of the Order of Discipline;
e. That she pay all costs and administrative fees resulting from this
disciplinary proceeding as assessed by the Secretary as required by
paragraph 2(n) ofthe Order of Discipline; and
f.

That she accept all certified mail from the State Bar and timely respond to
all requests for information as required by paragraph 2(1) of the Order of
Discipline.

3.
Such violations warrant activation of the suspension imposed by the Order
of Discipline with conditions imposed upon Williams' reinstatement after the period of
active suspension is over.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER
1.
The stay of Defendant's one-year suspension is lifted and the suspension
is activated. Pursuant to Rule .0124(c) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and

3

Disability Rules, this order and the one-year suspension imposed herein are effective 30
days after service ofthis order upon Defendant.
2.
Williams shall submit her Iicens.e and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty (30) days following the date that this
Order is served upon her. Williams shall comply with the wind down provisions
contained in Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules,
located at 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124.
3.
At the end of the one-year active period of suspension, Williams may
apply for reinstatement by filing a petition with the DHC in accordance with the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and by showing by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that she has complied with the following conditions for
reinstatement:
(a)

That she has complied with the general provisions for reinstatement
listed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125 of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

(b)

That she has completed twelve (12) hours of continuing legal education
in the area of trust account management approved in advance by the
Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar. In addition, that she
has satisfied any deficit that exists in fulfillment of her obligations to
attend continuing legal education courses as required by 27 N.C. Admin.
Code ID § .1518 and satisfied any other outstanding continuing legal
education requirements;

(c)

That she has opened a new trust account at a bank of her choice out of
which all transactions involving entrusted funds shall be handled from
the date of reinstatement forward and that she has ceased all use of her
RBC and First Citizens trust accounts identified in the Order of
Discipline;

(d)

That, within ninety (90) days of entry of this Order, she retained a
certified public accountant ("CPA"), approved in advance by the Office
of Counsel, who audited her RBC and First Citizens trust accounts in a
timely fashion;

(e)

That the CPA provided the State Bar with a written final audit report
identifying the beneficial owners of all funds in the accounts and the
amounts of all funds in each account for the benefit of each beneficial
owner, and confirming that Defendant's trust accounts comply with the
Rules of Professional Conduct;

(f)

That, within ninety (90) days of the CPA completing the audit of
Williams' RBC and First Citizens trust accounts, she disbursed all
identified client funds existing in her RBC and First Citizens trust
accounts to their beneficial owner(s);

4

(g)

That she complied with Rule 1.15·2(q) regarding all unidentified funds
existing in her RBC and First Citizens trust accounts and complied with
Chapter ll6B of the General statutes within sixty (60) days of being
statutorily permitted to escheat funds to the State;

(h)

That she closed her RBC and First Citizens trust accounts within thirty
(30) days of her final disbursement of funds from them;

(i)

That she has retained a CPA to assist her in maintaining proper trust
account records and reconciling her new trust account for a period of
one year after returning to active practice, and that she has instructed the
CPA to report any irregularities or deficiencies concerning Williams'
maintenance of any tmst account to the Office of Counsel;

G)

That she has paid all outstanding membership dues and Client Security
Fund assessments and that there is no deficit in her fulfillment of any
obligation of membership;

(k)

That she has kept the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of her current physical home and business addresses and
telephone numbers, and that she has accepted all certified mail from the
North Carolina State Bar and responded to all letters of notice and
requests for information from the North Carolina State Bar by the
deadlines stated in the communication or within fifteen (15) days of
receipt of such communication, whichever is later;

(I)

That she has not violated any state or federal laws or any provisions of
the Rules of Professional Conduct; and

(m)

That she has paid all costs and administrative fees associated with this
case as assessed by the Secretary.

#I.Signed by the Chair with the consent ofthe other Hearing Panel members, this the

cJ),

day of May, 2013.

df~~
Harriett T. Smalls, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Brian P.D. Oten

5

Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Defendant

6

