~m
:~\
'1' .'.
..' Jll.f'

', :",
,,'I,
,i;i;

4tt

~

if-7

.p
'r?.a
.,;;.~
"~p V(~ ~
A

,~~

"~A

".>

STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN!~

<J-.

"" BEFORE THE

V'NE\l

;~

DfSt.;IPL~

RY HEARING COMMISSION

of.>S
~~
OF THE
. t'PCfW\l
THCAROLINASTATEBAR

WAKE COUNTY

"""

ISDHC3

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

CONSENT
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
JAMES GARFIELD WILLIAMS IV,
Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members R. Lee Farmer and
Christopher R. Bruffey pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Margaret T. Cloutier.
Defendant, was represented by Dudley A. Witt.
Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and
conclusions oflaw recited in this Consent Order and to the discipline imposed. Williams
has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the
conclusions of law and entry of the Order of Discipline. Williams freely and voluntarily
waives any and all right to appeal the entry ofthis consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff. the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"). is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).

1

2. Defendant, James Garfield Williams N (hereafter "Defendant" or
"Williams"), was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 26, 2004 and is an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.
3. During the relevant period referred to herein, Williams actively engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Archdale, Guilford County, North Carolina.
4. Between January 2010 and October 2013 Defendant maintained a trust
account at PNC Bank ending in number 2524 (formerly RBC Bank account ending in
number 497-1) (hereafter "trust account").
S. Defendant used the trust account as a general trust account into which
Defendant deposited and out of which he disbursed all entrusted client funds.
6.

Defendant employed an assistant between January 2010 and October 2013.

7. Defendant had managerial and direct supervisory authority over the assistant
during her employment.
8. During her employment, Defendant delegated to the assistant receipt of
entrusted client funds, deposit of entrusted client funds, and maintenance of account
records for the trust account.
9. From January 2010 through October 2013, Defendant did not review the
assistant's handling of entrusted funds.
10. From January 2010 through October 2013, Defendant did not review bank
statements or any other records for the trust account.
II. Defendant did not reconcile the account at least quarterly between January
2010 and October 2013.
12. From January 2010 through October 2013, the assistant periodically
misappropriated entrusted funds from the trust account for her personal benefit.
\3. The assistant's multiple thefts went undetected from January 2010 through
October 2013 due to Defendant's lack of supervision.

14. As a result of the assistant's thefts, funds held by Defendant for the benefit
of multiple clients were used for purposes that were not authorized by those clients.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Pane) enters the following:

2

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

by failing to review the assistant's handling of entrusted client funds, and
failing to review his bank statements and other trust account records which
he allowed the assistant to maintain, Defendant failed to make reasonable
efforts to ensure that he had in effect measures that gave reasonable
assurance that his non-lawyer assistant's conduct was compatible with
Defendant's professional obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(a), failed to
supervise his non-lawyer assistant to the extent necessary to ensure that
her conduct was compatible with Defendant's professional obligations in
violation of Rule 5.3(b), and failed to properly maintain and disburse
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (m); and

(b)

by failing to reconcile the trust account at least quarterly, Defendant failed
to conduct the requisite monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust
accounts in violation of Rule !.IS-3(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant's delegation without adequate supervision created
circumstances that enabled the assistant to embezzle entrusted funds over a period of
more than three and a half years.
2.
Defendant took appropriate action when he became aware of the
assistant's ruisconduct and expressed remorse for his assistant's misconduct and his lack
of adequate oversight.
3.
Defendant used his own funds to reimburse clients whose funds were
embezzled by the assistant and to reimburse the trust account.
4.
Defendant promptly reported the assistant to law enforcement authorities
resulting in her prosecution.
5.
account.

Defendant has fully cooperated with the State Bar's review of his trust

3

6.

Defendant has no prior professional discipline.

7.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted
funds betrays a vital trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal
profession.
8.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(\) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
I.

(a)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm Is
foreseeable; and

(b)

Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the profession.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. lB § .OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. lB § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Absence prior professional discipline;

(b)

Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;

(e)

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution;

(d)

Existence ofa pattern of misconduct;

4

(e)

Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

(f)

Defendant's remorse; and

(g)

Defendant's good character and reputation.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the violations committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members ofthe Bar in this State.
5.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension with conditions is necessary and sufficient to adequately protect the
public.
6.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
Defendant, James Garfield Williams IV, is hereby suspended from the
practice of law for two years, effective thirty days from service of this Order upon him.
J.

2.

Administrative fees and costs are taxed to Defendant.

3.
The two-year suspension is stayed for a period oftwo years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
(a)

Defendant shall pay all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within thirty days after service of the statement
of costs on him;

(b)

Within thirty days of the date this Order is served upon him, Defendant
shall properly disburse all funds that are appropriate to be distributed as of
that date. Defendant shall provide the State Bar Office of Counsel proof
of such distribution within ten days thereafter;
5

(c)

Within the first year of the stayed period of suspension, Defendant shall
complete four hours of continuing legal education in the area of trust
account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar.
At least one such session shall be taken before the end of the next calendar
quarter (i.e., by March 30, June 30, etc.) following the entry of this order
and at least one such session shall be the Trust Accounting Rules
Continuing Legal Education Program taught by Peter Bolac, Trust
Account Compliance Counsel for The North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE
courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the courses. These
four hours are in addition to the continuing legal education requirements
setout in 27N.C.A.C.1D § .1518;

(d)

During the stayed suspension, Defendant shall personally perform
the three-way reconciliations of all his trust accounts using the
reconciliation method described in the State Bar Lawyer's Trust
Account Handbook. Defendant shall provide the three-way
reconciliation report and all appropriate supporting documentation
to the CPA as provided below within fifteen days of the end of
each quarter;

(e)

Defendant shall engage the services of a Certified Public Accountant
(CPA) to audit his trust account on a quarterly basis to ensure Defendant's
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
i. The CPA must submit quarterly a written report to the Office of
Counsel concerning the compliance of Defendant's reconciliations
and trust account with the Rules of Professional Conduct,
including but not limited to any accounting irregularities and any
deviation from the requirements of the Rules of Professional
Conduct, with a copy of the report sent simultaneously to
Defendant. The CPA's reports are due no later than thirty days
after the end of each quarter (each January 30, April 30, July 30,
and October 30 during the period of stay). It is Defendant's sole
responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and submits the reports
as required herein;
ii. If any of the CPA reports note any irregularities or deficiencies,
Defendant shall take all remedial action necessary to bring the trust
account into compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct
and shall provide proof of the remedial action and compliance to
the CPA and to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar within
fifteen days of the date ofthe CPA's report;
iii. All CPA evaluations, reports, and services referred to herein will

be completed and submitted at Defendant's sole expense; and
6

iv. Failure of Defendant to ensure the CPA submits any report
required by this Order shall be grounds to lift the stay and activate
the suspension;
(f)

Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws or any
provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period
of the stayed suspension;

(g)

Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for information as
required by Rule 8.1(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by
the earlier of the deadline stated in the communication or within
thirty days of receipt;

(h)

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements; and

(i)

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of his current home and business street (not
P.O. Box) addresses and telephone numbers.

4.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted
and the suspension activated as provided in § .0 114(x) ofthe North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
5.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end two years from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to § .0114(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC
retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a
motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the
stay of the suspension is pending when the period ofthe stay ofthe suspension would
otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of
the suspension and activate the two years suspension in whole or in part if it finds that
any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and
Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until
resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding
6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the DHC may enter an Order imposing such conditions as It deems necessary
for the reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension. Furthermore,
Defendant will have complied with each of the following conditions before he will be
eligible for reinstatement:

7

.' ,

(a)

Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar no later than thh'ly days from the effeCtive date of the
order activating his suspension;

(b)

Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Adinin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules on a timely basis;

(c)

Paid any outstanding disciplinary administrutive fees and costs; and

(d)

Within fifteen days oHhe effective date of thearder activating the
suspension Defendant shall huveprdvided the State Bar with an address
and telephone number at which clients seeking return orflles could
cOllllllllllicate with Defendant and obtain such liles, and Defendant shall
have promptly returned allliles to clients upon request.

7.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retainjllfisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .OI14(x) or the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the peri()d of the
stayed susPension.
1i-Signed by the Chu'r with the consent ofthe other Hearing Panel members, this the
JQ~ day of
,2011'.S-

o..re-

#A~

Chait', Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO;

W~.2-jl-[S

8

