WAK.E COUNTY

INRE:
TERRANCE L. WILLIAMS, ATTORNEY

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 NCAC IB § .0118(g). Deputy Counsel Carmen H. Bannon
represents the North Carolina State Bar. Alan M. Schneider represents attorney Terrance L.
\Villiams. Based upon the infol111ation presented and with the consent of the member and of
deputy counsel, the undersigned malees the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is
the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the
General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
······-2.
Terrance L. Williams was admitted to the North 'Carolina-State Bar on August 24.
2007, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to pmctice in
North Carolina, subject to the mles, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant periods referred to herein, Wi II iams was engaged in the
private practice of law in the city of Clinton, Sampson County, NOlih Carolina.
4.
WillianlS has been in treatment with a psychiatrist since April 2007. Williams'
treating psychiatrist diagnosed Williams with generalized anxiety disorder, and noted that he also
experiences panic attacks and agoraphobia. Williams' psychiatrist also opined that Williams has
recently experienced "immense stressors" in his personal life.
5.

The State Bar learned of Williams' diagnoses in February 2010.

6.
Wi IIi an1S , generalized anxiety disorder, pame attacks, and intermittent
agoraphobia are mental conditions which significantly impair his professional judgment,
performance or competence as an attorney.
7.

Williams requested and consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
There is clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Williams is disabled within
the meaning of27 NCAC IB § .0103(19).
2.

Williams should be transfelTed to disability inactive status with the State Bar.

3.
Williams has volnntarily consented to being trans felTed to disability inactive
status pursuantlo 27 NCAC IB § .01l8(g).
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
I.

Terrance L. Williams is transfelTed to disability inactive status.

2.
Williams shall not practice law in North Carolina until he is 110 longer disabled
and has been retumed to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to
the procedures set out in 27 NCAC IB § .0125(c).
3.
The above-refcrenccd grievancc filc (09G 1048) shall be abated until such time as
Williams returns to active status. File 09G I 048 will be reviewed, and its disposition determined
by the Grievance Committee, after Williams returns to active status.

This, the

Ronald G. Baker, 1 r
Grievance ConU11ittee
CONSENTED TO:

~~C-~

Terrance L. Williams, Attomey

-

Statem:b!t113~~
Alan M. Schneider
Attomey for Ten'ance Willian1s

~%,~
Carmen H. Bannon
Deputy Counsel
State Bar Number 33998
The NOlth Carolina State Bar
P.O. Box 25908
Raleigh, N.C. 27611

