BEFORE THE
UNARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
16 DHC 27

NORTH CAROLINA
W AK.E COUNTY

Plaintiff
v.

ORDER LIFTING STAY &
ACTIVATING SUSPENSION

MICHAEL S. WILLIAMSON~ Attorney,

Defendant, Michael S. Williamson, was ordered to appear and show cause why the stay of
the suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline entered in this case on December 7, 2016
should not be lifted and the suspension activated. This matter was heard on December 11,2017
by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss,
Chair, David W. Long, and Bradley Lail pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title
27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, ยง .0118(a). The Plaintiff was represented by Mary D. Winstead.
The Defendant appeared pro se. Based upon the documents of record in this file, the stipulations
and evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by the greater weight of the
evidence the following:
1.
On December 7, 2016, a Consent Order of Discipline ("Consent Order") was
entered in this matter. The Consent Order was served on Defendant on December 9,2016.
2.
Pursuant to the Consent Order, Defendant was suspended from the practice oflaw
for three years. The suspension was stayed for three years conditioned upon Defendant's
compliance with certain conditions set out in the Consent Order.
3.
On January 20,2017, Defendant filed a Motion to Extend Time to Comply with
Consent Order of Discipline.
4.
On February 7,2017, the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission panel
assigned to this matter entered an order allowing Defendant 120 days from entry of the order to
comply with the payment of fees and costs, to establish written trust accoWlting procedures, and
to comply with the requirement that the CPA's initial audit of his trust accoWlt be completed.
5.
On August 31, 2017, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Order to Show Cause requesting
that Defendant show cause why the stay of his suspension should not be lifted and the suspension
activated for his failure to meet the requirements set forth in the Consent Order.
6.
On September 11, 2017, the Chair ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission
entered an order for Defendant to show cause why an order should not be entered activating the
North Carolina State Bar v. Williamson, 16 DHC 27
Order Lifting Stay and Activating Suspension

Pagelof4

suspension of Defendant's license to practice law in North Carolina and setting the matter on for
hearing on December 11, 2017.
7.
At the December 11, 2017 hearing, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into
stipulations contained in paragraphs 8 through 10 below.
8.
Pursuant to paragraph 3(c) of the Consent Order, within 90 days of service of the
order, Defendant was required to have his trust account audited by a Certified Public Accountant
("CPA"). Defendant was granted an additional 120 days to complete this requirement pursuant
to the February 7, 2017 order referenced above. Defendant is not in compliance with this
condition. Defendant has failed to provide a CPA report.
9.
Pursuant to paragraph 3(q) of the Consent Order, on or before June 30 each year
the stay is in effect, Defendant was required to submit an affidavit certifying that all general trust
accounts, dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by Defendant or his law
fum are administered, to the best of his knowledge, in compliance with the requirements of Rule
1.15 (including all subparts) or that he is exempt from this provision because Defendant does not
maintain any trust or fiduciary accounts for North Carolina client funds. Defendant is not in
compliance with this condition. Defendant has failed to provide the affidavit due June 30, 2017.

to.
Pursuant to paragraph 3(z) of the Consent Order, Defendant was required to pay
the costs and fees of the disciplinary proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within thirty days
after being served with the statement of costs and fees. Defendant was served with the statement
offees and costs on December 12, 2016. Defendant was granted an additional 120 days to
complete this requirement pursuant to the February 7,2017 order referenced above. Defendant
is not in compliance with this condition. Defendant has failed to pay the fees and costs.
11.
Defendant, having stipulated to the violations of the Consent Order, offered no
testimony or other evidence or reasonable possibility that he will have the funds needed to
comply with the terms of the order of discipline to which he consented.
12.
Defendant offered no reasonable possibility that he will be able to determine the
beneficial owner(s) ofthe funds in his trust account which has been frozen since December 2,
2015.
13.
The State Bar should attempt to determine the beneficial owner(s) of the funds in
Defendant's trust account at Defendant's expense.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Michael S. Williamson, and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant, Michael S. Williamson, has failed to comply with the following
conditions of the stay of his suspension contained in the Consent Order of Discipline previously
entered in this case within the time limits granted in this Hearing Panel's February 7, 2017 order:

North Carolina State Bar v. Williamson. 16 DHC 27
Order Lifting Stay and Activating Suspension

Page 2 of4

(a) Defendant failed to have his trust account audited by a Certified Public
Accountant ("CPA"), which was required pursuant to paragraph 3(c) of the
Consent Order.
(b) Defendant failed to submit an affidavit certifying that all general trust
accounts, dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by
Defendant or his law firm are administered, to the best of his knowledge, in
compliance with the requirements of Rule 1.15 (including all subparts) or that
he is exempt from this provision because Defendant does not maintain any
trust or fiduciary accounts for North Carolina client funds on or before June
30,2017. This was required pursuant to paragraph 3(q) of the Consent Order.
(c) Defendant failed to pay the costs and fees of the disciplinary proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary. This was required pursuant to paragraph 3(z) of the
Consent Order.
3.
These violations of the terms of the consent order warrant this Hearing Panel
lifting the stay and activating the suspension.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:

ORDER
1.
The stay of the three year suspension imposed in the Consent Order of Discipline
previously entered in this case is hereby lifted and the suspension is hereby activated. This
activation is effective and Defendant's license will be suspended 30 days from the date this
Order is served upon him.
2.
All costs and administrative fees associated with this show cause hearing are
taxed to Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall surrender his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon Defendant.
4.
Defendant shall wind down his practice in compliance with all provisions of27
NCAC IB ยง .0128.
5.
Defendant may apply to have the balance of the suspension stayed by filing a
motion in the cause demonstrating compliance with the requirements of27 NCAC IB ยง .0129(b)
and the requirements for reinstatement contained in paragraph 6 of the Consent Order of
Discipline. In addition, in order to be eligible for a stay, Defendant must show by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence that he has complied with the following;
(a) Paid the costs and administrative fees associated with the December 11, 2017
hearing on the Motion to Show Cause;

North Carolina State Bar v. Williamson, 16 DHC 27
Order Lifting Stay and Activating Suspension

Page 3 of4

(b) Paid any costs associated with the State Bar's efforts to determine the

beneficial owners of the funds held in Defendant's trust account; and
(c) Fully cooperated with the State Bar's efforts to detennine the beneficial
owner(s) ofthe funds held in his trust account.
6.
If any portion of the three year suspension is stayed, Defendant's active status for
the remainder of the three year period shall be subject to and contingent upon compliance with
the terms of the stayed suspension set forth in paragraph 3 of the Consent Order with the
following modifications:
(a) If the State Bar has successfully determined the beneficial owner(s) ofthe
funds in Defendant's trust account, Defendant shall not be required to have a
CPA conduct an initial audit as required in paragraph 3(c) nor shall he be
required to provide the final audit report required by paragraph 3(d).
Defendant shall comply with the remaining provisions ofthe Consent Order
concerning the CPA's quarterly audit reports and resulting follow up action.
(b) Paragraph 3{q) is modified as follows: Defendant must submit an affidavit to
the State Bar on the last day of each month certifying that all general trust
accounts, dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by
Defendant or his law firm are administered, to the best of his knowledge, in
compliance with the requirements of Rule 1.15 (including all subparts) or 1)
that he is exempt from this provision because Defendant does not maintain
any trust or fiduciary accounts for North Carolina client funds and 2) that he
has not handled any entrusted funds that month.
7.
If Defendant is not reinstated to active status prior the expiration of the three year
suspension period, before Defendant may be reinstated to active status, he must satisfY the
requirements of27 NCAC IB ยง .0129(b) and the requirements in paragraph 5 above which
includes the requirements for reinstatement contained in paragraph 6 of the Consent Order of
Discipline.
Signed by the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Panel with the consent of
the other Hearing Panel members.

This the

0 day

Donald C. Pre tiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

North Carolina State Bar v. Williamson, 16 DHC 27
Order Lifting Stay and Activating Suspension

Page 4 of4

