~O6)

STATE OF NORTH CAROL~\
I~

:'!!

WAKE COUNTY

''':

4 6)'
BEFORE THE
O('OI1I8CIP
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
<'0b':'::'
OF THE
~S'~ ~NO
CAROLlNASTATEBAR

THENOR;~-CAROLINA;;1~~!ARl:V
W~\",i
<

Plaintiff

16PIIC27

--.~~

'??/20 \1\ '(,\~
•

I

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
MICHAEL S. WILLIAMSON, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel ofthe Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, and members David W. Long
and Bradley Lail, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code,Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .OI14(h). Plaintiff was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant
Michael S. Williamson appeared pro se. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree
to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the
discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily stipulates to the foregoing fmdings
of fact and consents to the conclusions oflaw and entry of the order of discipline.
Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations offact, and with
the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the follOWing:
Findings of FlIct

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State BlIr"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the lIuthority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Michael S. Williamson, was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in August 1995 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at IlIw
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina,
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office

Page 10fl4

in Goldsboro, Wayne County, North Carolina.
4.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
5.
Defendant employed a secretary to whom he delegated the responsibility
of making bank deposits. Defendant failed to properly supervise his secretary and failed
to properly maintain entrusted funds in his trust account, including for clients Harry Hill,
Lisa Williams, Timothy McCardell, Stanley Webb, Corey Lewis, and Anita Forsythe.
6.
On April 21, 2015, payments made by client Lisa Williams in the amount
of$190.00 for the payment offmes and costs in a traffic matter and client Timothy
McCardell in the .amount of $80.00 for the payment of fmes and costs in a traffic matter
were deposited into Defendant's trust account.
7.
On April 29, 2015, prior to Defendant making any disbursements from the
trust aCcOlmt for Lisa Williams or Timothy McCardell, Defendant's trust account balance
fell to $11.2:3.
8.
Between April 21, 2015 and April 29, 2015, Defendant made. several
disbursements from the trust account on behalf of other clients. Defendant did not
disburse any funds for his personal benefit during this time period.
9.
Defendant disbursed and used Williams' and McCardell's entrusted funds
for the benefit of sorneone other than Williams or McCardell.
10.
On or about April 30, 2015, check number 1119 drawn on Defendant's
trust account, made payablcto the Wayne County Clerk of Court in the amount of
$188.00 and attributed to client Lisa Williams was presented for payment against
insufficient funds.
11.
In accordance with Defendant's directive to The Little Bank pursuant to
Rule 1.1 S-2(k), The Little Bank notified the State Bar of the check presented for payment
against insufficient funds.
12.
Defendant informed the State Bar that there were insufficient funds in the
account because several deposits had not heen made as a result of his secretary being
hospitalized unexpectedly.
13.
On May 7, 2015, payments made by client Corey Lewis in the amount of
$190.00 for the payment of fines and costs in a traffic matter and client Stanley Webb in
the amount of$190.00 for the payment of fines and costs in a traffic matter were
deposited into Defendant's trust account.
On May 28,2015, prior to Defendant making any disbursements from the
14.
trust account for Corey Lewis or Stanley Webb, Defendant's trust account halance feU to

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 2 of14

$113.41.
15.
Between May 7, 2015 and May 28, 2015, Defendant made several
disbursements from the trust account on behalf of other clients. Defendant did not
disburse any funds for his personal benefit during this time period.
16.
Defendant disbursed and used Lewis' and Webb's entrusted funds for the
benefit of someone other than Lewis or Webb.
17.
On June 4,2015, payment made by clientHaIT)' Hill in the amount of
$50.00 for the payment of fmes and costs in a traffic matter was deposited into
Defendant's trust account.
18.
On July 2,2015, payment made by Harry Hill in the amount of $100.00
for the payment of fines and costs in a traffic matter was deposited into Defendant's trust
account.
19.
On August 4,2015, payment made by Harry Hill in the amount of $40.00
for the payment of fmes and costs in a traffic matter was deposited into Defendant's trust
account
20.
On August 13, 2015, payment made by Harry Hill in the amount of
$700.00 for the payment offmes and costs in a traffic matter was deposited into
Defendant's trust account.
21.
On August 18, 2015, Defendant's trust account had a negative balance and
incurred an overdraft fee of$29.00.
22.
As of August 18, 20fs, Defendant had made no disbursements from his
trust account attributed to Han'y Hill and should have maintained $890.00 in his bust
account for Harry Hill.
23.
Between June 4, 2015 and August 18, 2015, Defendant made numerous
disbursements from tbe trust account on behalf of other clients. The only disbursement to
himself during this period was one payment of $6.96 made in connection with his
representation ofR. Garcia.
24.
Defendant disbursed and used Hill's entrosted funds for the benefit of
someone other thml Hill.
25.
On Or about September 21,2015, check number 1155 drawn on
Defendant's trost account and made payable to the Wayne County Clerk of Court in the
aniount of$263.00 was presented for payment against insufficient funds.
26.
In accordance with Defendant's directive to The Littlo Bmlk pursuant to
Rule 1.15-2(k), The Little Bmlk notified tho State Bar of the check presented for payment

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 3 ofl4

against insufficient funds.
27.
Defendant informed the State Bar that there were insufficient funds in the
account because some deposits and bank fees were not deposited into the trust account
due to an oversight by his secretary.
On or about September 28, 2015, check number Il62 drawn on
28.
Defendant's trust account and made payable to the Wayne County Clerk of Court in the
amount of $188.00 and check number 1158 drawn on Defendant's trust account and
made payable to the Wayne County Clerk of Court in the amOWlt of $265.00 were
presented for payment against insufficient funds.
On October 8, 201S, Defendant deposited into his trust accoWlt an
29.
additional payment made by client Corey Lewis in the amount of $73.00 for the payment
of flnes and costs in a traffic matter.
30.
On October 13, 2015, prior to Defendant making any disbursements from
the trust account for Corey Lewis, Defendant's trust accOWlt balance fell to $3.15.
31.
Between October 8, 2015 and October 13, 2015, Defendant made one
disbursement from the trust account on behalf of another client. Defendant did not
disburse any funds for his personal benefit during this time period.
32.
Defendant disbursed and used Lewis' entrusted funds for the benefit of
someone other than Lewis.
33.

On or about October 15,2015, check number 1164 drawn on Defendant's

trust accoWlt and made payable to the Wayne County Clerk of Court in the amount of
$263.00 was presented for payment against insufficient funds.
On October 29, 2015, payment made by client Anita Forsythe in the
34.
amount of$263.00 for the payment of fines and costs in a traffic matter was deposited
into Defendant's trust account.
On November 5, 2015, prior to Defendant making any disbursements from
35.
the trust account for Anita Forsythe, Defendant's trust account balance fell to $42.15.
36.
Between October 29, 2015 and November 5, 2015, Defendant made
several disbursements from the trust account on behalf of other clients. Defendant did not
disburse any funds for his personal benefit during this time period.
37.
Defendant disbursed and used Forsythe's entrusted funds for the benefit of
someone other than Forsythe.
On or about October 26, 2015, check number 116S drawn on Defendant's
38.
trust account, made payable to the Wayne County Clerk of Court in the amount of
$188.00 and attributed to client Stanley Webb was presented for payment against
Order ofDisciplirte

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 4 of14

insufficient funds.
39.
In accordance with Defendant's directive to The Little Bank pursuant to
Rule 1.15"2(k), The Little Bank notified the State Bar of the check presented for payment
against insufficient funds.

40.
Defendant infonned the State Bar that there were insufficient funds in the
account because some deposits and bank fees were not deposited into the trust account
due to an oversight by his secretary.
41.
On or about November 9, 2015, check number 1168 drawn on
Defendant's trust account and made payable to the Duplin County Clerk of Court in the
amount of $263.00 and attributed to client Shanita Jones was presented for payment
against insufficient funds.
On or about November 20, 2015, check number 1171 drawn on
42.
Defendant's trust account, made payable to the Wayne County Clerk of Court in the
amount of $263.00 and attributed to client Corey Lewis waS presented fOf payment
against insufficient funds.
43.
Despite receiving several NSF notices, Defendant failed to take steps to
ensure that his secretary's handling of entrusted funds comported with the )lules of
Professional Conduct.

44.

Defendant failed to perform monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his

bank account.

45.

Defendant failed to indicate on each check drawn on his trust account
from which client balance the check was drawn.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law

1.

All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8+28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing to supervise his assistant's handling of entrusted client
funds and failing to review records for his tlUst account, Defendant
failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that his law firm had in
effect measures that gave reasonable assurance that his non-lawyer
assistant's conduct was compatible with Defendant's professional
obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(a), and failed to supervise his non"
lawyer assistant to the extent necessary to ensure that his conduct was
Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

PageS ofl4

compatible with Defendant's professional obligations in violation of
Rule 5.3(b);
(b) By failing to compare the balance in the account as shown on his
records to the bank statement balance on a monthly basis and by
failing to total client ledger balances and compare them to the bank
statement balanCll at least quarterly, Defendant failed to perform
monthly or quarterly reconciliations of his attorney trust account in
violation of Rule U5-3(d);
(c) By failing to indicate on all checks from which client balanCll the
checks were drawn, Defendant violated Rule 1.l5-3(b)(2); and
(d) By using entrusted funds, inclUding funds held for the benefit of
clients Harry HilI, Lisa Williams, Timothy McCardell, Stanley Webb,
Corey Lewis, and Anita Forsythe for the benefit of someone other than
the beneficial owner of the funds, Defendant failed to safeguard
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (b), used entrusted
property for the benefit of someone other than the beneficial owner of
the funds in violation of Rule 1.15-20), and failed to promptly payor
deliver to the client, or to thh'd persons as directed by the client
entrusted property belonging to the client in violation of Rule 1.15-2
(m).

Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby [mds by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidenCll the following additional:

Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
Conducting monthly and quarterly reconciliations of the trust account are
integral to the proper maintenance and protection of entrusted funds.
2.
3.
Defendant.

Defendant has no prior discipline.
There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of

4.
Defendant disbursed funds for clients when there were no funds or
insufficient funds in the hust account for the client, thus misusing other entrusted funds
in the trust account.
5.
Defendant did not have the court costs and fines in his trust account for the
above identified clients when he needed to pay tb,ose funds for his clients. Defendant
instead paid those costs for his clients from personal funds.
6.

Defendant has acknowledged his failm-e to properly maintain entrusted

funds.

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State HOI' v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 60f14

7.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it. in addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .01 14(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension:
(a) Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable, to wit: failing to conduct reconciliations and thus
compromising his ability to properly maintain and disburse entrusted
funds; and
(b) Potential negative impact of Defendant's actions on clients' or the

public's perception of the profession.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbannent.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

(c) A pattern of miscondUct;
(d) Multiple offenses;
(e) Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings; and
(f) Approximately twenty years of experience in the practice of law.

4.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted
funds betrays a vital trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal
profession.

Order of Discipline
The North Carolina State liar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 70f14

5.
Defendant's failure to maintain his clients' court costs and fines in trust
caused significant hann and potential significant harm. Defendant had to pay the court
costs and fines for those clients from his personal funds. Ifhe had not had the means to
do so, his clients' ability to timely and successfully resolve their cases would have been
at risk.

6.
Defendant's conduct, If contioued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.

7.

The Hearing Panel has considered issuiog an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such disciplioe would not be suffioieht discipline because of
the gravity of the hann and potential hann to the clients. The Panel further concludes
that such discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed
by Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.

8.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions
to avoid significant harm or the potential for significant hann to clients.
9.
for these reasons, this Hearing Panel frnds that an order imposiog
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing findings offact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of fact and Conclusion Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent ofthe
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following;
Order of Discipline

I.
Defendant, Michael S. Williamson, is hereby suspended from the practice
oflaw for three years.
2.

Defendant is taxed with the costs and adrnioistrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and fees.
Defendant shall pay the costs withio thirty days of service of the statement of cOsts upon
him.
3.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
(a) Within 30 days ofthe effective date of this order, Defendant shall
establish written procedures to ensure that client funds are
appropriately maintaioed and disbursed and that monthly and
quarterly reconciliations of the trust account are properly conducted.
Ifnon-attomey assistants andlor a CPA will be used to assist with
Order of Discipline

The North Carolifla State Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 8of14

these tasks, Defendant shall establish written procedures for personal
review and supervision. No later than 30 days from the effective date
of this order, Defendant shall submit a copy of these procedures to the
Office of Counsel. Defendant shall make any adjustments required
by the Office of Counsel to ensure compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct;

(b) Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar with an accurate three-way reconciliation as described in
the State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook for all trust accounts
maintained by Defendant. Defendant shall provide the three-way
reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with funds in the
trust account(s) during that month, ledger for any personal funds
maintained in the trust account(s) fOf bank Of credit card fees, general
trust account ledger, and the bank statements, cancelled checks, and
deposit slips for each month. Defendant shall also provide
documentation showing he followed the procedures established under
the preceding paragraph. These documents are due on the 15th day of
the following month - for example, the three-way reconciliation for
the month of January is due on February 15;
(c) Defendant, at his own expense, will have his trust account audited by
a Certified Public Accountant ("CPA") within 90 days of service of
this order. (This audit is referred to herein as "initial audit").
i. The CPA's initial audit must identify the beneficial owners of the
funds currently in Defendant's trust account and establish whether
the balance in the account is sufficient to cover all client funds
Defendant should be holding in trust;
ii. Defendant will provide the CPA's initial audit report to the State
Bar within five days of receipt along with a proposed disbursement
plan; and
iii. Defendant will remedy any deficiencies identified in the CPA's
initial audit and will bring his trust account into compliance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct within 30 days of receipt of the
audit report. Defendant will submit proof of any remedial action to
the State Bar and to the CPA no later than 30 days after receipt of
the CPA's report. Said remediation shall include Defendant
personally depositing funds in the trust account to replenish any
deficit in the account and properly disbursing entrusted funds as
deScribed in paragraphs (e) and (f) below.
(d) lithe CPA determines that remedial action is required, the CPA will
provide to the Office of Counsel a final audit report certifying that
Defendant's trust account is in compliance with the Rules of
Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 9 of14

Professional Conduct no later than 30 days after receipt of proof from
Defendant that he has taken the remedial measures;
(e) Defendant shall disburse all funds in his existing trust account to the
benef'icial owners within thirty days of notification that the State Bar
approves of the disbursement plan;

(f) Ifthere are funds in the account for which the beneficial owner(s)
cannot be identified, Defendant shall identifY, maintain, and account
for those unidentified funds until the beneficial owners are
determined or until the funds are deemed abandoned under Rule 1.15·
2, at which point Defendant shall escheat the funds;
(g) After the initial audit, Defendant shall have a CPA audit his trust
account(s) on a quarterly basis to ensure Defendant's compliance
with the Rules of Professional Conduct. The CPA must report
quarterly to the Office of Counsel concerning the compliance of
Defendant's trust account(s) with the Rules of Professional Conduct,
with a copy of the report sent simultaneously to Defendant. The CPA
report will address whether Defendant has in the trust account(s) the
client funds he should be maintaining for his clients ilt the time, as
well as Defendant's compliance with Rules 1.15·2 and 1.15-3. The
CPA's report shall include addressing the items on the CPA Report
Template form which the State Bar will provide to the Defendant.
The CPA's reports are due no later than 30 days after the end of each
quarter (first quarter's report due April 30, second quarter's report
due July 30, third quarter's report due October 30, and fourth
quarter's report due Januaty 30);
(h) If a monthly reconciliation or the CPA quarterly audit reveals any
deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15·2 or Rule
1.15-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the
date of the monthly report or the CPA audit and shall provide
documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar within 2
days of the date of the remedial action;

(i) Ifremedial action is required as a result of the CPA quarterly audit,
the CPA shall provide a subsequent report regarding whether
Defendant's remedial actions were sufficient and whethel'
Defendant's account(s) has been brought into compliance with the
Rules of Professional Conduct. The CPA shall provide this report
regarding remedial measures to the Office of Counsel within 30 days
of Defendant providing the CPA proof of remedial action;

0) AU CPA audits, evaluations, reports, and services referred to herein
will be completed and submitted at Defendant's sole expense;
Order of Discipline

The Nol'lh Carolina State Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 10 of14

(k) It is Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and

timely submits the reports as required herein;

(I) Failure of the CPA to submit any report required by this Order shall
be grounds to lift the stay and activate the suspension;

(m)Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel
to provide any information regarding his trust account(s) or to sign
and provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of
Counsel to obtain information directly from any bank in which
Defendant maintains a trust account, by the deadline stated in the
request;
(n) It is Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and
timely submits the reports as required herein. Failure of the CPA to
submit any report required by this Order shall be groUilds to lift the
stay and activate the suspension;
(0) Within 30 days of the effective date ofthis order, Defendant shall
have completed the On Demand Trust Accounting Series: Part I (Rule
1.15 Compliance) 2016 continuing legal education course available
on the North Carolina Bar Association website, taught by Peter
Bolac;

(P) Each calendar year thereafter, beginuing with 2017, Defendant shall
complete the next subsequent part of the On Demand Trust
Accounting Series by the end of that calendar year. In the final year
of the stayed suspension, Defendant shall complete the course for that
calendar year prior to the expiration of the stayed suspension. If there
is no next subsequent part of the On Demand Trust Accounting Series
available in a particular calendar year, Defendant shall identifY an
alternate trust accounting continuing legal education course to the
Office of Counsel for approval at least 60 days prior to the end ofthe
calendar year and shall take the approved alternate trust accounting
contiJ;lUing legal education course prior to the end of the calendar
year;
(q) On or before June 30 each year the stay is in effect, Defendant shall
snbmit an affidavit certifYing to the NOlth Carolina State Bar that all
general trust accounts, dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary
accounts maintained by Defendant or his law frrm are administered,
to the best of his knowledge, in compliance with the requirements of
Rule 1.15 (including all subparts) or that he is exempt from this
provision because Defendant does not maintain any tmst or fiduciary
accounts for North Carolina client fimds;

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 11 of14

(r) Defendant shall ensure that all trust funds received by or placed under
control of the lawyer are deposited into the trust account within
twenty-four hours of receipt and that all fiduciary funds received by
or placed under control of the lawyer are deposited into the applicable
fiduciary or trust account within twenty-four hours of receipt;
(s) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current physical business address (not a
Post Office box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall
notify the Bar of any change in address within ten (10) days of such
change;
(t) Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the North
Carolina State Bar;
(u) Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
infolmation from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated
therein with full and complete responses and all requested
documentation;
(v) Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;
(w)Defendant will pay all membership dues, Client Security Fund
assessments, and any other related dues, fees, and/or costs by the
applicable deadline;
(x) Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct
in effect during the period of the stay;
(y) Defendant will not violate any laws ofthe State of North Carolina or
of the United States, other than minor traffic violations, during the
period of the stay; and
(z) Defendant paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within thirty days after the statement of costs and fees
was served upon him.
4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations !.mder this Order end three years from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or proceedings pending alleging
lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to
§ .01 14(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion
Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar]/. Michael S. Williamson

Page 12 of14

or proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the
suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise
have telminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability-to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the three year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of
the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
such pending motion or proceeding.
S.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of Defendant's suspension may
be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
lfthe stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
6.
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing a petition, demonstrating compliance with the requirements § .0125 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, any requirements in the order
activating the suspension, and the following requirements by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence:
(a) Defendant submitted his Jaw license and membership card to the
Secretary of the State Bar within thirty days of the order lifting the
stay andlor activating the suspension of his law license;

(b) Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of
the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
( c) Defendant completed four hours of continuing legal education in the
m·ea of trust account management approved in advance by the Office
of Counsel of the State Bm·, including at least one continuing legal
education course taught by the Trust Account Counsel for the North
Carolina State Bar;
(d) Defendant established procedures by which he personally reconciles
his trust accounts or by which he personally supervises any nonattorney assistant who he utilizes to reconcile his trust accounts.
Defendant shall submit these procedures to the Office of Counsel 30
days prior to the filing of the petition for reinstatement. Defendant
shall have made any adjustments required by the Office of Counsel to
ensure compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct and
provided any corrected procedures with the petition;
(e) Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed
of his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office
box), telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of
his suspension;

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina Stale Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 13 of14

(:I) Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the North
Carolina State Bar throughout the period ofthe suspension;
(g) Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated
therein with full and complete responses and all requested
documentation throughout the period of his suspension;
(h) Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding continuing
education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of his
petition for reinstatement;
(i) Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;

(j) Defendant did not violate any laws ofthe State of North Carolina or of
the United States, other than minor traffic violations, during the period
of the suspension; and
(k) Defendant paid all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for
reinstatement.

8.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay
are satisfied.

rJ Signed~onsent of the other hearing panel members, this the
----L.... day of
2016.

~e>~c9:lJ
c:Prel1tlss,
Donald
Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Agreed and consented to by:

,

Date

/2--1-1'
Michael S. Williamson, pro se
Defendant

Date

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Michael S. Williamson

Page 140f14

