BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13G0122

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Clarke K. Wittstruck,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)

CENSURE

)

)

On July 18,2013, the Grievance Committee of the NOlth Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by O. W.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action. II .
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the NOlth Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
In June 2012, you agreed to represent O. W. in a divorce. Mr. W. paid you $350.00 as your
attorney's fee. The divorce complaint was filed in cOUlt and you sent a celtified letter containing the
divorce complaint to Mr. W.'s spouse. On July 18,2012, the celtified letter was returned as "non
deliverable as addressed." In September 2012, you told Mr. W. that you did not have a good address for
his spouse and that he would need to provide a new address and an additional $60.00 to "process the
divorce." Mr. W. paid the additional $60.00.
You indicated in your response that your staff processed the divorce in the way that you handled
most uncontested divorces. Your staff did not recognize that Mr. W.' s spouse lived in Jamaica and you
would not be able to obtain service by certified mail. You admit that you did not catch the error

regarding service and further admit that you should not have charged Mr. W. an additional $60.00 to
serve his spouse in Jamaica. Your failure to diligently attend to Mr. W.'s divorce violates Rule 1.3.
Your failure to communicate with Mr. W. about serving the divorce complaint on his spouse violates
Rule 1.4(a)(2)(3).
Mr. W. filed a fee dispute petition with the NOlih Carolina State Bar. You did not participate in
the fee dispute process and as a result, this grievance was opened. Your failure to participate in the fee
dispute process violates Rule 1.5(£). Finally, you did not respond promptly to this grievance in
violation of Rule 8.1(b).
The Grievance Committee found as an aggravating factor that you have prior discipline relative
to Rule 1.3, Rule 1.4(a)(3), and Rule 8.l(b) violations.
You are hereby censured by the N Olih Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depmi from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the coulis, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council of the NOlih Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

IL

day of

5ep+'

,2013.

Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

