BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13G0123

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Clarke K. WittstlUck,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 18,2013 the Grievance Committee of the NOIth Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. B.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rn1es ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminalY hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member ofthe NOlth Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The lUles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injUly caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe NOlth
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
lB. retained you in September of2012 to prepare a child custody agreement and real
estate transfer between Mr. B. and his spouse. Mr. B. paid you $420.00 as your fee. You admit
that you "got involved in other matters as [you] had a lot on [you] all at once in September
2012." You admitted that Mr. B.'s case "was not processed properly." Your failure to diligently

attend to Mr. B.'s legal matters violates Rule 1.3. Your failure to adequately communicate with
Mr. B. about his case violates Rule 1.4(a)(2)(3).
Mr. B. filed a fee dispute petition with the North Carolina State Bar. You were notified
of the fee dispute, and asked to respond to it. You indicated in your response that you thought
you communicated with a representative of the Attorney Client Assistance Program (ACAP)
regarding this fee dispute. However, ACAP has no record of you communicating with them
about Mr. B.'s fee dispute petition. Your failure to participate in the fee dispute resolution
process violates Rule I.SCi). The Grievance Committee notes that you did refund the attorney's
fee to Mr. B.
The Grievance Committee found as an aggravating factor your prior discipline.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depatt from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 20 I 0 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $3 50.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

ftZti

day of

~

Grievance Committee

MMHllb

,2013.

