NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG0047

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Mitchell A. Wolf,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRlMAND

)
)

On July 22, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. C.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
Stak Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injm;r caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A repnmand is a \Nritten form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential hann to a client. the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
TIle Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee oftlle North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented NW in a personal injury case arising out of a June 2006 car accident. On
19 June 2006, NW began treatment with, a doctor at Fuquay Chiropractic and Wellness Center.
On 20 July 2006. the doctor faxed you a notice of lien. You acknowledged receipt of t.he notice
of lien and agreed to pay the doctor out of any proceeds you received before you disbursed the

remainder to NW. You received settlement funds for NW in February 2009 but did not pay the
doctor, a valid medical lien-holder, as required by NCGS ยง 44-50.
When the doctor perfected her lien, she became entitled to a portion ofNW's settlement
ilmds by operation of law. Therefore, when you received the settlement proceeds-in trust, you
were deemed to hold a portion of tllose funds for the doctor's benefit. By disbursing all of the
funds (including those to which the doctor was entitled) to your client, you used entrusted funds
for the benefit of someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds in violation of Rule 1.152(j). Although you asserted tlmt this was an unintentional violation, the Grievance Committee
was ofthe opinion that a lawyer with sixteen years of experience should know this basic
principle regarding medical liens. Furthermore, the Grievance Committee noted that your failure
to comply with the law and the Rules in this instance required a valid medical lienholder to make
considerable additional effort to collect her fees, thereby undennining the purpose ofNCGS ยง
44-50.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, tllat it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by ilie Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding ilie taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of iliis action in the amount
01'$100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

de::;. day ofLJC'~~d,=:E:==--__, 2010

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

