.1

BEFORE THE
Y HEAIUNG COMMISSION

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER OF
DISClPLINE

v.

NATHANM.J. WORKMAN, Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Healing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
CDHC") composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members William O. King and Christopher
R. Bmffey, pm-suant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant, Nathan M. J. Workman,
was represented by Stephen Corby. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this Consent Order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant has fi'eely and voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and
consents to fue conclusions of law and entry of fue order of discipline. Defendant freely and
voluntarily waives any and all light to appeal the enny of this Consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in tllis matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and wifu fue
consent of the parties, fue Healing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly orgrulized
under the laws of North Carolina and is fue proper party to bling this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statl1tes of North Carolina, and fue Rules and
Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of fue North Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Nathan M. J. Workman, was adnlitted to the North Carolina State Bar
in Mal'ch 2010 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, fue Ru1es and
Regulations offue NOlth Carolina State Bar and the Ru1es of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods refen-ed to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
IndiaIl Trail, Union County, NOlth Carolina.

: .. :';--"

-:<-:. -.. ,-

•.•.•.• j

'

..•.. : ••.•••• : " ............... ... 1

L.T. Estate
4.
In August or September 2012, M.O. retained Defendant to handle the estate of
L.T. (hereinafter "L.T. estate").
5.
In connection with his representation in the L.T. estate, Defendant provided M. O.
with a legal services agreement.
6.
According to the legal services agreement, Defendant charged $1,800.00, $305.00
of which was for court costs and probate fees. The legal services agreement did not state that
Defendant's fee was earned immediately upon payment.
7.
Defendant also provided M.O. a document entitled "Notice Regarding Fees &
Voluntary Waiver" (hereinafter "trust waiver").
8.
The trust waiver contained a provision giving M.O. the option of waiving "the
trust accounting rule that funds received from clients for COUlt costs, fees, and expenses must be
deposited in a designated trust account."
9.
The trust waiver also provided: "If you waive this rule, any funds received for
court costs, fees, and expenses less than $1000.00 will be deposited and held in a designated
account for expenses. You will not receive a statement for these fimds monthly, and you will not
be subject to any monthly fees per transaction. Upon conclusion of representation, any frmds
received which have not been expended will be kept by the firm as legal service fees."
The (rust waiver also contained a provision that allowed Defendant (0 charge the
10.
client "a monthly fee of $20.00 per transaction (credit or debit)" for transactions on the trust
account.
M.O. signed the (rust waiver, and $305.00, the amount the client paid for costs,
11.
fees and expenses, was deposited into an account with Park Sterling Bank, account number
ending in 2033. This Park Sterling account was not an attorney trust account.
On October 4, 2012, Defendant applied for and was issued Letters of
12.
Administration in the Estate ofL.T., Mecklenburg County file no. 12 E 3046.
13.
Defendant listed Iris address on the Application for Letters of Administration as:
Nathan Michael Workman, Esq., 1000-E Van Buren Ave, Indian Trail, NC 28079.
14.

On or about January 30,2013, Defendant filed the Inventory in the L.T. estate.

On or about March 25, 2013, Defendant executed the Estate Tax Certification for
15.
the L.T. estate and the Final Account.
On or about March 25, 2013, Defendant's office delivered to the Mecklenburg
16.
County Clerk of Court's Office (hereinafter "clerk") a covel' letter with enclosures of the Final
Account, the Estate Tax Certification, and a check in the amount of $179.33 for the filing fee.

., ,.,.' ..:..' ..... :'-.....

· ...... :

. . : ..... I

17.
The check was drawn on the account referenced in paragraph 11 above, which
was not a trust account.
18.
On or about March 26,2013, the clerk mailed to Defendant at 1000-E Van Buren
Ave., Indian Trail, NC 28079 Notice that the Final Account snbmitted for the L.T. estate was
incomplete in several respects and was being retrnned to him.
19.

The clerk also returned to Defendant the un-negotiated $179.33 check.

20.
On October 25, 2013, the clerk mailed Defendant a Notice to File Final
Account/Affidavit for the L.T. estate.
21.
The clerk mailed the Notice to Defendant at 1000-E Van Buren Ave., Indian
Trail, NC 28079 and also mailed a copy to Defendant at 1000 Van Buren Avenue, Suite E,
Indian Trail, NC 28079.
22.
On or about December 13, 2013, the clerk entered an Order to File Account in the
L.T. estate, noting that Defendant had failed to file the Final Account as required by law.
23.
The clerk mailed the Order by celtified mail, return receipt requested, to
Defendant at 1000-E Van Buren Ave, Indian Trail, NC 28079 and also mailed a copy to
Defendant at 1000 Van Buren Avenue, Suite E, Indian Trail, NC 28079.
24.
An individual signing as agent for Defendant signed for the Order on or about
December 16, 2013.
25.

Defendant did not file the Final Account in the L.T. estate until May 30,2014.
S.P. Estate

26.

In May 2013, Defendant was retained by T.J. to handle the estate ofS.P.

27.
On May 15, 2013, Defendant applied for and was issued Letters Testamentary in
the estate ofS.P. (hereinafter" S.P. estate"), Mecklenburg County file no. 13 E 1662.
28.
Defendant listed his address on the Application for Letters Testamentary as:
Nathan Workman, Esq., Radius Law Group, 1000 Van Buren Ave., Suite E, Indian Trail, NC
28079.
29.
On or about August 30, 2013, the clerk mailed to Defendant a Notice to File
Inventory for the S.P. estate.
30.
The clerk mailed the Notice to: Nathan Michael James Esq [sic] Workman,
Radius Law Group, 1000 Van Buren Ave, Suite E, Indian Trail, NC 28079 and also mailed a
copy to: Nathml Workman, 1000 Van Buren Ave., Suite E, Indian Trail, NC 28079.

31.
On or about October 22, 2013, the clerk entered an Order to File Inventory for the
S.P. estate noting that Defendant had failed to file the hlVentOl'Y as required by law.
32.
The clerk mailed the Order by celiified mail, retul'll receipt requested, to: Nathan
Michael James Esq [sic] Workman, Radius Law Group, 1000 Van Buren Ave., Suite E, hldian
Trail, NC 28079 and also mailed a copy to Nathan Workman, 1000 Van Buren Avenue, Suite E,
Indian Trail, NC 28079.
33.
Ao individual signing as agent for Defendant signed for the Order on or about
November 5, 2013.
34.

Defendant did not file the Inventory for the S.P. estate until May 30, 2014.
Show Cause Orders

35.
On or about April 8, 2014, the clerk issued an Order to Show Cause to Defendant
for failure to file the Final ACCO~lllt in the L.T. estate. Defendant's Show Cause hearing was set
for May 8,2014.
36.
The clerk mailed the Show Cause Order by certified mail, retum receipt
requested, addressed as follows: Nathan M. Workman, 1000-E Van Buren Ave, Indian Trail,
NC 28079 and also mailed a copy to: Nathan Workman, 1000 Van Buren Avenue, Suite E,
Indian Trail, NC 28079.
37.
Ao individual signing as agent for Defendant signed for the Show Cause Order on
April 15, 2014.
38.
On or about April 8, 2014, the clerk issued an Order to Show Cause for failure to
file the InventOlY in the S.P..estate. Defendant's Show Cause hearing was set for May 8, 2014.
39.
The clerk mailed the Show Cause Order by certified mail, retum receipt
requested, addressed as follows: Nathan Michael James Workman, Radius Law Group, 1000
Van Buren Ave., Suite E, Indian Trail, NC 28079 and also mailed a copy to: Nathan Workman,
1000 Van Buren Avenue, Suite E, Indian Trail, NC 28079.
40.
An individual signing as agent for Defendant signed for the Show Cause Order on
Apri115,2014.
41.

Defendant failed to appear at the Show Cause hearings on May 8, 2014.

42.
An assistant clerk called Defendant twice after he failed to appear at the Show
Cause hearings and both times left a message for Defendant to call her, but Defendant did not
retum the calls.
43.
On or about May 26, 2014, the clerk faxed and mailed to Defendant a letter
infonning him that orders for his arrest would be issued unless he filed the account and inventory
inlmediately.

· i

!

44.
The clerk mailed the Jetter to Nathan Workman, Esq., Radius Law Group, 1000
Van Buren Ave., Suite E, Indian Trail, NC 28079.
45.
On or about May 30, 2014, Defendant filed the documents necessary to close the
L.T. and S.P. estates.
Additional Trust Accouut Issues

46.
Between January and October 2013, Defendant failed to always identify on the
checks drawn on his trust account on which client balance the checks were drawn.
47.
In July 2013, Defendant withdrew $400.00 fi'OIl1 his trust account by means of a
counter check in order to pay for Park Sterling Bank to issne a cashier's check for $400.00 to a
client and failed to identifY on the counter check on which client balance the check was drawn.
Based upon the consent of the palties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law
I.
All patties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-2S(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing, as a fiduciary for the L.T. estate, to tinteJy file the Final Account for
the L.T. estate, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness
in representing his client in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to tintely render to
judicial officials the requisite inventory and accountings of fiduciary funds and
other entrusted propetty in violation of Rule 1.15-3(f), and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule SA(d);
(b) By failing, as a fiduciaIY for the S.P. estate, to tintely fIle the Inventory for the
S.P. estate, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing Iris client in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to timely render to judicial
officials the requisite inventory and accountings of fIducialY funds and other
entrusted property in violation of Rule L15-3(f), and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d);
(0) By failing to appear at the Show Cause hearings concerning the L.T. and S.P.
estates, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing his clients in violation of Rule 1.3 and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d);
(d) By depositing funds received fi'om the client for the payment of COUlt costs and
probate fees into a bank account that was not a trust account, Defendant failed to

..

~

properly maintain entrusted ftmds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and failed to
deposit trust ftmds in a trust accountin violation of Rule 1.15-2(b);
(e) By charging clients $20.00 per transaction for transactions on his trust account
irrespective of the actual costs incurred, Defendant charged a clearly excessive
amoullt for expenses in violation of Rule 1.5(a);
(f) By failing to identify

011 checks drawn on his trust accomlt on which client
balance the checks were dl'awn, Defendant violated Rule 1.15-3(b)(2); and

(g) By drawing a check on his trust account made payable to cash, Defendant violated
Rule 1.15-2(i).
Upon the consent of the palties, the Healing Panel also fmds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1. Defendant has no prior disciplinary record concerning his license to practice law.
2. Defendant fully cooperated with all of the State Bar's inquil'ies regarding these
matters.
3. When Defendant committed these Rule violations, he had been licensed as an
attomey less than five years.
4. Defendant's failure to respond to the clerk and failure to follow the nust accounting
rules had the potential for significant harm to his clients.
5. While Defendant's conduct concerning the nust accounting Rules demonstrates a lack
of understanding or disregard of the Rules regarding the safeguarding of client funds, there is no
evidence that he misappropriated entrusted funds.
6. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspemion, and disbmment, in
considering the appropliate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional Findings
of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To DiScipline

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered alI of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina Stale Bar and
concludes the following factors warrant sllspemion of Defendant' s license:

· i

•.

(a) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's OT public's perception of the
profession;
(b) Negative impact oftlle defendant's actions on the adnrinistration of justice; and
(e) Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation;
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB §.01l4(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes no
factors are present in this instance that would waHant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B §.Ol14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors are applicable in this matter:

(a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;

(c) Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings; and
(d) Degree of expedence in the practice oflaw
4.
Defendant's conduct, if continued OT tolerated by the Bar, poses significant
potential harnl to future clients.

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or censure
but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
potential harm to the clients. The Panel ful1her concludes that such discipline would fail to
adequately protect the public and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Healing PanCl has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a stayed
suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions to avoid
siguificant harm or the potential for siguificant h81m to clients.
7.
For these reasons, this Headng Panel finds that an order imposing discipline sh011
of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings of fact
and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the Headng Panel
enters the following:
Order of Discipline
1.
Defendant, Nathan MJ. Workm81l, is hereby suspended D'Olll the practice of law
fOT one year, effective thilty days from service of this order upon Defendant.

.... i

.. ........ .... i

,.

:.:: . :~.:

.~ .. '·i'.·:: ..: .._·..

2.
The one year suspension is stayed for a pedod of three years as long as Defendant
complies, and continues to comply with the following conditions each year the stay is in effect:
(a) To ensure Defendant's future compliance with Rule 1.15 of the Rules of
Professional Conduct:
i.

Each quarter that the Defendant possesses or controls any entmsted property
as defined in Rule 1.15-1 (e) andlor maintains any tlUst 01' fiduciary account(s),
Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State Bar with an
accurate three-way reconciliation required by Rule 1.15-3(d) (1 ) for all tmst
accounts maintained by him.

ii.

In addition to the required quarteriyreconciliations, for the montbs covered by
each quarterly reConciliation, Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel
of the State Bar with: (i) client ledgers for each client whose funds are held in
the trust account during the qmnter, (ii) ledger(s) fOl' any personal ftmds
maintained in the tmst accollnt(s) for hank 01' credit card fees, (iii) general
ledger(s) for each trust accolmt to which Defendant has access, and (iv) the
banle statement, cancelled checks and deposit slips for each tmst account
which Defendant maintains;

iii.

The reconciliation reports shall be delivered to the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar no later than thilty days after the end of each quarter (first quarter
report due April 30, second quarter report due July 31, third quarter report due
October 31, and fourth quarter repOlt due January 31);

iv.

If any quarterly reconciliation reveals any irregularities or deficiencies,
Defendant shall take all remedial action necessary to bring the trust account(s)
into compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct and shall provide
proof of the remedial action and compliance to the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar within thirty days ofthe date of the report; and

v.

All reconciliations referred to herein will be completed and submitted at
Defendant's sole expense;

(b) On or before June 30 each year the stay is in effect, Defendant shall submit an
affidavit ccrtifying to the NOlth Carolina State Bar that all general tmst
accounts, dedicated trust accounts, and fidnciary accounts maintained by
Defendant or his law finn are administered, to the best of his knowledge, in
compliance with the requirements of Rule 1.15 (including all subparts) or that
he is exempt from this provision because Defendant does not maintain any trust
. Or fidnciaty accounts for North Carolina client funds;

(c) In addition to the CLE requirements set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code ID §
.1518, Defendant shall, within one year of the effective date of this Oreler,
snccessfully complete: i) foUl' honIs of Continuing Legal Education (CLE) in
the area of trust account management, one hour of which shall he a trust account

CLEcourse taught by Trust Accouot Compliance Counsel for the North
Carolina State Bar, and ii) at least four hours of CLE in law office management.
Courses proposed to fulfill the requirements of this paragraph must be approved
in advance by the Office of Couosel and will be at Defendant's own expense.
Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of the trust
account and law office management courses to the Office of Connsel within ten
days of completion of each course;
(d) Unless Defendant is on secure leave pursuant to Rule 26 of the General Rules of
Practice for the Superior and District COUlts, Defendant must personally
respond to conunuoications from his clients within twenty-four hours or direct a
member of his staff to provide clients a time when Defendant will respond and
in that case, Defendant shall respond within forty-eight hours and in no event
shall Defendant fail to personally respond within forty-eight hours;
(e) In the event Defendant is on secure leave, he must leave messages on all of his
voice mail boxes and e-mail accounts informing the caller/correspondent when
he will return from secure leave and must return all calls/correspondence within
forty-eight hours of that time;
(f) Defendant shall pay all Memberslrip dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements;
(g) On January 31, and April 30, October 31, and December 31 each year the stay is
in effect, Defendant shall submit an affidavit to the Office of Counsel indicating
his employment status andlor the nature of his employment.
(h) If at any time during the period of the stay Defendant is engaged in the private
practice of law, Defendant shall an'ange for an active member in good standing
of the North Carolina State Bar who practices in the county of his practice to
serve as his practice monitor. Before Defendant resumes practicing any form of
legal work, he must supply the Office of Counsel with a letter from the
approved monitoring attorney confinning his or her agreenlent to: (a) meet with
Defendant monthly to review his cases; (b) provide snpervision to ensure that
Defendant timely and completely handles client matters; and (c) provide written
quruterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel on the following
dates as they occur dllling the duration of the stay ofthe suspension: January 31,
April 30, July 31, and October 31. Defendant will be responsible for the cost, if
any, charged by the 1110nitor for this supervision.
(i) Defendant shall meet at least once monthly with his practice monitor, to whom
he shall report the status of all curren! client matters and provide copies of any
documents filed on behalf of current clients. Defendant shall provide any
additional infOlmation the practice monitor deems reasonably necessmy to
eusure that Defendant is timely handling all client matters in accord with the
reqnirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct, the NOlth Carolina Rules of

.;

I ..

Civil Procedure, and the NOlih Carolina General Rules of Practice, and is in
compliance with the trust accounting rules;
(j) Defendant shall ensure that the practice monitor thnely submits to the Office of
Counsel a written report by January 31, Aplil 30, July 31, and October 31
describing his or her meetings with Defendant and opinion of whether.
Defendant is in compliance with the terms of this Order and the Rnles of
Professional Conduct;
(Ie) Shonld the need arise to find a replacement practice monitor during the stay of
Defendant's suspension, Defendant shall promptly provide to the Office of
Counsel the name of a proposed altemative practice monitor. Defendant's
failure to promptly provide the Office of Counsel the nanle of an alternative
practice monitor will not excuse any failure to meet monthly with an approved
practice monitor and will not excuse failure of an approved practice monitor to
provide quaiterly repotis to the Office of Counsel;

(I) Defendant shall not violate the Rnles of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government dmmg his suspension,
misdemeanor traffic violations excepted;

(m)Defendant shall keep the Notth Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses and shall notify the Bar of
any change in address within ten days of such change;
(n) Defendant shall respond to all communications fl:om the NOlth Carolina State
Bar, including communications from the Attomey Client Assistance Program,
witbin thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner, and shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee
dispute resolution process for any petition of which he receives notice after the
effective date of tilis Order;
(0) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail that is sent to him

from the State Bar;

(P) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements; and
(q) Defendant shall pay all costs and administrative fees of this action witltin thuty
days of the date the Order of Discipline is served on hun or his counsel.
3.
Failure of the Defendant to thnely submit any document required by this Order
shall be sufficient grounds to lift the stay and activate tile suspension.

'. :'.. : ._: i

4.
If dUling the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with anyone or
more of the conditions stated above, the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension by filing a
petition pursuant to § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules
demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein as well as the following requirements
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
(a) Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the terms of
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules;
(b) Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of his
CUlTent infOlmation for his physical address (not a Post Office box), telephone
number, and e-mail address thronghout the period of his suspension;
(c) Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address on
record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State Bar
throughout the period of the suspension;
(d) Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full and complete
responses and all requested documentation throughout the period of his
suspension;
(e) Defendant has come into complianyc with any outstanding CLE or memhership
obligations at the time of the filing of his petition for reinstatement;
(f) Defendant did not violate auy of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect

during the pedod of the suspension, misdemeanor traffic violations excepted;
(g) Defendant did not violate any laws of the Statc of North Caroliua or ofthe United
States dudng the period of the suspension; and
(h) Defendant paid all costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
by the date of the filing of his petition forrcinstatement.
6.
Unless Defeudant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to § .01 14(x) of the North
Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the
stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion 01' show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the pedod of the

· i

stay of the suspension would otherwise have telminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and
ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the one year suspension in whole Or in part if
it finds that any of the conditions of the siay have not been met. The stay of the suspension aud
Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution
of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other Hearing
Panel members.

This the

rLf-.day of ~2016.

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed and consented to by:

Mary D.

mstead

~
Defendant

· ':' ...

SlaY of tl1e slL'lpcnsion would otherwise have temlinated, the DHC relaillS the jiu:isdlctidn and
ability to liftth~ stay ,of the suspenSiOfil.lild activate the one year SUSpell$~on inwhoie orm paliii'
it finds Juat any of the eclidl(lQl!S" of tllestay have Mt been 1l1el. T)i.c$tayof tb" $~1Spension l\lld
Ddendiuit's obligation to complY \';ith the Mnditionsfor thestaywilleontiime until re~QMion
of any such pendittg lhotltm or
cause proceeding.

show

Signed by the (llldel'sig1)cd Hearing Panel Chair with the conselltof the other Heariilg

PanellX!elubers.

Thisthe~_

day

[jf~~_

_ _ _ ).016.

Fi;dM. Moreloe)<, Chail' .
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed andconse1\te.dto by:

Mary:f),WinStead
AtiOritey for Plnllltlll

Nathan MJ. Worktnan~

Defendant

