NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G0331 & 17G0801

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
STEVEN B. WRIGHT,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 17, 2019, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by J.M. and T.M. The grievances were assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs investigation of these
matters.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your responses to the letters of notice, the Grievance Subcommittee found
probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of
the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may determine
that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required
and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the
actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee
may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in these cases and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee
of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
In early 2015, you agreed to represent J.M. on federal criminal charges. In August 2015, J.M.
wrote a letter to the court stating you had not communicated with him since May, and you had not
responded to his family members' requests for information even though J.M. had authorized you to
communicate with them. A hearing was held to address J.M.' s concern. At that hearing, the judge asked
the AUSA and probation officer in J.M. 's case whether they had problems communicating with you. The
hearing evidence showed that you failed to respond to the probation officer's presentencing rep0l1 in
violation of a sentencing scheduling order, and you failed to respond to several communications from the
AUSA concerning matters aimed at advancing the case. At the end of the hearing, the court appointed
new counsel to represent J.M. Your failure to timely communicate with your client and court officials,
and your failure to comply with a scheduling order of the cOUl1 violated Rules 1.3 and 8.4(d).

In May 2015, you were retained to represent T.M. on federal criminal charges. Your license to
practice law in North Carolina was administratively suspended beginning November 5, 2015 and
remained suspended through February 1, 2016. You failed to comply with the client notification
provisions of the wind down rule, and you did not file a motion to withdraw in T.M.'s case, a violation
of Rule 1. 16(a)(l ). Because you failed to withdraw, the AUSA had to file a motion to determine the
status of counsel and a hearing was held at which your client did not have an advocate. At the end of the
hearing, the COUlt appointed another lawyer to investigate the status of counsel for T.M. Your failure to
comply with the wind down rules and to file a motion to withdraw unnecessarily complicated the issue
of T.M. 's representation during your suspension and was prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4( d).
In your initial response to the inquiry from the State Bar, you stated that your fee for
representation of T.M. was paid in full before the effective date of your suspension. However, you
accepted installment payments of your fee to represent T.M. during the time you were suspended.
Accepting payment for services while your license was suspended violated Rules 1.5(a) and 8.4(c). By
misrepresenting to the State Bar that you were paid in full prior to your suspension, you violated Rules
8.1 (a) and 8.4(c).
In 2016 you received a Censure, in Palt, for representing on your business website that you were
admitted to practice law in the State of Vermont. Your license to practice in Vermont was
administratively suspended on June 30, 2014. This misleading information was still on your website
during the investigation into the present grievances and violates Rule 7.1(a).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depalt from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the COUltS, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

orr

~#;;"y ~, 2019.

Ar~~Jv

A. Todd Brown, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar
ATB/lb

