NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG1126

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATIER OF
Roderick M. Wright, 1r.
Attomey At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRlMAND

On October 20, 2011 the Grievance Committee of the NOlth Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by L. P.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) oflhe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonuation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential hann to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In 2007, you employed an independent contractor to design and construct a new website
for your law finn. You suggested that the website designer look at the website for Kurtz &
Blum, PLLC, among others, as an example of a finn website with features you believed were
desirable. You relied upon the independent contractor to design the website in accordance with

legal and ethical standards, but failed to review the finished product. The site he developed for
your film was essentially a duplicate oCthe Kurtz & Blum website.
By hiring a non-lawyer to prepare a website for your firm and then failing-for several
years--to review the content of the website to ensure it was accurate and in compliance with the
Rules of Professional Conduct, you failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the nonlawyer's conduct was compatible with your professional obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(a).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the .::;iZ:;:L day

Of_",-/l-,-_,,-_~_.____, 201 I.

/t~~

RoTIaId G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

-------

