BEFORE THE
COUNCIL
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
16 BCR2

WAKE COUNTY

ORDER OF
REINSTATEMENT
MICHAEL L. YOPP

The petition for reinstatement of Michael L. Yopp came on for hearing before the
Council of the North Carolina State Bar on January 27, 2017 with the petitioner represented by
David Freedman and with the NC State Bar represented by A. Root Edmonson.
~--

At least 30 days prior to the hearing before the Council, a copy of the transcript of the
September 19, 2016 hearing before a three member panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission, each exhibit offered at the hearing, and the recommendation ofthe panel to the
Council entitled Report of the Hearing Panel Recommending Petitioner's Reinstatement filed by
the Chair of the panel on December 7, 2016 was made available to each Councilor on EDDS.
BASED UPON the above-described record and the arguments of counsel, a motion was
made and seconded that Michael L. Yopp's petition for reinstatement be allowed, conditioned
upon his attaining a passing grade on a regularly scheduled written bar examination administered
by the North Carolina Board of Law Examiners. Upon a vote of the Council, that motion passed.
WHEREFORE, the petition for reinstatement of Michael L. Yopp is hereby allowed.
Michael L. Y opp will be REINSTATED to the practice of law in North Carolina upon his
attaining a passing grade on a regularly scheduled written bar examination administered by the
North Carolina Board of Law Examiners.
This is the

27th

day of January 2017.

t"(yw,~
Mark W. Merritt, President
North Carolina State Bar

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

IN RE REINSTATEMENT PETITION OF )
)
REPORT OF THE HEARING
)
) PANEL RECOMMENDING PETITIONER'S
REINSTATEMENT
)
MICHAEL L. YOPP
)

On September 19,2016, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Joshua W. Willey, Jr., and Randy A. Moreau, heard the
above-referenced matter pursuant to 27 NCAC lB, Sec .. 0125(a). David Freedman represented
the Petitioner Michael L. Y opp (hereinafter referred to as "Yopp") and A. Root Edmonson
represented the North Carolina State Bar. Pursuant to 27 NCAC IB, Sec .. 0125(a)(3), the
Petitioner hap the burden of proving that he had satisfied all of the elements qualifying him for
reinstatement by clear, cogent and convincing evidence.
Based upon the evidence presented and the stipulations of the palties, the panel makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.

Yopp was licensed to practice law in the State of North Carolina in 1989.

2.

Yopp surrendered his license and was disbarred on July 19, 2002. At the time of
the tender of his license, Petitioner was not represented by counsel and no
disciplinary action was pending before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.

3,

Yopp caused to be published in the Fall 2015 edition of the North Carolina State
Bar Journal a notice of his intent to petition for reinstatement and notified by letter
the parties who were the subjects of the conduct that led to Yopp's disbarment
that he was seeking reinstatement.

4.

That there are no issues in dispute regarding Yopp's compliance with 27 NCAC
lB, Sec .. 0128 and 27 NCAC lB, Sec.. 0129(E)-(K).

5.

That Yopp has reimbursed the Client Security Fund all costs, including the sum of
$3,717.10, the same being the amount disbursed by the Client Security Fund as a

result of the Petitioner's misconduct;
6.

Yopp has paid all dues, Client Security Fund assessments and late fees owed to
the N0\1h Carolina State Bar, as well as all attendee fees and late penalties due
and owing to the Board of Continuing Legal Education at the time of disbarment.

7.

Prior to his disbarment, Yopp was engaged in a substantial solo private practice in
Harnett County with criminal defense being his predominant field of practice.

8.

During the time of his practice, Yopp had an exemplary reputation for honesty and
professionalism among the bench and the Bar and in his community. Y opp was
involved heavily in politics and was a candidate for District Attorney in the 11 th
Judicial District.

9.

Yopp was married sh0\11y after taking the Bar exam in 1989 to Connie King, who
had two children from previous relationships. Yopp sought and was granted an
order changing the sir name of the youngest child Ashley to Yopp. There were
two additional children born of the marriage.

10.

During the course of the marriage, Yopp's spouse began to exhibit destructive
behavior involving substance abuse and mental health issues resulting in multiple
in-patient stays for detoxification. Yopp' s spouse was ultimately diagnosed with
bi-polar disorder.

11.

Despite the diagnosis, Y opp' s spouse refused treatment and her condition
continued to deteriorate and became increasingly disruptive and distressing to
Yopp and the children.

12.

Yopp assumed the role of primary caretaker of the four minor children.

13.

The circumstances and chaos surrounding Yopp's domestic issues caused
tremendous anxiety, embarrassment and made Yopp's life burdensome and
unmanageable.

14.

Over the course of time, Yopp became the co-dependent enabler of his spouse,
began to suffer from significant depression, and began to self medicate with
alcohol.

15.

Over the same period of time Yopp began to neglect the necessary and responsible
daily operation of his practice by failing to promptly return phone calls, check
mail, occasionally failing to keep appointments as scheduled or meet the
appropriate expectations of professional responsibility.

16.

At some point, Yopp removed himself from the marital residence and moved into
a finished apartment in his back yard so that he might continue his parental

supervision of the minor children, but attempted to escape the domestic strife then
existing.
17.

During the latter part of 1999, Yopp realized that he could no longer consistently
and competently represent the interests of his clients due to his depression and
substance abuse and Yopp made the decision to close his law office.

18.

Despite Yopp' s deteriorating mental and emotional condition, he continued to
maintain a profitable and successful law practice which included the trial of
multiple First Degree Murder cases, the last of which ended approximately one
week before the Petitioner closed the doors of his office just prior to Christmas
1999.

19.

On or about December 28,1999, Yopp was confronted and assaulted by his
spouse in the apartment and as a result Yopp sought and was granted a Domestic
Violence Protective Order against his spouse.

20.

Yopp was severely depressed and at the height of his self medication during the
first half of2000 he ultimately met Ed Ward at the offices of the NOith Carolina
State Bar. Yopp was referred by Mr. Ward to Jan Hedgepath for counsel for
depression and co-dependency. Yopp treated with Hedgepath for approximately
one year.

21.

Over the course of the next two and one-half years, Yopp was involved in
multiple hearings regarding custody of his minor children and ultimately was
awarded full custody of his two biological children in September 2002.

22.

After closing his practice, Yopp suppOited himself through various non-law
related employments until soon after the final custody determination. Petitioner
began to work for attorneys in Harnett County as a clerk and paralegal until late
2002 and continues said employment today.

23.

Yopp was well known in Harnett County and his disbarment was covered
extensively by newspapers in the small and close knit communities of that area.

24.

At all times Yopp has openly and forthrightly aclmowledged his wrongdoing and
the conduct which led to his disbannent, including public declarations to groups
for which he volunteered within the community.

25.

During the period of time since his disbmment, Yopp has remained visible and
active in his community, participating in school and church functions and
organization with, and on behalf of, his minor children. Yopp delivered for Meals
on Wheels and was very active in Harnett County Relay for Life among other
public causes.

26.

Over the course of the time after disbarment, Yopp concentrated on raising his
children and all have grown into successful and accomplished adults that have
submitted letters in support of his reinstatement.

27.

Since the time of his disbarment, Yopp has successfully overcome the issues of
substance abuse and depression existing at the time of the conduct leading to his
disbannent. Jan Hedgepath of Arbor Counseling, who treated Yopp in 2000 for
depression and co-dependency, submitted a letter on Yopp' s behalf stating in part
"It is obvious to me you've learned healthy coping skills, and have the willingness
to use them appropriately should the need arise. 1 see no reason to believe that
you cannot practice law and to serve the People ofNOlth Carolinas as a practicing
attorney. "

28.

Yopp voluntarily participated in the LAP program and Nicole Ellington submitted
a letter in support of Yopp which says, in part "An assessment was conducted and
Mr. Yopp did not meet the criteria for a substance use disorder at this time. It was
recommended that he maintain sobriety from all mood and mind altering
substances and paJticipate in regular, random drug testing. He began drug testing
in May of 20 16 and he has had all negative urine drug tests for all mood and
mind-altering substances since then. At this time, Mr. Yopp does not appear to be
experiencing any functional impairment; and by all indications, presents as stable.
Lawyers Assistance Program has found no clinical or emotional issues that would
impede his ability to effectively practice law."

29.

Senior Resident Superior Comi Judge Winston Gilchrist, I11h Judicial District,
offered testimony as to Yopp's skill as an attorney, his candor regarding the
conduct that led to his disbarment, his rehabilitation since his disbalment, and his
present good standing and reputation in the community. Judge Gilchrist fmiher
testified that Y opp would be an asset to the Bar if his petition for reinstatement
was granted stating "I think that Mike would do our profession credit, 1 sincerely
believe that, if you would allow him to practice again."

30.

District Court Judge Addie Harris Rawls, Illh Judicial District, testified that Yopp
was an advocate that dealt with her honestly and fairly when she was a prosecutor
in the 111h District and was "considered one of the better attorneys in that area".
Judge Rawls fmiher testified that Yopp "would be an asset for the practice of law
within our district. He's extremely intelligent, professional and I have respect for
him." And that presently she would describe Yopp as "humble".

31.

Attorney Tim Monis of the Harnett County Bar testified that Yopp had a
reputation for professionalism and honesty among the Bar. Referring to Yopp,
Morris said "He was just such a good advocate and so civil. All things good
about the practice of law are sitting at that table right there." Morris fmiher
testified that Y opp had overcome the personal difficulties that existed at the time
of the conduct that led to his disbarment and had returned to the person he was

prior to his depression and substance abuse.

32.

Attomey Ben Hurley of the Ashe County Bar testified that he had known Yopp
since law school and was familiar with Yopp's excessive drinking and depression
during the course of his domestic situation during the time of the conduct that led
to his disbarment. Hurley testified that he stayed in contact with Yopp and saw
him in social settings over the course of the last several years where Yopp did not
engage in the consumption of alcohol. Hurley further testified that presently
Yopp was a person of good moral character and "would trust him with anything
and everything I have".

33.

Tom Horner, District Attomey for the 23,d Prosecutorial District submitted a letter
in support ofYopp's reinstatement. Mr. Homer "firmly believes that Michael
Yopp has leamed from his mistakes, paid dearly for them for the 14 years of his
disbarment, and has tried very hard to redeem himself. I would ask that you
extend a measure of mercy by allowing his license to practice law be reinstated."

34.

Attomey Grier Hurley of the Ashe County Bar submitted a letter in support of
Yopp' s reinstatement stating in part that "after losing his license and being unable
to practice law, Michael picked himself off the floor, dusted himself off and lived
his life as best he could - working hard. He often times worked two jobs,
remained involved in his Church, and raised his then three young girls to be strong
independent young women."

35.

Jerry Parker of the Hamett County Bar submitted a letter in support ofYopp's
reinstatement stating in part that Yopp " has candidly discussed the incidents that
led to his discipline by the Bar. He is sincerely remorseful and accepts full
responsibility for his actions. Based on what I know to be Mike's character, I
cannot help but believe that his life circumstances existing at the time led to his
uncharacteristically poor decisions. Yopp has worked with Parker for years and
during that time he states that Yopp's "appearance and demeanor during that time
has been in stark contrast to that period towards the end of his practice and
marriage. He is dependable and possesses a sharp mind with attention to detail. I
trust him completely."

36.

Assistant Attorney General Stualt Saunders submitted a letter in support of the
Yopp's reinstatement stating in part that "from the moment he lost his law license
in 2002, Mr. Yopp has been unflinching in his self-appraisal; he has worked hard
to understand and to correct the elements of his life that led to the loss of a career
that meant so much to him". Further Saunders stated that Y opp "would be an
asset to our profession, I would welcome him with pride and with the knowledge
that the Bar is a better place with him in it. As I have told him before, I would
hire him in a minute to represent me or anyone I care about."

37.

Yopp was eligible to petition for reinstatement in 2007. Yopp made the conscious

decision to wait to petition for reinstatement until such time as he felt that the
substance abuse and mental health issues were behind him and he was in full
control of his life circumstances.
38.

In total, 20 letters in SUppott ofYopp were submitted by members of the Bar, Law
enforcement, and members ofYopp's community.

39.

There was no evidence offered in opposition to the Reinstatement ofYopp.

40.

Yopp has reformed and presently possesses the moral qualifications required for
admission to practice law in this state taking into account the gravity of the
misconduct which resulted in the Order of Disbarment.

41.

Permitting Yopp to resume the practice of law within the state will not be
detrimental the integrity and standing of the Bar, to the administration of justice,
or to the public interest, taking into account the gravity of the misconduct which
resulted in the order of disbarment.

BASED UPON the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT, the panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.

Yopp has reformed and presently possesses the moral qualifications required for
admission to practice law in this state taking into account the gravity of the
misconduct which resulted in the Order of Disbarment.

2.

The gravity of the conduct which resulted in the Order of Disbarment was serious.

3.

Permitting Yopp to resume the practice of law within the state will not be
detrimental to the integrity and standing of the Bar to the administration of justice,
or to the public interest, taking into account the gravity of the misconduct which
resulted in the order of disbarment.

4.

Yopp has complied with the provisions of27 NCAC IB, Section .0128 of the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.

5.

Yopp has complied with all orders of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and
of the North Carolina State Bar.

6.

Yopp has not engaged in the Unauthorized Practice of Law during the period of
disbannent.

7.

Yopp understands the current Rules of Professional Conduct.

8.

Yopp has satisfied all ofthe requirements for eligibility for reinstatement.

WHEREFORE, BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
panel makes the following:
RECOMMENDATION TO THE COUNCIL
1.

That Michael L. Yopp's license to practice law be reinstated conditioned upon
Yopp's attaining a passing grade on a regularly scheduled written bar examination
administered by the N011h Carolina Board of Law Examiners;

2.

That the cost of the hearing and transmittal of the record to the Council be taxed
to Yopp.

nowledge and consent
Signed by the undersigned Chair of the h~i?g p. anel wi
of the other members of the panel this the
day of~*~~d}',d...,,--_, 2016.

1r

FRED

