~~""-1~~1
.,;t.\c,
\,., i g'r,~

/;...

\.\

it;;) .
I::::::
(~
NORTH CAROLIN1;;

M

~

'",," .--...""""'"

'?;':;3~

\. . .:'::\

. '~R 2070

';:;'>l

~j
BEFORE THE
p0,blSCIPLlNARY
HEARING COMMISSION
~'-tii'ff'< l-~
e;,-'
,
" '~'.1'
~-,
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
"'.,.i' (> ~ r ',,-09 DHC II

cD

~'?('

WAKE COUNTY

/f,;b? ,~.

rb~'lt;;:;-.lJ\

-0:-

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR.
Plaintiff
v.

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING
DEFENDANT TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

KAREN ZAMAN, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by the hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission previously appointed in this case. composed of Tommy W. Jarrett, Chair,
and members J. Michael Booe and Michael J. Houser. Jennifer A. POtier represented
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Alan M. ScImeider represented Defendant, Karen
Zaman ("Zaman"). Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the transfer of Defendant to
disability inactive status. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the entry of this consent order transferring her to disability inactive status. Based
upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing panel hereby finds
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper pmiy to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNOtih
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
2.
Zmnan was admitted to the Nonh Carolina State Bar in 1979, and is, and
was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of
the Nonh Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
A Consent Order of Discipline in the above captioned matter was filed
May 29, 2009. Zaman was found to have violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in a
personal injury matter and two medical malpractice matters, including by failing to attend
discovery conference hearings in the two medical malpractice matters. Zaman's law
license was suspended for two years. The suspension was stayed for three years as long
as Zaman complied with the conditions stated in the Order.

4.
One condition of the stay ofZaman's suspension was that she have an
attomey serve as a law practice monitor, supervising client matters and ensuring Zaman
meet deadlines, confer with clients, and attend court dates. Another condition was that
Zaman receive treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder and/or any other mental health
or behavioral condition that affects her ability to practice law, as diagnosed by a mental
health professional.
5.
Since the imposition of the stayed suspension and since working with the
practice monitor required by the Order of Discipline, problems involving Zaman have
continued to occur in cOUl1 in the two medical malpractice cases identified in the Order of
Discipline as well as in a third medical malpractice case.
6.
Zaman has been treated at HRC Behavioral Health & Psychiatry, PA since
about September 2008. In a letter dated January IS, 2010, Dr. John Nicholls stated his
opinion that Zaman suffers from severe anxiety, that she remains symptomatic, and that
her anxiety is poorly controlled. He recommended minimization of stressors, including
work-related stress, and ongoing psychiatric care. Bohdan Hrynewych, the Licensed
Clinical Social Worker at HRC Behavioral Health & Psychiatry PA who has been
counseling Zaman, has also expressed opinions conceming Zaman's status. ]n his letter
to the State Bar, Mr. Hrynewych states Zaman's post-traumatic stTess disorder has waxed
and waned over the period of his treatment of her but became unremitting in December
2009 when she became solely responsible for three major litigation cases. He states her
symptoms have escalated since that time and include extreme anxiety, panic, and
hyperarousal ("fight or flight" response) which interfere with her ability to plan, think
cleaTly, adapt, focus, and remember. Mr. Hrynewych states his opinion that Zaman has a
mental condition which significantly impairs her professional judgment and performance
in practicing law.
7.
Zaman presently suffers from a mental disorder that significantly impairs
her pTOfessional judgment, perf01111ance or competence as an attomey.
8.

Zaman eonsents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel enteTs the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has retained jurisdiction of this
matter as stated in the Order of Discipline and pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter
I, Subchapter B, Section .0114(x).
2.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, and
the Diseiplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Zaman and the subject matter
of this pTOceeding.
2

3.
Zaman has voluntarily consented to being transferred to disability inactive
status with the North Carolina State Bar.
4.
Zaman is disabled within the meaning of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, Section .0103(19), and Zaman should be transferred to disability inactive
status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0118.
ORDER
I.

Zaman is hereby transferred to disability inactive status.

2.
Zaman shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina until reinstated
to active status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Section .0 125(c).
3.
The tenn of the suspension. the tenn of the stay of the suspension, and the
conditions of the stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline previously
entered in this case are abated until such time as Zaman is reinstated to active status. The
ternl of the suspension, the tenn of the stay of the suspension, and the conditions of the
stay will resume upon her reinstatement.
4.
Initiation of any proceedings concerning and action upon Zaman's
conduct occurring since the filing of the Order of Discipline in this matter are hereby
abated and will resume upon her reinstatement.
5.
The North Carolina State Bar. pursuant to Rule .01 18(!), may continue La
investigate allegations of misconduct against Zaman, including the taking of whatever
depositions it deems necessary to preserve evidence. No further orders from the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission shall be necessary to take such depositions.

6.

Zaman is taxed with the costs of this action.

Signed

/ 1'fL day of

Disciplinary Hearing Pane
CONSENTED TO BY:
(signatures on next page)

3

Consent Order Transferring Defendant to Disability Inactive Status in the case of
The North Carolina State Bar v. Karen Zaman
09 DBC I I

CONSENTED TO BY:
Each of the undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt, review, and consent to the above
referenced three page order:

Aran M. Schneider
Counsel for Defendant

Date'

I

/

:3 - (7 -(D
JenAffer A. Porter
. Deputy Counsel
Counsel for Plaintiff

Date

4

