BEFORE THE
, GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OFTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
03G1209

NORTH CAROL! NA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
CRAIG M. BLITZER,
ATTORNEY AT LAW.

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 14, 2004, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
("State Bar") met and considered the grievance filed against you. Pursuant to section
.0113 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the State Bar, the Grievance
Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information available
to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found
probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe
that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance
Committee may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may
issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential
injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may
issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition
issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct
does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not reqUired in
this case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand, and I am certain that you will
understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
On September 7, 2002, you were hired by the family of Alberto Aguilar to defend
him against federal criminal drug charges. You charged and were paid a retainer fee of
$25,000 to represent him. Aguilar's case was pending in the United States District Court
in Richmond, Virginia. You hired local counsel in Virginia to assist you and paid him
$5,000. Soon thereafter, you were informed that Aguilar wanted to plead guilty to the

I

I

,.

charges that the court had appointed a local lawyer to represent Aguilar with his
consent. The court allowed you to withdraw as counsel on December 12, 2002. Aguilar
and his family members asked you to refund the unearned por1;ion of the fee that you
were paid but you refused to make any refund.
Your hereby are reprimanded for violating the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct and causing potential harm to your former client, the administration of justice,
and the profession of law. The attorney-client relationship ended approximately two
months after you collected the fee and ended at a very early stage of the criminal
process. At that point, the $20,000 fee became clearly excessive in light of the services
actually rendered, and you had a duty to refund the unearned portion of the fee. Your
refusal to refund the unearned portion of the fee you collected from Aguilar and his
family violated Rules 1.5 (a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct. See, 2000
Formal Ethics Opinion 5 (July 2000). In making this ruling, the Grievance Committee
has taken in account as mitigating factors your remorse and agreement to refund
$15,000 of the fee.
The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow
yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative
costs to any attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this
action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

/fJ -fa-

~w

r-

~f}I'4-'

Done and ordered, this ~ day of JH1y 2004.

. McMillan
rievance Committee

