NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
02G1584, 03G0200, 03G0990, 03G0991,
03Gl190, 03G1264, 03G1289, 03G1356,
03G1395, 03G1605, 03G1717, 03G1743,
03G1763, 04GOI08, 04G0289, 04G0458,
04G0741, 04G0784, & 04G0785

WAKE COUNTY

INRE:

TERRY T. ZICK,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 20,2005, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by Harold W. Lee IT, Connie Shaver, Charles Hill, J.
William Conway, Donna Bowen, Ronald Krueger, Daniel and Patricia Reynard, Rodolfo Mesa,
and The North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
COlmnittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee
may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.
A Censure is a written fonn of discipline more selious than a Reprimand, issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does
not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DHC) for consideration of discipline stronger than a Censure would be appropriate
for the misconduct it finds in the above listed files. You have recently been before the DHC in

case number 03 DHC 19, however, for misconduct substantially similar to the conduct in the
above listed files and that occurred, for the most part, contemporaneously with the conduct in the
above listed files. Therefore, in light ofthe suspension you have already received from the DHC
in 03 DHC 19 for substantially the same conduct, the Grievance Committee has decided not to
send these additional files to the DHC and to issue this Censure to you instead. As chairman of
the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this
Censure. I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is perfonned.
You represented Harold W. Lee IT against US Airways and American Express One.
During this representation you failed to respond to his telephone calls and seemed to avoid
answering his questions when you did talk to him. While the lawsuit you filed for him was
pending, you failed to adequately notify him of his deposition and failed to prepare him for his
deposition. It is Lee's understanding that the lawsuit you filed on his behalf was dismissed after
you failed to respond to a motion to dismiss. Lee asked you to provide him with a copy of
correspondence in his file but you did not respond to this request. You were served with a letter
of notice in this file, 02G1584, on January 27,2003. You did not respond.
You represented Comue Shaver in a sexual harassment lawsuit. Connie Shaver
complains that after you filed a lawsuit on her behalf you would not retum her telephone calls
and seemed to avoid answering her questions when she did talk to you. Shaver asked you for her
file and asked you to refund her prepaid fee; you did not respond. Shaver states that when she
went to your office to get her file, you told her to leave and not come back. You were served
with a letter of notice in this file, 03G0200, on June 23, 2003. You did not respond.
You represented Charles Hill in May of 200 1 for a bankruptcy matter. Charles Hill
alleges you neglected his bankruptcy case, failed to communicate with him about his case, and
failed to notify him of creditor meetings. You were served with a letter of notice in this file on
September 30,2003. You did not respond.
In May of2002, you lured J. William Conway as a private investigator. Mr. Conway
alleges you failed to pay him his fees for two cases. You were served with a letter of notice on
January 16,2004. You failed to timely respond to this State Bar inquiry, not responding until
March 29,2004.
In April 2001, you were retained by Donna Bowen to represent her in federal court in an
employment case. Ms. Bowen alleges you neglected her case and failed to communicate with
her. You were served with a letter of notice on January 5,2004. You did not respond.
In May 2000, you were retained by Ronald Krueger to represent his son, Martin Krueger,
on a DWI and Open Container charge. Mr. Krueger states that his son died before the matter
was resolved and that although they notified you of the son's death and you promised to retum
the unearned portion of the prepaid fee you did not do so. You were served with a letter of
notice in this file on January 5, 2004. You did not respond.

At various points in time during 2003 you were served with Notifications of Mandatory
Fee Dispute Resolution for fee disputes filed by Bill Gore, Wanda Beal, Rasheed A. Rahman,

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth White, Maribeth Murphy, Lewis Hall, and Karen Fitzpatrick. fu 2004 you
were served with Notifications of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution for fee disputes filed by
Deborah Stillman and Eddie Lee Swinson. The fee disputes included allegations of neglect,
failure to communicate, and failure to return client files upon request. You failed to participate in
the fee dispute program as required, in most cases by failing to respond to the fee dispute notice
at all, in two cases by failing to respond in a timely manner, and in one case by failing to respond
to the State Bar's request for additional information. Consequently, grievance files were opened
against you. You were served with a letters of notice in those grievance files. You did not
respond to seven of the letters of notice; you provided a timely response to the letters of notice
regarding Deborah Stillman and Eddie Lee Swinson.
You were retained by Daniel and Patricia Reynard to represent them in their bankruptcy
case. You neglected their case and failed to communicate with them. You also failed to
maintain accurate documentation with the Bankruptcy Court in that case. You filed a Statement
of Attomey Compensation on July 13, 2001 reporting you had been paid $1,400.00 in legal fees.
fu 2003 you required the Reynards to pay you an additional $450.00 in attomey's fees, which
they did. You did not file an amended or additional Statement of Attomey Compensation with
the Bankruptcy Court, failing to correct what had become a false statement of material fact made
to that tribunal, nor did you file any application for payment of additional legal fees. You failed
to comply with the statutory and regulatory provisions regarding attomey compensation.
You were retained by Denise N ott (aka Denise Dunn) to represent her in her bankruptcy
case. She paid you $500.00 in legal fees. After receiving Ms. Nott's payment, you filed an
Application to Pay Filing Fee in fustallments where you represented that you had not been paid
any money or received any property to represent the debtor. However, you also filed a
Disclosure of Compensation of Attomey for the Debtor statement reporting you had received
$500.00 and were owed $700 more. The Application to Pay Filing Fee in Installments includes a
certification that you did not receive any legal fee. Consequently, the Court denied your motion
to pay the filing fee in installments, found that you had been paid $500.00, and ordered you to
personally pay the balance due on the filing fee. Your certification on the Application to Pay
Filing Fee in fustallments constitutes a false statement of material fact made to a tribunal.
hl 2001, you filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition on behalf of Kay P. Everett. In that
case, you disclosed to the Court that you were paid $1,600.00 in legal fees. The Court found that
your fee should be reduced to $1,400.00 and ordered you to refund $200.00 to Ms. Everett and
file an amended Disclosure of Compensation form. You did not refund $200.00 to Ms. Everett
and you did not file an amended disclosure for, in direct violation of the Court's order.

Rodolfo Mesa paid you an advance fee in September 2003 to represent him in recovering
property seized from him by law enforcement. After Mr. Mesa retained you, you would not
retum his calls. Mr. Mesa also retained an attomey in Florida on this matter. The Florida
attomey reported that you sent him a petition that you indicated you had filed in the matter on
Mr. Mesa's behalf. This petition had not been filed and was not filed prior to the deadline for the
filing of such a petition.

The Committee found that your above-described conduct violated several Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct. You neglected clients' cases in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to
communicate with your clients in violation of Rule lA, filed misleading documents and failed to
correct false statements of material fact made to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3, failed to
comply with Bankruptcy statutory and regulatory provisions regarding attorney compensation in
violation of Rule 8 A( d), falsely suggested to a client's out of state attorney that you filed a
pleading when in fact you had not in violation of Rule 4.1, failed to participate in the State Bar's
fee dispute program in violation of Rule 1.5, and failed to respond to inquiries of the State Bar in
violation of Rule 8.1.
In deciding to issue a Censure, the Committee considered aggravating and mitigating
factors. In aggravation, the Committee considered the following factors: that you have engaged
in a pattern of misconduct; that you have engaged in multiple offenses; the vulnerability of your
clients, several of whom were bankruptcy clients who were negatively affected financially by
your neglect and who could not afford to hire another attorney to assist them, and the potential
effect of your neglect on Mr. Mesa's ability to pursue his petition to recover funds confiscated by
law enforcement; your inaccurate filings with the Bankruptcy Court and your failure to comply
with an order of the Bankruptcy Court. In mitigation, the Committee considered your statements
of personal and emotional problems. In evaluating these files, the Committee also considered
that you have already received a suspension from the Disciplinary Hearing Commission for
substantially similar conduct occurring in about the same time frame.

You are hereby Censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this Censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This Censure should serve
as a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility
to the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean
yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon
without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a Censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this

').,2
.

...

b, Jr.
rievance Committee

