"=m THE:GJ;<:~RAL COURT OF JUSTICE

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
19 CVS

WAKE COUNTY
2Ul~

l,iAH I I P

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner' ., .' ,.' ,
v.

If:

IW

-;

JAMES W. ZISA, Attorney,
Respondent
THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of Wake
County upon the tender of surrender of the law license of James W. Zisa. Petitioner, the North
Carolina State Bar, was represented by Carmen Hoyme Bannon. Respondent, James W. Zisa,
was represented by Alan M. Schneider.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by James
W. Zisa and the consent of the parties, the court makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

Zisa was licensed to practice law on 22 August 1987.

2.
During all periods relevant hereto, Zisa was actively engaged in the practice of
law in New Hanover County, North Carolina.
3.
Zisa had sex with two of his clients, disclosed confidential client information,
charged excessive fees, lacked diligence and failed to communicate with multiple clients, made
a false statement to the State Bar, and failed to respond to five notices from the State Bar
regarding grievances filed against him.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Court makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. This court has jurisdiction over Zisa and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. The courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary action against
attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
3. By engaging in the conduct described in Finding of Fact #3, above, Zisa had sexual
relations with current clients, revealed information acquired during the professional
relationship with a client, charged a clearly excessive fee, failed to exercise reasonable
diligence and failed to adequately communicate with clients, knowingly made a false statement
of material fact in connection with a disciplinary violation, and knowingly failed to respond to
lawful demands for information from a disciplinmy authority in violation of Rules of
Professional Conduct 1.19, 1.6(a), 1.S(a), 1.3, 1.4, 8.1(a) & (b), and 8.4(c).

I

4. Zisa's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §
84-28(b)(2).
5. Zisa has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.
IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.

The surrender of the license of James W. Zisa is hereby accepted.

2.
James W. Zisa is DISBARRED :fi:om the practice of law in North Carolina
effective upon entry of this Order.
3.
Zisa shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §.0128 and
shall sunender his law license and permanent membership card to the SecretalY of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by Rule .0128.
4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Zisa shall provide the State
Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Zisa and obtain such files.
5.
Zisa shall promptly return client files in his possession, custody, or control to
clients upon request, within five days of receipt of such request. Zisa will be deemed to have
received any such request three days after the date the request is sent to him if the request is
sent to the address Zisa provided to the State Bar pursuant to tlus Order.
6.
Zisa shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the expiration of
at least five years from the date of entr·y of this order.
7.
Zisa' s law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstr'ated to the
satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar that he has complied with 27 N,C. Admin. Code IB §§ .0128 and .0129(a).
8.

The costs of this action are taxed against James W. Zisa.

Done and Ordered this

e

day of

~~~

,2019.

Consented to:

~H.~
Calmen Hoyme Bannon, Deputy Counsel

Alan M. Sclmeider

Attorney for Petitioner

2

I
I

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF ruSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
19CVS _ _

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner
v.

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LAW LICENSE

JAMES ZISA, Attomey,
Respondent

James Zisa, being fIrst duly swom, deposes and says as follows:
1.

I desire to sunender and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2. My sunender is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or duress.
I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my sunender.
3. I am aware that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar regarding allegations
that I had sex with two of my clients, disclosed confIdential client information, charged
excessive fees, lacked diligence and failed to communicate with multiple clients, made a false
statement to the State Bar, and failed to respond to fIve notices from the State Bar regarding
grievances flIed against me.
4.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are true.
A

5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.

I,

M(\£.~I

/'''-11."

,Notary Public of the County of
:s~) Zl$~ personally
appeared before me this day, was swom, attested that the foregoing AffIdavit is true and
accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing AffIdavit.

l1(\III\s..,mk

, State of North Carolina, certify that

Swom to and subscribed before me, this the

Notary~
My Commission Expires:

Z5l~ay of_-'----=-~_=_=---{;~;¥'-":;;2...

Dc c:. I / Z0 t- ()

