BEFORE THE
Y HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
cJftlRTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

STATE OF NORTH LJ';",V'

WAKE COUNTY

16DHC 33

THE NORTH CAROLINA
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER

v.

NICHOLAS S. ACKERMAN, Attorney,
Defendant

Defendant, Nicholas S. Ackerman, was ordered to appear and show cause why the
stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline entered in this case on 26
January 2017 should not be lifted and the suspension activated. This matter was
considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of
Beverly T. Beal, Chair, N. Hunter Wyche, Jr., and Randy Moreau pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IE ยง .0118 (formerly codified at .0114(x)). Plaintiff, the North Carolina
State Bar, was represented by Maria J. Brown. Defendant appeared pro se. Defendant
waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order and to the disposition
imposed. By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant waives any right to appeal
this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the pleadings and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
finds by the greater weight of the evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On 26 January 2017, the DHC entered a consent order of discipline finding
that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct by failing to keep his client
reasonably informed about the status of their matter, failing to comply promptly with a
client's reasonable requests for information, and failing to participate in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process.
2.
The 26 January 2017 Consent Order of Discipline suspended Ackerman's
license to practice law for one year and stayed the suspension for two years on condition
that Ackerman comply with the requirements specified in the order.

State Bar v. Ackelman, 16 DHC 33
Consent Order on Show Cause
Page 1 of5

3.
By its terms, the Consent Order of Discipline was effective as of the date it
was served on Ackerman. Ackerman was served with the order on 30 January 2017.
4.
The Order of Discipline provided that, in order to remain eligible for a stay
of the suspension, Ackerman was required, among other things, to:
(a) Arrange for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar to serve as
his law practice monitor and obtain the approval of the Office of Counsel
for his selection of law practice monitor;
(b) Meet once every month with his monitoring attorney;
(c) Ensure that the monitoring attorney sends a written report of the
supervision to the Office of Counsel each quarter, due on January 15, April
15, July 15, and October 15;
.
(d) Supply the Office of Counsel with a letter from the monitoring attorney
confirming his or her agreement to perform all of the duties set out in the
Consent Order of Discipline;
(e) Timely comply with all State Bar membership and CLE requirements;
(f) Respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar within
30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,

whichever is sooner; and
(g) Pay the costs and administrative fees of this disciplinary action within
thirty days of service of the notice of costs upon him.

5.
Ackerman did not obtain the approval of the Office of Counsel for his
selection of law practice monitor, Ms. Anne Littlejohn.
Ackerman did not supply the Office of Counsel with a letter from
Littlejohn confirming her agreement to perform all of the duties set out in the Consent
Order of Discipline.
6.

7.

Ackerman was required to begin meeting with Littlejohn in Febmary 2017.

8.

Ackerman met with Littlejohn for the first time in June 2017.

Prior to 17 August 2017, Littlejohn was unaware that submitting quarterly
reports of her monitoring of Ackerman was one of the duties encompassed by her role as
monitoring attorney.
9.

10.
On 25 August 2017, the State Bar received a quarterly monitoring report
signed by Littlejohn and dated 11 August 2017.

State Bar v. AckemJan, 16 DHC 33
Consent Order on Show Cause

Page 20f5

11.
On 28 March 2017, the State Bar's CLE Department sent Ackennan an
invoice for $35.00 in fees for CLE he completed in 2016. The invoice provided that the
amount specified was due upon receipt. Ackerman did not pay the invoice or otherwise
respond to this communication from the CLE Department within 30 days.
12.
On 7 July 2017, the State Bar's CLE Department sent Ackennan another
invoice for the $35.00 he owed. The invoice again provided that this amount was due upon
receipt. Ackerman did not pay the invoice or otherwise respond to this communication
from the CLE Department within 30 days.
13.

Ackerman paid the $35.00 CLE invoice on 23 August 2017.

14.
On 21 February 2017, Ackerman was served with the notice of costs of this
disciplinary action.
15.

Ackerman has not paid the costs and administrative fees of this disciplinary

action.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel, and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Nicholas S. Ackerman, and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Ackennan failed to comply with the conditions of the stay of his
suspension as follows:
a. By failing to obtain the approval of the Office of Counsel for his selection
of law practice monitor;
b. By failing to meet once every month with his monitoring attorney;
c. By failing to ensure that the monitoring attorney sent a written report of
the supervision to the Office of Counsel by April 15 and July 15;
d. By failing to supply the Office of Counsel with a letter from the
monitoring attorney confirming her agreement to perform all of the duties
set out in the Consent Order of Discipline;
e. By failing to timely comply with all State Bar CLE requirements;

State Bar v. Ackerman, 16 DHC 33
Consent Order on Show Cause
Page 3 of 5

f.

By failing to respond to all communications from the North Carolina State
Bar within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner; and

g. By failing to pay the costs and administrative fees of this disciplinary
action within thirty days of service of the notice of costs upon him.
3.
These violations warrant lifting the stay and activating of a portion of
Ackerman's suspension.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER

1.
The stay of Defendant's suspension is lifted and the suspension previously
imposed is activated. This order and the suspension imposed herein are effective 30 days
after service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
All costs and administrative fees of this action are taxed to Defendant.
Defendant must pay the costs of this action within 30 days of service upon him of the
statement of costs by the Secretary.
3.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the date that this Order is
served upon him. Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
Rule .0128 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4.
After no less than six months of active suspension, Defendant may apply to
have the remainder of the one-year suspension stayed for the remainder of the two-year
stay by petitioning for reinstatement as described in paragraph 3 on page 6 of the Order of
Discipline. In applying for the stay, Defendant must comply with the requirements of
Rule .0129(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and the
requirements for reinstatement contained in paragraph 3 (and its subparagraphs) on page 6
of the Order of Discipline and with the following additional condition:
a.

With his petition, Defendant must provide a written agreement executed
by the monitor required by the Order of Discipline, agreeing to serve as
monitor, to meet with Defendant as required in the Order of Discipline, and
agreeing to provide written reports as required in the Order of Discipline.

5.
If any pOltion of the one-year suspension is stayed, Defendant's active
status for the remainder of the two-year stay period shall be subject to, and contingent
upon compliance with, the terms of the stayed suspension set forth in paragraph 1 and its
subparagraphs on pages 4-5 of the Order of Discipline.
State Bar v. Ackennan, 16 DHC 33
Consent Order on Show Cause

Page 4 of 5

:

"

6.
If Defendant is not reinstated to active status prior to the expiration of the
one year suspension period, then, before Defendant may be reinstated to active status, he
must satisfy the requirements of Rule .0129(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules and all requirements for reinstatement contained in paragraph 3 and
its subparagraphs on page 6 of the Order of Discipline.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
3.} $I- day of OdobeJ2.. ,2017.

Beverly T. Beal, harr
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

Maria J. Brown
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

~~
- Nicholas S. Ackerman
Defendant

State Barv. Ackerman, 16 DHC 33
Consent Order on Show Cause
Page S ofS

