,

;:!{\,1\'iK2S~; :i".A

,

~'\'"

STATE OF NORTH CAROL l>'It:'

J

;'C!

~w

<{;Jb.

N

<;:::

WAKE COUNTY

>f}-

BEFORE THE

c; >,;

AN 2OMsCIPh' ARY HEARING COMMISSION

FILED DHC

J;

OF THE
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
16 DHC 33

"/1'1
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE D""~.op-Plaintiff
CONSENT
ORDER

v,

NICHOLAS S, ACKERMAN, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Beverly T, Beal, Chair, and members N, Hunter Wyche, Jr., and Randy Moreau,
pursuant to NOlth Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I, Subchapter B, § ,0 114(h),
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Maria J, Brown, Defendant, Nicholas
S, Ackerman, appeared pro se, Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter, and both
parties stipulate and consent to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent
order and to the discipline imposed, Defendant consents to entry of this order of discipline and
freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this order or to challenge in
any way the sufficiency of the findings,
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I,
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2,
Defendant, Defendant, Nicholas S, Ackerman ("Defendant" or "Ackerman"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in August 1998 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the
rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the NOlth Carolina State Bar and the
laws ofthe State of North Carolina,
3,
Defendant was properly served with process, and the matter came before the
Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties,
4,
During the relevant period referred to herein, Ackerman was engaged in the
practice oflaw in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina,
5,
On 25 September 2014, AJ, retained Defendant to assist her with getting a
contempt order and custody modification,

6.
The billing sheet Defendant gave AJ. on 25 September 2014 reflected that
Defendant was charging A.I. a $900 flat fee and that A.I. had paid Defendant $100 in cash.
7.
Defendant filed a Motion to Show Cause for Contempt that was to be heard on 30
September 2014.
8.
Defendant failed to serve the opposing party with the Motion prior to 30
September 2014.
9.
Defendant did not inform A.J. that he was unable to get service on the opposing
party and that there would not be a hearing on 30 September 2014.
10.

A.J. traveled from another county to appear in court on 30 September 2014.

II.
AJ. asked Defendant several times to give her either the name of the sheriff
attempting to serve the opposing party or other proof that he was trying to get service, but
Defendant would not.
12.

Defendant did not effectuate service on the opposing party until 15 July 2015.

13.
Defendant did not return A.J.'s telephone calls or otherwise maintain adequate
communication with A.J. about the status of her case or the efforts he was undertaking on her
behalf.
14.
On 5 Janumy 2015, A.I. filed with the State Bar a Petition for Resolution of
Disputed Fee concerning Defendant's representation of her, fee dispute file no. 15FD0002.
15.
AJ.'s fee dispute petition was referred to the 18th Judicial District Fee Dispute
Resolution Committee.
16.
On 8 January 2015, William Daisy, Chair of the 18th Judicial District Fee Dispute
Resolution Committee, sent notice ofthe fee dispute to Defendant by certified mail.
17.

Defendant did not pick up the certified letter from the post office.

18.
Mr. Daisy called Defendant, and Defendant indicated that his response to the fee
dispute would be forthcoming.
19.

Defendant did not provide a response to the fee dispute.

20.
On 12 February 2015, Mr. Daisy sent a second letter to Defendant. The letter
required Defendant to provide a response by 20 February 2015.
21.

Defendant did not respond by 20 February 2015.

On 9 March 2015, as a result of Defendant's failure to participate in the fee
22.
dispute resolution process, the State Bar opened a grievance against Defendant, grievance file no.
15G0195.
23.
Defendant continued to represent AJ. during the pendency of the fee dispute
resolution process and appear in court on her behalf.
2

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel, and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.
§ 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time
of his actions as follows:
(a) By failing to notify A.J. that the hearing had been continued from the 30 September
2014 calendar and by otherwise failing to maintain communication with AJ.,
Defendant failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of the matter
in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);
(b) By failing to respond to AJ.'s inquiries about the status of the matter, Defendant
failed to comply promptly with a reasonable request for information in violation of
Rule 1.4(a)(4); and
(c) By failing to provide a response to the fee dispute, Defendant failed to pmticipate in
good faith in the fee dispute resolution process in violation of Rule 1.5(f)(2).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

The findings of fact in paragraphs I - 23 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
Defendant's continued representation of AJ. was not a sufficient substitute for
good faith pmticipation in the fee dispute resolution process.
3.
Defendant has prior professional discipline, to wit: a 2009 Admonition for
neglecting a client matter and failing to communicate with a client; a 2010 Reprimand for
neglecting a client matter, failing to communicate with a client, and failing to respond timely to
the Bar; and a 2014 Censure for neglecting a client matter and failing to communicate with a
client.
4.
Defendant has failed to maintain adequate and appropriate communication with a
client in spite of being disciplined for similar failures on three prior occasions. Lawyers who
demonstrate continued disregard for their professional obligations pose a risk of significant harm
to the public and the legal profession.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above, the additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

3

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B §.01l4(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors warrant consideration of suspension of Defendant's license:
(B) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable; and

(E) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession.
2.
The Hearing Panel concludes that none of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
lB § .OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar are present in this
case.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB §.OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors are applicable in this matter:
(A) Defendant's prior disciplinary offenses;
(C) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(0) Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct; and
(S) Defendant's degree of experience in the practice of law.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a censure,
reprimand, or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the significant potential
harm to the public and legal profession posed by Defendant's conduct.
5.
Although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to warrant more than a censure,
it does not warrant an active suspension of his license.
6.
A stayed suspension of Defendant's law license is warranted because entry of an
order imposing less severe discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
misconduct and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct
expected of members ofthe Bar of this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters
the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
1.
The law license of Defendant, Nicholas S. Ackerman, is hereby suspended for one
(I) year, effective from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon him. The period of
suspension is stayed for two (2) years as long as Defendant complies and continues to comply
with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall arrange for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar to
serve as his law practice monitor. Defendant's practice monitor shall be an
attorney in good standing who practices law in the judicial district in which
Defendant practices law and who has been approved by the Office of Counsel.
The monitor shall agree to supervise all client matters and make reasonable efforts
4

to ensure that Defendant handles all client matters in a timely fashion, including
promptly responding to his clients and diligently pursuing his clients' matters.
Defendant shall agree to meet once every month with his monitoring attomey,
report the status of all current client matters to the monitoring attomey, cooperate
with the monitoring attomey, and provide any information the monitoring
attomey deems reasonably necessary to ensure that Defendant is properly and
timely handling all client matters. The monitoring attomey shall submit written
quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel, such reports coming
due on the following dates as they occur during any stay of this suspension:
January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. Defendant bears the responsibility
of ensuring the monitoring attorney sends a written report each quarter to the
Office of Counsel as described above. This monitoring shall occur for the
duration of any stay of this suspension. Defendant shall pay the cost, if any,
charged by the monitoring attomey for this supervision. Defendant must make
the arrangements for this monitoring attorney and supply the Office of Counsel
with a letter from the monitoring attorney confirming his or her agreement to
perform all of the duties listed above;
(b) Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make appropriate
arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed during any stay of
this suspension;
(c) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current contact information, including his current business and
home addresses (not a P.O. Box) as well as his current telephone number(s), and
shall notifY the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within 10 days
of such change;
(d) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State Bar
and shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
State Bar, including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance
Program, within 15 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;
(e) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements, and Defendant shall pay all fees and costs assessed
by the State Bar by the applicable deadline;
(f) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute

resolution process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective
date of this Order;
(g) Defendant shall timely pay the costs and administrative fees of this action as
described below; and
(h) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local govemment during his suspension.
2.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
provided in paragraph I (a) - (h) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in 27
N.C. Admin. Code lB § .OI14(x).
5

3.
If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is
activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law, Defendant
must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he has complied with each of the
following conditions:
(a) Defendant submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thiIty days after the date of the order lifting the
stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
(b) Defendant complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124 of
the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following the order lifting the stay
and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
(c) Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Depaltment advised of
his current business and home addresses, as well as his current telephone number,
and notified the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within 10 days
of such change;
(d) Defendant responded to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
15 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and pmticipated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which he received notice after the effective date of this
Order;
(e) Defendant promptly accepted all certified mail sent to him by the State Bar;
(f) That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment
of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect
from him, and including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;
(g) That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in reporting
of such hours, or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;
(h) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during his suspension;

(i) Defendant has paid the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the Secretary of the State
Bar; and
(j) Defendant has complied with any other conditions deemed necessary for
reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel pursuant to the order lifting the stay
of the suspension of Defendant's law license.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary which Defendant shall pay within thirty (30) days of service of the notice of
costs upon Defendant.
6

5.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct discovered
or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct addressed in this Order.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspension.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of .J'a.VlU85
,2017.

Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

~----------'
Attorney for Plaintiff
/~~
~

.. u

...............

Nicholas S. Ackerman
Defendant

7

