NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG0268

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Nicholas S. Ackelman,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 22, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the NOlill Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Y. T.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) oftlle Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminaf'j hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a I';Titten form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, tbe administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Y. T. hired you in March 2008 to file a divorce complaint. Ms. T. asked you about the
status of her divorce in emails dated September 19, 2009, October 26,2009, November 7,16,
and 25,2009, and December 14, 2009. You told Ms. T. that her divorce action had been
calendared for hearing. On November 25,2009, you told Ms. T. that the judge didn't sign the
divorce papers, and that you were going to re-schedule the hearing. Ms. T. did not hear from you

for many months about the status of her divorce. In your response to this grievance, you stated
that Ms. T.'s divorce was not heard by the court for various reasons. You finally obtained the
divorce for Ms. T. in May 2010.
The Grievance Committee found that your delay in completing Ms. T.'s divorce violated
Rule 1.3 of the Rules of Professional Conduct. In addition, you did not communicate adequately
with Ms. T. about the status of her divorce, in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and (4).
The deputy bar counsel assigned to this grievance directed additional questions to you by
letter dated April 27, 2010. You did not respond to those questions, and a subpoena duces tecum
was issued which required you to appear at the State Bar and produce certain documents. You
did not appear at the State Bar, but sent various papers that you thought were responsive to the
subpoena. The Grievance Committee found that your failure to answer the deputy bar counsel's
questions showed a lack of cooperation in the grievance process, in violation of Rule 8.4(d).
In issuing this reprimand, the Grievance Committee considered as an aggravating factor
the admonition that you received in July 2009 for your lack of diligence in getting the defendant
served in Ms. 1'.' s divorce action.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, ll1e costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, ll1is the

/3

day Of--,t.=::!""£-11~L~= _ _, 2010

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

