BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09GI I 12 & 09GI251

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Philip S. Adkins,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On April 15, 2010, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by V. A and the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .0013(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the mles as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The mles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman ofthe Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You were retained to represent V.A. for work-related injuries. You failed to diligently pursue relief
on her behalf, including: about three years passing with no action in VA.'s case by the Industrial
Commission with only intermittent occasional contact from you; telling V.A. you would check into options
when the former employer filed for bankruptcy but failing to do so and failing to discuss this with V.A.; and
failing to attend calendar call in Durham County Superior Court on V.A.'s behalf. You failed to respond to
several of her inquiries and avoided communicating with V.A. Although you timely responded to the initial
letter of notice from the State Bar in this matter, you failed to timely respond to a supplemental letter. Your
conduct is in violation of Rules 1.3, 1.4(a)(4), and 8.l(b).

In a separate matter, you filed a motion for preliminary injunction in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of North Carolina for SPARC Academy and the other parties named as plaintiffs in
that case. On July 14, 2008, the court on its own initiative set the hearing for your motion for preliminary
injunction and the opposing party's motion to dismiss and denial of request for injunctive relief for July 16,
2008. The court notified you and opposing counsel bye-mail on July 14,2008, pursuant to the electronic
system utilized by the federal courts. You received that e-mail and contacted opposing counsel. You told
opposing counsel you were on vacation and asked for assistance with getting the hearing date continued.
Opposing counsel notified the court and the hearing was rescheduled. As with the initial notice of hearing
date, on July 17, 2008 the notices that the hearing was rescheduled and of the new hearing date were sent to
you bye-mail. The opposing party filed a motion for extension of time to submit documents for the
hearing, which referenced the new hearing date of July 30, 2008, and mailed you a paper copy on July 24,
2008. You were sent electronic notice on July 25,2008 setting the date for submission of pre-hearing
briefs. You met the deadline for submitting the pre-hearing brief but failed to attend the hearing on July 30,
2008. Consequently, your clients' motion for preliminary injunction was dismissed and costs were taxed to
your clients. When you received the State Bar's letter of notice in this file, you failed to timely respond.
Your conduct is in violation of Rule 1.3, 8A(d), and 8.1(b).
After considering your conduct in these two files and the factors set out in Rule .01 13 (k), the
Grievance Committee detennined a censure is appropriate for your conduct in these two files.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards ofthe legal profession. ll1is censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attomeys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to allY attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of tlus action in the amount of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

/5

dayof_~~(ft~t:::-_,2010.

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

