WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE
NORTH CAROLI NA STATE BAR
04 BCS 1

ORDER OF DISBARMENT
LICENSE OF ZACHARY T. BYNUM, III

THIS MATTER was heard by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar
pursuant to 27 NCAC 1B § .0117 (a) of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules
upon the affidavit of tender of surrender of license executed by Zachary T. Bynum, III,
on April 6, 2004, and filed in the offices of the State Bar on April 13, 2004.
Based on the affidavit, the Council finds that Zachary 1. Bynum, III
misappropriated more than $2,500,000 he held in a fiduciary capacity in his attorney
trust accounts for numerous clients and others and from trust accounts he maintained
incident to administration of several decedent estates. The Council also finds that
Bynum misappropriated a substantial amount of money from his business accounts
unrelated to the practice of law. This conduct constitutes grounds for discipline, under
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28 (b)(2), in that Bynum violated Rules 1.15 through 1.15-3 and
Rules 8.4 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (g) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the
following Order:
1. The tender of surrender of the license of Zachary T. Bynum, III is hereby
accepted.
2. Zachary T. Bynum, III hereby is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North
Carolina.
3. Zachary T. Bynum, III shall comply with the provisions of 27 NCAC 1B § .0124
of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and shall surrender his license
and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State
Bar along with the affidavit required by 27 NCAC 1B § .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against Zachary T. Bynum, III.
Done and ordered this the 23 rd day of April 2004.

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04 BCS I

TO:

ZACHARY T. BYNUM, III, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North
Carolina pursuant to State Bar Discipline & Disability Rule 27 NCAC 1 B § .0117.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, and is not the result of
coercion or duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.
3. I am aware that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar regarding
allegations that over several years I misappropriated more than $2,500,000 to my own
use, including money in my attorney trust accounts that had been entrusted to me in a
fiduciary capacity for numerous clients and others, including lenders; and money held
in trust incident to administration of several decedent estates, including my own
father's estate. The State Bar also is investigating allegations that I misappropriated a
substantial amount of money from business accounts unrelated to the practice of law.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is
predicated are true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges
were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully
defend against thef4
This is

th~ of April 2004.

subscribed before me
~-T
'fi=.-nf April, 2004.

