BEFORE THE
ARY l-IEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09 DHC 7

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

REGINALD D. ALSTON, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter came on to be heard and was heard before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, C. Colon Willoughby, Jr.,
Robert F. Siler, and Jolnmy A. Freeman. The plaintiff was represented by William N.
Farrell, Deputy Counsel. Defendant was represented by Ronald Barbee.
Based upon the testimony and the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing
Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized lmder the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper pmiy to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Cm·olina, and the rules mld
regulations of the North Carolina State Bm· promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Reginald D. Alston, (hereinafter "defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bm on August 23, 1997, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the State of North Cmolina State Bar
and the laws of the State of North Cmolina.
3.
During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, defendant was
actively engaged in the private practice of law in the city of Winston-Salem, Forsyth
County, North Carolina.
4.
On or about June 20, 2007 defendmlt went to the office of the Ashe County Clerk
of Superior Court to file motions in case number 03SP 116, a special proceeding before
the Clerk of Superior Court.

5.
On or about June 20, 2007, while at the front desk of the Clerk ofComt's office,
defendant began "arguing" his case to the Clerk of Superior Court, Pam W. Barlow.
Defendant was argmnentative, rude and otherwise discourteous to the Clerk of Comt
while speaking to her about stopping a scheduled partition sale in Special Proceeding
03SP116.
6.
A conference call was held between the Clerk of Court and all of the attorneys of
record in 03SP116, including defendant, on June 26, 2007 to discuss defendant's motions
filed on June 20, 2007 and the partition sale which was set for June 29, 2007.
7.
Defendant did not make himself available for the conference call at the scheduled
time. After an initial delay of 15-20 minutes and a second delay of 30-40 minutes in
reaching defendant by phone, the pmiies to the conference call were connected.
8.
Dming the conference call on June 26, 2007, defendant was rude to the Clerk of
Superior Court, spoke out of turn, refused to recognize the Clerk's authority as ajudicial
official, refused to talk in a conversational tone of voice, refused requests by the Clerk to
be calm, and interrupted the Clerk and other attorneys.
9.
As a result of the conference call the Clerk of Court, Ms. Barlow, verbally
ordered the delay of the partition sale scheduled for Jlme 29, 2007 until defendant's
motions could be hem·d. A Notice ofI-learing was issued by Ms. Bm'low for defendant's
motions to be heard on July 24, 2007.
10.
At the July 24, 2007 hem'ing held before Ms. Barlow, the Clerk of Superior Comi,
defendant spoke out of turn, talked without making objections, raised his voice toward
the Clerk, pointed his finger, interrupted the Clerk while she was conducting the hearing,
rolled his eyes, shook his head, ignored requests of the Clerk, and was otherwise
disruptive mld discourteous to the Clerk, who was acting as ajudicial official at the time.
11.
At the close of the hem'ing, the court m1l10lU1Ced it would reserve ruling mltil it
carefully considered the evidence and testimony.
12.
Following adjournment of the July 24, 2007 hem'ing, defendant went to the Office
of the Clerk and asked for a copy of the tape recording from the hearing. When told a
copy would be mailed to him, defendant stm·ted jabbing his finger at a Deputy Clerk and
stated "my life's goal is to have your boss' job".
13.
By order dated August 6, 2007, the Clerk of Comt ordered the parties to
mediation.
14.
After the mediation came to ml impasse, the Clerk entered an order in 03SPl16
concerning the issue ofpmiition on October 15,2007.
15.
Dming a phone call on or about October 17, 2007 defendmlt accused Ms. Barlow
of unethical behavior and incompetence.

-2-

16.
On or about November 14,2007 defendant filed a Motion for Order to Show
Cause to have Ms. Barlow held in contempt as a result of her order entered in 03SP116
on October 15, 2007.
17.
On August 1,2008, Superior Court Judge W. Erwin Spainhour entered an order
denying defendant's motion to have Ms. Barlow held in contempt and made Conclusions
of Law in part as follows:
[5.]

There is no basis in law or in fact for the Motion to Show Cause for an
Order seeking to hold the Honorable Pamela W. Bmlow, Clerk of Superior
Court, Ashe County, North Carolina, in contempt.

[6.]

The Motion for an Order to Show Cause was improperly brought, without
a factual or legal basis.

18.
Judge Spainhour awarded the NC Department of Justice $3,298.33 for costs and
fees incl11Ted by the Depmtment in defending Ms. Bmlow in cOlmection with the
contempt proceeding initiated by defendant.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All paliies are properly before the I-Iearing Panel alld the Pallel has jurisdiction
over Reginald D. Alston alld the subject matter of the proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct as set out in the findings of fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that the conduct violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct in etfect at the time of the conduct as follows:
a.

b.

By repeatedly engaging in rude, belligerent, and otherwise discourteous
behavior to the court, defendant engaged in undignified or discourteous
conduct that is degrading to a triblmal in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B) of
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
By filing an improper Motion for all Order to Show Cause against the
Ashe COlU1ty Clerk of Superior COllli without a basis in law alld fact,
defendant filed a frivolous claim and contention in violation of Rule 3.1 of
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, alld the
additional evidence alld arguments presented conceming the appropriate discipline, the
Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, lli1d convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
Defendallt refused to acknowledge the wrongfl.J1nature of his conduct directed
I.
toward the Clerk of Superior Court.

- .J
" -

2.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

3.

Defendant has not been previously disciplined by the North Carolina State Bar.

4.

Defendant had no dishonest or selfish nature in his actions.

5.
Some of defendant's misconduct toward the Clerk of Superior Court occuned in
open court where it could be heard and seen by court persOlU1el and the public.
6.

Such misconduct directly demeans the respect to which the Court is entitled.

7.
Such misconduct, once Imown to the public, harms the legal profession as a
whole.
8.
Defendant refused to acknowledge tile wTOngf"lll nature of his conduct in filing a
frivolous motion to have the Clerk of Superior Court held in contempt for making a
judicial decision.
9.
Defendant's frivolous motion required the North Carolina Department of Justice
to defend and represent the Clerk and make an appearance at a special session of Superior
Court required to hear the matter.
10.
Defendant's clients, the respondents in 03SPII6, were ordered to pay tile sum of
$3,298.33 to the North Carolina Department of Justice for costs and fees incuned by the
Department in defending the Clerk of Court.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the I-Iearing Panel hereby enters tile following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

2.

3.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a)

The refusal to acknowledge tile wrongful nature of his misconduct; and

(b)

His substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

Defendant's conduct is mitigated by tile following factors:
(a)

The absence of a prior disciplinary record; and

(b)

The absence of a dishonest or selfish motive.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

4.
Defendant's misconduct directed toward the Clerk of Superior Court during a
hearing demeaned the authority and the respect to which the COUli was entitled.
5.
Defendant's disregar·d of his professional obligations to the Court under the Rules
of Professional Conduct, as well as his obligations as arl officer of the Court, created the
risk of significant potential harm to tile dignity of the Court arld the legal profession.

-4-

6.
Once known to the public, defendant's misconduct harmed the profession as a
whole.
7.
Defendant harmed his clients by filing a frivolous motion to have the Clerk of
Comi held in contempt, which in hIDl caused the Superior Comt to assess fees and cost
incLUTed in defending said motion against his clients.
8.
The court system was harmed by the defendant's action, in filing a frivolous
motion against the Clerk, by having to conmlit court time and judicial resomces to deal
with a fi'ivolous matter.

9.

The Hearing Panel has considered all disciplinary options and finds that
reprimand or admonition would not be sufficient discipline to protect the public, because
of the substantial harm caused by defendant's conduct, and the threat of potential
significant harm to the legal profession, the administration of justice, and potential
clients.

10.
The Hearing Panel considered all lesser options and finds that discipline short of
Censme would not sufficiently protect the public for tlle following reasons:
a.

Defendant's refusal to appreciate the significance of tlle wrongful nature
of his misconduct requires a censme to impress upon him tlle significance
of his misconduct and to deter defendant ti'om tiJtme misconduct of this
kind.

b.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
aclmowledge the seriousness of the offenses that defendant committed and
would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.

11.
The I-Iearing Panel therefore concludes that the only sanction in this case tllat can
adequately protect the public is a Censure of defendant to protect clients, the legal
profession, the public, and the administration ofjustice from tlle risk of significant harm
shown by the defendant's conduct in this instance.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings Regarding
Discipline, lli1d Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Plli1el enters the
following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.

Defendant, Reginald D. Alston, is hereby Censmed for violations of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Hearing Panel trusts that you will ponder this Censure,
recognize the elTors t11at you have made, lli1d that you will not again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards ofthe legal profession. This Censure
should serve as a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh cmefully in the future
your responsibilities to the public, your clients, yom fellow attorneys lli1d the comts, to
the end that you conduct yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose
conduct may be relied upon without question.

-5-

2.
Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 84-28 and the imposition of Censure by this I-Iearing Panel,
defendant is hereby ordered to complete an additional six (6) homs of professionalism
classes within two years of the effective date oUhis Censme and to advise the State Bar
at the completion of those hours.
3.
The costs of this action are taxed to defendant, including costs oUhe depositions
taken in this case allowed by statute. The deposition costs were necessarily incmred for
the prosecution of this proceeding. Defendant will receive a statement of costs from the
State Bar and will pay these costs within 90 days of the effective date oUhis order.

p.. Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

o
----"'---

day of

~tJ(;e-,

,2010.

l

J-

C. Colon illoughby, Ir. Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-6-

