,1

.'
NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
JOSEPH ERIC ALTMAN, Attorney,
Defendant.

This matter was considered by a Heru:ing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of N. Hunter Wyche, Jr., Chair, and members Allison C. Tomberlin and Tyler B.
Morris pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B. Both
Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited
in this Consent Order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily stipUlates
to the foregoing fmdings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and entry of the Order of
Discipline. Defendant freely and vohmtarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
Consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Joseph Eric Altman (hereafter "Altman"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in September 2001 and is, and was at all times refe11'ed to herein, an attorney
at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State ofNOlth Carolina,
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Altman was engaged
in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Rockingham,
, Richmond County, NOlth Carolina. Altman also handled cases in Scotland County.

,

I

.

,

State v. Joseph Bright - 2012 Mistrial
4.
In June 2012, Altman represented Joseph Bright who was charged in Richmond
County (file number 11 CRS 52523) with Felony Conspiracy to Conmlit Common Law Robbery.
Altman informed the jury in his opening statement that his client had engaged in a discussion
about robbing a person. After hearing Altman's opening statement, the presiding judge excused
the jury from the courh·oom. The judge inquired of Altman's client if the client had consented to
Altman making such an admission to the jury. The client denied authorizing Altman to make
such an admission. The judge declared a mistrial.

5.
After. the mistrial, Altman told an Assistant District Attorney ("ADA") that his
client intended to testify that he planned the robbery but it was a "joke among friends." Altman
had not sought his client's specific consent prior to maldng this revelation.
State v. Jose Bocaneco1'(l
6.
In March 2013, Altman met in the Richmond County jail with Jose Algerto A.
Bocanecora, a defendant in Richmond County file number 12 CRS 052784.

7.

At the time he met with Bocanecora in the jail, Altman was aware that
Bocanecora was represented by a court-appointed attorney.

8.
Altman did not inform Bocanecora's cOU1t-appointed attorney that he intended to
meet with Bocanecora and did not obtain permission from Bocanecora's court-appointed
attorney to meet with Bocanecora.
9.

Bocanecora's family retained Altman to represent Bocanecora.

10.

Altman entered a general appearance as Bocanecora's counsel.

11.

Altman approached an ADA and revealed to the ADA information obtained from
the fanli1y members.

12.
Altman did not obtain the permission of Bocanecora's court-appointed attorney to
discuss Bocanecora's case with the prosecutor.
13.
Altman did not seek or obtain Bocanecora's permission to reveal to the prosecutor
confidential information Altman obtained in the course of his communications with or on behalf
of Bocanecora.
TrustAccollnt Random Audits in 2008 and 2017
14.
In 2008, Altman was randomly selected for an audit by the NOlth Carolina State
Bar's auditor. The audit was conducted on March 20, 2008.
Ne. State Bar v. Altman, 18 DHC 15
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 2 of 12

,

'

,

.

15.
In the March 20, 2008 audit, the auditor found that Altman had failed to reconcile
his trust accounts quarterly, failed to identify the client and source of flmds on trust account
deposit slips, and failed to post deposits 011 individual ledgers for each client.
16.
The auditor discussed the results of his audit with Altman and asked that
corrective action be taken by Altman.
17.
By letter directed to the auditor dated April 4, 2008, Altman advised the auditor
that all discrepancies in his two trust accounts would be corrected as soon as possible.
18.
In 2017, Altman was again randomly selected for an audit by the North Carolina
State Bar's auditor. The audit was conducted on February 22, 2017.
19.

In the February 22, 2017 audit, the auditor found the following:
(a)

Altman had failed in every quarter of the prior year to reconcile his trust
account;

(b)

Altman had failed in every month of the prior year to reconcile the balance
shown on his records for each trust account with the current bank
statement balance for each trust account;

(c)

Altman had failed to identify the source of funds on trust account deposit
slips if the client was not the source of the funds;

(d)

For many clients, Altman had failed to maintain individual ledgers that
showed the client's current balance;

(e)

Altman had failed to indicate on trust account checks the clients from
whose balances funds were drawn;

(f)

Altman had commingled attorney and client funds by failing to remove
earned fees promptly;

(g)

Altman had failed to maintaill complete general trust account records such
as check images and bank statements;

(h)

Altman disbursed more funds from the trust account for clients than he
had in the trust accolmt for such clients;

(i)

Altman failed to promptly disburse funds for clients; and'

G)

Altman failed to escheat unidentified or abandoned funds.

N C. State Barv. Altman, 18 DEC 15
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 3 of12

.

,

20.
The auditor discovered that Altman's QuickBooks records for his general trust
accounts listed over 100 clients who were identified as having negative ledger balances,
indicating that in the case of each of those clients, more funds had been disbursed from the trust
account for the benefit of such client than Altman held in the trust account for such client.
21.

Negative balance ledgers were caused by data entry errors.

22.
Altman has two trust accounts at First Bank that he no longer utilizes and cannot
identify the beneficial owners of the balances of $131.10 in one trust account and $145.59 in the
other trust account.
23.

Altman has one trust account at PNC that is currently being used.

24.

Altman has held funds in his trust accounts that he has not completely disbutsed.

Based upon the Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the DHC has jurisdiction over
Defendant, Joseph Eric Altman, and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Altman's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Altman violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:

State v. Joseph Bright - 2012 Mistrial
(a)
By revealing to the jury in the June 2012 felony trial that Bright had
engaged in a discussion about robbing someone without getting his client's consent,
Altman revealed information acquired during the professional relationship without his
client's informed consent in violation of Rule 1.6(a); by failing to consult with his client
prior to making that revelation to the jury, Altman failed to consult with his client about
the means by which his client's objectives of the representation would be accomplished
in violation of Rule 1.2(a); and by engaging in conduct that led to the comt declaring a
mistrial, Altman engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8A(d); and
(b)
By revealing to an ADA his client Bright's intended testimony without
first seeking his client's consent, Altman revealed information acquired during the
professional relationship without his client's informed consent in violation of Rule 1. 6(a)
and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8Aed).

N. C. State Bar v. Altman, 18 DHC 15
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 4 of 12

,

.

State v. Jose Bocanecora

(c)
By meeting in the jail with Bocanecora when he knew that Bocanecora
was represented without permission of Bocanecora's court-appointed attorney and by
discussing Bocanecora's case with an ADA when he had not sought or obtained the
permission ofBocanecora's court-appointed attorney, Altman violated Rule 4.2(a);
(d)
By revealing confidential information learned from Bocanecora's family
members without Bocanecora's informed consent, Altman revealed information acquired
during the professional relationship without his client's informed consent in violation of
Rule 1. 6(a) and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d).

Trust Account Violations
( e)
By failing in any quarter during the year prior to the 2017 random audit to
reconcile his trust account, Altman failed to prepare a reconciliation report for each of his
trust accounts at least quarterly in violation of Rule 1.l5-3(d) (1);

(:t)
By failing in any month during the year before the 2017 random audit to
reconcile the balance shown on his records for each bust account with the current banle
statement balance for each trust account, Altman violated Rule 1.15(d)(2);
(g)
By failing to identify the source of funds on trust account deposit slips if
the client was not the source of the funds, Altman failed to maintain the minimum records
required for deposits to a general bust account in violation of Rule 1.15-3(b)(1);
(h)
By failing to maintain complete individual ledgers for all of his clients
who had funds dyposited into his trust account, Altman failed to maintain a ledger for
each person or entity for whom he received funds that showed the current balance held in
his general trust account for that person or entity in violation of Rule 1.15- 3(b)(5);

(i)
By failing to indicate on trust account checks the client from whose
balance funds were drawn, Altman failed to maintain minimum records required for
general trust accounts containing the client name or other identifying information
showing on whose balance the item was drawn in violation of Rule 1.15-3 (b)(2);
G)
By commingling attorney and client funds when he failed to remove
earned fees from his trust account promptly, Altman failed to maintain only entrusted
property in his trust accounts in violation of Rule 1.15-2(f);

(1()
By failing to maintain complete general bust account records, including
check images and ballie statements, Altman failed to maintain the minimum records
required for general trust accounts in violation of Rule 1.15-3(b)(2) and 1.15-3(b)(4);

N C. State Bar v. Altman, 18 DI-IC 15
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 5 of12

.

,

(1)
By disbmsing more funds from this trust account for the benefits of clients
than he held in his trust account for the benefit of such clients, Altman failed to properly
maintain and disbmse entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (n);
(m) By failing to accmately track the receipt and disbmsement of fimds in his
tmst accounts as a result of which there are now funds in his trust accounts for whom he
cruIDot identify the beneficial owners, Altmru1 failed to properly identify and maintain
entmsted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a);
By failing to timely disbmse entrusted funds for the benefit of clients,
(n)
Altman failed to diligently complete that aspect of those clients' representation in
violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to promptly disbmse entrusted funds in violation of Rule
1.5-2(n); and

(0)
By failing to timely escheat unidentified and abandoned funds, Altman
violated Rule 1.15-2(1').
Based upon the consent of the pruiies, the Hearing Panel also fmds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

Altman has substantial experience in the practice of law.

2. There is no evidence of misappropriation or improper disbmsement of entrusted
funds to Altman.
3.

There is no evidence that Altman intended to harm his clients.

4.

There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of AltmaJ.1.

5. Altman's faiIme to conduct the required quarterly reconciliations and failure to
otherwise monitor his trust account caused potential significaJ.1t harm to his clients. Conducting
quatterly reconciliations of the trust account is the lynchpin of proper maintenance and
protection of entrusted funds. Altman's continued failme to reconcile his tmst account and
failure to maintain proper trust account records - particularly after having been previously cited
for the SaJ.11e deficiencies in his trust account maJ.1agement via the TaJ.1dom audit process combined with his failme to make reasonable effOlis to ensure his non-lawyer assistants' conduct
was compatible with his professional obligations in the handling of entr'usted funds demonstrate
a pattem of misconduct and demonstrate Altman's intent to commit acts where the potential
harm was foreseeable.

6.
Altman's conduct placed entrusted funds at risk and has the potential to cause
significant harm to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows his
disregard for his duties as an attomey. Such erosion of public confidence in attomeys tends to
N C. State Bar v. Altman, 18 DHC 15
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 6 of 12

sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the
legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
7. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0116(f) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB.0116(f)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bal' and
concludes the following factors Wal'rant suspension of Altman's license:
(a)
foreseeable;

Intent of Altman to commit acts where the harm 01' potential harm is

(b)
Altman's actions had a potential negative impact on his clients' and the
public's perception of the legal profession.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB.0116(f)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes no factors al'e present that would wm1'al1t disbarment.
4.
The Hem·jng Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB.0116(f)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Cm'olina State Bar and
concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)
Altman was reprimanded by the State Bar in February 2013 for three
grievances filed in 2010 and 2011;
(b)

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive by Altman;

(c)

Altman engaged in a pattern of misconduct;

(d)

Altman engaged in multiple offenses;

(e)
Altman's full and free disclosure and a cooperative attitude toward the
proceedings;
N.C. State Bar v. Altman, 18 DHC 15
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 7 of12

(f)

Altman's aclclOwledgment ofihe violations of the uust accounting rules;

(g)

Altman's degree of experience in the practice oflaw.

5.
Altman's failure to properly safeguard entrusted client :fimds caused potential
significant harm to his clients whose funds were placed at risk while entrusted to Altman's care.
6.
Altman's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bm\ poses significant potential
harm to future clients and to the profession.
7.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, and suspension, and the Hearing Panel
concludes that discipline short of a suspension would not be sufficient because of the gravity of
the potential harm to the clients. The Panel fUlther concludes that discipline sh01t of a
suspension would fail to aclmowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Altman and
send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in
this State.
8.
The Hem'mg Panel concludes that Altman's conduct warrants and can only be
addressed through imposition of a suspension on Altman's law license. The Hearing Panel
fUlther concludes that such suspension should be stayed upon Altman's compliance with
conditions outlined below that will ensure the public is protected from future transgressions by
Altman as well as ensure Altman's continued adherence to the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the findings of fact
and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the Hem'jng Panel
enters the following;

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Joseph Eric Altman, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for
two yem·s. This order shall be effective upon filing.
2.
Altman is taxed with the costs and adminisu'ative fees of this action. Altman shall
pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as assessed by the SecretalY within 30
days of service ofthe statement of costs and administrative fees upon him.
3.
The two-year suspension is stayed for a period of three yems as long as Altman
complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following conditions:
(a)
Altman shall employ an accoUlltant approved in advance by the Office of
Counsel to assist Altmml in monitoring and reconciling his trust account(s) as required by
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

N. C. State Bar v. Altmpn, 18 DHC 15
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 8 of 12

(b)
Altman shall provide the State Bar with repolis of all quarterly
reconciliations as required by Rule 1.15-3 for all trust accounts and fiduciaty accounts to
which Altman has access and/or in which Altman deposits entrusted funds as follows:
1.

In addition to the three-way reconciliation reports, for the months
cover~d by the submitted repOli, Altmat1 shall provide: (i) client
ledgers for each client whose funds me held in the trust account during
the stay, (ii) any ledger for any personal funds maintained in the trust
account(s) for bank or credit card fees, (iii) generalledger(s) for each
11'ust account to which Altman has access, and (iv) the bank
statements, cleat'ed checks, deposit slips, and deposit items associated
with the reports;

it The reports are due no later than 30 days after the end of each quatier
(first quarter's repOli due April 30, second quatier's repOli due July
30, third quarter's report due October 30, and fourth quarter's repOli
due Januat·y 30);

m. Alman shall certify with each quatiedy report that he has personally
reviewed the reconciliation report(s) and all relevant ledgers, bank
statements, cancelled checks, deposit slips, and deposit items
associated with the report(s), and Alman shall further celiify that no
entrusted nmds received by him or his law office have been deposited
into any account other than his trust account(s);
iv. If any ofthe qumierly reports referenced above note any it1'egularities
or deficiencies, Alman shall promptly take all remedial action
necessary to bring the trust account(s) into compliance with the Rules
of Professional Conduct and shall provide proof of the remedial action
and compliance to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar within 30
days of the date of the repoli;
v. All reconciliations at1d reports referred to herein will be completed and
submitted at Altman's sole expense; and
vi, Failme of Alman to timely submit any repmi required by this Order
shall be grounds to lift the stay and activate the suspension.
(c)
Altman shall certify annually 011 or before June 30 to the North Carolina
State Bar that all general trust accounts, dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary accounts
maintained by Altman or his law firm are administered, to the best of his knowledge, in
compliance with the requirements of Rule 1.15 (including all subpmis);
( d)
Alman shall successfully complete two hours of continuing legal
education (CLE) in the area of trust account management within the first year after the
effective date of this order, one hour of which must be a trust account CLE taught by
N.c. State Barv. Altman, 18 DHC 15
Page 9 af12
Consent Order ofDiscipIine

Trust Account Compliance COlmsel for the North Carolina State Bar. Altman shall
provide written proof of successful completion of these CLE comses to the State Bar
within ten days of completing the course;
(e)
Altman shall have sole signatory authority on all general trust accounts,
dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by Altman and shall not
allow the use of signature stamps, or electronic signature in lieu of his hand affixed
signature;

(f)
Altman shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely
basis;

(g)
Altman shall keep his physical address of record (not a Post Office box)
with the North Carolina State Bar current, accept all certified mail from the North
Carolina State Bar, and respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
(h)
Altman shall not violate any of the Ru1es of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the stay;
(i)
Altman shall not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the stay excluding minor traffic infractions;
G)
Altman shall timely comply with paragraph 2 above in paying all costs
and administrative fees of this action as assessed by the Secretary within 30 days after
service of the statement of costs on him.

4.

If during the stay of the suspension Altman fails to comply with anyone or more
of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in Rule .0118(a) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Ru1es.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, Altman may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension by filing a
petition pursuant to Rule .0129(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein as well as the following
requirements by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:

(a)
Altman properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of Rule .0128 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
(b)

Altman complied with paragraph 3(d) above;

(c)
Altman kept the Membership Depmiment of the State Bm' informed of his
current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box» telephone number,
and e-mail address throughout the period of his suspension;
N.c. State Bar v. Altman, 18 DHC 15
Page 10 of 12
Consent Order of Discipline

(d)
Altman accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State Bar throughout
the period of the suspension;
(e)
Altman responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full and complete
responses and all requested documentation throughout the period of his suspension;
(f)
Altman has come into compliance with any outstanding CLE or
membership obligations at the time of the filing of his petition for reinstatement;
(g)
Altman did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the suspension;
(h)
Altman did not violate any laws of the State of North Ca1'01ina or of the
United States during the period ofthe suspension; and
(i)
Altman paid all costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.

6.
If the stay of suspension is lifted and the suspension is ac1.ivated for any reason,
and if Altman fails to fully comply with Rule .0128 and the Comt appoints a trustee to wind
down any portion of Altman's practice, Altman shall reimburse the State Bar for all expenses
incurred by the State Bar in winding down Altman's practice. Such expenses may include, but
are not limited to, storage facility fees, rent payments, moving expenses, charges for secure
disposal of client files, postage or other mailing expenses, and compensation paid to the trustee
and/or the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated with the trusteeship. After the Court
has discharged the trustee, the State Bar shall send an invoice of wind-down expenses to Altman
at Altman's last known address of record with the North Carolina State Bar. Altman shall not be
eligible for reinstatement until he has reimbursed the State Bar for all wind-down expenses
incurred.
7.
Unless Altman's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of the
DHC, Altman's obligations under this Order end three years from the effective date of the Order
provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance
with the conditions ofthe stay of the suspension. Pursuant to Rule .0118(a) of the North Carolina
Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of
the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the
stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and
ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the two-year suspension in whole or in part if
it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and
Altman's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue unti1l'esolution of
any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
N. C. State Bar v. Altman, 18 DHC 15
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 11 of12

Signed by the Disciplinary Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other panel
members, this the z.:) day of ,l}o G1!'s1'
,2018,

CONSENTED TO BY:

ftl2 ~ ----

A:R<fotEdtilonson, Deputy Counsel
Atto1'l1ey for Plaintiff

-

8/

bo/~

Dated: ~---I~~~----'J-/

Robert 0, Crawford III
Atto1'l1ey for Defendant

Dated: ~-",¥,--·--,\,---,1_·. \. . .<31o..l-_ __
se
ric Altman
Defendant

N.C. State Bar v. Altman, 18 DHC 15
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 12 of12

