BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
File No. 97G0808(I)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE lVIi\ TTER OF
Henry L. Anderson,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 23, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
met and considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of
notice, the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in
the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State
Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance
Committee may determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission are _not required, and the Grievance Committee may
issue various levels of discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or
potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance
Committee may issue an Admonition, a Reprimand, or a Censure to the Respondent
attorney.
A Reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an Admonition
issued in cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules
of Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the
administration of justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the
misconduct does not require a Censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a Censure is not required in
this case and issues this Reprimand to you. As Chairman of the Grievance Committee
of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Reprimand, and I am
certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
Based on the evidence presented, the Committee found the following facts and
reached the following conclusions: You represented the defendant in the civil matter of
Pamela Call Nunnery vs. Eric Jonathan Baucom & Baucom's Nursery Company, file

number 94-CVS-14008, in Superior Court in Mecklenburg County. You hired Laurie
Roundtree, a private investigator from Virginia, in connection with this matter.
Mrs. Roundtree made personal contact with Mrs. Nunnery and used false
pretenses to investigate the Nunnery case. Initially, in an attempt to befriend Mrs.
Nunnery, Mrs. Roundtree went to Mrs. Nunnery's home and told Mrs. Nunnery that
Mrs. Roundtree and her -husband were moving to her neighborhood. Over a several
week period following this initial contact, Mrs. Roundtree, through this personal
relationship with Mrs. Nunnery, engaged in numerous activities with Mrs. Nunnery
that were relevant to Mrs. Nunnery's claims in the underlying civil action. Mrs.
Roundtree photographed and videotaped Mrs. Nunnery engaging in such activities.
At the time of Mrs. Roundtree's contacts, Mrs. Nunnery was represented by
counsel. Mrs. Roundtree's actions with Mrs. Nunnery were performed as your agent
and either at your direction or with your approval. Additionally, you used Mrs.
Roundtree on at least two other prior occasions to perform similar investigations and
were aware of the specific types of activities that she performed. You also gave Mrs.
Roundtree some specific guidelines on how to do her investigation of Mrs. Nunnery.
Moreover, you subsequently used the videotapes and photographs and other evidence
obtained by Mrs. Roundtree in the Nunnery case, such as by admitting it into evidence
in the civil trial.
Your above-mentioned conducted violated several of the Rules of Professional
Conduct. First, Mrs. Roundtree directly and personally contacted Mrs. Nunnery for
the specific purpose of obtaining information and evidence relevant to her pending
civil suit against your client. At the time of Mrs. Roundtree's contacts, Mrs. Nunnery
was represented by counsel. Mrs. Roundtree's direct and personal contact was made
either at your direction or with your approval. Also, you subsequently ratified Mrs.
Roundtree's conduct by using the information and evidence gathered against Mrs.
Nunnery in the pending civil suit with knowledge of how Mrs. Roundtree obtained the
information.
Your conduct in this regard violated Rules 7.4(1) and 3.3(c)(1). The Committee
found that you employed Mrs. Roundtree to perform acts that you could not perform
under Rule 7.4(1). The Committee considered and rejected the position that your
conduct did not violate Rule 7.4(1) because Mrs. Roundtree did not specifically discuss
the pending civil suit with Mrs. Nunnery. Rather, the Committee found that your
conduct violated 7.4(1) because the specific purpose of the investigation and
communications with Mrs. Nunnery was to obtain evidence relating to the civil
matter.
Second, during the course of her direct and personal contact with Mrs. Nunnery,
Mrs. Roundtree made misrepresentations and engaged in dishonesty, fraud and deceit
in order to obtain the information. For example, Mrs. Roundtree told Mrs. Nunnery
false information and created a false identity in order to gain Mrs. Nunnery's trust
and confidence and obtain information relevant to her pending civil claim. The
Committee found that Mrs. Roundtree's actions in creating this false and fraudulent
"pretext" was done either at your direction or with your approval. Additionally, you

subsequently ratified Mrs. Roundtree's conduct by using the information and evidence
gathered against Mrs. Nunnery in the pending civil suit with knowledge of the
fraudulent manner in which Mrs. Roundtree obtained it.
Your conduct violated Rule 1.2(c) and 3.3(c)(1). The Committee considered but
rejected your argument that this fraudulent "pretext" was justified because you assert
that you were attempting to uncover malingering or a fraud on the court by Mrs.
Nunnery. The Committee ruled that this objective, even if founded on a good faith
basis, did not justify or excuse engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit
or misrepresentation.
In deciding to impose a Reprimand, the Committee found the following
aggravating or mitigating circumstances. As aggravating factors, the Committee
considered that there were multiple violations of the Rules and that you have
substantial experience in the practice oflaw. As a mitigating factor, the Committee
considered the fact that you do not have any prior discipline.
You are hereby Reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar due to your
professional misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this
Reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative
costs to any attorney issued a Reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of
this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

1 fV\

d-ay of

~~997.

tL-12~

Ann Reed
Chairman, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

