NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07GI003

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Joseph 1. Anderson
Attorney At Law

)

REPRIMAND

)
)

Pursuant to Section .01 16(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, this reprimand is issued to you based upon an order of reciprocal discipline entered on
this same date.
On August 27, 2006, Comair Flight 5191 (hereafter, Flight 5191) crashed in Lexington,
Kentucky. On August 28, 2006, you, a licensed attorney in Kentucky and North Carolina,
contacted a website design company and asked that they design and publish a website:
www.comair519lfamilies.com (hereafter, Comair website).
On August 30, 2006, the Comair website was published on-line, making it available to
the general public. The website stated that it offered counseling services to friends and family
members of the crash victims. Although the website offered counseling services, it was also an
advertisement for your law firm.
Three employees of Galls, Inc. died in the crash of Flight 5191. On August 31, 2006, one
of your paralegals sent an e-mail to an employee of Galls, Inc. directing the employee to the
Comair website. The email did not contain the words, "nils IS AN ADVERTISEMENT". The
employee who was contacted by your paralegal forwarded the e-mail to other Galls, Inc.
employees. One employee accessed the Comair website and discovered that by clicking on the
text "legal assistance", the site immediately changed to your film's website. The website was
removed from public access on September 5, 2006.
You admitted that your actions violated the following Kentucky rules of ethics: I. SCR
3.130-5.3 when you failed to properly supervise your paralegal, leading to her attempt to solicit
clients in a way that did not comply with your ethical and professional obligations; 2. SCR 3.1307.09(3) when your paralegal contacted an employee of Galls Inc. via email and directed the
employee to the Comair website, and the email to the Galls, Inc. employee did not contain the
advertising notice, 'THIS IS AN ADVERTISEMENT"; 3. SCR 3.130-7.09(4) when your
paralegal initiated direct communication with an employee of Galls, Inc. via email in violation of
the 30-day no contact period following a mass disaster; and SCR 3.130-7.15 when you directed
the creation of the Comair website, which was false, deceptive, and misleading as it appeared to

be a grief counseling website established to aid the friends and families of the victims of the
airplane crash, but was in fact an advertisement for your firm. The Supreme Court of Kentucky
found that your advertising did in fact violate the requirements of the above referenced rules.
The Supreme Court of Kentucky imposed a public reprimand, along with other sanctions,
and you did not object to the discipline issued to you.
Therefore, you are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your
professional misconduct as committed in Kentucky. The Grievance Committee trusts that you
will heed this reprimand, that it will be remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and
that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of
the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ;;l. '1 ~ day of _ _-=;;...-'f'~

JRF/lr

'

2009

