r,::, 456 7."

.,,'"
,;;;,

~

STATE OF NORTH CAROL~.:

..A
?

OCi 2009

Fit 1::::....

.9

1i>
-;:::.

BEFORE THE
IPLINARY HEARING
~
COMMISSION
'"~P,<to/
OF THE
"?I'"
' 'TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
~~~I.D~tp\.
09 DHC 12

B"J.

WAKE COUNTY

g;;;u

DNe

cG

D

,;;

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
MICHAEL J. ANDERSON, Attorney,
Defendant.

This matter was heard by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Heari
Commission composed of Theodore C. Edwards II, Chair, J. Michael Booe, and 0
A. Freeman. Melissa D. Donahue and Margaret T. Cloutier represented Plaintiff.
Defendant appeared pro se. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and
conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant
freely and voluntarily consents to the order of discipline, waives a formal hearing in this
case, and waives his right to appeal this consent order or challenge in any way the
sufficiency of the findings, the conclusions oflaw or the discipline imposed. Based on
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws ofNorth Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNorth Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
?
Defendant, Michael J. Anderson ("Defendant"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1995 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State ofNorth Carolina and maintained a law office
in Wilson, Wilson County, North Carolina.

4.
Defendant was properly served with process and a hearing in this matter
was set with due notice to all parties.
5.
Keisha McClaston ("McClaston") retained Defendant to represent her in a
personal injury matter.
6.
McClaston and Defendant agreed Defendant's fee would be one-third of
the amount McClaston received in recovery for her injuries.
7
On or about June 24, 2008, Defendant conununicated an offer of
settlement from the opposing party of$7,500.00 to McClaston.
8.
On or about August 4,2008, Defendant filed a lawsuit on McClaston's
behalf in Wilson County District Court bearing file number 08 CVD 1526.
9.
On or about September 8, 2008, Defendant sent McClaston a written
notice of an offer ofjudgment in case number 08 CVD 1526 for $7501.00.
10.
On or about September 18,2008, McClaston terminated her attorney client
relationship with Defendant.
II.
At the time McClaston terminated Defendant's representation, no
judgment had been entered in McClaston' s lawsuit and no offer of settlement had been
accepted by McClaston.
12.
On or about September 18, 2008, Defendant filed a document entitled
Notice of Lien in McClaston's lawsuit (case number 08 CVD 1526) in Wilson County
District Court. Defendant did not pursue fees in quantum meruit after settlement or
judgment was entered in the case.
13.
The Notice of Lien filed by Defendant asselled "a lien on the proceeds of
any recovery made herein for an attorney's fee in the amount of one-third of $7,501.00
and costs incurred in the amount of $1 04.00."
14.
On or about December II, 2008, McClaston settled her personal injury
claim and Defendant collected one-third of the settlement amount plus costs totaling
$2,604.00 in payment of his purported lien.
15.
Defendant asserted entitlement to a lien for attorney's fees before
settlement of or judgment on the claim of a former client, and subsequently collected
those fees pursuant to his assertion.
16.
Defendant Imew or should have known he was not entitled to file his
Notice ofUen for attorney's fees under North Carolina law.

17.
By filing the Notice of Lien, Defendant knew or should have known he
made a false statement of law to the court, to McClaston, to the opposing party and to
opposing counsel.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the following

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the Committee
has jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
An attorney charging lien is "an equitable lien which gives an attorney the
right to recover his fees from a fund recovered by his aid. The charging lien attaches not
to the cause of action, but to the judgment at the time it is rendered." Covington v.
Rhodes, 38 N.C. App. 61, 247 S.E.2d 305 (1978) (internal quotation marks omitted)
(citations omitted). "The well established law in North Carolina is that no right to an
attorney's charging lien exists when an attorney working pursuant to a contingent fee
agreement withdraws prior to settlement or judgment being entered in the case." Nfack v.
Moore, 107 N.C. App. 87,418 S.E.2d 685 (1992). See also, Wilson v. Wilson, 183 N.C.
App.276, 644 S.E.2d 379 (2007); Howell v. Howell, 89 N.C. App. 115, 365 S.E.2d. 181
(1988); and Dillon v. Consolidated DelivelY, Inc., 43 N.C. App. 395, 258 S.E.2d 829
(1979).
3.
Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(2) in that he violated one or more ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect at the time ofthe actions as follows:
a. By filing the Notice of Lien for attorney's fees to which he was not
entitled under North Carolina law, Defendant asserted a claim which had no basis
in law and fact in violation of Rule 3.1, Imowingly made a false statement ofIaw
to the tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a), knowingly made a false statement of
law to a third person in violation of Rule 4.1, and engaged in conduct prejudicial
to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d); and
b. By asserting entitlement to a lien for attorneys fees before settlement
of or judgment on his fonner client's claim and subsequently collecting fees
pursuant to such an assertion, Defendant charged and collected an attorney fee in
an improper manner in violation of Rule I.5(a) and made a false or misleading
communication regarding his services in violation of Rule 7.I(a).
Based upon the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Committee hereby makes
additional

FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
McClaston was a vulnerable victim because as a lay person she relied on
Defendant's assertions. McClaston felt obligated to pay Defendant once she received a
letter from the insurance company regarding her settlement and Defendant's Notice of
Lien.
2.
Defendant aclmowledges his conduct was contrary to North Carolina case
law and that he was not entitled to make an assertion for attorney's fees in his Notice of
Lien.
3.
Defendant has assured the Hearing Committee he will not repeat the
conduct in the future.
4.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a

Substantial experience in the practice oflaw;

b. Multiple offences; and
c. Vulnerability of the victim.
5.

Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. Absence of a prior disciplinary record;
b. Remorse; and
c. Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Committee or cooperative
attitude toward proceedings.

6.

The mitigating factors outweigh aggravating factors.

7.
The Hearing Committee has carefully considered all of the different forms
of discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in determining the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
8.
Defendant's assertion of an attorney charging lien threatens harm to the
public and the integrity and standing ofthe legal profession by undermining the public's
trust and confidence in lawyers and the legal system. However, the Hearing Committee
finds and concludes that under the circumstances ofthis case the public will be
adequately protected by admonishing Defendant not to continue or repeat such conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline and upon consent ofthe parties, the Hearing
Committee enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.

Defendant is hereby ADMONISHED for his professional misconduct.

2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action, including the cost of the
deposition tal<en, as assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall pay the costs within thirty
days of service ofthe notice of costs upon him.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Committee, tills L "\+'-- day of
~
,2009.

x¢.. . . .

~c.~U

THEODORE C. EDW~~IR
HEARING COMMITTEb
CONSENTED TO:

~
~~. JGlderson, Defendant

/2 #

c'?/;/7
/.

/-'(

OJ). ;;Le
"

/1

1///

.~/'77 C'-

1/ _--

/_/",-71: /:...;;/tc-

/ Melissa D. Donalme, Deputy Counsel
Attorney for Plaintiff

.r'

...-,

\

t

r

.

(- (tl

.....t. -, /

;

V\;\ OA.Oj OLUJ \U/{.i PI ,('" C/\

Margaret I. Cloutier, Deputy Counsel
Attorney fi r Plaintiff

.

~

