~\\ \ 2 J 1 )'

,t
,~

--4'
~

/"\:;
-0
STATE OF NORTH CARO

6'

JUN 201'"d

(1'

<.D

f=lLro
--'
BEFORE THE
~
.cD'DNe D ''''' IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
A

.-;:.,

"\:;

'0;>

WAKE COUNTY

.-);

~G,

OF THE

'<>,,,'V NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
~
15DHC4

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
SIR-CHRISTOPHER J. ANDERSON,
Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Connnission composed of Beverly T. Beal, Chair, Joshua W. Willey, Jr., and Bradley Lail
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 18 § .0114 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian P.D. Oten.
Defendant, Sir-Christopher J. Anderson, has not participated in this matter and no counsel of
record has appeared on his behalf.
On Plaintiff's motion, judgment by default was entered against Defendant. Based upon
the pleadings, other filings, and admissions pursuant to 27 Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter
B, § .0114(f) and Rule 8(d) of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure, the hearing panel
hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Sir-Christopher J. Anderson ("Defendant" or "Anderson"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 24 August 2007 and is, and was at all times referred
to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of
the State of North Carolina.
3.
During a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, Anderson was actively
engaged in the private practice of law in the city of Henderson, Vance County, North Carolina.

1

4.
During a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, Anderson was actively
suspended from the practice of law pursuant to the State Bar's Order of Administrative
Suspension dated 4 March 2014, effective 7 May 2014.
5.

Anderson was properly served with process in this action.

6.
During 2013, Anderson maintained an attorney trust account at Fidelity Bank,
account number ending in 7263, to which he had exclusive access.
7.
During 2013, Anderson maintained an operating account for his law practice at
Fidelity Bank, account number ending in 7255, to which he had exclusive access.
8.
In or around January 2013, Charles Hoyle ("Hoyle") retained Anderson for
representation in a traffic case in Warren County.
9.

Hoyle paid $363.00 to Anderson for the representation.

10. Hoyle's payment of $363.00 included $100.00 for Anderson's legal fee and
$263.00 for anticipated court costs and fines.
11. The $263.00 provided by Hoyle to Anderson for anticipated court costs and fines
were entrusted client funds.
12. Hoyle instructed Anderson and expected Anderson to pay the court costs and fines
imposed in Hoyle's traffic case using the funds Hoyle provided to Anderson.
13.

Anderson did not deposit Hoyle's $363.00 payment in his attorney trust account.

14.

Anderson deposited Hoyle's $363.00 payment in his operating account.

15. Hoyle'S traffic case was initially scheduled for hearing on 27 February 2013, but
Anderson continued the case twice and set the case for hearing in May 2013.
16.

Anderson did not inform Hoyle about continuing Hoyle's case.

17. After the original February 2013 hearing date, Hoyle made inquiries to Anderson
requesting an update on the status of his case.
18.

Anderson did not respond to Hoyle's inquiries.

19. Atthe May 2013 hearing, Hoyle - through Anderson - pled guilty to the traffic
violation of improper equipment.
20. Anderson failed to pay Hoyle's court costs and fines imposed as a result of Hoyle's
traffic violation.
21. After his traffic case was resolved, Anderson notified Hoyle of the resolution and
instructed Hoyle to pay the imposed court costs and fmes.
2

22. Hoyle responded to Anderson's communication by reminding Anderson that he had
previously provided Anderson with funds to pay the imposed court costs and fines, and
requesting Anderson contact him about the status of the case.
23.

Anderson did not respond to Hoyle's communication.

24. Hoyle subsequently made numerous inquiries to Anderson requesting an update on
the status of his case.
25.

Anderson did not respond to Hoyle's inquiries.

26. Hoyle paid the court costs and fines imposed in his traffic case himself using
additional personal funds.
27. Anderson never refunded any portion of Hoyle's $363.00 payment, including the
$263.00 in entrusted client funds deposited in Anderson's operating account.
28. Anderson's operating account should have maintained a balance of at least $263.00
during the time Hoyle's entrusted funds were deposited in the operating account.
29.
$263.00.

On or about 25 April 2013, Anderson's operating account balance dipped below

30. Anderson disbursed Hoyle's $263.00 to himself or to a third party for Anderson's
personal benefit or for the benefit of someone other than Hoyle.
31. Anderson was not entitled to the $263.00 he disbursed to himself or to a third pruty
for his personal benefit or for the benefit of someone other than Hoyle, and Anderson did not
have Hoyle's authorization to disburse those funds.
32.

Anderson misappropriated $263.00 of Hoyle's funds.

33. On or about 12 August 2013, Hoyle filed a Petition for Resolution of Disputed Fee
against Anderson with the State Bar, file no. 13FD0370.
34. On or about 12 August 2013, the State Bar sent Anderson a Notification of
Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution in file no. 13FD0370. Anderson was served with the fee
dispute notification on 13 August 2013 and was required to provide a written response to the fee
dispute notification within fifteen days of receiving the notification.
35. Anderson did not provide his written response within fifteen days of receiving the
fee dispute notification as required.
36. In or around February 2013, Nicholas Lind ("Lind") retained Anderson for
representation in a traffic case in Franklin County.
37.

Lind paid $363.00 to Anderson for the representation.

3

38. Lind's payment of $363.00 included $100.00 for Anderson's legal fee and $263.00
for anticipated court costs and fines.
39. The $263.00 provided by Lind to Anderson for anticipated court costs and fines
were entrusted client funds.
40. Lind instructed Anderson and expected Anderson to pay the court costs and fines
imposed in Lind's traffic case using the funds Lind provided to Anderson.
41.

Anderson did not deposit Lind's $363.00 payment in his attorney trust account.

42.

Anderson deposited Lind's $363.00 payment in his operating account.

43.

Lind's traffic case was scheduled for hearing in or around May 2013.

44.

Anderson failed to appear on Lind's behalf at the May 2013 hearing.

45. By letter dated 20 May 2013, the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles
informed Lind that his license would be suspended for his failure to appear at the May 2013
hearing date.
46. Throughout the representation, Lind made numerous inquiries to Anderson
requesting an update on the status of his case.
47.

Anderson did not respond to Lind's inquiries.

48. Lind's traffic case was eventually dismissed, and Lind was never required to pay
COUlt costs or fines associated with his traffic case.
49. Anderson never refunded any portion of Lind's $363.00 payment, including the
$263.00 in entrusted client funds deposited in Anderson's operating account.
50. Anderson's operating account should have maintained a balance of at least $263.00
during the time Lind's funds were deposited in the operating account.
51.
$263.00.

On or about 25 April 2013, Anderson's operating account balance dipped below

52. Anderson disbursed Lind's $263.00 to himself or to a third party for Anderson's
personal benefit or for the benefit of someone other than Lind.
53. Anderson was not entitled to the $263.00 he disbursed to himself or to a third pmty
for his personal benefit or for the benefit of someone other than Lind, and Anderson did not have
Lind's authorization to disburse those funds.
54.

Anderson misappropriated $263.00 of Lind's funds.

4

55. During 2013, Anderson failed to deposit entrusted funds he received for the benefit
of multiple clients in his trust account. Instead, Anderson deposited the entrusted client funds
into his operating account along with his personal funds.
56. During the State Bar's investigation of Anderson's conduct, and in response to a
State Bar inquiry, Anderson falsely claimed that the only entrusted client funds he ever deposited
into his operating account were the funds belonging to Hoyle.
57. Anderson failed to perform all quarterly or monthly reconciliations of accounts into
which he deposited entrusted client funds as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct.
58. Anderson failed to maintain proper client ledgers which accurately tracked the
deposit and withdrawal of all clients' funds entrusted to him.
59. On or about 27 September 2013, Anderson was served by the State Bar with a
Notice to Show Cause why his license to practice law in North Carolina should not be suspended
for his failure to comply with mandatory membership requirements.
60. Anderson did not resolve his membership requirement deficiencies as instructed by
the Order to Appear and Show Cause.
61. On or about 8 March 2014, Anderson was served by the State Bar with an Order of
Suspension for his failure to comply with mandatory membership requirements.
62.
Carolina.
63.

Effective 7 May 2014, Anderson was suspended from the practice oflaw in North
Anderson did not inform his employer or his clients of his suspension.

64. Anderson continued to practice law in North Carolina while suspended from the
practice oflaw, including but not limited to multiple foreclosure hearings and appearing on
behalf of a client in Pitt County Superior Court.
65. In June 2014, during the State Bar's investigation of Anderson's conduct and in
response to a State Bar inquiry, Anderson acknowledged to State Bar staff that he was aware of
his suspension but falsely represented that he did not engage in the practice oflaw after the
suspension went into effect.
66. In July 2014, Anderson's employer learned of Anderson's suspension and asked
Anderson if he knew of the suspension.
67. Anderson falsely represented to his employer that he first learned of the suspension
from his employer.
As previously found in the Default Judgment and now recited herein, based upon the
foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following

5

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Sir-Christopher 1. Anderson, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Anderson's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to deposit Hoyle's entrusted client funds in his trust account and
instead depositing Hoyle's entrusted funds in his operating account, Anderson
failed to preserve entrusted funds provided to him and failed to deposit entrusted
funds in either a general trust account or a dedicated trust account of the lawyer
in violation of Rules 1.15-2(a) and (b);

(b)

By failing to pay the court costs and fines associated with Hoyle'S traffic
violation as instructed by Hoyle, Anderson failed to act with reasonable diligence
and promptuess in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to
promptly pay or deliver entrusted property to a third person as directed by his
client to which his client was entitled in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);

(c)

By failing to respond and/or promptly respond to Hoyle's inquiries about the
status of his case, Anderson failed to keep his client reasonably informed about
the status of his matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly
comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

(d)

By disbursing $263.00 of entrusted client funds to himself, his law practice, or to
a third party for his personal benefit or the benefit of a person other than the legal
or beneficial owner of the funds without authorization to do so from the legal or
beneficial owner of the funds, Anderson failed to preserve entrusted funds
provided to him in violation of Rules 1.15-2(a) and (b), misappropriated and
used entrusted funds for his personal benefit or the benefit of a person other than
the legal or beneficial owner of the funds in violation of Rule 1.15-20),
committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness
or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b), and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c);

(e)

By failing to provide a written response to fee dispute file no. 13FD0370 as
required, Anderson failed to participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee
dispute resolution process in violation of Rule 1.5(f)(2);

(f)

By failing to deposit Lind's entrusted client funds in his trust account and instead
depositing Lind's entrusted funds in his operating account, Anderson failed to
preserve entrusted funds provided to him and failed to deposit entrusted funds in
either a general trust account or a dedicated trust account of the lawyer in
violation of Rules 1.15-2(a) and (b);

6

(g)

By failing to appear at Lind's hearing date, Anderson failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule
1.3 and engaged in conduct that was prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(h)

By failing to respond and/or promptly respond to Lind's inquiries about the
status of his case, Anderson failed to keep his client reasonably informed about
the status of his matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly
comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

(i)

By disbursing $263.00 of entrusted client funds to himself, his law practice, or to
a third party for his personal benefit or the benefit of a person other than the legal
or beneficial owner of the funds without authorization to do so from the legal or
beneficial owner of the funds, Anderson failed to preserve entrusted funds
provided to him in violation of Rules l.lS-2(a) and (b), misappropriated and
used entrusted funds for his personal benefit or the benefit of a person other than
the legal or beneficial owner of the funds in violation of Rule l.lS-2G),
committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness
or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b), and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c);

G)

By failing to deposit entrusted client funds in his trust account and instead
depositing entrusted client funds in his operating account, Anderson failed to
preserve entrusted funds provided to him and failed to deposit entrusted funds in
either a general trust account or a dedicated trust account of the lawyer in
violation of Rules l.lS-2(a) and (b);

(k)

By failing to maintain proper client ledgers and by failing to perform monthly
and quarterly reconciliations of the accounts into which he deposited entrusted
client funds, Anderson failed to properly handle and disburse entmsted funds in
violation of Rule l.lS-2(a) and failed to adequately monitor and maintain his
attorney trust account in violation of Rules l.lS-3(b)(S), 1.1S-3(d)(1), and 1.1S3 (d)(2);

(1)

By falsely stating to the State Bar that he never deposited entrusted client funds
other than the entrusted client funds belonging to Hoyle into his operating
account, Anderson knowingly made a false statement of material fact in
connection with a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.1(a) and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fi'aud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c);

(m) By continuing to practice law while administratively suspended from the practice
of law in North Carolina, Anderson engaged in the unauthorized practice of law
in violation of Rule S.S(a);

7

(n)

By falsely representing to the State Bar that he did not engage in the practice of
law during his administrative suspension, Anderson made a false statement of
material fact in connection with a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.I(a)
and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation
in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and

(0)

By falsely representing to his employer that he first learned of the administrative
suspension from his employer, Anderson engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing panel
finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Anderson's conduct - to wit: severe neglect of multiple client matters, failure to
adequately communicate with his clients, failure to resolve the matters for which he was
retained, and misappropriation of entrusted client funds - impaired his clients' ability to achieve
the goals of the representation, deprived his clients of the use of the funds entrusted to
Anderson's care, and unnecessarily delayed resolution of his clients' pending cases, including
but not limited to clients Hoyle and Lind.
2.
Anderson's known and willful misapplication and conversion to his personal use
of entrusted client funds constitutes embezzlement pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-90, a felony
criminal offense.
3.
Clients are entitled to attorneys they can trust. Anderson, by engaging in
neglectful and dishonest conduct, has shown himself to be not trustworthy.
4.
Anderson misappropriated his clients' funds and abandoned his law practice
without making any efforts toward restitution for his clients. In doing so, Anderson elevated his
interests above those of his clients. Anderson's conduct demonstrates his dishonest and selfish
motive, his intent to cause the resulting harm or potential harm, and his intent to commit acts
where the harm or potential harm is foreseeable.
5.
Self-regulation of the legal profession relies upon the cooperation and
participation of lawyers in the self-regulatory process. When a lawyer knowingly and
intentionally submits false evidence in the disciplinary process, as Anderson did here, it impedes
and undermines the system of self-regulation.
6.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and upon consideration ofthe factors set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(w), the hearing panel hereby enters the following additional

8

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .Ol14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes that the following factors are applicable in this matter:

a. Defendant's dishonest or selfish motive;
b. Defendant's indifference to making restitution;
c. Defendant's pattern of misconduct;
d. Defendant's multiple offenses;
e. Defendant's bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by intentionally
failing to comply with rules or orders of the disciplinary agency; and
f.

Defendant's submission of false evidence, false statements, or other deceptive
practices during the disciplinary process.

2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .Ol14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes Defendant has engaged in the following conduct that compels consideration
of and warrants disbarment of Defendant's license:
a. Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;
b. Misappropriation or conversion of assets entrusted by clients to Defendant to
which Defendant was not entitled; and
c. Commission of a felony.
3.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors warrant disbarment or suspension of Defendant's
license:
a. Defendant's intent to commit acts where the harm or potential harm was
foreseeable;
b. Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
c. Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on his clients' and the
public's perception of the legal profession;
d. Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
e. Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation; and
9

f.

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

4.
Defendant's neglect, failure to communicate, failure to resolve the matters for
which he was retained, and misappropriation of entrusted client funds caused significant harm to
his clients.
5.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the public and to the
administration of justice by unnecessarily delaying resolution of his clients' cases. Justice is
achieved when all matters are timely pursued and resolved; justice is impeded by attorneys who
knowingly abandon their clients and their duties as an attorney, leaving their clients' cases and
their clients' interests in an unnecessarily nncertain status such as that created by Defendant.
6.
Defendant's habitual neglect of his clients' matters has the potential to cause
significant harm to the standing of the legal profession in the eyes of the public because it shows
his disregard for his duties as an attorney. Defendant's commission of criminal acts reflecting
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer also caused significant potential
harm to the profession in that criminal conduct by attorneys tends to bring the legal profession
into disrepute. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the reputation of,
and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal profession is a
building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
7.
Defendant caused significant potential harm to the profession in that Defendant's
submission of false information in response to inquiries from the State Bar demonstrates a
refusal to participate in the self-regulation process. Such conduct interferes with the State Bar's
ability to regulate its members and nndermines the profession's privilege to remain selfregulating.
8.
The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline available and
concludes that any sanction less than disbarment would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of
the offenses committed by Defendant and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the
public regarding the condnct expected of members of the Bar. The hearing panel further
concludes that any sanction less than disbarment would not adequately protect clients, the public,
the administration of justice, and the profession.
9.
Due to the nature and extent of Defendant's conduct, the significant actual harm
and potential harm caused by Defendant's conduct, and in the interest of protecting clients, the
public, the administration of justice and the profession, this panel concludes that disbarment is
the only discipline that will adequately protect clients, the public, the administration of justice,
and the profession from future transgressions by Defendant.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the additional
Findings and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following

10

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Sir-Christopher J. Anderson, is hereby DISBARRED from the
practice oflaw.

2.
Defendant shall surrender his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this Order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant must pay these costs and
fees within 30 days of service upon him of the statement of costs and fees by the Secretary.
4.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124
of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
5.
Defendant shall provide the following to the State Bar within thirty days of the
effective date of this Order:
a. Current contact information for all clients who have or should have funds in
Defendant's accounts. Defendant shall cooperate with the State Bar to account for and
disburse all client funds as appropriate; and
b. An address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of their files
can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files.
6.
Defendant shall promptly return client files in his possession, custody, or control
to clients upon request, within five days of receipt of such request. Defendant will be deemed to
have received any such request three days after the date such request is sent to Defendant if the
request is sent to the address Defendant provided to the State Bar pursuant to this Order.
All three members of the Panel agree and concur in this decision.

Signed by the Chair, with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
d day of
,2015.

6l.

J'tJi'A/) __

Beverly T. Beal, Chao
Disciplinary Hearing ane!

11

