~\%\\1213111J
v,,'tJ

.....
NOV 2ar<l]

'0

.I.{~

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA!:";

.

'0?\

ยฃ0;

rv;

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
/:(j. .
OFTHE
M TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
'1v'<i:~ .
12 DHC 17

FilED ~IP =

K,t)
'!;:oA

~,~!"

WAKE COUNTY

t:,.

", /Jf

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER
STAYING SUSPENSION

v,

KENNETH p, ANDRESEN, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter came on for consideration by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission (DHC) composed of Fred M, Morelock, Chair, Joshua W, Willey
and Patti Head upon Defendant's Petition for Stay and Reinstatement filed 7 October
2014, Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, Kenneth P. Andresen, appeared pro se. Based upon Defendant's petition and
supporting materials, the hearing panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and was the proper party to bring the
above disciplinary proceeding against Defendant, Kenneth P. Andresen (hereafter
"Defendant" or "Andresen") under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
Andresen was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 23 August 1980
and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attomey at Law subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina,
3.
On 1 July 2013, the DHC entered an Order of Discipline in this matter.
The Order of Discipline suspended Andresen for four years. The Order of Discipline
provided that after serving twelve months of the suspension, Andresen could apply to
have the remainder of the suspension stayed upon filing a petition and showing
compliance with the conditions stated in the order by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence. The Order of Discipline was effective 14 August 2013.

Page 1 of3

4.
Andresen applied to have the ~emainder of his suspension stayed by filing
a Petition for Stay and Reinstatement on 7 October 2014. Andresen recited actions taken
to comply with the conditions in the Order of Discipline and attached documentation in
support of his statements.
5.
Andresen properly Iiled the petition with the Clerk of the DHC and served
a copy on the Office of Counsel of the State Bar.
6.

Andresen complied with N.C. Admin. Code 18 ยง .0124.

7.
Andresen paid the administrative fees and costs of the disciplinary
proceeding.
8.

Andresen paid restitution to Michael Markham in the amount of$I,OOO ..

9.

Andresen paid restitution to Robert Markham in the amount of $16,000.

10.
Andresen abstained from the unauthorized practice of law during the
period of active suspension.
11.
During the period of active suspension, Andresen abstained from conduct
constituting grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b).
12.

Andresen is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees and costs.

13. There is no deficit in Andresen's completion of mandatory Continuing
Legal Education (CLE) hours.
14.
Andresen has completed six hours additional CLE beyond the minimum
CLE requirement, three hours of the additional six hours was professional responsibility
CLE and three hours of the additional six hours was trust accounting CLE.
Based upon the foregoing Finding of Fact, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Kenneth P. Andresen, and the subject matter.
2.
Andresen has satisfied all ofthe conditions precedent for a stay of the
remainder of the suspension imposed as set forth in the Order of Discipline.
I

3.
Andresen is eligible for a stay of the remainder of his suspension subject
to the terms of the Order of Discipline in this matter entered on I July 2013.

Page 2 of3

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel hereby enters the following:

ORDER
1.
The remainder of the suspension of Andresen's law license is stayed and
Andresen is reinstated to the active practice of law, subject to the terms, conditions, and
requirements of the Order of Discipline in this case. Andresen's status as an active
member of the North Carolina State Bar during the term of the stay of suspension is
contingent upon his compliance with all of the conditions set forth in the Order of
Discipline.

2.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retainjurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB ยง .OI14(x) throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
\ ') ~igned by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the

~"'ofN_b~.2014.

~

.

Fred . Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Page 3 of3

