NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

CRAIG OWEN ASBILL,

Attomey,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter was heard by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed ofR. Lee Fanner, Chair, and members William O. King and Jane B. Weathers
pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §
.0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Deputy Counsel Margaret T. Cloutier. Defendant
made no appearance, but was properly served with process and was duly notified of the
hearing in this matter.
Asbill failed to file a responsive pleading in this matter and on May 23, 2017 the
Hearing Panel entered an Order Pursuant to Default against Asbill in which the allegations in
the Plaintiffs complaint were deemed admitted and concluding as a matter of law that Asbill
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct set forth in the complaint.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter and the Order Pursuant to Default entered by
the Hearing Panel, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
I.
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Craig Owen Asbill ("Defendant" or "Asbill"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 2000 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attomey at law licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the laws
of the State ofNmih Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and the Rules of Professional Conduct.

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, NOllh Carolina.
4.
In October 2009 Defendant undertook to represent Anthony Jenkins in
connection with a personal injury claim stemming from an automobile accident in which
Jenkins was involved on June 8, 2009.
5.
Under the applicable statute of limitations for Jenkins' claim, the period
within which he could file a lawsuit expired on June 8, 2012, after which Jenkins would
be legally prohibited from recovering for his damages.
6.
Defendant did not settle Jenkins' claim and did not file a lawsuit on
Jenkins' behalf before the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations period.
7.
On Juoe 8,2012, Defendant emailed the insurance company's
representative requesting that Jenkins' claim be arbitrated under the provisions of the
insurance policy.
8.
Defendant's request for arbitration emailed to the insurance company was
not timely or properly made.
9.
Defendant's request for arbitration without filing a lawsuit did not toll the
statute of limitations on Jenkins' claim.
10.
On November 6,2012, the insurance company filed a lawsuit against
Jenkins requesting the court to declare that the insurance company had no obligation to
pay any claim made by Jenkins based on the expiration of the statute of limitations
period.
II.
Also on November 6, 2012, the attorney for the insurance company mailed
a copy ofthe lawsuit to Defendant.
12.
the lawsuit.

Shortly thereafter, Jenkins was served by a deputy sheriff with a copy of

13.
Shortly after he was served, Jenkins contacted Defendant's office and
notified Defendant's paralegal that he had received a copy of the lawsuit.
14.
Defendant took no steps to defend Jenkins against the lawsuit filed by the
msurance company.
15.
Defendant did not communicate to Jenkins at any time that Defendant's
representation of Jenkins did not include representation in the lawsuit the insurance
company filed due to Defendant's failure to file a complaint for Jenkins before the filing
period under the statute of limitations expired.

2

16.
The insurance company obtained a judgment by default declaring that the
insurance company had no further obligation to pay any claims made by Jenkins
17.
In August 2013 Jenkins learned of the judgment by speaking to the Clerk
of Court and promptly notified Defendant's paralegal.
18.

Defendant took no steps to set aside the default judgment.

19.
Defendant did not explain to Jenkins the import of the default judgment.
Instead, when Jenkins spoke to Defendant in early April 2015, Defendant told Jenkins
that he would be seeking arbitration with the insurance company on Jenkins' claim within
two weeks, despite Defendant's knowledge that the court had determined that the statute
oflimitations precluded any claims made by Jenkins.
20.
Jenkins attempted to contact Defendant about the status of his claim many
times during the representation but often received no return contact. Jenkins also left
messages for Defendant in June, July and August 2014 and for several weeks after early
April 2015 when Defendant said he would seek arbitration. Defendant did not return
Jenkins' phone calls.
21.
Jenkins filed a grievance against Defendant with the North Carolina State
Bar concerning Defendant's handling of Jenkins' claim.
22.
Defendant was notified of the grievance on or near August 11,2015 and
was required to respond within fifteen days.
23.

Defendant did not respond to the grievance until January 11,2016.

24.
In his response, Defendant falsely stated that during the first few months
of2013, Defendant continued to leave messages for the attorney for the insurance
company in an attempt to schedule arbitration of Jenkins' claim, but that the attorney
would not return the calls.
25.
In his response, Defendant falsely stated that, in late 2013 or early 2014,
the arbitrator Defendant had engaged offered to contact the attorney for the insurance
company to schedule arbitration, and informed Defendant that after multiple attempts to
contact the attorney for the insurance company, the attorney for the insurance company
would not return the arbitrator's calls.
26.
On March 8, 2016 the State Bar sent Defendant a letter requesting
additional information to which he was required to respond by March 17, 2016.
27.

Defendant did not respond to the March 8, 2016 letter.

Based upon the pleadings, the Order Pursuant to Default, and the foregoing Findings
of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

3

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Asbill's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds for
discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to timely or properly request arbitration from the insurance
company without filing a lawsuit to preserve Jenkins' claim before the
expiration of the statute oflimitations period, and by failing to take any
steps to defend Jenkins against the lawsuit filed by the insurance company
or to set aside the default judgment after he became aware of it,
Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing a client
in violation of Rule 1.3;

(b)

By failing to explain to Jenkins that the default judgment precluded
Jenkins' claim, by continuing to claim that arbitration could still be
requested after the court declared that any claim by Jenkins was barred.
and by failing to respond to Jenkins' calls, Defendant failed to keep his
client reasonably informed about the status of the matter, failed to
promptly comply with reasonable requests for information, and failed to
explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pelmit the client to
make informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3) and (4) and 1.4(b);

(c)

By failing to timely respond to the grievance and failing to respond to the
letter requesting additional information, Defendant knowingly failed to
respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary authority
in violation of Rule 8.l(b); and

(d)

By implying to Jenkins that arbitration could still be requested after the
court declared that any claim by Jenkins was barred, by making false
statements in his response to the grievance about Defendant's efforts and
the arbitrator's efforts to contact the insurance company's attorney,
Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

3.
Asbill's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3) as follows:
(a)
For knowing misrepresentation of any facts or circumstances surrounding
any complaint, allegation, or charge of misconduct; andlor
(b)
For failure to answer the formal inquiry issued by the North Carolina State
Bar in a disciplinary matter.

4

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the
additional evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Asbill's multiple violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct demonstrates
his unwillingness to adhere to the IUles enacted for the purpose of protecting the public.
2.
Asbill failed to protect the interests of Jenkins in his personal injury claim,
precluding Jenkins from accessing the courts to attempt to recover compensation for his
injuries and pay his medical expenses.
3.
Jenkins was a vulnerable victim of Asbill's misconduct and was harmed by his
conduct. Jenkins was unfamiliar with the legal process and had limited financial resources.
Jenkins relied upon Asbill to protect and pursue his legal rights.
4.
Asbill failed to return the calls of other clients and/or otherwise neglected their
cases. In at least one instance, Asbill failed to respond to discovery in a client's lawsuit,
causing the lawsuit to be dismissed. That client will likely incur an additional filing fee to
reinstate his lawsuit.
5.
Clients are entitled to representation by attorneys they can tlUSt to accomplish
their goals. A cornerstone of client tlUSt in an attorney is that the attorney will properly
protect and maintain the client's interests. Failure to do so erodes the confidence clients place
in attorneys who handle their affairs and harms the public and the profession as a whole.
6.
By failing to respond to State Bar inquiries and otherwise failing to participate
in the grievance process, Asbill caused significant harm to the profession. Such conduct
interferes with the State Bar's ability to regulate its members and undermines the profession's
privilege to remain self-regulating.
7.
Asbill has a profile on a lawyer directory website. Multiple negative reviews
have been posted by the public on this profile, noting Asbill's neglect of their cases and
failure to adequately communicate with them.
8.
Asbill's conduct caused potential significant harm to the standing of the legal
profession in the eyes of the public in that such conduct by attorneys erodes the trust of the
public in the profession, as evidenced by negative reviews posted by the public on the
internet. Confidence in the legal profession is a building block for public tlUst in the entire
legal system.
9.
Asbill was sued by a firm with which he was previously associated. That
action resulted in multiple orders of the comi with which Asbill failed to comply. Asbill was
ultimately held in contempt of court for those failures and served 20 days in jail. Asbill's
failure to comply with multiple orders of the court in that action shows his unwillingness to
submit to a tribunal's authority.

5

10.
By engaging in various instances of client neglect, failing to communicate
with his client, and failing to respond to the Bar, Asbill committed multiple offenses and
displayed a pattern of misconduct. At the time of his conduct, Asbill knew or should have
known that his actions could harm his client and the administration of justice.
11.

Asbill has no prior professional discipline.

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IE § .01 14(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension:
(a) Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
(b) Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
(c) Negative impact of Defendant's actions on his client's and the public's
perception of the profession;
(d) Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
(e) ImpaiIment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation;
and
(f) Multiple instances offailure to participate in the legal profession's selfregulation process.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OlI4(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the Nmth Carolina State
Bar and concludes that although one factor is present the circumstances of this case do
not warrant disbannent in order to protect the public.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OII4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Lack of prior professional discipline;
(b) A pattern of misconduct;

6

(c) Multiple offenses;
(d) Absence of full and free disclosure to the hearing panel or cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
(e) Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct;

(f) Vulnerability of victim;
(g) Extensive experience in the practice of law; and
(h) Lack of effort to rectify the consequences of his misconduct by failing to
defend the insurance company's lawsuit against Jenkins or file postjudgment motions.
4.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOlms of
discipline available to it. An admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be sufficient
discipline because of the gravity ofthe harm or potential harm Defendant's conduct
caused to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal profession.
5.
The Hearing Panel further concludes that such discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the violations committed by Defendant and send the
wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this
State.
6.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of suspension would not be adequate or appropriate.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Craig Owen Asbill, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for four years, effective thirty days from service of this Order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
ofthe N0I1h Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following service of this Order
upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124, including filing an affidavit with
the Secretary of the N0I1h Carolina State Bar within ten days of the effective date of this
order.

7

4.
Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within thirty days of service of the statement of costs and
administrative fees upon Defendant.
5.
Within thirty days after service of this Order, Defendant shall provide the
State Bar's Office of Counsel with an address and telephone number at which clients
seeking their files can communicate with Defendant. Defendant shall promptly retum all
files to his clients upon request.
6.
After two years, Defendant may apply for a stay of the remainder of the
suspension upon filing of a verified petition with the DHC demonstrating by clear, cogent
and convincing evidence the following:
(a) Defendant properly sUlTendered his law license and membership card as
provided in paragraph 2 of this Order;
(b) Defendant has complied with the general provisions for reinstatement
listed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules;
(c) That, not more than sixty days before he petitions for reinstatement,
Defendant has been evaluated by a licensed psychiatrist or psychologist
approved in advance by the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel.
Defendant shall attach to his petition the affidavit of the evaluating
psychiatristl psychologist certifying whether, based on his or her
independent and comprehensive evaluation of Defendant and in his or her
professional opinion, Defendant currently has any physical, mental,
psychological, behavioral, cognitive, or emotional illness, disorder, or
other condition that impairs Defendant's ability to practice law, that
impacts Defendant's ability or willingness to comply with the Rules of
Professional Conduct, and/or that poses a risk of harm to the public ifhe
engages in the practice of law. Defendant bears the burden of proving that
he does not suffer from any such impairing condition at the time of his
petition. Defendant shall sign an authorization form consenting to the
release of all medical records and infonnation related to Defendant's
evaluation to the Office of Counsel, and Defendant shall not revoke that
release. Defendant shall include with his petition for stay the signed
authorization fmID and a written report of such evaluation and
recommended treatment, if any, prepared by the psychiatrist/psychologist
described herein. All expenses of such evaluation, reports, and production
of records shall be bome by Defendant;
(d) Defendant has alTanged for an active member of the North Carolina State
Bar to serve as his law practice monitor. Defendant's practice monitor
shall be an attorney in good standing who practices law in Defendant's
judicial district and who has been approved in advance by the Office of
Counsel. The monitor shall agree to supervise all client matters and to
ensure that Defendant handles all client matters in a timely fashion,

8

including promptly responding to his clients, promptly responding to
notices from the clerk of cOUli, properly handling entrusted funds, and
diligently pursuing his clients' matters. The monitor shall agree to meet
monthly with Defendant and to submit written qUaIierly reports of this
supervision to the Office of Counsel, such reports due on the following
dates as they occur during the stay of this suspension: January 30, April
30, July 30, and October 30. Defendant must make the arrangements for
this monitoring attorney before petitioning and provide a letter from the
monitoring attorney confirming his or her agreement to perform the duties
listed above with his petition for stay;
(e) Defendant has paid the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within thirty days of notice of
the costs being served on Defendant at his address of record;

(1) Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his cun·ent address (not P.O. box) and notified the Bar of any
change in address within ten days of such change;
(g) Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar within
thirty days of the date of the communication or by the deadline stated in
the communication, whichever is sooner;
(h) Defendant is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees, and costs,
including all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or
surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from him, and including
all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;
(i) There is no deficit in Defendant's completion of CLE hours, in reporting
such hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;

(j) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or any state or local govennnent during his
suspension; and
(k) Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
requirements of27 N.C.A.C. JB§.0124, the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license
7.
pursuant to this Order, the stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies
with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall comply, at his sole expense, with all recommendations for
ongoing treatment set forth in the clinician's report described in paragraph
6(c) above;
(b) Defendant shall provide a written release to the North Carolina State Bar
Office of Counsel, authorizing all providers from whom he is receiving
any ongoing treatment to communicate with the Office of Counsel and to

9

release to the Office of Counsel records relating to his compliance with
treatment recommendations. Defendant shall not revoke these releases
during the period of the stay.
(c) Defendant shall ensure that all providers from whom he is receiving any
ongoing treatment send a quarterly written report to the State Bar
confilming that he is complying with treatment recommendations. The
reports shall be due each January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30
during the stayed suspension;
(d) Defendant shall meet with his law practice monitor as described in
paragraph 6(d) above. Defendant shall meet at least once a month with his
monitoring attorney, report the status of all current client matters to the
monitor, cooperate with the monitoring attorney, and provide any
information the monitoring attorney deems reasonably necessary to ensure
that Defendant is properly and timely handling all client matters.
Defendant shall direct his law practice monitor to submit written quarterly
reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel, such reports due on
the following dates as they occur during the stay of this suspension:
January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. Defendant bears the
responsibility of ensuring the monitoring attorney sends a written report
each quarter to the Office of Counsel as described above. This monitoring
will occur for the duration of any stay of this suspension. Defendant will
pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this supervision;
(e) Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make
appropriate arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed
during any stay of this suspension;
(f) Defendant shall keep his address of record current with the State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the State
Bar by the deadline ~tated in the communication or within thirty days of
the date of the communication, whichever is sooner;

(g) Defendant shall timely comply with her State Bar membership and
continuing legal education requirements and pay all fees and costs
assessed by the applicable deadline;
(h) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the fee dispute resolution
process when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;
(i) Defendant shall not violate the laws of the United States or any state or
local government, other than minor traffic violations; and

G) Defendant shall not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

10

8.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions ofthe stayed
suspension provided in paragraph 7(a) through U) above, the stay of the suspension may
be lifted as provided in § .01 14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
9.
If Defendant does not seek or fails to obtain a stay of the active portion of
his suspension, or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
lifted/revoked, Defendant must comply with the requirements of paragraphs 6(a) through
(k) above before being reinstated to the practice of law.
10.
Any order of the Administrative Committee of the NOlth Carolina State
Bar placing Defendant in inactive status for any reason shall toll the running of the
suspension, the period of the stay of the suspension, and Defendant's obligation to
comply with the telms of the stay of the suspension under this order. Upon Defendant's
reinstatement to active status by the Administrative Committee, the toIling of the running
ofthe suspension and the stay of the suspension under this order shall be lifted, at which
time such Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions of the suspension and the
stay in this order will resume.
II.
If Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code I B § .0124
and the Court appoints a trustee to wind down any portion of Defendant's practice,
Defendant shall reimburse the State Bar for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in
winding down Defendant's practice. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to,
storage facility fees, rent payments, moving expenses, charges for secure disposal of
client files, postage or other mailing expenses, and compensation paid to the trustee
and/or the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated with the trusteeship. After the
COUlt has discharged the trustee, the State Bar shall send an invoice of wind-down
expenses to Defendant at Defendant's last known address of record with the NOlth
Carolina State Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he has
reimbursed the State Bar for all wind-down expenses incurred.
12.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
1'11"- day of July, 2017.

Disciplinary Hearing Panel

II

