NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE COUNCIL

OF THE

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

04 BCS 3


ORDER OF DISBARMENT

TODD A. CLINE. ATTORNEY

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to Section .0017 of Subchapter B of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar upon an affidavit of tender oflicense executed by Todd A. Cline and
tiled in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on 21 June 2004.
Based upon the affidavit of tender of license, the Council finds that Todd A. Cline
misappropriated funds entrusted to him as the Executor of the Estate of Edward F. Swann, Jr. for
his own personal use and falsified estate accountings under oath to the Clerk of Court. Further,
the Council finds that the amount misappropriated by Todd A. Cline was $80,000 and that Todd
A. Cline has made full restitution to the Estate of Edward F. Swann, Jr. The Council also finds
that Todd A. Cline has waived his right to be heard before the Council. The Council concludes
that the conduct of Todd A. Cline constitutes grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. §84­
28(b)(2) in that Todd A. Cline violated Rules l.15-2(a), 0), and (m); 3.3(a)(1) and (3); and
8.4(a), (b), and (c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and that the Council may enter
an order of discipline accordingly.
WHEREFORE, upon motion duly made and seconded, the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar enters the following order:
l.	

The tender of surrender oflicense of Todd A. Cline is hereby accepted.

2.	

Todd A. Cline is hereby DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North Carolina.

3.	

Todd A. Cline will comply with the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .0024 of the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and will surrender his license
and permanent registration card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along
with the at1idavit required by Subchapter B, Section .0024 within 30 days of service
of this order upon him.

4.	

The costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar
are taxed against Todd A. Cline and will be paid within 30 days of assessment.

Done and Ordered, this the 16th day of July, 2004.

.
­

. ,

,
I~:::C.

NORTH CAROLINA

)

WAKE COUNTY

)

)

IN RE:

TODD A. CLINE
ATTORNEY AT LAW

I' :.'.~

~--

...

BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE
NORTH CAROLIN~JllT,A:!EBAK:~:
01.{ gG.S

:::'i

'3

AFFIDAVIT TENDERING THE
SCRRENDER OF THE LICENSE OF
TODD A. CLINE

I, Todd A. Cline, being first duly sworn, say:

I.	

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuan t to the provisions of Section .0117 of Subchapter 1B of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.

2.	

My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3.	

I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations that I
have been guilty of misconduct by misappropriating funds entrusted to me as the
Executor of the estate of Edward F. Swann Jr. for my own use. I acknowledge that I
misappropriated funds. I have made full restitution to the Estate of all funds
misappropriated. I also understand that the allegations include falsification of estate
accountings under oath to the Clerk of Court.

4.	

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigations is predicated are
true.

5.	

My resignation is being submitted because I know that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.

6.	

This At1idavit and all statements herein are propounded solely for the purpose of this
professional disciplinary proceeding and any future professional licensure
reinstatement proceedings.

Respectfully submitted, this the _$-'J!,---'(If
__ day of June, 2004.

Todd A. Cline, Attorney At Law

Sworn to and subscribed before me
This the

/I-Ili

,of June, 2004

Notary Public

My Commission expires: ~

/a'-;/aoo '7

7


