~\h. \S 1617/8;0

~;:

...I

~

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

~

~

~

Ocr 201

v~

-~~

~

BEFORE THE
'IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09 DHC 23

I:JI.E:';'O ~
DN v
[}:

~,<,,,:1. ,0
t9

,J'j>

{:S'

~\.C

(Al£P}r

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
JOHN S. AUSTIN., Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter was scheduled to be hcard by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of J. Michael Booe, Chair; Harriett Smalls and David 1. Willianls. A.
Root Edmonson represents the North Carolina State Bar. The defendant, John S. Austin, is
represented by Alan M. Schneider. Based upon the admissions contained in the defendant's
answer and the consent of the parties, the panel finds the following facts were established by
clear, cogcnt and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized 1.lllder the
laws ofNorth Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations
ofthe North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The defendant, John S. Austin ("Austin"), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar on August 26, 1994 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State of North Carolina.
3. During the time relevant to this complaint, Austin actively engaged in the private
practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of Raleigh,
Wake County, North Carolina.
4. In September 2008, Austin owed the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS")
approximately $68,000 in back taxes. As a result, the IRS obtained a lien that attached to
Austin's personal bank account.
5. Austin contacted the IRS and a representative informed Austin that ifhe paid
$500 immediately and $43,000 by October 10, 2008, Austin could make payments on the
approximately $25,000 balance.

6. Austin contacted Ray Cullen ("Cullen") at United Leasing Corporation
("United"), a commercial lender that Austin did litigation work for. Cullen assured Austin that
United would loan Austin $60,000, enough to pay the IRS $43,000, pay the balance of a loan
Austin owed to CitiFinancial of approximately $8,400 and leave a balance for Austin to use to
apply to his upcoming payments.
7. On October 17, 2008, United notified Austin that his application for a loan of
$60,000 had been approved. Under the terms of the loan, Austin and his wife needed to sign a
deed of trust on their residence.
8. On October 18, 2008, Austin received the loan documents from United, including
a note and a deed of trust that both required his wife's signature.
9. Austin did not want to tell his wife the extent of their obligation to the IRS or that
he was obtaining a ImUl to satisfy the demands of the IRS.
10. Austin signed his wife's name on the note and the deed of trust without her
knowledge or authorization.
11. Because his wife's name on the deed of trust had to be signed before a notary
public who could authenticate the signature, Austin also signed notary Elizabeth Cox's ("Cox")
name to the jurat on the deed of trust witnessing his wife's signature and placed Cox's seal on
the deed of trust. Austin had access to Cox's seal as she was an employee in Austin's law firm.
Austin signed Cox's name and affixed Cox's notary seal on the deed of trust without Cox's
knowledge or consent.
12. On November 4,2008, Austin forwarded the note and deed oftrust with the
forged signatures and the fraudulent notarization to United for the purpose of securing the
$60,000 loan.
13. On November 14,2008, Austin received the loan proceeds check, payable to
Austin, from United.
14. Austin retumed the loan proceeds check with a request that United reissue the
funds with checks payable to the IRS, CitiFinancial and Austin in specific amounts.
15. On November 17, 2008, prior to United reissuing the loan proceeds checks, the
completed loan documents were received in Austin's office. Austin's administrative assistant
opened the documents and noticed that Cox's signature was fraudulent. She reported it to Cox
and Austin's senior partner.
16. After being confronted by his senior partner, Austin asked United not to reissue
the loan funds.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel makes the following:

2

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before this panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
and the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and this panel have jurisdiction over Austin and the
subject matter.
2.
Austin's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Austin violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect at the time as follows:
(a)

By signing his wife's name to the United note and deed of trust without her
knowledge or consent, which constituted forgery in violation ofN.C.G.S. §
14-119, Austin committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawycr in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(b)

by signing Cox's nanle to the jurat on the United deed of trust without Cox's
knowledge or consent which constituted forgery in violation ofN.e.G.S. § 14119 and by using the seal of a notary without authority in violation of
N.e.G.S. § 10B-60(t), Austin committed criminal acts that reflect adversely
on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule
8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of
thc parties, thc panel hereby finds the following additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Austin was not attempting to defraud United when he signed his wife's nanle to the
United note and deed of trust and affixcd the false jurat. Austin had already
established an automatic debit from his personal bank account to pay the monthly
note payment to United.

2.

Austin admitted what he had done to Ray Cullen at United prior to United sending
thc second set of loan procceds checks. Austin never received the United loan
proceeds. Even after Austin's revelation, Ray Cullen continued to have confidence
in Austin and continued to employ Austin to represent United in collecting
delinquent loans.

3.

Austin signed his wifc's namc to the United note in fear of having to tell her of their
financial situation.

3

4.

On October 18,2010, Austin pled guilty to, and was convicted of, misdemeanor
common law forgery.

5.

Although Austin was not intending to defraud United, the deed of trust given to
United potentially would have caused United significant harm because the deed of
trust securing the loan from United was unenforceable.

6.

By choosing to engage in illegal conduct to avoid conflict with his wife, Austin
caused significant potential harm to the legal profession and the administration of
justice.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also cntcrs thc following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.OII4(w) (I), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State
Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
General Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w) (3):
a.

Austin has no prior disciplinary offensc in this state;

b.

Austin made a timely and good faith effort to rectify the consequences of his
misconduct when he told Ray Cullen what he had done prior to rcceiving the
second set of loan proceeds checks from United;

c.

After being confronted, Austin made a full and free disclosure to his senior
partner, United's Ray Cullen, the North Carolina State Bar and the hearing
panel and has shown a cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

d.

Austin has exhibited remorse for his misconduct;

e.

Austin has exhibited good character and reputation;

Suspension and Disbarment Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w) (1):
a.

Austin intended to commit acts where the resulting harm or potential harm to
United, the legal profession and the administration ofjustice was foreseeable;

b.

Austin elevated his own interest in avoiding conflict with his wife over the
interests of United;

c.

Austin's conduct had a negative impact on thc public's perception of the legal
profession;

4

d.

Austin engaged in acts of fabrication and deceit.

2.

The hearing panel has carcfully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. An admonition, reprimand or censure would not be suflicient
discipline because of the gravity of the potentially significant harm Austin's
conduct caused to United.

3.

The hearing panel finds that discipline short of suspension of Austin's license
would not adequately protect the public, the legal profession or the administration
ofjustice for the following reasons:
a.

Austin chose to avoid conflict with his wife by engaging in conduct he kncw
was illegal;

b.

By engaging in illegal conduct, Austin caused significant ham1 to the public's
pcrception of the legal profession and to the administration ofjustice;

c.

Although Austin did not intend to defraud United because United provided
Austin with significant legal work, he left United unprotected by an
enforceable deed of trust that could have significantly harmed United; and

d.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge
the seriousness of the offcnscs Austin committed and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and to the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this state.

Based upon tl1e foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.

John S. Austin is hereby suspended from the practice of law in Norili Carolina for
six months, effective 30 days from the date of service of this order upon him.

2.

Austin shall surrender his license and membership card to thc Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
him.

3.

Austin shall comply with all provisions of27 NCAC lB § .0124 of tile North
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

4.

Austin shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary, including
the costs of his deposition and transcription of that deposition, within 90 days of
service of this order upon him.

5

Signed by the undersigned Chair of the panel with the consent of the other members of
the panel this the

R-Y- day of October 2010.

QCbldA&AP~
J. Michael Booe, Chair
Hearing Panel

We Consent:

A4~'-~~lo~n~sdo~n==~::::::=::--Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

(/Ate.J~J-

Alan M. Schneider
Counsel for Defendant

J(}(m S.':Austin
Defendant

6

