BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
15 DHC 14

STATE OF NORTH CAROL!

WAKE COUNTY

::::~

(;)

THE NORTH CAROLINA

STAi'~~~(J~~ .
Plaintiff

CONSENT
ORDER

v.
JEFFREY R. BAlCER, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Healing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, and members William O. King and Percy L. Taylor,
pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(h).
Plaintiff was represented by Carmen Hoyme Bannon and Maria J. Brown. Defendant, Jeffi'ey R.
Baker ("Baker"), was represented by Douglas J. Brocker and Crystal S. Carlisle. Both Plaintiff
and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this
consent order and to the discipline imposed. Baker consents to entry of this order of discipline
and freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this order.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North ~arolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring' this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes'ofNorth Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Jeffrey R. Baker, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
August 1982 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the lUles, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process, and the matter came before the
Hearing Panel witll due notice to all parties.
4.
During the relevant period 'refelred to herein, Defendant was engaged in the
practice of law in Wilmington, New Hanover County, North Carolina.
5.
In or about April 2013, Defendant began representing Janet and Richard Long in a
matter involving their minor grandchild (hereinafter "Child").

6.
At the outset of the representation, the Longs told Defendant that the New
Hanover County Department of Social Services (hereinafter "DSS") had allowed Child's parents
to elect Child's placement with a temporary caregiver, and that both the Longs and Child's
parents desired that the Longs be Child's caregivers.
7.
Upon review of a document related to DSS'.s involvement in the matter,
Defendant concluded that a voluntary arrangement with DSS would not guarantee that the Longs
could serve as Child's caregivers. Defendant did not convey this conclusion to his clients.
8.
The Longs told Defendant that they did not want to pursue any course of action
requiring them to make any allegations regarding Child's parents' unfitness to have care and
custody of Child.
9.
Defendant was aware that in order for a nonparent to obtain custody under North
Carolina law, there must be a showing that the child's parents acted in a manner inconsistent
with their constitutionally-protected parental status.
10.
Defendant did not adequately explain to the Longs that any custody complaint
filed on their behalf which did not include the requisite allegations of parental unfitness would be
facially deficient and subject to dismissal.
11.
Defendant drafted a custody complaint for the Longs, intentionally omitting any
allegation that Child's parents acted in a manner inconsistent with their constitutionallyprotected parental status.
12.
On or about 10 April 2013, Defendant met with the Longs and provided them
with the draft complaint for custody of Child and a consent order to be signed by Child's parents.
13.
The Longs reviewed the complaint and requested that Defendant make celiain
modifications prior to filing, including con-ecting grammatical en-ors and changing inaccurate
references to the sex of Child to reflect that Child is female.
14.
While the Longs were in his office, Defendant had them sign a verification fol'm
because it was to be attached to the con-ected complaint at filing.
15.
The Longs told Defendant that they were unsure whether they wanted to proceed
with the complaint. They asked him to make the cOlTections they had discussed but wait to file
until they had made up their minds about proceeding.
16.
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 50A-209 requires all parties to custody proceedings to state
under oath the child's cun'ent address, where and with whom the child has lived in the preceding
five years, and the names and addresses of any non-party who has physical custody of the child.
This infOlIDation is customarily provided to the comi in a document entitled "Affidavit as to
Status of Minor Child."
17.
At Defendant's direction, the Longs completed an Affidavit as to Status of Minor
Child fOlID, and provided the fonn to Defendant. Defendant did not have the Longs sign the
Affidavit form they provided to him.
18.
On or about 15 April 2013, Mr. Long spoke with Defendant by telephone and
indicated they wanted to proceed by filing the complaint. Defendant informed Mr. Long that he
2

would file the complaint on 22 April 2013. Based on the conversation with Defendant, the
Longs expected to have Child in their care by the end of the following week.
19.
Defendant filed the custody complaint and consent order on behalf of the Longs
on 26 April 2013.
20.
Prior to filing, Defendant had not corrected the complaint as the Longs had
requested. For instance, the filed complaint still contained numerous grammatical errors mid
language referring to Child as "he."
21.
Defendant did not attach to the filed complaint the Affidavit as to Status of Minor
Child that the Longs had provided to him. Attached to the filed complaint was an tillsigned
Affidavit fOlm that had been filled out by Defendant. This form did not include complete,
accurate infOlmation regarding where and with whom Child had lived in the preceding five
years.
22.
Although Defendant had the Longs sign a verification, he did not attach that
ve1ification to the complaint he filed.
23.
Defendant personally signed the names "Richard Long" and "Janet Long" on the
verification attached to the filed complaint and notarized his own signature of the Longs' names.
24.
Defendant did not get permission from both of the Longs to sign their names to
the verification.
25.
On 8 May 2013, Child's patemal grandparents and their daughter, Child's aunt
(hereinafter "the HouIes"), filed an action for custody of Child.
26.
Prior to the filing of this complaint, Defendant had spoken with counsel for the
HouIes and agreed to file a voluntary dismissal of the Longs' custody complaint.
27.
Defendant did not communicate with the Longs about filing a voluntary dismissal
of their complaint before he represented to the Houles' counsel that he would do so.
28.

On 9 May 2013, Defendant met with Ms. Long.

29.
When Defendant met with Ms. Longon 9 May 2013, he did not tell her that he
had agreed to dismiss their action voluntarily.
30.
When Defendant met with Ms. Long on 9 May 2013, he told her that the Houles
had filed a separate suit, the comi would not enter the proposed consent order, the matter would
have to be litigated and that he required an additional $1,000.00 to proceed with litigation.
31.

On 10 May 2013, Defendant filed a voluntary dismissal of the Longs' case.

32.
Unbeknownst to Defendant, the comi had already entered an order dismissing the
Longs' complaint because the allegations therein were insufficient to authorize the court to grant
custody of Child to the Longs, even with the consent of Child's parents.
33.
When the Longs discovered that the court had ordered dismissal of their
complaint, Mr. Long called Defendant and asked for an explanation.
3

34.
Defendant did not provide the Longs an adequate explanation for the court's
dismissal of their custody complaint.
35.
On 13 Febtuary 2013, Sussie and Michael Clark (hereinafter "the Clarks")
retained Defendant to represent them in connection with the administration of Sussie's father's
estate.
36.
On 3 May 2013, the Clarks sent Defendant a text message expressing
dissatisfaction with Defendant's communication with them and perceived delay in his taking
action on their behalf.
37.
Defendant responded by notifying the Clarks of a meeting with the Columbus
County Clerk of Special Proceedings at 10 o'clock a.m. on 8 May 2013.

In a text message to Defendant on 4 May 2013, the Clarks told him that they had
38.
leamed that they did not need to have an appointment to meet with the Clerk and that the
papelwork they were going to file need not be filed by a lawyer. In that same message, the
Clarks also asked for clarification of a prior message from Defendant and for an opportunity to
speak with him on 6 May 2013 to "clear up any misllilderstandings."
39.
Defendant's 4 May 2013 reply to the Clarks indicated that there was nothing to
clmify and directed them to come and pick up their file at noon on 6 May 2013. Defendant's
message did not state that he was terminating his representation of the Clarks.
40.
was locked.

When the Clarks arrived at Defendant's office at noon on 6 May 2013, the office

41.
Defendant had taped the Clarks' file to the outside of his office door with a note
reading "gone to court." Defendant's office door is close to the sidewalk, facing a busy public
roadway. The Clarks' file contained the decedent's original will and original titles to vehicles.
On 6 May 2013, the Clarks sent text messages to Defendant (1) inquiring why he
42.
wanted them to come and get the file and (2) indicating that they were waiting outside his locked
office at noon on 6 May 2013 expecting to meet with him.
43.

Defendant did not respond to either of these messages.

On 8 May 2013, prior to the scheduled time for the meeting at the Clerk's office,
44.
the Clarks sent Defendant a text message requesting confirmation that he would attend the
meeting with the Clerk.
45.

The Clarks did not hear from Defendant before the meeting was to stmi.

46.
The Clarks went to the Columbus County Clerk of Special Proceedings at 10 a.m.
on 8 May 2013, but Defendant was not present.
47.
At 10:30 a.m. on 8 May 2013, Defendant sent a text message to the Clarks
indicating that their criticism of Defendant and their assertion that they could do the paperwork
themselves had "pretty much tetminated any relationship w [sic1had .... "
48.
Prior to 8 May 2013, Defendant had not expressly stated that he believed his
representation of the Clarks had concluded.
4

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing to convey his conclusion regarding the futility of a voluntary agreement
with DSS, and by failing to adequately explain that the complaint would be
subject to dismissal if drafted as the Longs desired, Defendant failed to
reasonably consult with his clients about the means by which his clients'
objectives were to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2);
(b) In his conversations with the Longs on or about 15 April 2013 regarding when
they would have custody of Child, Defendant communicated about his services in
a manner that created an unjustified expectation about the results he could achieve
in violation of Rule 7.l(a)(2);
(c) By filing a custody complaint on behalf of a non-parent that he knew did not
contain legally sufficient allegations to justify the relief sought, and was not
accompanied by a properly executed Affidavit as to Status of Minor Child,
Defendant brought a proceeding that lacked basis in law andlor fact in violation of
Rule 3.1;
(d) By failing to correct errors in the complaint that were specifically brought to his
attention and by failing to include a complete, signed Affidavit as to Status of
Minor Child with the filed complaint, Defendant failed to act with reasonabie
diligence in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
(e) By signing the Longs' names on the verification without obtaining permission
from both of them, notarizing his own signature of the Longs' names, and filing
the false verification with the court, Defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and engaged
in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
(t) By failing to consult with the Longs prior to agreeing to voluntarily dismiss their
complaint, by failing to inform the Longs of his agreement to dismiss their
complaint, and by failing to respond adequately to Mr. Long's inquiry regarding
the dismissal of their complaint, Defendant violated Rule 1.4(a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
and (b);

(g) By filing a voluntary dismissal of the Longs' complaint without their
authorization, Defendant failed to abide by the clients' decisions conceming the
objectives of the representation after reasonable consultation in violation of Rule
l.2(a);

5

(h) By taping the Clarks' client file to the outside of his office door where it was
accessible to the public, Defendant intentionally failed to safeguard infOlmation
acquired during the professional relationship with a client in violation of Rule
1.6(a) andlor failed to take reasonably practicable steps to protect a client's
interest upon telmination of the representation in violation of Rule 1.16(d); and
(i) By failing to explicitly state that he was tenninating the representation and failing
respond to the Clarks' text messages after 4 May 2013 and before 10 a.m. on 8
May 2013, Defendant failed to keep his clients reasonably infOlmed about the
status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with
reasonable requests for infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed upon
tennination of the representation to take reasonably practicable steps to protect a
client's interest in violation of Rule 1.16(d).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The findings of fact in paragraphs I - 48 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
discipline.
3.

Defendant has been practicing law for 33 years and has no prior professional

Defendant provided evidence of his good character, honesty and tmthfulness.

4.
Defendant's personal or emotional problems had an effect on the conduct in
question. Specifically, arOlmd the time of the actions in this matter, Defendant's father and
brother died and he became the primary caretaker for his mother, who is in failing health and
requires significant care. All these family-related circumstances combined to take a considerable
amount of Defendant's time, attention, concentration and focus dUling this time period. These
factors in turn resulted in Defendant not handling these client matters in compliance with the
Rules and his own professional standards. The mental and emotional toll of these personal and
family circumstances also resulted in Defendant exercising extremely poor judgment in a number
of instances set forth herein.
5.
A lawyer's act of submitting a falsely notarized document to the cOUlt undermines
the integrity of the judicial process and thus is harmful to the administration of justice.
6.
Defendant was the first attorney the Longs had ever hired, and their experience
with Defendant has led them to conclude that attorneys cannot necessarily be tmsted.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above, the additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the patties, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
6

I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B §.01l4(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors warrant consideration of suspension of Defendant's license:
(B)

Defendant committed acts or omissions where the hann or potential halln was
foreseeable;

(E)

Defendant's actions had a negative impact on his clients' perception of the
profession;

(F)

Defendant's actions had a negative impact on the administration of justice;

(1)

Defendant engaged in an act of misrepresentation by notarizing his signature of
his clients' names on the verification fmm and flling it with the comi.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B §.01l4(w)(2) and concludes that although Defendant engaged in an impulsive act of
misrepresentation without timely remedial efforts, di~barment is not warranted in this case.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B §.Ol14(w)(3) and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(A)

Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;

(G)

Multiple offenses;

(H)

Effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;

(K)

Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attitude toward the
proceedings;

(Q)

Good character and reputation;

(S)

Defendant's degree of experience in the practice oflaw.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or censure
but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
misconduct at issue and the harm or potential harm Defendant's misconduct caused to the client
and the administration of justice.
5.
The Hearing Panel also has considered the disbarment factors under 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .01l4(w)(2), and concludes that disbarment is not necessary to protect the public in this
case.

7

6.
The Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing discipline shmi of suspension of
Defendant's law license would not adequately protect the public, the legal profession, or the
administration of justice for the following reasons:
(a)

The factors under 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w)(I) and (w)(3) that are present in this
case are of a nature that support imposition of suspension as the appropriate
discipline; and,

(b)

Entry of less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
offenses Defendant committed and would send the wrong message to attOlTIf)ys
and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the findings offact
and conclusions regarding discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
I.
Defendant, Jeffrey R. Baker, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for one
year, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124. As provided in § .0124(d), Defendant shall file
an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective
date of this order, certifying he has complied with the wind down mle.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary, which shall be paid within thiJ1y (30) days of service of the notice of costs upon
Defendant.
5.
At the conclusion of the one year active suspension of his license, Defendant may
apply to be reinstated to the practice of law by filing a petition with the Secretary of the Nmih
Carolina State Bar demonstrating compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement set
fOl1h in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B § .0125(b) and demonstrating the
following by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
(a)

That Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Depm1ment
advised of his cutTent business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any
change in address within ten days of such change;

(b)

That Defendant has responded to all communications £i·om the North Carolina
State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, and has participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition received after the effective date of this Order;

8

(c)

That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States or any state or local government during his suspension other
than minor traffic violations;

(d)

That Defendant paid the costs of this action within 30 days after service of the
statement of costs;

(e)

That Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
requirements of §.0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules; and

(f)

That Defendant has otherwise complied with the requirements of27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.0125(b).

6.
Defendant may file a petition seeking reinstatement and setting fmth the above
requirements up to 30 days prior to the end of the suspension period but shall not be reinstated
prior to the end of the suspension period.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other Hearing
Panel members.

!~

r, ~'-I\

This the ~ day of l/-c-~, 2015.
~

.

\'-)

~'f'\~
~?;V.L--.\~~

Donald C. Prentiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed and consented to by:

Maria . 1'Own/Cannen H. Baunon
Attorneys for Plaintiff

J,&{f~
Defendant

Douglas J. 1'0 {er/Crystal S. Cad'sle
Attorneys for Defendant

9

