THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

)

)
)

v.

MAX D. BALLINGER,

Attomey,
Defendant

)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

)

This matter came before a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, Harriett Smalls, and Michael J.
Houser. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff. Defendant was represented by
N01l11an Smith. Defendant has agreed to waive a fonnal heming in the above referenced
matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order. The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order.
Defendmlt also stipulates that he waives his light to appeal the consent order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings by consenting to the entry of this
order.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent ofthe pmiies, the Heming Committee
hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT

I. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority grmlted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.

2. Defendant, Max D. Ballinger (hereinafter "Ballinger" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on September 21,1960 mld is, and was at all
times refen'ed to herein, an Attoll1ey at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina,
subject to the rules, regulations, mld Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the practice of

law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Greensboro, Guilford
County, North Carolina.
4. Defendant represented several, although not all of the children of decedent
Myrtle Greeson Canoy in a civil action entitled Scott Nash Dunn Administrator, CTA of
the Estate of Myrtle Greeson CrulOY, deceased, plaintiff, vs. Roger Ten)' CrulOY, et aI.,
defendants, case no. 03 CVS 1211, Randolph County Superior Court (hereinafter the
"Litigation"). The parties represented by the Defendant were some of the contingent
remaindemlen.
5. The subject of the Litigation concemed Mr. Dmm's request that the trial court
order the vru'ious defendants to interplead their prospective claims and settle their claims
between themselves as pel1ained to the estate property and property related to the
administration of the estate including real property that had been owned by the decedent
during her lifetime.
6. On June 10,2004 the parties agreed to resolve the Litigation by agreement
under which agreement the life tenant would receive fee simple title free and clear to
approximately 18 acres and the remaining children of Myrtle Greeson Canoy would
receive fee simple title to the remaining 42 acres ofthe Canoy propel1y.
7. The Honorable John O. Craig, III, Superior Court Judge presided over the
proceeding at which the paIiies agreed to resolve the Litigation.
8. The temlS of the agreement between the parties for resolution of the Litigation
were stated before Judge Craig in open co1ll1 on June 10,2004 and were also reduced to
writing on that date.
9. At the conclusion of the June 10,2004 hearing DefendaIlt declined to draft the
proposed Consent Judgment stating that he was involved in a major case that would
render him unavailable to address issues pertaining to the Consent Judgment until after
.Tune 21,2004.
10. Judge Craig instructed Mr. Dunn to prepare a draft of a consent judgment aIld
circulate it.
11. Judge Craig infonned the pm1ies and their counsel that he would be out of the
country from June 17 th through June 30 th
12. Mr. DUlm prepared a draft Consent Judgment and provided a copy to the
DefendaIlt on or about June 11, 2004.
13. On June 15,2004 Defendant wrote an unsolicited letter to Judge Craig with
copies to counsel for other parties.
14. Defendant enclosed with his June 15 th cOlTespondence to Judge Craig a
separate Consent Judgment drafted by him.

IS. Defendant's proposed Consent Judgment contained tenus not agreed to by the
parties in open cOUl1 on June 10,2004.
16. Within twenty-four (24) hours after mailing the June 15 th letter Defendant sent
the Court and all parties or their counsel a second letter dated June 16, 2004.
17. Defendant's June 16 th letter stated "[e]nclosed is a copy of a Consent
Judgment I am having my clients sign. Having not heard from you, I presume that as to
you [the Court] the enclosed [Consent Judgment] is satisfactory."
18. At the time Defendant sent his June 16th letter, Defendant was aware that
Judge Craig was scheduled to be out ofthe country for approximately fourteen (14) days
beginning June 17,2004.
19. As of the close of business on June 16 th , Judge Craig was unaware that
Defendant's June 15 th and June 16th letters had been sent.
20. On June 25, 2004, Mr. Dunn infol1ued Defendant that Defendm1t's proposed
Consent Judgment was unacceptable.
21. Defendant did not respond to Mr. Dunn's June 25 th correspondence about the
Consent Judgment.
22. On July I sr, Mr. Dunn sent to Defendant another proposed Consent Judgment
with additional revisions seeking Defendant's confilmation that the most recent version
of the proposed Judgment met with Defendant's approval.
23. Defendant did not respond to Mr. DUIU1's July I Sl correspondence.
24. On July 28, 2004, Mr. Dunn forwarded to Defendm1t a final version of the
Consent Judgment asking that it be signed by the parties by August 20, 2004.
25. On August IS, 2004, Defendm1t wrote a 13 page letter to Judge Craig asking
the Judge to reconsider any decision on his part to sign the proposed Consent Judgment
prepared by Mr. Dunn. In this letter Defendant also raised m1d reargued issues that had
previously been resolved when his clients gave their consent to the settlement, m1d
Defendant infol111ed Judge Craig that neither Defendant nor his clients would sign the
Consent Judgment proposed by Mr. DUlU1. Mr. Dunn was copied on this correspondence
to Judge Craig.
26. Defendant failed to file the proper motions as required under the N0l1h
Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure to make the requests contained in his August 15 th letter
to Judge Craig. Defendant's August 15 th letter was not sent for a proper purpose.
27. On September 6, 2004, Defendant wrote a 10 page Jetter jointly addressed to
Judge Craig and Judge Russell G. Walker, Jr. arguing the merits of his clients' claims,

requesting rulings on the melits and expressing the opinion lhat the matter could not be
settled without the inclusion of additional parties.
29. Defendant failed to properly raise with the Court the issues addresscd in his
September 6 th letter by failing to file the proper motions as required under the North
Carol ina Rules of Civil Procedure. A letter was not the proper method for Defendant to
use to make the requests contained in his September 6 th letter to the Court. Judge Craig
and the Court 0 l' Appeals found that the September 6th letter was not sent for a proper
pll11Jose.
30. At a September 16, 2004 hearing Defendant offered his consent to the terms of
lhe Consent Judgment by offering to sign the back and then later at the hearing withdrew
his offer lo sign the Consent Judgment. Defendant's clients and some of the parties not
represented by the Defendant ultimately withdrew their consent to the settlement and no
Consent Judgment was entered.
31. Defendant was monetatily sanctioned for his professional misconduct in the
Litigation.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All patiies are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee has
jurisdiction over Defendatlt and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Defendant's foregoing actions constitute gronnds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) inlhat he violated one or more ofthe Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as follows:
a. by sending the August 15 th letter to Judge Craig seeking to persuade the
Court not to sign the Consent Judgment and asking the Court to reopen issues
previously resolved by agreement of the parties, Defendant engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation ofRnle 8.4(d);
b. by sending the September 6 th letter to Judges Craig and Walker asking
the Court to reopen issues previously resolved by agreement of the pat·ties,
Defendat1t engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d);
c. by ref"using to sign the Consent Judgment prepared by Mr. Duml atld
instead arguing in favor of a Consent Judgment containing terms not agreed to by
the parties Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Committee makes by clear, cogent, atld convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by his substantial experience in the
practice of law.

2. Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
(a) absence of a prior disciplinary record;
(b) absence of a dishonest or selfish motive; and
(c) imposition of other penalties or sanctions.
3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
4. Defendant's conduct caused hanll to the administration ofjustice and violated
one or more Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
S. Based upon the mitigating factors, especially the fact that Defendant has
practiced for over 4S years without prior discipline, entry of an order imposing a censure

is not required to protect the public from future misconduct by Defendant. Therefore, the
Heming Pmlel finds and concludes that under the circumstmlces of this case the public
will be adequately protected by issuing a reprimand to Defendant.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, mld by consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters
the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Defendmt is hereby reprimanded for his professional misconduct.

2. Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary
and shall be paid within thirty (30) days of service upon the Defendant of the notice of
costs.
Signed by the undersigned Chair With~1ull k.nOw~.\nd consent ofthe other
day of
,2009.
members of the Heming Committee, this the

Heming Committee

~

NORMAN B. SMITH

Attomey· r Defendant

MAXBAL~~~~

