""",,".

IN THE GENERAL ·COURTS OF JUSTICE
" SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
10 CVS 4279

WAKE COUNTY·
NORTH CAROLINA

)
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PETITIONER,
v.

TRACY H. BARLEY,
RESPONDENT.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of Superior Court of Wake
County. Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian P.O. Oten.
Respondent, Tracy H. Barley, represented herself.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, Tracy H. Barley, and the consent ofthe parties, the Court makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
l. Respondent, Tracy H. Barley ("Barley"), was licensed to practice law in North
Carolina on August 20, 1993 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State ofNorth
Carolina.

2. During the periods relevant hereto, Barley was engaged in the practice oflaw
in Durham, North Carolina.
3. In December 2003, Barley conducted a re-financing transaction for a client
through which Barley received and deposited into her attorney trust account the sum of
$88,787.05 belonging to her client. Barley was instructed by her client to deliver these
funds to Chase Manhattan Mortgage Corporation in order to pay in full her client's
mortgage for her residence. Barley did not deliver the entrusted funds as directed by her
client
4. Barley never paid offher client's Chase Manhattan Mortgage, but instead paid
her client's monthly mortgage payment to Chase Manhattan from January 2004 to the
present.
5. From at least April 2003 through March 2006, Barley knowingly and
intentionally misappropriated funds entrusted to her in connection with at least seventeen

-..:-_<~.~.- - -

real estate transactions by not immediately disbursing Imin proceeds as instructed by her
clients. The delays in payment ranged from 7 days to over 2,450 days after the dates tr.e
loan proceeds were delivered and entrusted to her. Barley uti Iized funds held in trust ~br
some clients to cover funds that she had misappropriated from other clients. Barley
utilized entrusted funds for her own personal benefit or for the benefit ofthird parties
without authorization to do so from the beneficial owners of the funds.
6. Barley misappropriated entrusted funds totaling at least $53,275.44. Barley
never replenished these misappropriated funds.
7. Barley did not maintain adequate trust account records from the period of at
least January 2003 through the present, and Barley did not report the aforementioned
misappropriation as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties, the
Court makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. By misappropriating client funds from her trust account, Barley used entrusted
funds for her personal benefit or for the benefit of third parties not entitled to the funds in
violation of Rules 1.15-2(a) and Q) of the Rules of Professional Conduct, failed to report
her misappropriation of client funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(0) of the Rule:- of
Professional Conduct, failed to maintain adequate trust account records in violation of
Rules 1.l5-3(b) and (d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct, and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. Barley's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
3. The courts of this State have inherent authority to take disciplinary action
against attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
4. This Court has jurisdiction over the person of Tracy H. Barley and over the
subject matter ofthis proceeding.
5. Barley has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
I. Tracy H. Barley is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina.
2. Barley shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar

2

and shall surrender her license and permanent membershipcard to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124. Barley shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of the entry of this order to complete the requirements of §
.0124.
3. The costs of this action are taxed against Barley.

Dated this

19J~

day of October, 20 IO.

CO?/lbs

3

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF mSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO.: 10 CVS 004279

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner

v.

AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER OF
LAW LICENSE

TRACY H. BARLEY, Attorney,
Respondent

Tracy H. Barley, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
I.

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion
or duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.
3. In December 2003, I conducted a re-financing transaction for a client through
which I received and deposited into my attomey trust account the sum of$88,787.05
belonging to my client. I was instructed by my client to deliver these funds to Chase
Manhattan Mortgage Corporation in order to pay in full my client's mortgage for her
residence. I did not deliver the entrusted funds as directed by my client.
4. I never paid offmy client's Chase Manhattan Mortgage, but instead paid my
client's monthly mortgage payment to Chase Manhattan from January 2004 to the
present.
5. From at least April 2003 through March 2006, I knowingly and intentionally
misappropriated funds entrusted to me in connection with at least seventeen real estate
transactions by not immediately disbursing loan proceeds as instructed by my clients.
The delays in payment ranged from 7 days to over 2,450 days after the dates the loan
proceeds were delivered and entrusted to me. I utilized funds held in trust by me for
some clients to cover funds that I had misappropriated from other clients. I utilized
entrusted funds for my own personal benefit or for the benefit of third parties without
authorization to do so from the beneficial owners of the funds.
6. I misappropriated entrusted funds totaling at least $53,275.44. I never replenished
these misappropriated funds.
7. I did not maintain adequate trust account records from the period of at least
January 2003 through the present, and I did not report the aforementioned
misappropriation as required by the Rules ofProfessional Conduct.

8. 1 am aware that there is presently pending an investigation with the North
Carolina State Bar regarding my conduct as described above.
9. 1 aclmowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated
are true.
10. 1 am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend
against them.

r.

This the

1

day of

Mkl-u--;20]

Sworn to and subscribed before me.
this the --1!day of ~ ,2010.

Nitrodk0"-~
Not

Public

c~
Tracy H. Barley

fCW

My commission expires: \ D \

O.

2.../1 :,

\

2

,

