NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04 BCS 5

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to Section .0017 of Subchapter B of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar upon an affidavit of tender oflicense executed by Elizabeth High and
filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on 19 October 2004.
Based upon the affidavit oftender oflicense, the Council finds that Elizabeth High
misappropriated client funds from her trust account and used the misappropriated funds for her
own personal use. The Council further finds that the amount misappropriated has not been finally
detennined. The Council also finds that Elizabeth High has waived her rights to notice of this
hearing and the right to be heard before the Council. The Council concludes that the conduct of
Elizabeth High constitutes grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) in that
Elizabeth High violated Rules 1.15-2(a) and (m) and 8.4(a), (b), and (c) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and that the Council may enter an order of discipline accordingly.
WHEREFORE, upon motion duly made and seconded, the Council ofthe North Carolina
State Bar enters the following order:
I.	

The tender of surrender oflicense of Elizabeth High is hereby accepted.

2.	

Elizabeth High is hereby DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North Carolina.

3.	

Elizabeth High will comply with the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .0024 ofthe
Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar and will surrender her license
and permanent registration card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along
with the affidavit required by Subchapter B, Section .0024.

4.	

The costs ofthis action are taxed against Elizabeth High.

Done and Ordered, this the 22nd day of October, 2004.

NORTH CAROLINA	
WAKE COUNTY

<l"~1>:-Id?<9

...">-'
,;';)'

BEFORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
;;'
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BA

otlBGSS"

:;

.<:- O~,
A/<
V

AFFIDAVIT TENDERING THE SURRENDER OF THE LICENS . F
ELIZABETH HIGH	
. (~>

1(

<bQ...

0

~

~

<:,' ~
!YO () $;
.

.',

<l:'1:l

'~.JI. i!:, 1>'"" ; ~,,!, y.
~~~,,,'i'~,..tt:·~.··,

I, Elizabeth High, being first duly sworn, say:
1.	

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North

Carolina pursuant to the provisions of Section .0117 of Subchapter 1B of the

Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.


2.	

My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of

coercion or duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my

resignation.


3.	

I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding

allegations that I have been guilty of misconduct by misappropriating funds

entrusted to me by clients to my own use.


4.	

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation
predicated are true.


5.	

My resignation is being submitted because I know that if charges were

predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully

defend against them.


IS


Rcspectfully submitted, this the 18 th day of October, 2004.

t-----­

Elizabeth High

Sworn to and subscribed before me

This the 18th y of October, 2004.


Notary Public
My commission expires:

