Af'tf~lr16111P

t . 0."
J'..:!"~

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

I/~'-

(I

0?

~,

BEFORE THE

Dr fiWpP 'ARY HEARING COMMISSION
\~ FIt£"
~
OF THE
DD/ftljO"

.0)1

CAROLINA STATE BAR
'~13 DHC 28

J0$

\C
' ,( I' IE~'L~ ,

"1',
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.
SYBIL H. BARRETT, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DSICIPLINE

This matter was heard by a hearing panel ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Joshua W. Willey, Jr., Chair; Renny W. Deese and Bradley Lail. Based upon the
records of this case establishing the defendant's default, as entered by the Secretary on July 7,
2014, and the facts deemed ad:tpitted based upon the defendant's default, the panel finds the

following facts were established by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it
in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
The defendant, Sybil H. Ban'ett (hereinafter "Barrett"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on March 22, 2003 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney
at Law licensed to practice in NOlth Carolina, subject to the mles, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State ofNOlth
Carolina.
3.
16,2014.

Barrett was served with the Complaint in this matter by publication beginning May

4.

Barrett failed to file an answer or other responsive pleading.

5.

Barrett's default was entered on July 7, 2014.

6.
The order assigning the hearing panel and setting this matter for hearing on October
17, 2014 that was mailed to Banett by the Clerk was not returned to the Clerk as undeliverable.
7.

Barrett did not appear at the hearing either in person or through Counsel.

8.
During the relevant time that Banett was actively engaged in the practice oflaw in
the State of North Carolina, she maintained a law office in the city of Charlotte, Mecklenburg
County, North Carolina.
9.

During the time relevant to this Complaint, Barrett maintained a tJust account at

Bank of America with an account number ending in 1892 (hereinafter "trust account").
10. On September 24,2008, Barrell closed M. Ziaee's purchase of real property located
at 10914 Chrudan Drive in Charlotte, NC.
11. Barrett represented Ziaee in the tJ·ansaction. Banett had fiduciary duties to Ziaee's
lender and to the seller.
12. Ba11'ett had a duty to receive and disburse the funds for the closing in accordance
with the HUD-l Settlement Statement, arising from the attorney-client relationship with Ziaee
and from the fiduciary relationship with the lender and seller.
13. From the closing proceeds for the Ziaee transaction that Banett had on deposit in
her trust account as of September 25, 2008, Banett should have paid the 2008 property taxes on
the Chrudan Drive propeliy in the amount of$I,781.51 to the Mecklenburg County Tax
Collector as shown on lines 07 and 511 of the HUD-1 Barrett prepared for the closing.
14. Barrett failed to pay the 2008 property tax from the closing proceeds as she was
obligated to do.
15.
$1,597.78.

At the beginning ofthe day on March 27,2009, Barrett's trust account balance was

16. On March 27, 2009, after being contacted by M. Ziaee about the unpaid taxes,
Banett wrote trust account check number 1498 payable M. Ziaee for $1,846.86 which
constituted the tax owed plus the accumulated interest of $62,35. Banett should have had at
least $1,78 1.51 in her trust account for M. Ziaee on that date.
17. Prior to March 27, 2009, Banett had appropriated a portion of the funds she was
holding in a fiduciary capacity for M. Ziaee to her own use or to the use of someone other than
her client, M. Ziaee.
18. On March 27, 2009, Barrett deposited $2,000.00 of her own funds from a financial
management account she maintained at Citi Smith Barney, with an account number ending in
3591, into her trust account to cover check number 1498.

19. On January 27, 2009, Barrett closed The Blue Skies Trust's purchase of real
property located at 8315 Cricket Lake Drive in Charlotte, NC.
20.

Barrett represented the buyer in the Blue Skies Trust transaction. Barrett had

fiduciary duties to the buyer's lender and to the seller.
21. Banett had a duty to receive and disburse the funds for the closing in accordance
with the HUD-1 Settlement Statement, arising from the attorney-client relationship with Blue
Skies Trust and from the fiduciary relationship with the lender and seller.
22.

On January 27, 2009, Banettreceived a $130,892.28 wire transfer into her trust

account from The Blue Skies Trust's lender and deposited a check for $2,359.16 from The Blue
Skies Trust into the trust account. These funds constituted the closing proceeds for The Blue
Skies Trust's closing.
23. Prior to the deposit of The Blue Skies Trust's closing proceeds into her trust
account, the balance in the account was $614.08.
24.

From the closing proceeds received by Banett for this closing, Banett should have

paid the seller's 2008 property taxes in the amount of$I,675.19 to the Mecklenburg County Tax
Collector as shown on linel304 of the HUD-l Barrett prepared for the closing.
25.

Barrett failed to pay the seller's 2008 property tax from the closing proceeds as she

was obligated to do.
26.

On January 22, 2010, without having paid the seller's propeliy tax from The Blue

Skies Trust's closing, Barrett closed her trust account by taking the $605.97 balance as a debit.
27.

Barrett appropriated $1,675.19 of The Blue Skies Trust's closing proceeds that she

had received in a fiduciary capacity for the sole purpose of paying the seller's property taxes to
the Mecklenburg County Tax Collector to her own use or to the use of someone other than her
client, The Blue Skies Trust.
28.

During the time relevant to this Complaint, Barrett maintained an operating account

at Bank of America with an account number ending in 1902 (hereinafter, "operating account").
29. Between January 2, 2008 and December 2, 2009, Barrett made 125 intra-bank
transfers from her tJust account to her operating account without attributing the tJ'ansfers to any
client.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before this panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
and the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and this panel have jurisdiction over Barrett and the
subject matter.
2.

Barrett's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to

N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Barrett violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect at the time as follows:
(a)

by failing to pay the 2008 property taxes on the ChlUdan Drive property to the
Mecklenburg County Tax Collector as she was obligated to do, Barrett failed to
promptly payor deliver entlUsted property to a third person as directed by her
client in violation of Rule l.1S-2(m) and failed to act with reasonable diligence
and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

(b)

by appropriating a portion of the $1,781.S1 she should have held in a fiduciary
capacity for M. Ziaee to her own use or to the use of someone other than her
client, Barrett used entlUsted property to the benefit of herself or some person
other than the legal or beneficial owner in violation of Rule 1.IS-20); committed
a criminal act that reflects adversely on her honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a
lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(c)

by failing to promptly pay the seller's property taxes on the property purchased by
The Blue Skies TIUSt to the Mecklenburg County Tax Collector as she was
obligated to do, Ban'ett failed to promptly pay 01' deliver enl!llsted property to a
third person as directed by her client in violation of Rule 1.IS-2(m) and failed to
act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation
of Rule 1.3; and

(d)

by appropriating the $1,67S.19 she received in a fiduciary capacity that should
have been used to pay the seller's property taxes on the property purchased by The
Blue Skies TIUSt to the Mecklenburg Tax Collector to her own use or to the use of
someone other than her client, Barrett used entrusted propelty to the benefit of
herself or some person other than the legal or beneficial owner in violation of
Rule 1.IS-20); committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on her honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4( c).

(e)

by making intra-bank transfers from her trust account to her operating account
without attributing the transfers to any client, Banett had items drawn from her
trust account that didn't indicate on the item the client balance on which the item
was drawn in violation of Rule 1.15-2(h).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Banett knowingly took money entrusted to her by her clients that had been
entrusted to her for a particular purpose, the payment of taxes that were a lien on the property
being purchased by her clients.
2.
As a result of Barrett's failure to pay the taxes on the property her clients were
purchasing, Barrett caused significant harm and potential harm to;
a.
b.

her clients whose property was subject to sale for non-payment of the taxes;
the sellers of the property whose tax bills on the public record were shown as
being delinquent; and

c.

her clients' lenders whose security interest on the property was impaired by the
continuing existence of the tax liens.

3.

Barrett caused significant harm and potential harm to her other clients whose

funds were in jeopardy from Barrett's many unattributed transfers from her trust account to her
operating account and whose funds were used to reimburse her client Ziaee for the taxes she had
failed to pay from his closing; and
4.

Barrett caused significant harm and potential halm to the public and the legal

profession caused any time an attorney's significant dishonest conduct becomes a matter of
public record.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB

§.OI14(w) (1), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and finds
the following factors are applicable in this matter:
General Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI14(w) (3):

a.

Banett has had no prior disciplinary offense in this state;

b.

Banett had a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

Banett exhibited a pattern of misconduct;

d.

Banett committed multiple offenses;

Suspension and Disbarment Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. lB §.OI14(w) (I):

a.

Banett intended to commit acts where the resulting halm or potential harm
to her clients was foreseeable;

b.

The circumstances reflect Barrett's lack of honesty, trustworthiness and
integrity;

c.

Ban-ett elevated her own interest above the interests of her clients;

d.

Banetl's conduct had a negative impact on the public's perception of the
legal profession;

e.

Barrett impaired her clients' ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;

f.

Ban-etl's conduct adversely affected third parties; and

g.

Bal1'ett engaged in acts of dishonesty and deceit.

Disbarment Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI14(w) (2):

2.

a.

Barrett engaged in acts of dishonesty; and

b.

Barrett engaged in misappropriation of her clients' funds.

The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline

available to it. An admonition, reprimand, censure or suspension of Bal1'etl' s license would not
be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the actual harm Barrett's conduct caused to the
public and the legal profession, and because ofthe gravity of the significant potential harm to
potential clients, the public, and the legal profession if Barrett were permitted to continue
practicing law.

3.
The hearing panel finds that discipline short of disbarment would not adequately
protect the public or the legal profession for the following reasons:
a.

BmTett committed misdeeds involving violations of the public trust, including
misappropriation of clients' entrusted funds;

b.

Misconduct involving misappropriation is among the most serious that any
attomey can commit. Such offenses demonstrate that BaJTett is not
trustworthy. The public should be able to assume that all lawyers are
trustworthy; and

c.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge
the seriousness of the offenses Barrett committed and would send the wrong
message to attomeys and to the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this state.

4.
Protection of the public, the legal professional and the administration of justice
requires that Barrett not be permitted to resume the practice of law until she demonstrates the
following:
a.

That she has reformed;

b.

That she understands her obligations to her clients, the public, and the legal
profession; and

c.

That permitting her to practice law will not be detrimental to the public, or
the integrity and standing of the legal profession.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Sybil H. Barrett is hereby DISBARRED from the practice ofiaw, effective 30 days
from the date of service of this order upon her.

2.

BaJTeit shall surrender her law license and bar membership card within 30 days
after service of this order upon her.

3.

Barrett shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0124 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules as applicable.

4.

BmTett is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as assessed by
the Secretary which shall be paid within ninety (90) days of service of the notice of
costs upon her.

Signed by the undersigned Chair of the hearing panel with the full knowledge and
consent of the other panel members, this the

/7 !ctay of October 2014.

Ja ua W. Willey, Jr., Chair
DIsciplinary Hearing Panel

