~
Sfp 201.$/
STATE OF NORTH ,-,,'1,!'..\-'JJ!4""<",

FI£ .t~ '"'lei
t;;7/.,/I

4r!C

BEFORE THE

Dl~;cn~tn,A]~Y HEARn<G COMMISSION

OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BAR
13 DHC25

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

CONSENT ORDER
STAY OF SUSPENSION

v.
WILLIAM T. BATCHELOR,II, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ("DHC") composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, and members Beverly T.
Beal and Christopher R. Bruffey. Plaintiff was represented by G. Patrick Mnrphy.
Defendant, William T. Batchelor, II ("Batchelor"), appeared pro se. This matter is before
the DHC upon petition by Batchelor for a stay of the remainder of the suspension
imposed in the Order of Discipline in this casco Based on Batchelor's petition and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby fmds by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I,
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper patty to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on March 21,
1986, Batchelor's law license was suspended for three years by the Order of Discipline
entered in this matter, effective July 23, 2014,
3,
The Order of Discipline provided that after serving one year of the active
suspension, Batchelor could apply to have the remainder of the suspension stayed upon
filing a petition and showing compliance with the conditions stated in the Order of
Discipline,
4,
On July 24, 2015, Batchelor filed a petition requesting a stay of the
remaining pOltion of his active suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status
subject to the continuing conditions set forth in the Order of Discipline.

. f': Aib.vJ..IN""

~Apkl L-~",yo ~/~CAI~fJl'd4,~~:P'
I

5.
In his verified petition, Batchelor stated that he has satisfied all of the
conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.
6.
After conducting an investigation of the requirements set out in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0125(b) and the conditions of the Order of Discipline, Counsel for
the North Carolina State Bar did not find any grounds to object to the petition for stay of
the remaining part of the suspension.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties aTe properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Batchelor has satisfied the conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay
of his suspension and reinstatement to active status, subject to the continuing conditions
set forth in the Order of Discipline.
3.
Batchelor's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon
continued compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order of Discipline.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel enters the following;
ORDER
1.
The remainder of the suspension of Batchelor's law license is stayed and
Batchelor is reinstated to the active practice oflaw as of the date of this Order.
2.
The stay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions,
and requirements set forth in the Ordcr of Discipline, which is attached hereto and hereby
incorporated by reference.
3.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01 14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.

2

C'~igne~ b~e 9hairtth the consent of the other hearing panel members, this

the

7'

dayof~~~

2015.

~YJ~
Steven D. Michael, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY;

G?....JJW\~lc 9\1)\5
G. Patrick Murphy
Attorney for Plaintiff

t

William T. Batchelor
Defendant pro se

3

BEFORE TIlE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13DHC25

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

ADDENDUM TO
CONSENT ORDER
STAY OF SUSPENSION

Plaintiff

v.
WILLIAM T. BATCHELOR, II, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ("DHC") composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, and members Beverly T.
Bea! and Christopher R. Bruffey. The Hearing Panel has requested the following
information be provided as an Addendum to the Consent Order preViously submitted to
the Hearing Panei. Based on Batchelor's petition and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following as an
Addendum:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I. Defendant timely submitted his license and membership card to the NC State Bar,
provided to the Office of Counsel an address and telephone number at which
clients seeking return of files could communicate with Defendant, and paid the
costs and fees ofthe disciplinary proceeding.

2. The Certified'Public Accountant used by the Defendant in this matter was Randy
L. Albertson, CPA, PA. Mr. Albertson's address is 120 E. Main Street,
Beulaville, NC 28518.

3. Mr. Albertson completed an audit and submitted his report on the two trust
accounts in questions, BB&T Account 3231 and RBC Account 3840, within the
time allotted by the Order of Discipline ("Order"). Pursuant to the Order, the
audit was to be completed within 90 days of the effective date of the Order. The
effective date ofthe Order was July 23,2014; Mr. Albertson's report was
submitted to the North Carolina State Bar on September 22, 2014.
4. NC State Bar records show Defendant is current on his continuing legal education
("CLE") requirements for the last complete year as to hours needed on a yearly
basis for 2014.

1

5. On June 9, 2015, Defendant completed 12 hours of additional CLE on the topics
oflaw office management andlor trust account management and submitted notice
of completion of the required additional 12 hours of CLE to the North Carolina
State Bar within 10 days of their completion.
6. Defendant's physical address for his business when he resumes practice will be
107 Castle Street, Wilmington, NC 28401.

7. The parties have reviewed these additional findings of fact and consent to them
being attached to and incorporated in the consent order of stayed suspension
previously submitted to the Hearing Panel.
Based upon the foregoing, with the additional Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel
makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Batchelor has satisfied the conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay
of his suspension and reinstatement to active status, subject to the continuing conditions
set forth in the Order of Discipline.
3.
Batchelor's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon
continued compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order of Discipline.
4.
This Addendum is incorporated into the consent order of stayed
suspension previously submitted to the Hearing Panel.

sle~ the ~nsent of the other hearing panel members, this the

7/ttayof

.

2015.

~ 5,i;~--k
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

.~

---1

2

