BEFORE THE
lNARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13 DHC25

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
WILLIAM T. BATCHELOR, II, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was heard on May 9, 2014 before a Hearing Panel ofthe Disciplinary
Hearing Commission ("DHC") composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, and members
Beverly T. Beal and Scott A. Sutton. Plaintiff was represented by G. Patrick Murphy.
Defendant, William T. Batchelor, II ("Batchelor" or "Defendant"), was represented at the
hearing by Terry Richard Kane.
Prior to the hearing, the Hearing Panel granted summary judgment in favor of the
State Bar concluding as a matter oflaw that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct as alleged in paragraphs a) through g), and i) andj) of the State Bar's
Complaint. Based on the Hearing Panel's summary judgmeut order, the sole issue
remaining for determination of what, ifany, discipline is appropriate for the established
rule violations came on for hearing.
Based on the Complaint, the Answer, the Order of Summary Judgment, the
Stipulations of the parties, and the exhibits and evidence admitted during the hearing,
there is no material dispute concerning the following facts:
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, William T. Batchelor, II, was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar on March 21, 1986, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulatious ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.

3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Batchelor was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Wilmington, New Hanover County, North Carolina.
5.
Between January I, 2007 and June 30, 2010, Defendant had two trust
accounts associated with his law practice: an account with Branch Banking & Trust
Bank, account number ending in the digits 3231 ("TA 3231"), and an account with RBC
Bank, account number ending in the digits 3840 (HTA 3840").
6.
Before August 2009, Defendant maintained BB&T TA 3231. Defendant
opened RBC TA 3840 in August 2009 but did not close BB&TTA 3231. Defendant
took $1,000.00 from BB&T TA 3231 and transferred that amount to open RBC TA 3840.
Defendant did not identify the owner(s) of the $1,000.00 he moved from BB&T TA 3231
to RBC TA 3840.
7.
Deposit slips for RBC TA 3840 show that Defendant failed to always
identify the source and the name of the client or other person to whom the funds belonged
for cash deposits to RBC TA 3840.
8.
During the period January 1,2007 and June 30, 2010, it was Defendant's
practice to collect a flat expense charge from clients to cover his costs for mail, postage,
paper and printer cartridges ("expense charge"). The expense charge collected to cover
these costs was either $16.00 or $25.00, depending on the case, and the money collected
from the client was deposited into the trust account Defendant was using at the time.
9.
The flat expense charge referenced in paragraph 8 was collected from
clients ilTespective of the actual cost Defendant incurred handling an individual client's
case.
10.
Between January 1, 2007 and August 31, 2009, Defendant used BB&TTA
3231 checks to disburse funds to suppliers for office supplies, expenses and equipment.
These checks were WTitten directly to the suppliers and not to Defendant.
11.
Between August 1, 2009 and June 30, 2010, Defendant used a trust
account check card to disburse funds from RBC TA 3840 to suppliers of office supplies
and equipment. These check card disbursements were made directly to the suppliers.
12.
When Defendant disbursed trust account funds by check or check card to
vendors for office supplies, expenses or equipment, he arbitrarily apportioned the costs
amongst clients with expense charge balances in his trust account as shown on client
cards.
13.
Defendant did not always indicate on checks drawn on BB&T TA 3231
and made payable directly to suppliers the client funds against which they were drawn.

-2-

14.
Between January I, 2007 and June 30,2010, Defendant failed to properly
conduct monthly reconciliations of the balance of BB&T T A 3231 as shown on his
records with the current bank statement balance for BB&T TA 3231 as required by the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
15.
Between January I, 2007 and June 30, 2010, Defendant failed to properly
conduct quarterly reconciliations of the individual client balances shown on the ledger for
BB&T T A 3231 with the current bank statement balance for BB&T TA 3231 as required
by the Rules of Professional Conduct.
16.
Between August 1,2009 and June 30, 2010, Defendant failed to properly
conduct monthly reconciliations of the balance ofRBC TA 3840 as shown on his records
with the current bank statement balance for RBC TA 3840 as required by the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
17.
Between August 1, 2009 and June 30,2010, Defendant failed to properly
conduct quarterly reconciliations of the individual client balances shown on the ledger for
RBC TA 3840 with the current bank statement balance for RBC TA 3840 as required by
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
In accordance with the Order of Summary Judgment, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By opening RBC TA 3840 in August 2009 with the transfer of $1 ,000.00
from BB&T TA 3231 without identifying the cIient(s) for whom the
entrusted funds were being held, Defendant failed to properly identify
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.I5-2(a) and Rule 1.15-3(b)(1);
b. By failing to list on deposit slips the source and the name of the client or
other person to whom the funds belonged, Defendant failed to properly
identify entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and Rule 1.153(b)(l);
c. By charging clients a flat expense charge of either $16.00 or $25.00
irrespective of the actual cost Defendant incurred in handling an individual
client's case, Defendant charged and collected a clearly excessive amount
for expenses in violation of Rule 1.5(a);
d. By paying vendors directly for expenses and equipment with trust acconnt
checks and trust account check cards, Defendant failed to make items

-3-

drawn on his trust accounts for payment of expenses payable to himself in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(h);
e. By failing to conduct monthly reconciliations of the balance of his trust
accounts as shown on his records with the monthly bank statement balance
for his trust accounts, Defendant violated Rule 1.15-3(d)(2);
f. By failing to reconcile the individual client balances shown on the ledgers
of Defendant's general trust accounts with the current bank statements for
Defendant's trust accounts on a quarterly basis, Defendant failed to
conduct requisite reconciliations of his trust accounts in violation of Rule
1.15-3(d)(l);
g. By drawing checks on his trust account without always identifying on the
checks the client balance against which the item was drawn, Defendant
violated Rule l.lS-3(b)(2); and
h. By collecting a standard expense charge from clients and depositing those
funds in his trust account, Defendant failed to hold and maintain entrusted
property separate from the property of Defendant in violation of Rule
1.15-2(a) and Rule 1.15-2(f).
Based upon the foregoing undisputed material facts and Conclusions of Law, the
Stipulations of the parties, and the exhibits and evidence admitted during the hearing, the
Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant was licensed to practice law in North Carolina on March 21,
1986, and since that time has been engaged in private practice.
2.
Defendant's mismanagement of his trust account resulted in numerous
violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
Defendant's failure to comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct
when handling entrusted funds has the potential to cause significant harm to clients of
Defendant and to the public's perception of the legal profession.
4.
Defendant presented character letters from colleagues in the practice of
law and clients attesting to his good character.
5.
Defendant has prior discipline from the Grievance Committee and
Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the North Carolina State Bar, and discipline and
sanctions from the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of North
Carolina as follows:
a. Reprimand by the DHC in 90 DRC 13;
b. Reprimand by the Grievance Committee in 07G0198;

-4-

c. Order to return fees and suspension from filing petitions in Bankruptcy
Court for approximately one month in In re: Daniels, 09-02547-8 (March
12,2010); and
d. Reprimand and monetary sanction in In re: Amra, 0-04882-8 (November
5,2010).
6.
A cornerstone of client trust in an attorney is that the attorney will
properly protect and maintain entrusted funds. Failure to do so erodes the confidence
clients place in attorneys who handle their affairs and harms the profession as a whole.
7.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbannent, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the undisputed material facts and Conclusions of Law above and the
additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS WITH RESPECT TO DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(l) of the Rules and Regolations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors are present which warrant
suspension of Defendant's license:

a. Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential hann is
foreseeable, to wit: failing to comply with trust account rules to ensure
proper maintenance of and accounting for entrusted funds;
b. Elevation of Defendant's own interest above that ofhls clients; and
c. Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the client's or public's
perception of the legal profession.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. lB §.0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. Prior disciplinary offenses in this state and the United States Bankruptcy
Court;
b. Pattern of misconduct;

-5-

c. Multiple offenses;
d. Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Committee and Defendant's
cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
e. Defendant's good character and reputation with lawyers in his community
and with clients as presented in letters written on his behalf; and
f. Substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
4.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage and handle entrusted
funds betrays a vital trust that clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal
profession.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential significant harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes
that such discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed
by Defendant and would send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
suspension is appropriate under the facts and circumstances of this case to address the
potential for significant harm to Defendant's clients, and for the protection of
Defendant's clients and the public.

7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline less than a suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is
hereby suspended for three (3) years.

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
ofthe State Bar within 30 days ofthe effective date of this order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§ .0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide
the State Bar Office of Counsel with an address and telephone number at which clients
seeking return of files can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and

-6-

Defendant shall promptly provide client files to all clients who request return of their
files.
5.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and fees.
Defendant shall pay the amount assessed within thirty days of service of the statement of
costs and fees upon him.
6.
One year after the effective date of this Order, Defendant may seek a stay
of the remaining period of suspension by filing a motion seeking a stay and
demonstrating by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Defendant has met all
requirements for reinstatement set out in 27 N.C.A.C 1B § .0125, and has complied with
paragraphs 2-5 of this section of tile Order of Discipline and with the following
conditions:
a. That Defendant, at his sole expense, shall retain a certified public
accountant ("CPA"), approved in advance by the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar, who shall audit BB&T TA 3231 and RBC TA 3840
(collectively "trust accounts"} from the to present back to the date
necessary to identify the c1ient(s) to whom the funds in his trust accounts
belong. Upon completion of the audit, the CPA shall provide the State
Bar with a written final audit report. Defendant shall cooperate with the
CPA by producing all trust account records, bank account records, or any
other financial record related to any client requested by the State Bar or
the CPA to ensure the audit is completed in a timely fashion but in any
event the audit shall be completed and the CPA's written final audit report
shall be delivered to the State Bar's Office of Counsel within 90 days of
the effective date of this Order. Defendant shall be solely responsible for
payment of all fees and costs related to the preparation and submission of
such audits and reports. It is Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the
CPA completes and submits the report as required herein;
b. That, upon completion of the CPA's audit, submission ofthe audit report
to the Office of Counsel, and the Office of Counsel's determination that
the owners of funds have been identified and Defendant's trust accounts
are in compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct, Defendant
disbursed all identified client funds in his trust accounts to the rightful
owner(s) consistent with the Rules of Professional Conduct;
c. That Defendant complied with Rule U5-2(g) regarding all unidentified
funds existing in his trust accounts and complied with Chapter 116B of the
General Statutes within forty-five (45) days of being statutorily permitted
to escheat funds to the State;
d. That, within the first year ofthis suspension, Defendant complete twelve
hours of continuing legal education in the area ofIaw office management
and/or trust account management from any provider ofCLE approved by
-7-

the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel and that Defendant
provided written proof of successful completion of the CLE courses to the
State Bar within 10 days of completing the courses. These twelve hours
are in addition to the continuing legal education requirements set out in 27
N.C.A.C. ID § .1518;
e. That Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current physical home address;
f. That Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in
the communication;
g. That Defendant paid all outstanding membership fees, Client Security
Fund assessments and fees or costs assessed by the DHC or the North
Carolina State Bar, and, at the time of his motion to stay, there is no deficit
in Defendant's completion oftnandatory Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) hours, in reporting such hours or in payment of any fees associated
with attendance at CLE programs; and
h.

That during the term of suspension Defendant did not violate the Rules of
Professional Conduct or the laws of the United States or any state.

7.
If Defendant complies with the above conditions and is granted a stay of
his suspension, the stay will remain in effect only if Defendant complies, and continues to
comply, with the following conditions:
a. Defendant shall, at his own expense, retain a CPA to audit Defendant's
trust account(s) on a quarterly basis to ensure Defendant's continued
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct. This audit shall
assess whether Defendant has in his trust accounts the client funds he
should be maintairung for his clients at that time and whether Defendant is
in compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The CPA must report
quarterly to the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar
concerning the compliance of Defendant's account(s) with the Rules of
Professional Conduct, including but not limited to any accounting
irregularities and any deviance from the requirements of the Rules of
Professional Conduct, with. a copy of the report sent simultaneously to
Defendant. The CPA's reports are due no later than 30 days after the end
of each quarter (first quarter's report due April 30, second quarter's report
due July 30, third quarter's report due October 30, and fourth quarter's
report due January 30). Defendant shall be solely responsible for payment
of all fees and costs related to the preparation and submission of such
audits and reports. It is Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA
completes and submits the reports as required herein;

-8-

b. Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State
Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook for all trust accounts maintained
by him. Defendant shall provide the three-way reconciliation report, client
ledgers for all clients with funds in the trust account(s) during that month,
ledger for any persdnal funds maintained in the trust account(s) for bank
or credit card fees, his trust account ledger, and the bank staterrients,
cancelled checks, and deposit slips for each month. These documents
shall be provided to the Office of Counsel by the 15'h of the following
month - for example, the three-way reconciliation for the month of
January is due on February 15;
c. If either the monthly three-way reconciliation or the CPA's audit or report
reveals any irregularities or deficiencies from Defendant's obligations
under Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3, Defendant shall take remedial action
necessary to bring the trust account into compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct within 10 days of the date ofthe three-way
reconciliation report or the CPA audit or report and shall provide proof of
the remedial action and compliance to the Office of Counsel within 5 days
of the date of the remedial action;
d. Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel of
the North Carolina State Bar to provide any information regarding his
handling of entrusted funds and shall sign and provide any release or
authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to obtain information directly
from any bank in which Defendant maintained or maintains entrusted
funds, by the deadline stated in the request;
e. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current physical business address (not a Post
Office box), telephone number, and email address and shall notifY the
North Carolina State Bar of any changes in address within ten (10) days of
such change;

f.

Defendant shall accept all certified and regular mail ii-om the North
Carolina State Bar sent to the address on record with the Membership
Department of the North Carolina State Bar;

g. Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated
therein with full and complete responses and all requested documentation;
h. Defendant will timely comply with the North Carolina State Bar CLE
requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;

-9-

i. Defendant will pay all membership, Client Security Fund, and any other
related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable deadline;
j.

Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions of
the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period ofthe stay; and

k.

Defendant shall comply with such other and further requirements as may
be imposed by any hearing panel that may grant Ii stay of Defendant's
suspension.

If during the stay of the suspension authorized by this Order Defendant
8.
fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the
suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .01l4(x) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, and the DHC may enter an order
imposing such conditions as it deems proper for the reinstatement of Defendant's license
at the end of the suspension.
9.
If Defendant does not obtain a stay of the suspension imposed by this
Order, to be reinstated at the end of the 3 year term of suspension Defendant must
demonstrate by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Defendant has met all
requirements for reinstatement set out in 27 N.C.A.C IB § .0125, and has complied with
all provisions of paragraphs 6 a. through h. of this Order of Discipline.
10.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

SigneqJn the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

2).~ayof d~

2014.

5L-Y~

- - - Steven D. Michael, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

