THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
HOLLY C. STEVENS, PAULINE E.
MAKIA, CARMEN J. BATTLE, and
JAMIE FAYE NEWSOM, Attorneys,

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE
AS TO
CARMEN J. BATTLE

Defendant
This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, and members Harriett Smalls and
Joe Castro, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .01 14(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant,
Cannen J. Battle ("Battle"), was represented by Anthony E. Flanagan. Both Plaintiff and
Defendant Battle stipulate and agree to the findings offact and conclusions ofIaw recited
in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Battle has freely and voluntarily
stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the conclusions ofIaw and
entry ofthe order of discipline. Battle freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the entry ofthis consent order of discipline.
This order pertains only to the claims concerning Defendant Carmen J. Battle and
resolves only those claims. The tenn "parties" in this order refers to the State Bar as
Plaintiff and Cannen J. Battle as Defendant.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations offact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper patty to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNorth Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant Cannen J. Battle ("Battle") was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1995, atld is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State ofNorth Carolina,

the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
3.
During all or part ofthe relevant periods referred to herein, Battle was
engaged in the practice of law in Fayetteville, Cumberland County, North Carolina.
4.
Battle was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set,
and the matter came before the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
5.
law practice.

In about January 2006, Battle was considering purchasing Holly Stevens'

6.
Holly Stevens ("Stevens") was associated with Maurice Jenkins
("Jenkins"), who purported to be a real estate investor. Stevens frequently closed real
estate transactions involving Jenkins and participated in purchasing and selling real
property with Jenkins. Unbeknownst to Battle, Jenkins and Stevens engaged in
fi'audulent practices in these real estate transactions.
7.
To show her interest in the purchase, Battle covered Stevens' cases and
opened a trust account and an operating account for use in conducting real estate
closings. In January 2006, Battle also provided her signature to Stevens' staff so the staff
could order a signature stamp for use in real estate closings.
8.
On February I, 2006, Stevens and Battle were scheduled to sign the
agreement for Battle to purchase Stevens' practice but did not do so. Negotiations
continued for about a month afterwards but ultimately failed. By the end of May 2006
Battle had begun other employment in Raleigh and another attorney had purchased
Stevens' law practice.
9.
Between about February 2006 through about May 2006, Battle's trust
account and operating account and Battle's signature stamp were used by the nonattorney assistants in Stevens' office to close real estate transactions under Battle's name,
including those listed in Exhibit C to the complaint. The transactions listed in Exhibit C
provide examples ofthe conduct described herein and are not an exclusive list of
transactions in which this conduct occurred.
10.
In these transactions, Battle did not supervise the non-attorney assistants
in Stevens' office and did not supervise these real estate transactions in any way.
II.
Battle failed to reconcile the trust account to which she had given
Stevens' staff access. Battle also failed to ensure the entrusted funds from the lenders in
the real estate transactions closed under her name were properly disbursed.
12.
Battle's failure to supervise the staffand these closings enabled the staff to
continue to assist Jenkins in his fraudulent practices, which included fraudulent flip
transactions, disguising purchases as refinances, redirecting funds intended to pay prior
mOligages to disbursements for Jenkins' benefit, and funds not collected fi'om borrowers
at closing which had been shown as paid on the HUD-I Settlement Statements.
2

13.
In the course of the closings identified in Exhibit C to the complaint, the
non-attomey assistants prepared inaccurate HUD-I Settlement Statements. They also
prepared inaccurate preliminary opinions of title which gave false infonnation about the
record owner ofthe property. Battle, tlu'ough her lack of participation in these closings,
failed to ensure accurate HUD-I Settlement Statements and preliminary opinions of title
were prepared and submitted.
14.
Battle, through her lack of participation in these closings, also failed to
ensure compliance with lenders' closing instructions in these transactions done in her
name.
Based upon the consent ofthe parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions Of Law
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Battle and the subject matter of this proceeding.
')
Battle's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a) By failing to receive and disburse funds as represented on the HUD-I
Settlement Statements, Battle failed to appropriately maintain and disburse
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (m); and
b) By providing non-attorney assistants access to her trust account and her
signature stamp for use in real estate transactions, failing to reconcile the
trust account, and failing to participate in or supervise the real estate
transactions, Battle failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing
clients in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to reconcile her trust account
quarterly in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d) (1 ), and failed to make reasonable
efforts to ensure that the non-att01l1ey assistants' conduct was compatible
with her professional obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(b).
Upon the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings Of Fact Regarding Discipline
I.
The practice 0f law is restricted to att01l1eys because the advanced legal
education and training received by attomeys is necessary to effectively identify
applicable legal requirements and obligations, to identitY legal issues, and to apply the
law to each client's individual circumstance.
2.
For an att01l1ey to be able to supervise a non-attorney assistant's work, the
attorney must fu'st Imow the applicable legal authorities and requirements applicable to
the work being done. An attorney must also be present and aware ofthe activities of the
non-attorney assistants.

3

3.
Attorneys hold positions oftrus!. Attorneys must guard the use of their
names and law licenses. Battle failed to do so. Providing Stevens' staff with a signature
stamp of her name along with access to her trust account and operating account without
supervision created the opportunity for Stevens' staff to misuse her law license and her
trust account as they did.
4.
Battle intended that her signature stamp and trust account would be used
for real estate transactions and was aware oftheir use in certain real estate transactions by
Stevens' staff. Although Battle was not aware that the staff was using her name and trust
account for the closings listed in Exhibit C to the complaint in this matter, she enabled
the staff to engage in misconduct in these closings through her lack of supervision over
both the staff and her trust account.
5.
Banks are not nonnally thought of as vulnerable entities. Nevertheless,
banks rely upon the closing attorney to carry out the closing in an ethical, lawful, and
proper manner. These institutions are particularly vulnerable to conduct of attorneys that
circumvents or facilitates others in the circumvention of safeguards employed to avoid
fi·aud.
6.
Accurate HUD-I Settlement Statements are necessary for the system of
[mance in real estate to function. Lenders rely upon the HUD-I Settlement Statements to
accurately reflect the receipt and disbursement offunds in real estate closings. Lenders
rely on the entries in line 303 of the HUD-I Settlement Statements showing payment by
the buyers/borrowers at closing to show the buyerslborrowers contributed their own
money to the transaction. Lenders rely upon such personal contribution by the
buyers/borrowers to reduce the risk of default on the loan by the buyerslborrowers.
7.
Lenders provided closing instructions, compliance with which were a
prerequisite to the lender making the loan to the borrower. Failure to comply with the
closing instructions circumvented the lenders' attempt to ensure the loans at issue were
ones it was willing to make. Additionally, the inaccurate preliminary opinions of title
Battle's office provided to the title insurance companies in the fraudulent flip transactions
resulted in false infonnation on the title commitments that hid the frrst part of the
transactions from the lenders.
8.

Battle has no prior disciplinary record concerning her license to practice

law.
9.
When Battle frrst began talking with Stevens about purchasing Stevens'
law practice, Battle had only recently finished intense treatment and surgery for breast
cancer. During the time period at issue, Battle was still in recovery from this treatment.
Battle was anxious about recurrence of the breast cancer. The recent bout with cancer
and her anxiety about recurrence of the cancer weighed on her and distracted her from
paying the attention she otherwise would have paid to events at Stevens' law finn.
10.
At the time of the closings at issue in tlns matter, Battle was only in
Fayetteville for a limited amount oftime each day. She spent little time at the law office.

4

She was unaware that the non-attorney assistants were using her trust account, operating
acco unt, and signature stan1p for the closings identified in Exhibit C.
II.

Battle has expressed remorse for her conduct.

12.
Battle did not engage in the conduct described in the Findings of Fact
above with any dishonest or selfish motive.
13.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonus of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different fonus of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14(w)(I) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
a) Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception ofthe legal profession; and
b) Defendant's actions impaired her clients' ability to achieve the goals of
the representation.
')
The Hearing Panel has considered all 0 fthe factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
b) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
c) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
d) Defendant engaged in a pattem of misconduct;
e) Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
5

f)

Defendant's remorse; and

g) The vulnerability of Defendant's clients.
4.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity ofthe potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members ofthe Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Battle complies with necessary conditions to
avoid significant harm or the potential tor significant haTIn to clients.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Battle's law license would not be appropriate.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the [mdings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent ofthe parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order Of Discipline
1.
Detimdant, Cannen 1. Battle, is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw
for tive years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Battle.
2.
The five-year suspension is stayed for a period of five years as long as
Battle complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following
conditions:
a. Does not engage in the practice of real property law, as defined in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .2102.
b. Annually submits a certification of the areas oflaw in which she
practiced for the preceding 12 months. Said certifications are due no
later than December 31 of each year ofthe stay;
c. Each year of the stay, completes 12 hours of continuing legal
education in addition to the hours required under 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter j, Subchapter D, Section .1518. These 12 hours shall
consist of substantive education courses in the areas oflaw in which
Battle is then currently practicing or involved as a hearing officer,
including any courses in administrative law, employment law,
6

evidence, or ethics in litigation. These additional hours must be
completed within the applicable time period for completing the
continuing legal education hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .1518 each year ofthe stay and must
be reported on the annual CLE repmi fonns;
d. Each year of the stay, completes a continuing legal education course
focusing on managing a law office and/or supervising non-legal
assistants. Tins course may be taken as part ofthe continuing legal
education hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter D, Section .1518. This course must be completed within
the applicable time period for completing the continuing legal
education hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter D, Section .1518 each year of the stay and must be
reported on the a1111ual CLE report fonns;
e. Within the 12 months immediately preceding expiration of the stay
period, completes 6 hours of continuing legal education in real
propeliy law. These hours must be focused on general real propeliy
law or residential real property law, as defined in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .2102. These hours may be
taken as pati ofthe continuing legal education hours required under
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .1518. These
hours must be completed within the applicable time period for
completing the continuing legal education hours required under
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .1518 and
must be reported on the applicable a1111ual CLE report fom1.
f.

Timely submits her arumal CLE report fonn to the CLE department of
the Nmih Carolina State Bar each year ofthe stay and
contemporaneously sends a copy of the CLE report form to the Office
of Counsel of the State Bar to document complimce with the above
conditions of the stay. "Timely" mems by the date specified by the
CLE department as the date by which members must submit their
annual report fonns to avoid assessment ofa $75.00 late filing penalty.
Battle must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a copy of her arumal
CLE report fonn no later than 15 days after it is due to the CLE
department ofthe State Bar each year;

g. Pays all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments md
complies with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a
timely basis;
h. If engaged in the representation of any clients during the stay, arrmges
for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar who is in good
standing who practices law in the county in which Battle primarily
practices and who has been approved by the North Carolina State Bar
to serve as her practice monitor. The selected monitor must agree to
7

so serve and agree to meet with Battle monthly to review Battle's
cases. Each month, the monitor must go over at least one case in detail
in each area oflaw in which Battle is practicing, with discussion
including but not limited to identification of applicable statutory and
regulatory authorities, identification of potential legal issues, and plan
of representation. Battle shall come prepared each month to discuss
these topics in her cases with her practice monitor. The monitor must
submit written quarterly reports of these meetings and discussions to
the Office of Counsel of the State Bar, such reports due on the
following dates as they occur dming the stay of this suspension:
January IS, April 15, July 15, and October 15. This monitoring must
occur for the duration ofthe stay of this suspension. Battle wi11 pay
the cost, if any, charged by the monitor. Battle must have made the
alTangements for this monitoring attorney and supplied the Office of
Counsel of the State Bar with a letter from the monitoring attorney
confinning his or her agreement to perfonn the duties listed above no
later than ninety (90) days from service of this Order;
I.

If engaged in the representation of any clients during the stay, meets
once a month with her practice monitor, to whom she wi1l report the
status of all cmTent client matters, cooperates with the monitor
attomey, and provides any infonnation the monitor attorney deems
reasonably necessary. Battle shaH be prepared to discuss
identification of applicable statutory and regulatory authorities,
identification of potential legal issues, and plan of representation for
each client matter;

J.

If engaged in the representation of any clients during the stay, ensures
the monitoring attorney sends a written report each quarter to the
Office of Counsel ofthe State Bar as described above;

k. If engaged in the representation of any clients during the stay,
cooperates with the Office of Counsel and makes appropriate
alTangements for an altemate monitoring attomey if needed during the
stay ofthis suspension;

1.

Keeps her address ofrecord with the North Carolina State Bar current,
accepts all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, alld
responds to allletters of notice and requests for infonnation from the
North Cal'olina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the
communication;

m. Does not violate any of the Rules ofProtessional Conduct in effect
during the period ofthe stay;
n. Does not violate ally laws ofthe State ofNorth Carolina or of the
United States dming the period of the stay; and

8

o. Pays all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary,
including the costs allowed by statute for the taking of her deposition,
within thirty (30) days after service ofthe notice of costs on her.
3.
lfthe stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the following conditions are placed upon Battle's reinstatement to active
status. With any petition Battle files for reinstatement to active practice, Battle must
demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that she complied with each of the
following conditions:
a. Submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days fi'om the effective date
ofthe order activating her suspension;
b. Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0124 ofthe N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules on a timely basis;
c. Within the 12 months iImnediately preceding her application for
reinstatement, completed 6 hours of continuing legal education in real
property law. These hours must be focused on general real property
law or residential real property law, as defined in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter D, Section .2102;
d. Not have violated any of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
e. Not have violated any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States;

f

Paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within
thirty (30) days of service of the notice of costs upon her;

4.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofthis
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel chair with the consent of the other
Hearing Panel members.
This theif( day of

mcrT: /'1

2011.

9

Consent Order of Discipline concerning Cannen Battle
10 DHC 27
Agreed and consented to by:

"z·,·

J~ifer

A. Porter
Plaintiff

~ttorney for

10

