BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

RICHARD E. BATTS, Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Beverly T. Beal, Chair, and members, Shannon R. Joseph and Michael S. Edwards,
pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, ยง .0115(i).
Plaintiff was represented by Alex G. Nicely. Defendant, Richard E. Batts, appeared pro se.
Defendant waives a fOlmal hearing in this matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings
of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order, and consent to the discipline imposed by this
order. By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant knowingly, freely, and voluntarily
waives his right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the
findings and conclusions herein.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, facts developed
during the pending litigation, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters
the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Richard E. Batts (hereafter "Defendant" or "Batts"), was admitted to the
NOlih Carolina State Bar on March 28, 1981 and is an attomey at law licensed to practice in
North Carolina; subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State ofNOlih Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period refelTed to herein, Batts was actively engaged in the
practice of law in Edgecombe and Nash Counties, NOlih Carolina.
4.

Batts was properly served with the summons and complaint in this matter.

5.
In or about October 2013, Sandra Knight ("Knight") retained Defendant to
represent her in a personal injury matter.

Page 1 of7

6.
On or about October 9, 2014, Defendant filed a lawsuit on Knight's behalf in
Sandra Murphy Knight v. The Pantry, Inc., d/b/a Kangaroo Express in Edgecombe County, File
Number 14-CVS-831 (hereinafter "the civil action").
7.
Attorney J.J. (hereinafter "opposing counsel") represented The Pantry, Inc.
(hereinafter "Pantry"), the opposing party in the civil action.
8.
On or about October 30,2014, opposing counsel served Defendant with Pantry's
First Set ofInterrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents (hereinafter "Pantry's
initial discovery requests").
9.

Defendant failed to provide a timely response to Pantry's initial discovery requests.

10. On or about November 5, 2014, the Court ordered that the civil action be refelTed to
a mediated settlement conference and finiher ordered that the mediated settlement conference be
completed before April 6, 2015.
11. The Civil Superior Court Rules for Wilson, Nash, and Edgecombe Counties
mandate that the parties and attorneys in a civil action attend a mediated settlement conference. 7
Jud. Dist. Super Civil Calendar Rule 4.5.
12. The Civil Superior Court Rules for Wilson, Nash, and Edgecombe Counties
mandate that the parties in a civil action designate a mediator to conduct the mediated settlement
conference. 7 Jud. Dist. Super Civil Calendar Rule 4.3
13. By cOlTespondence dated December 2,2014, opposing counsel attempted to
communicate with Defendant concerning the selection and appointment of a mediator in the civil
action.
14. Defendant did not timely respond to opposing counsel's December 2,2014
correspondence and did not timely communicate with opposing counsel regarding the selection
and appointment of a mediator in the civil action.
15. In a letter dated December 22,2014, opposing counsel asked Defendant to provide
the overdue responses to Pantry's initial discovery requests.
16. Defendant failed to timely respond to opposing counsel's December 22, 2014 letter
regarding Pantry's initial discovery requests.
17. On January 13, 2015, opposing counsel filed a Motion to Compel responses to
Pantry's initial discovery requests.
18. On or about January 20,2015, the Court appointed M.E. (hereinafter "the
mediator") to serve as mediator in the civil action.
19. In an effOli to schedule a mediation date for the civil action, the mediator attempted
to contact the Defendant, both by telephone and by email.

NCSB v. Batts, 18 DHC 35
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 2 of7

20. Defendant failed to timely respond to the mediator's effOlis to communicate with
him and otherwise failed to participate in the initial mediation scheduling process.
21. On March 23,2015, the mediator moved for an extension of time within which to
complete the mediated settlement conference.
22. In the mediator's March 23,2015 motion, the mediator indicated: "I have
telephoned and emailed [Defendant] with available mediation dates, but have had no contact
from [Defendant]."
23. On March 24,2015, the Comi signed an Order extending the deadline for
completion of the mediated settlement conference to July 6, 2015.
24. Between the dates of April 22, 2015 to May 8, 2015, Defendant participated in
multiple email exchanges which resulted in the scheduling of mediation for 9:00 AM, June 26,
2015 at the Nash County Comihouse, Nashville, North Carolina.
25. On April 21, 2015, Defendant appeared in Edgecombe County Civil Superior Court
to address Pantry's Motion to Compel.
26. During the April 21, 2015 hearing, the Court ordered Defendant to provide
complete responses to any outstanding discovery requests within 21 days and further ordered that
the pmiies come to an agreement on the scheduling of depositions.
27. After the April 21, 2015 hearing, Defendant tentatively agreed to make Knight
available for deposition at Defendant's law office on June 2, 2015 at 9:00 a.m.
28. On or about April 24, 2015, opposing counsel served Defendant with a Notice of
Deposition and provided Defendant formal notice that Knight's deposition would take place on
June 2,2015 at 9:00 a.m. at Defendant's law office.
29. Defendant failed to properly inform Knight ofthe duly-noticed deposition prior to
the June 2, 2015 deposition date.
30. On or about May 13,2015, Defendant and Knight provided partial responses to
Pantry's initial discovery requests.
31. The responses provided by Defendant and Knight were incomplete, thus in
violation of the court's order.
32. In a letter to Defendant dated May 29,2015, opposing counsel requested additional
information and documentation to supplement Defendant's incomplete discovery responses.
33.

Defendant and Knight did not timely respond to opposing counsel's May 29,2015

letter.

NCSB v. Batts, 18 DHC 35
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of7

34. On the moming of June 2,2015, the date of the noticed deposition, Defendant
informed opposing counsel that Knight was out of town and was unable to be physically present
at the deposition.
35. Defendant did not provide opposing counsel with any advance notice that Knight
would not appear for the duly-noticed deposition.
36. At no time prior to June 2,2015 did Defendant object to the date, time or location
of the duly-noticed deposition.
37. On June 2, 2015, in the presence of 1J. and stenographer, Defendant got Knight on
the telephone and she was prepared to be deposed over the telephone.
38. There was no specific requirement in the Notice of Deposition provided by 1J. that
precluded deposition of Knight by telephone.
39. On June 2,2015, while J.1 was in Defendant's office for the deposition, due to
Knight's absence, Defendant offered to drive Knight to Charlotte and pay to have the deposition
at J.J.'s office.
40. On June 6, 2015, Defendant faxed to J.J. an Authorization for the Release of
Medical Information signed by Knight for the purpose of providing 1J. the authority to obtain
medical records that were not available to Defendant.
41. On or about June 11,2015, opposing counsel filed a Motion to Dismiss and Motion
to Show Cause on behalf of Pantry.
42. On or about June 15,2015, Defendant filed an amended response to Pantry's initial
discovery requests.
43. On or about November 9, 2015, the Honorable Alma L. Hinton entered an order
dismissing without prejudice Knight's complaint, finding that Defendant and Knight failed to
timely and completely respond to written discovery, failed to participate in discovery in
accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure, failed to appear for a duly-noticed deposition,
failed to participate in mediation scheduling efforts, and failed to comply with prior written and
oral orders of the court.
44. Defendant specifically requested the Court order that any dismissal of Knight's
complaint be without prejudice, to enable Knight to refile the complaint in one year, and said
request was granted. Consequently, Judge Hinton also ordered that as a condition precedent to
refiling the action, Knight must reimburse the opposing party for costs incuned in the amount of
$2,000.00 plus any additional costs recoverable pursuant to Rule 41(a) of the North Carolina
Rules of Civil Procedure.
45. Defendant obtained an offer to consider paying an amount to settle the slip arid fall
claim and Defendant was given the amount of $4,000.00, minus the ordered attomey fee of
$2,000.00.

NCSB v. Batts, 18 DHC 35
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 of7

46. Defendant presented the settlement amount to Knight after Court on October 26,
2015 and same was refused as being insufficient.
47. On November 10, 2015, Defendant obtained an Affidavit of Knight's income and
expenses, and on November 19,2015, filed Rule 59(a)(7)(e), N.C, Civ. Proc., to Alter or Amend
Judgment, which requested a striking of the ordered attorney fee and costs.
48. On March 8, 2016, Defendant unsuccessfully argued the striking of the ordered
attorney fee and costs imposed upon Knight.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the patiies, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All patiies are properly before the Hearing Panel and the DHC has jurisdiction over
Defendant, Richard E. Batts, and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a) By failing to produce his client for a duly-noticed deposition, and by failing to
comply with written and oral cOUli orders regarding discovery responses and
depositions, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing his client in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to make reasonably diligent
effOlis to comply with discovery requests by an opposing patiy in violation of Rule
3.4(d)(2), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d);
b) By failing to participate in and respond to initial mediation scheduling efforts,
Defendant failed to make reasonable effOlis to expedite litigation consistent with the
interests of his client in violation of Rule 3.2, and disobeyed an obligation under the
rules of a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.4(c); and
c) By failing to inform his client of a scheduled deposition in her case, Defendant failed
to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing his client in violation
of Rule 1.3, failed to reasonably consult with his client about the means by which the
client's objectives were to be accomplished in violation of Rule I.4(a)(2), failed to
keep the client reasonably infOlmed about the status of the matter in violation of Rule
I.4(a)(3), and failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pelmit
the client to make informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of
Rule I.4(b).
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
NCSB v. Batts, 18 DHC 35
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 of7

1.

The findings of fact and conclusions of law above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
Batts' conduct violated multiple provisions ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct and
caused potential harm to a client.
3.
There is no evidence that Batts intended to harm his client or that he exhibited a
dishonest or selfish motive.
4.

There is no evidence of a pattern of similar misconduct by Batts.

5.
Batts provided a full and free disclosure to both the North Carolina State Bar and the
Hearing Panel, and Batts has fully cooperated throughout the proceedings.
6.

Batts has no prior disciplinary record concerning his license to practice law.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
determining the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.0116(f)(1) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes that no factors are present that would walTant suspension of Defendant's license.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.0116(f)(2) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the NOlih Carolina State Bar and
concludes that no factors are present that would walTant disbarment.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.0116(f)(3) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) The absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) The absence of a pattern of misconduct; and
(d) Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings.

NCSB v. Batts, 18 DHC 35
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of7

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition but concludes that such
discipline would not be sufficient discipline because Defendant violated multiple provisions of the
Rules of Professional Conduct and Defendant's conduct caused harm to a client. The Hearing
Panel also considered a censure and suspension, but concludes that, given all the factors set forth
in paragraph three above, the conduct was an aberration and is unlikely to be repeated.
6.
The Hearing Panel finds and concludes that under the circumstances of this case, the
public will be adequately protected by reprimanding Defendant not to continue or repeat such
conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and based upon the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following :
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Richard E. Batts, is hereby reprimanded by the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission for his professional misconduct.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action. Defendant
shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within
30 days of service of the statement of costs and administrative fees upon him.
Signed by the Dis ~liwry Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other hearing
panel members, this the
day of
s.. TanU CLI"t:.-(
, 2019.

1

I

Beverly T. Beal, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

!l

Alex G. Nicely, Depu Counsel
Attorney for the NO! Carolina State Bar

Defendant

NCSB v. Batts, 18 DHC 35
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 of7

