NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE
OF ROMAN C. PIEL

BEFORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04 BCS (.,.
)

)

)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

)

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter L Subchapter B, ยง
.0117(a) of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon an affidavit of tender of
surrender of license executed by Roman C. Pib1 on Oct. 20, 2004 and filed in the offices
of the North Carolina State Bar on Oct. 20, 2004.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that the conduct of Roman C. Pib1 in
misappropriating client and/or fiduciary funds and funds belonging to his former law firm
is grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) in that Roman C. Pibl
violated Rules 8A(b) and (c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon Motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the
following Order:
1. The tender of surrender of license of Roman C. Pibl is hereby accepted.
2. Roman C. Pibl is DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North Carolina.
3. Roman C. Pibl shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, ยง .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules and shall
surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by ยง .0124 of the State Bar Discipline
& Disbarment Rules.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against Roman C. Pibl.

Don' aod md~,d thi, 22'" d,y OfO"O~1f~ ~
Robert F. Siler, President
The N.C. State Bar

.r
~

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY
INRE:

BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

)
)
)

ROMAN C. PlBL,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

04BCS~

AFFIDAVII TENDERING THE
SURRENDER OF THE LICENSE OF
ROMAN C. PIBL

I, Roman C. Pibl, being first duly sworn, say:

I.	

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina pursuant
to the provisions of Section .0117 of Subchapter 1B of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar.

2.	

My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.

3.	

I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations that I
committed professional misconduct by falsely misrepresenting to a client the status of his
civil case, by preparing a false bill for services rendered, and by preparing a false court
order in the case. I also understand that there is a separate investigation regarding
allegations that I committed professional misconduct by placing a client fee that should
have gone to my firm, into my personal bank account, and that in so doing I
misappropriated funds in the amount of $13,050.00 for my personal use and benefit.
These funds have since been paid to the firm. Finally, I acknowledge that there is an
investigation involving my handling of two environmental trust accounts and the propriety
of multiple payments in the approximate amount of $63,000 made to me.

4.	

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are true.

5.	

My resignation is being submitted because I know that if charges were predicated upon
the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them. In
addition, I do not want to continue to cause my family and friends pain by asking them to
defend me because it is not worth the emotional and personal price. Finally, I desire to
pursue an alternative career in which I can give more back to my community.

6.	

This Affidavit and all statements herein are propounded solely for the purpose of this
professional disciplinary proceeding and any future professional licensure reinstatement
proceedings, and are specifically not intended as admissions of any wrongdoing outside
the scope of or for any purpose other than responding to this proceeding, nor are they
intended to be used for any other purposes in any other actions, civil or criminal.

7.	

I understand that this Affidavit will be submitted for approval to the State Bar Council on
October 22, 2004 and I waive further notice of that meeting.

I

,,

-

.

~

,

Respectfully submitted, this the

J i:) to day of_0_"_,(=._1_,

,2004.


Notary i1lblic

My commission expires:<)z.(
. I-H'

{/

Je;:, ;J.CC&


2


--', 2004

