NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.
JAMES E. BAUM, JR., Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND
ORDER OF DSICIPLINE

This matter was scheduled to be heard by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Donna R. Rascoe, Chair; Theodore C. Edwards, II and Karen Ray. A.
Root Edmonson represented the North Carolina State Bar. The defendant, James E. Baum, Jr.,
did not appear and was not represented. Based upon the State Bar's Motion for Default
Judgment and Order of Discipline filed herein on JWle 1,2010, the defendant's failure to request
a hearing on the discipline to be imposed, and the facts deemed admitted based upon the
defendant's default, the panel finds the following facts were established by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I.
The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated therewlder.
2.
The defendant, Janles E. Baum, Jr. ("Baum"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on March 22, 1997, and practiced law Wltil he was suspended on July 13,
2007 as set out below. At all times referred to herein, even after he was suspended, Baum was
subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina. However, after July 13,2007, Baum was not
authorized to practice law in North Carolina.
3.

Bawn was served with the Complaint in this matter on February 23, 2010.

4.

Baum failed to file an answer or other responsive pleading.

5.

Baum's default was entered on May 21, 2010.

6.
On June 8, 20 I0, the State Bar filed a Motion for Default Judgment and Order
of Discipline and served that on Baum that requested the hearing panel to find facts and enter
conclusions oflaw based upon Baum's default and also requested that the hearing panel enter
this order of discipline unless Baum requested a hearing on discipline within thirty (30) days.
7.

Baum did not request a hearing on the appropriate discipline to be imposed.

8.
During the time that Baum was actively engaged in the practice oflaw in the
State of North Carolina, he maintained a law office in the city of Raleigh, Wake County, North
Carolina.
9.
In January 2007, Baum was served with a show cause order directing Baum to
show cause why his license to practice law should not be administratively suspended for multiple
years' failure to pay State Bar dues and satisfy his Continuing Legal Education(CLE)
requirements.
10.

Thereafter, Baum paid his delinquent dues, but never conected his CLE deficits.

II. On June 13,2007, Baum was personally served with an order suspending his
license to practice law in North Carolina, effective thirty days thereafter.
12.

As of July 13,2007, Baum was no longer authorized to practice law in North

Carolina.
13. Since his suspension on July 13,2007, Baum has not been reinstated to the
active practice oflaw in North Carolina.
14. Since his suspension on July 13,2007, Baum has continued to hold himself out
as able to practice law and has continued to collect fees from clients for legal services as set out
below.
15. In or before November 2006, K. Fargalla ("Fargalla") retained Baum to
represent her on a traffic ticket in Franklin County.
16. Fargalla paid Baum his fee and the amount necessary to cover Fargalla's court
costs and any fine.
17. Although Fargalla's payment included an amOlmtto cover Fargalla's court costs
and fine, Baum failed to deposit any of Fargalla's payment into his trust account.
18. Baum appropriated Fargalla's entrusted funds intended to be used for Fargalla's
court costs and fine to his own use.

19. On November 21, 2006, Baum wrote an operating account check to the Clerk of
Court in Franldin County to pay Fargalla's $185 in costs and fine.
20.

Baum's check to the Clerk was returned for insufficient funds.

21. On or before September 19,2007, K. O. Jones ("K. Jones") retained Baum to
represent him on a speeding ticket K. Jones had received in February 2006.
22. On September 19,2007, after Baum was no longer authorized to practice law in
North Carolina, K. Jones paid Baum $475 to represent him on the speeding ticket, which
included the amount necessary to cover Baum's fee and K. Jones' court costs and any fine.
23.

Baum failed to place any of K. Jones' payment into a trust account.

24. Baum appropriated K. Jones' entrusted funds intended to be used for K. Jones'
court costs and fine to his own use.
25. Baum failed to perform any valuable legal services for K. Jones and failed to
make a refund to K. Jones.
26. By obtaining a fee from K. Jones for the purpose of representing K. Jones on his
speeding ticket when Baunl knew that he was not able to represent K. Jones due to his
suspension, Baum obtained K. Jones' fee payment under a false pretense.
27. On or before November 1,2007, M. P. D'Amato ("D'Amato") retained Baum to
represent him on his speeding tickets.
28. In two payments made on November I, 2007 and December 27, 2007, after
Baum was 110 longer authorized to practice law in North Carolina, D' Amato paid Baum $700 of
the $750 Baum quoted as the amount needed to represent D' Amato on the speeding tickets,
which included the amount necessary to cover Baum's fee and D' Amato's cOllii costs and any
fines.
29.

Baunl failed to place any ofD'Amato's payment into a trust account.

30. Baum appropriated D'Amato's entrusted funds intended to be used for
D' Amato's court costs and fines to his own use.
31. Balli11 failed to perform any valuable legal services for D' Amato and failed to
make a refund to D' Amato.
32. By obtaining a fee fTom D' Amato for the purpose ofrepresenting D'Amato on
the speeding tickets when Baum knew that he was not going to be able to represent D' Amato due
to his suspension, Baum obtained D' Amato's fee payment under a false pretense.

33. On or about April 25, 2007, G. L. Jones ("G. Jones") retained Baum to represent
him on a speeding ticket G. Jones received on April 24, 2007.
34. On April 25, 2007, G. Jones paid Baum $225, which included the amount
necessary to cover Ballin's fee and G. Jones' court costs and any fine. G. Jones signed a waiver
of appearance form.
35.

Ballin failed to place any ofG. Jones' payment into a tmst account.

36. Baum appropriated G. Jones' entrusted funds intended to be used for G. Jones'
court costs and fine to his own use.
37. Bawn failed to perform any valuable legal services for G. Jones and failed to
make a refund to G. Jones.
38. G. Jones filed a petition with the North Carolina State Bar's Fee Dispute
Resolution Program, seeking resolution of the disputed fee. The Fee Dispute Resolution
Program notified Baum in writing that he must respond to the fee dispute petition in writing by
the deadline stated in the notice. Baunl failed to respond to the notification and failed to
pmiicipate in the State Bar's fee dispute process.
39. On or about August II, 2007, V. DeMasi ("DeMasi) retained Baum to represent
her daughter, K. DeMasi, on a traffic ticket.
40. On August 11,2007, after Baum was no longer authorized to practice law in
North Carolina, V. DeMasi paid Baum $250 to represent K. DeMasi on the speeding ticket,
which included the mnount necessary to cover Baum's fee and K. DeMasi's court costs and any
fine.
41.

Baunl failed to place any ofV. DeMasi's payment into a tmst account.

42. Ballin appropriated V. DeMasi's entrusted funds to be used for K. DeMasi's
court costs and fine to his own use.
43. Baunl failed to perform any valuable legal services for K. DeMasi and failed to
make a refund to V. DeMasi.
44. By obtaining a fee from V. DeMasi for the purpose of representing K. DeMasi
on her speeding ticket when Baum knew that he was not going to be able to represent K. DeMasi
due to his suspension, Baum obtained V. DeMasi's fee payment under a false pretense.
45. On or about March 7, 2007, R. Pintar ("Pintar") retained Bawn to represent him
on a traffic ticket.

46. On March 7, 2007, Pintar paid Baum $225, which included the amount
necessary to cover Baum's fee and Pintar's court costs and any fine.
47.

Baum failed to place any of Pintar's payment into a trust account.

48. Baum appropriated Pintar's entrusted funds intended to be used for Pintar's
court costs and fine to his own use.
49. Baum failed to perfonn any valuable legal services for Pintar and failed to make
a refund to Pintar.
50. Pintar filed a petition with the North Carolina State Bar's Fee Dispute
Resolution Progranl seeking resolution of the disputed fee. The Fee Dispute Resolution Progranl
notified Baum in writing that he must respond to the fee dispute petition in writing by the
deadline stated in the notice. Baum failed to respond to the notification and failed to participate
in the State Bar's fee dispute process.
51. On or about December 29, 2006, M. Boctor ("Boctor") retained Balun to
represent him on his speeding ticket.
52. On December 29,2006, Boctor paid Baum $350 to represent him on the
speeding ticket, which included the amount necessary to cover Baum's fee and Boctor's court
costs and any fine.
53.

Baum failed to place any ofBoctor's payment into a trust account.

54. Baum appropriated Boctor's entrusted funds intended to be used for Boctor's
court costs and fine to his own use.
55. Baum failed to perform any val uable legal services for Boctor and failed to
make a refund to Boctor.
56. On or about December 15, 2006, W. D. Greene, Jr. ("Greene") retained Baum to
represent him in collecting on a purchase money note that was in default.
57. On December 15, 2006, Greene paid Baum $1,500 as an advanced payment
against which BaLUn would bill for his services as earned in representing Greene in the loan
default matter. The contract of engagement described the $1,500 payment as a minimum fee.
58. Baum failed to perform any valuable legal services for Greene and failed to
make a refund to Greene.
59. Greene filed a petition with the North Carolina State Bar's Fee Dispute
Resolution Program seeking resolution of the disputed fee. The Fee Dispute Resolution Progranl
notified Baum in writing that he must respond to the fee dispute petition in writing by the

deadline stated in the notice. Baum failed to respond to the notification and failed to participate
in the State Bar's fee dispute process.
60. On or about April 13,2007, C. Layman ("Layman") retained Baum to represent
him on a speeding ticket.
61. On April 13,2007, Layman paid Baum $225, which included the amount
necessary to cover Baum' s fee and Layman's court costs and any fine. Layman signed a waiver
of appearance form.
62.

Bawn failed to place any of Layman's payment into a trust account.

63. Baum appropriated Layman's entrusted funds intended to be used for Layman's
court costs and fine to his own use.
64. On August 3, 2007, Layman received a letter from the Division of Motor
Vehicles ("DMV") advising Layman that his driver's license would be suspended on October 2,
2007 for his failure to appear for his speeding ticket unless he got the matter resolved.
65. After several attempts, Layman was finally able to communicate with Baum and
told Baum about the letter from DMV.
66. On September 7, 2007, after his license to practice law in North Carolina had
been suspended, Baum went to the Wake COWlty Courthouse and represented Layman in getting
Layman's speeding ticket resolved.
67. Although Baum resolved Layman's ticket in the courtroom, Baum failed to pay
Layman's cOllli costs at the Wake County Clerk of Court's office causing DMV to again advise
Layman on January 4, 2008 that his license would be suspended as of MaTch 4, 2008 ifthe court
costs remained lmpaid.
68. On or about May 24, 2006, A. 1. Aycock ("Aycock") retained Ballin to
represent her in a personal inj ury matter.
69. Baum neglected Aycock's case and failed to timely send Aycock's claim for
danlages to the insurance carrier for the responsible party.
70. Baum failed to communicate with Aycock about the status of her matter and
failed to respond to Aycock's requests for information.
71. Ballin failed to withdraw from representation upon Aycock's request and failed
to notify the insmance can-ier that he was no longer Aycock's lawyer.
72. On March 8, 2009, Baum was personally served with Letters of Notice from the
State Bar's Grievance Committee in ten grievances. Each Letter of Notice directed Baum to

respond to the substance of grievance contained therein within 15 days of service of the Letter of
Notice.
73.

Baum failed to respond to any ofthe Letters of Notice in the ten grievances as

directed.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before this panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
and the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and this panel have jurisdiction over Baum and the
subject matter.
Baum's conduct, as set out above, cons titutes grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Baum violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect at the time as follows:
7

(a)

By failing to deposit Fargalla's, K. Jones', D'Amato's, G. Jones', V.
DeMasi's, Pintar's, Boctor's, and Layman's funds that were entrusted to
him to be used for his clients' costs and fine in a trust account, separate
and apart from property that belonged to him, Baum violated Rules 1.15-2
(a) and (b).

(b)

By appropriating Fargalla's, K. Jones', D'Amato's, G. Jones', V.
DeMasi's, Pintar's, Boctor's and Layman's entrusted funds to his own use,
Baum used entrusted funds for his own benefit in violation of Rule 1.152G); failed to use entrusted funds as directed by these clients in violation
of Rule 1.15-2(m); committed the felony offenses of embezzlement in
violation ofN.C.G.S § 14-90 which are criminal acts that reflect adversely
on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in
violation of Rule 8.4(b); and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

(c)

By obtaining the portion ofK. Jones', D'Amato's, and V. DeMasi's,
payments that they intended as Baum's fee to represent them on their
speeding tickets at a time when he could not represent them on the
speeding tickets because he was suspended from the practice of law in
North Carolina, Baum committed the felony offenses of obtaining property
by false pretenses in violation ofN.C.G.S. § 14-100 which are criminal
acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a
lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c).

(d)

By holding himself out to K. Jones, D' Amato, and V. DeMasi as able to
provide legal services by accepting funds for their legal services when he
was suspended from the practice of law, Baum practiced law in a
jurisdiction where doing so violated the regulation of the legal profession
in that jurisdiction in violation of Rule S.S(a).

(e)

By going to the Wake County Courthouse and resolving Layman's
speeding ticket after his license was suspended, Baum practiced law in a
jurisdiction where doing so violated the regulation of the legal profession
in that jurisdiction in violation of Rule S.S(a).

(f)

By failing to take any action to assist K. Jones, D' Amato, G. Jones,
V. DeMasi, Pintar, and Boctor with their speeding tickets, Baum failed to
act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in
violation of Rule 1.3.

(g)

By failing to take any action to assist Greene with his loan default matter,
Baum failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.

(h)

By failing to make a refund ofK. Jones', D'Amato's, G. Jones', V.
DeMasi's, Pintar's, Boctor's Greene's, and Layman's funds paid to him in
advance that he failed to earn or use for their benefit, Baum violated Rule
1.16(d).

(i)

By failing to participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process
initiated by G. Jones, Pintar, and Greene, Baum violated Rule I.S(f).

G)

By neglecting Aycock's case and failing to timely send Aycock's claim for
damages to the insurance carrier, Baum failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.

(k)

By failing to conmmnicate with Aycock about the status of her matter and
failing to respond to Aycock's requests for information, Baum violated
Rules 1.4 (a) (3) and (4).

(I)

By failing to notify the insurance provider that he was no longer Aycock's
attomey, Bmml violated Rule 1.16(d).

(m)

By failing to respond to each of the ten Letters of Notice, Baum failed to
respond to a lawful demand for infomlation from a disciplinmy authority
in violation of Rule 8.l(b).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing pmlel
hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional:

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

Baum knowingly took money from his clients for representation on their legal
matters when he knew he would not be able to represent those clients.

2.

As a result ofBaum's conduct in this matter, his clients were left without
representation on their legal matters.

3.

Because Baum failed to make refunds of the uneamed fees paid to him by his
clients, his clients were hanned again by having to pay a second legal fee to get
representation in their legal matters.

4.

Because Baum misappropriated the amounts that his clients paid to him that
represented the clients' costs and fines for their speeding tickets, his clients were
harmed by having to again pay costs and fines levied when their speeding tickets
were resolved.

5.

Baum's conduct significantly and substantially hanned his clients and could only
have a negative impact on his clients' and the public's perception of the legal
profession.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The hearing panel has considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§.Ol14(w) (1), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
General Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI14(w) (3):

a.

Baum had no prior disciplinary offense in this state;

b.

Baum had a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

Baum has shown indifference to making restitution to his clients;

d.

Baum exhibited a pattem of misconduct;

e.

Baum committed multiple offenses;

Suspension and Disbarment Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Oll4(w) (1):

a.

Baum intended to commit acts where the resulting hann or potential harm to
his clients was foreseeable;

b.

The circumstances reflect Baum's lack of honesty, trustworthiness and
integrity;

c.

Baum elevated his own interest above the interests of his clients;

d.

Baum's conduct had a negative impact on his clients' and the public's
perception of the legal profession;

e.

Baum impaired his clients' ability to achieve the goals of the representation;

f.

Baum engaged in acts of dishonesty and deceit; and

g.

Baum engaged in multiple instances offailure to participate in the legal
profession's self-regulation process, including his failure to respond to Letters
of Notice and his default in the instant matter.

Disbarment Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Oll4(w) (2):

a.

Baum engaged in acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, and deceit;

b.

Baum engaged in misappropriation of his clients' funds and obtained fees
from his clients under the false pretense that the fees would pay for his
representation in their legal matters; and

c.

Baum engaged in felonious conduct.

2.

The hearing panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of discipline
available to it. An admonition, reprimand, censure or suspension ofBaum's license
would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity ofthe actual hann Baum's
conduct caused to the public, the administration ofjustice and the legal profession,
and because of the gravity of the significant potential hann to potential clients, the
public, the administration ofjustice, and the legal profession ifBaum were
permitted to continue practicing law.

3.

The hearing panel finds that discipline short of disbannent would not adequately
protect the public, the legal profession or the administration of justice for the
following reasons:

4.

a.

Baum committed misdeeds involving violations of the public trust, including
misappropriation of clients' entrusted funds, material misrepresentations and
deceit;

b.

Misconduct involving misappropriation, misrepresentations and deceit are
among the most serious that any attorney can commit. Such offenses
demonstrate that Baum is not trustworthy. The public should be able to
assume that all lawyers are trustworthy; and

c.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to aclmowledge
the seriousness of the offenses Baum committed and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and to the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this state.

Protection of the public, the legal professional and the administration of justice
requires that Baum not be permitted to resume the practice oflaw until he
demonstrates the following:
a.

That he has reformed;

b.

That he understands his obligations to his clients, the public, the legal
profession and the administration of justice; and

c.

That permitting him to practice law will not be detrimental to the public, or
the integrity and standing of the legal profession or the administration of
justice.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.

James E. Baum, Jr. is hereby DISBARRED from the practice oflaw, effective 30
days from the date of service of this order upon him.

2.

Baum shall surrender his law license and bar membership card within 30 days after
service of this order upon him.

3.

Baum shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0124 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules as applicable.

4.

Baum is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary which shall
be paid within ninety (90) days of service of the notice of costs upon him.

Signed by the undersigned Chair of the hearing panel with the full knowledge and consent
of the other panel members, this the

iX 7J/-Q.ay of July 20 I O.

Donna R. Rascoe, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

