NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

DAVID B. BAYARD, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter was scheduled to be heard by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed ofM. Hood Ellis, Chair; William M. Claytor and Joe Castro. A. Root
Edmonson represents the North Carolina State Bar. The Defendant, David B. Bayard, is
represented by James K. Pendergrass, Jr. The Defendant admits that the evidence in the case
supports the result agreed to by the parties. Based upon the consent of the parties, the panel finds
the following facts were established by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized lmder the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
The defendant, David B. Bayard (hereinafter "Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 2000 and is, and was at all times refened to herein, an
Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and
Rules of Professional Conduct ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State ofN0l1h
Carolina.
7

3.
During the time in 2002 relevant to this complaint, Defendant actively engaged in
the private practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city
of Cary, Wake County, North Carolina. However, Defendant has not practiced law since 2005.
4.
In early 2002, Defendant met .Tames Bullock (hereinafter "Bullock") who
operated a real estate investment enterprise known as Jalen Investments.
5.
.Talen Investments was an illegitimate real estate investment enterprise used as a
front for an illegal m0l1gage fraud scheme. As a part of this scheme, Bullock would entice a
builder with a Imge inventory of unsold homes to agree to sell a new home for a reduced price.

Bullock would then recruit an "investor" through Jalen Investments to buy that home at a
significantly higher price. Rather than investing money in the purchase, the recruited "investor"
would be paid to purchase the home by Jalen Investments. Bullock, through Jalen Investments,
would then assist the "investor" in securing a loan on the property by providing false information
to the lender, including but not necessarily limited to failing to disclose Bullock's agreement
with the builder for the lower sales price and failing to disclose the buyer's lack of investment.
The false information provided by Bullock induced the mortgage lender to make a loan it would
not otherwise have made to the "investor." Jalen Investments profited from the difference in the
anl0unt of the loan and the negotiated reduced sales price of the home.
6.
Between February 2002 and May 2002, Defendant closed a number of
transactions for Bullock in which Defendant prepared and transmitted HUD-1 settlement
statements containing false information about the structure of the transactions, including false
information about purported second mortgage payoffs and false infonnation about the buyers'
inveSlment oftheir own funds in the transactions. These transactions involved the following
properties:
(a)

110 Meadow Hills Drive in Four Oaks. NC

(b)

115 Meadow Hills Drive in Four Oaks. NC

(c)

165 Meadow Hills Drive in Four Oaks, NC

(d)

103 Spring Branch Drive in Smithfield. NC

7.
As required by § 3500.8 of the regulations implementing the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act, 24 CFR 3500, et. seq., Defendant, as settlement agent for Bullock,
had a duty to accurately state the actual receipts and disbursements for each transaction on the
HUD-1 settlement statement for each closing he conducted.
8.
Bullock's Ja1en Investments enterprise would not have operated successfully
without the assistance of a closing attomey who would prepare and transmit HUD-1 settlement
statements containing false information about the transactions.
9.
By sending false information to lenders as described above, Defendant aided and
abetted Bullock in obtaining property by false pretenses. The federal authorities have reviewed
Defendant's role in this offense and have chosen not to bring any charges.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before this panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
and the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and this panel have jurisdiction over Defendant and
the subject matter.

2

')
Defendant's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant
to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect at the time as follows:
(a)

By preparing and sending I-IUD-I settlement statements to lenders
containing false infonnation about the receipts and disbursements
in mortgage loan closings he conducted, Defendant engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of RuIe 8.4(c);

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of
the parties, the panel hereby finds the following additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Lending institutions are not norn1ally thought of as vulnerable entities.
Nevertheless, lenders rely upon a closing attorney to carry out the closing in an ethical, lawful,
and proper manner. These institutions are particularly vulnerable to the conduct of attorneys that
facilitate others in the circumvention of safeguards employed to avoid fraud.
2.
Defendant's obligation as closing attorney was to produce an accurate HUD-I
Settlement Statement for each transaction and to ensure that funds were received and disbursed
as represented to the lender on the HUD-I.
3.
Accurate HUD-I Settlement Statements are necessary for the system of finance in
real estate to function. Lenders rely upon the HUD-I Settlement Statements to accurately reflect
the receipt and disbursement of funds in real estate closings. Defendant's preparation and
submission ofl-IUD-I Settlement Statements that he knew did not accurately show the receipt
and disbursement of funds and Defendant's failure to receive and disburse funds as rel1ected on
the I-IUD-I Settlement Statements evaded the safeguards relied upon by the lenders.
4.
Lenders are entitled to attorneys they can trust. Defendant, by aiding Bullock in
his misconduct on more than one occasion, has shown himself to be untrustworthy. When an
attorney violates that trust, it harms the public and the profession.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

The hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.OI14(w) (I), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
General Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. lB §.OI14(w) (3):

3

a.

Defendant has no prior disciplinary offense;

b.

Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;

c.

Defendant engaged in multiple offenses; and

d.

Defendant's disciplinary proceeding was delayed through no fault of the
Defendant.

Suspension and Disbarment Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14(w) (I):
a.

Defendant conunitted acts where the hann or potential harm was foreseeable;

b.

Circumstances reflecting the Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness,
or integrity;

2.

The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in consideling the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

3.

The I-Iearing Panel has considered all lesser forms of sanctions available to it and
finds that disbarment is the only appropriate discipline in this case, for the
following reasons:
a.

Defendant committed misdeeds involving moral turpitude and violations of
the public trust, including misrepresentations and deceit. Misconduct
involving misrepresentations and deceit are among the most serious that an
attorney can commit. Such offenses demonstrate that the offending attorney is
not trustworthy. Clients and third parties are entitled to have trustworthy
attorneys;

b.

The factors under Rule .OIl4(w)(2) that are established by the evidence in this
case are of a nature that support imposition of disbarment as the appropriate
discipline:

c.

Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than disbarment would fail to
aclmowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would
be inconsistent with discipline issued in prior cases involving similar
misconduct, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public
regarding the conduct expected of members of the North Carolina State BaT;
and

d.

The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that Defendant
not be pernlitted to resume the practice oflaw until he demonstrates the
following: that he has refonned; that he understands his obligations to his
clients, the public, and the legal profession; and that pennitting him to practice

4

law will not be detrimental to the public or the integrity and standing of the
legal profession or the administration of justice. Disbarment is the only
discipline available that requires an attorney to make such a showing before
he or she may be reinstated.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters
the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, David B. Bayard, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in
North Carolina.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
NOlih Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon Defendant
3.
The costs and administrative fees of this action are taxed to Defendant.
Defendant must pay the costs and fees within 90 days of service of the statement of costs upon
him.
Signed by the undersigned Chair of the panel with the consent of the other members of
the panel this the

1i1dday of 9Ui1t€--

2011.

/I

M. Hood Ellis, Chair
Hearing Panel
We Consent:

, IX
iiJ
.r

• //).,

~:?£-~V/7_

----

A. Root Edmonson
Deputy COlmsel

James K. Pendergrass, Jr.
Couns for Defendant

5

