BEFORE THE GRIEVANCE
COMMITTEE OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

STATE OF NORTH

WAKE COUNTY

12G0630, 12G0952, 12G0953, 1200997,
13G0344, 1300617, 13G 1139, 1301176,
1400150, 14G0846, 14G0937

INRE:
ROBERT A. BELL, ATTORNEY

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING ATTORNEY
TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chairperson of the North Carolina State
Bar's Grievance Committee pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §.0118(b), with
Jennifer A. Porter representing the North Carolina State Bar and Alan M. Schneider
representing Robert A. Bell. Based upon facts received from the member and with the
consent of the member and the counsel, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The Nmth Carolina State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of
Nmth Carolina and is the proper patty to consent to this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the Nmth Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Robert A. Bell ("Bell"), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1977, and is, and was at all times refened to herein, an attorney at law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State ofNmth Carolina,
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
3.
Bell actively engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina
and maintained a law office in Fayetteville, North Carolina.
4.
Between 2012 and 2014, the above captioned grievance files were opened
concerning Bell's conduct
5.
All of the above captioned grievances were considered by the Grievance
Conunittee and referred to the Disciplinary Hearing Commission for trial.

Consent Order Transferring Attorney to Disability Inactive Status
In re Robert A. Bell

Page 1 of 4

6.
Prior to the filing of a complaint with the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission, Bell presented the State Bar with letters from his treating medical
providers, Christopher A. Russell, MSW, LCSW, and M. Ojinga Harrison, M.D.
7.
Mr. Russell states Bell has sought treatment from Mr. Russell three years
ago. Mr. Russell states that Bell presents with signs and symptoms of Post-Traumatic
Stress Disorder and Adjustment Disorder with Mixed Anxiety and Depressed Mood.
Mr. Russell states these conditions have caused clinically significant distress and
impairment in Bell's occupational and social environments. Effects include impaired
judgment, avoidance of responsibilities, and difficulty with stressful circumstances.
Mr. Russell states that Bell's condition significantly impairs his abilities, his professional
performance, and his judgment.
8.
Dr. Harrison, a psychiatrist with The Carter Clinic PA, reports that Bell
has been a patient at The Carter Clinic PA for the past four years. Dr. HatTison states that
Bell has been diagnosed and treated for Major Depressive Disorder and Attention Deficit
Hyperactivity Disorder.
Dr. Harrison repOlis that Bell's mental disability has
significantly impaired his professional judgment, his performance, and his ability to
practice law.
9.
Bell currently suffers from mental disorders which significantly impair his
professional judgment, performance, or competence as an attorney.
10.

Bell consents to being transfened to disability inactive status.

II.
Bell acknowledges and agrees by the signing of this consent order that his
transfer to disability inactive status order shall in no way stay, abate, or otherwise inhibit
the consideration and disposition of applications to the Client SecUlity Fund.
12.
Bell acknowledges and agrees by the signing of this consent order that the
State Bar may preserve evidence of any alleged professional misconduct by Bell,
including by the taking of depositions. Bell consents that no further orders shall be
required in order for the State Bar to take such depositions. Bell and the State Bar hereby
stipulate by the signing of this consent order that such depositions may be taken by
telephone, pursuant to Rule 30 of the NOlih Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure, N.C. Gen.
Stat. § lA-I, Rule 30.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, and with the consent of the
member and the counsel, the Ulldersigned malces the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §.01l8(b), the proper parties have
consented to Bell being transferred to disability inactive status.

Consent Order Transferring Attorney to Disability Inactive Status
In re Robert A. Bell

Page 2 of 4

2.
§.0103(l9).

Bell is disabled within the meaning of 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB

THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
1.

Robert A. Bell is transferred to disability inactive status.

2.
Bell shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina unless and until
retumed to active status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §.0125(c).
3.
Within 15 days ofthe effective date of this Order Bell shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking retum of files
can communicate with Bell and obtain such files.
4.
Bell shall promptly retum client files to clients upon request, within 15
days of receipt of such request. Bell will be deemed to have received any such request 3
days after the date such request is sent to Bell if the request is sent to the address Bell
provided the State Bar pursuant to the preceding paragraph.
5.
Any failure by Bell to retum a requested client file that has not been
remedied by the date on which Bell files any petition for reinstatement shall be taken into
consideration in determining whether Bell has met his burden of proving by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence that he is no longer disabled and is fit to resume the practice of
law.
6.
The filing of the complaint before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
pursuant to the refe!Tals by the Grievance Committee in the above captioned Grievance
files is hereby stayed. Should Bell be reinstated to active status, a complaint will be filed
with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission no later than 90 days following the effective
date of the reinstatement, unless discipline by another method addressing the conduct
refen'ed for trial has been imposed by that date.
7.

The NOlth Carolina State Bar, pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB

§ .0118(e)(2), may preserve evidence of any alleged professional misconduct of Bell,

including by the taking of depositions. No further orders shall be necessary to take such
depositions. Such depositions may be taken by telephone without any further orders.
8.
This order shall in no way stay, abate, or otherwise inhibit the
consideration and disposition of applications to the Client Security Fund.
9.
Investigation or action on any Petition for Resolution of Disputed Fee or
Grievance pending as of the date of this order or received after the date of this order is
hereby abated unless and until Bell is reinstated to active status. Should Bell be
reinstated to active status, investigation or action on any abated Petition for Resolution of
Disputed Fee or Grievance shall resume.
Consent Order Transferring Attorney to Disability Inactive Status
In re Robert A. Bell

Page 3 of 4

10.
The allegations of professional misconduct against Bell in the file refen-ed
for trial include conduct that may merit consideration of client reimbursement as a
condition of reinstatement pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .OI2S(d). The hearing
panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission that considers any petition for
reinstatement by Bell shall consider this issue and order any reimbursement it deems
Should any reimbursement be ordered, Bell must complete the
appropriate.
reimbursement by the deadline stated in the reinstatement order for the reinstatement to
take effect.
This the

IO#-. day of---LA'¥(M..,·.LI_ _ _-----e201S.

J,lb~

Grievance Committee
North Carolina State Bar
CONSENTED TO:

Robert A. Bell
Member, North Carolina State Bar

{k%U~

Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Member

~;-er---/

Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

Consent Order Transferring Attorney to Disability Inactive Status
In re Robert A. Bell

Page 4 of4

