.

.-~-'

Q")

STATEOFNORTHCA '"

~,

.

INKILEDDHro :,~

i?~

.f;'c'r
(2

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
~.
OF THE
'\ '*'~ ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
\",p
12DHC26

• "\)IS

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
SAMEKA B. BENNERMAN, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock. Chair, and members William B. Claytor
and Joseph Barlow Herget pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code. Title 27.
Chapter I, Subchapter B. § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter.
Defendant. Sameka B. Bennerman ("Bennerman") was represented by Alan M.
Schneider.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter. the parties' stipulations of fact, and the
evidence presented at hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear. cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a bOdy duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority grsnted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Sameka B. Bennerman ("Bennerman"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 2006. and is. and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.
.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein. Bennerman
was engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law
office in Edgecombe County. North Carolina.

4.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
5.

Bennerman represented clients on traffic matters and other legal matters.

6.
Beginning in at least May 2009, Bennerman collected funds from clients
which were mixed funds, including funds comprised of her fee plus court costs and fmes.
7.
Bennerman failed to deposit these mixed funds received from clients into
her Imst account.
.
8.

Instead, Bennerman deposited these funds into her operating account.

9.
From at least May 2009 through June 2011, Bennerman used some of the
funds in her operating account for her personal purposes, including expending some of
the funds she should have maintained in Imst for her clients.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to deposit funds comprised of her attorney fee and court costs
and fines into her Imst account, Bennerman failed to deposit mixed funds
intact in violation of Rule .IS-2(g) and failed to properly maintain
enlmsted funds in violation of Rule I.IS-2(a).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the
evidence presented at hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

Bennerman had only been licensed for 3 years when she opened her own

law firm.
2.
Bennerman drew erroneous conclusions about the proper handling of
funds from clients for court costs and fines when at various clerk's offices she saw other
lawyers' operating account checks used to pay court costs and fines in traffic matters.

2

3.
community.

Bennennan has a reputation for honesty and trustworthiness in her

4.
Bennennan used personal funds to pay the court costs and fines for clients
whose funds she had failed to Il)aintain in trust as of June 30, 20 II. At the time of the
hearing there was no evidence that the court costs and fines had not been paid to the
appropriate clerk of court for the clients who had paid funds to Bennennan for this
purpose.
S.
There were occasions when Bennennan did not have sufficient funds to
pay the court costs and fines for a client on the client's court date and had the case
continued.
.
6.
When clients give money to a lawyer, they have a right to trust that the
lawyer is going to protect those funds and use the funds solely for the purpose for which
the funds were given. Protecting and properly maintaining and disbursing entrusted
funds is one of the most important obligations of an attorney.
7.

Bennennan has no prior discipline.

8.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbannent, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different fonns of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumemted in 27 N,C.A.C. IB § .01 I4(w)(I) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:

(a)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the hann or potential hann is
foreseeable;

(b)

Elevation of Defendant's own interest above that of the client; and

(c)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
of the profession.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warmnt disbannent.
3

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 18 § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Defendant'S lack of prior discipline;

(b)

Defendant made timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify
consequences of misconduct;

(c)

Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;

(d)

Defendant engaged in mUltiple offenses;

(e)

Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

(t)

Defendant's remorse;

(g)

Defendant's good character and reputation; and

(h)

Derendant's inexperience in the practice oflaw.

4.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted
funds betrays a vital trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal
profession.
5.
Defendant's conduct, ifcontinued or tolerated by the Bar, poses potential
significant harm to future clients and the profession.
6.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the violations committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
7.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
suspension is necessary to adequately protect the public from future misconduct by
Defendant.
8.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.

4

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant. Sameka B. Bennerman, is hereby suspended from the practice
of law for one year, effective 30 days from service of this Order upon Bennerman.
2.

Administrative fees and costs are taxed to Defendant.

3.
The one-year suspension is stayed for a period of one year as long as
Bennerman complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
n.

Bennerman shall pay all administrative fees and costs ofthis proceeding
as assessed by the Secretary by November I, 2013;

b.

Bennerman shall complete 6 hours of continuing legal education (CLE) in
addition to the hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter D, Section .1518. These 6 hours shall consist of substantive
education courses in the areas of entrusted funds and proper handling of
entrusted funds. These courses must be approved in advance by the
Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar for compliance with this
order. These 6 additional CLE hours must be completed within 6 months
of the effective date of this order. Documentation of completion of each
qualifying course shall be provided to the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar no later than 30 days from the date of the course;

c.

Bennerman shall arrange for a member of the North Carolina State Bar to
serve as her law practice monitor. The selected monitor must be an active
member of the North Carolina State Bar in good standing who pmctices
law in North Carolina. The monitor must be approved in advance by the
Office of Counsel of the State Bar to serve in this capacity in this case.
Bennerman shall submit the name and contact information for the
proposed monitor to the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar
for approval no later than S business days prior to her deadline for making
the arrangement for a pmctice monitor.

d.

The selected monitor must agree to so serve and agree to meet with
Bennerman at least monthly to review Bennerman's cases and trust
account records, as described in more detail below. The selected monitor
must agree to review the records provided and assess Bennerman's
compliance with Rules 1.1 5-2 and 1.15-3 of the Rules ofprofessional
Conduct. The monitor must agree to provide a report to the Office of
Counsel quarterly containing a detailed review of Bennerman's handling
of entrusted funds and her compliance with all provisions of Rule 1.1 5-2
and 1.15-3;
5

e.

Bennennan must have made the arrangements for this monitoring attorney
and supplied the Office of Counsel of the State Bar with a letter from the
monitoring attorney confinning his/her agreement to perfonn the duties
listed above no later than thirty (30) days from service ofthis Order on
Bennennan;

f.

Bennennan shall provide, each month, the following documents to her
practice monitor and contemporaneously provide a copy of the documents
to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar, such documents due no later
than the 30th day of each month or the date on which she meets with her
practice monitor, whichever occurs first:
i. a list of all clients whose cases are pending or whose cases were
resolved in that month with identification of the type of case and
any funds collected from each client;
ii. a three-way reconciliation of all attorney trust accounts to which
she has access using the reconciliation method described in the
State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook on pages 35-40
(reference is to the edition last revised in May 20 t I);
iii. all supporting documentation for the reconciliation, including
client ledgers for all clients who have or had funds in the trust
account during that month, a ledger for any personal funds
maintained in the trust account for bank or credit card fees, her
office trust account ledger, and the bank statement, cancelled
checks, and deposit slips for each month.

g.

Bennennan shall meet once each month with her monitoring attorney to
discuss in detail her cases and her handling of entrusted funds, including
but not limited to review of the documents set out in the preceding
paragraphs;

h.

The monitor shall review the records provided by Bennerman and assess
Bennerman's compliance with Rules 1.15-2 and 1.15-3 of the Rules of
Professional Conduct;

i.

The monitor shall provide a report to the Office of Counsel quarterly,
containing a detailed review ofBennerman's handling of entrusted funds
and her compliance with all provisions of Rule 1.15-2 and 1.15-3. These
reports are due on the following dates: March 31, 2013; June 30, 2013;
September 30,2013; and December 31, 2013:

j.

Bennerman shall ensure the monitor provides the above described
quarterly report to the Office of Counsel by the deadlines set out above;

k.

Bennennan will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this
service;

6

I.

Bennennan shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make
appropriate arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed
during the stay ofthis suspension;

m.

Bennennan shall not violate any state or federal laws or any
provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period
of the stayed suspension;

n.

Bennennan shall respond to all State Bar requests for infonnation
as required by Rule 8.l(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by
the earlier of the deadline stated in the communication or within 30
days of receipt;

o.

Bennennan shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements; and

p.

Bennennan shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised oCher current home and business street (not
P.O. Box) addresses and telephone numbers.

4.
IfBennennan fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set
out in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension of herlaw license may be
lifted as provided in § .0114(x) ofthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the DHC may enter an Order imposing such conditions as it deems necessary
for the reinstatement of Bennennan's license at the end of the suspension. Furthennore,
Bennennan will have complied with each of the following conditions precedent before
she will be eligible for reinstatement:
.
a. Submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date of the
order activating her suspension;
b. Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules on a timely basis;
c. Paid any outstanding disciplinary administrative fees and costs; and
d. Within 15 days of the effective date of order activating the suspension
Defendant shall have provided the State Bar with an address and telephone
number at which clients seeking return of files could communicate with
Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant shall have promptly
returned all files to clients upon request.

7

6.
The Disoiplinary Hearing C0l1ll11isnioll will rctninjurisdiction oflhis
mailcr pursnant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I. Subchupler 13, § ,0 114(x) of the
North Carolinu State Bar Discipline,und Disability Rule:«(hronghollt the period of the
sillyed Illlspcnsion,
.-r1. Signed by th~i' ',Vi,lh the, eo, nsent of the other Hcaring Panellllcmbers, this the
:~ls'l':J~'~' 2013,

-0-1~" dllY nr~~

-,--1'/-

"-,

Fred 1v\, Morelock

Chair, Disciplinary Ilcaring Pancl

8

