NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0901382

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
John R. Bennett, III,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 28, 2010, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the gIievance filed against you by M.M.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
M.M. retained you to prepare estate plan documents. M.M. paid you $7,500. M.M. was
not satisfied with your services and requested a fee adjustment. You informed M.M. that you
would not refund any portion of the fee and advised M.M. to file a petition for a disputed fee
with the State Bar. M.M. filed a petition for a disputed fee. You received notice of the fee
dispute. Although you provided a written response to the fee dispute, you failed to respond to the

fee dispute facilitator's request for additional information. Failure to respond to the fee dispute
facilitator constitutes a failure to participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process in
violation of Rule 1.5(f).
Because you failed to complete the fee dispute process, a grievance was initiated against
you. In response to the grievance, you stated that an infection caused by a leg injury prevented
you from responding to the fee dispute facilitator. On March 17,2010, Deputy Counsel left you
a voice mail message asking you to provide proof of your illness. You failed to respond. On
June 7, 2010, Deputy Counsel sent you a letter asking for proof of your illness. You failed to
respond. Yom failure to respond to Deputy Counsel's request for additional information is a
violation of Rule 8.I(b).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amOlmt
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

...4.._ day of

0 .

~

«

a.....

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/npm

,2010

