STATE OF NORTH CARO

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

CORRECTED
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
RICHARD V. BROADNAX, Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was heard on August 23, 2004 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofM. AIm Reed, Chair, T. Richard Kane,
and LpITaine .Stephens. JenniferA. Porterrepresented. the Plaintiff, the North Carolina.
State Bar. Defendant, Richard V. Broadnax, did not appear and was not represented.
Based upon the pleadings and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws ofN0l1h Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNo11h Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Richard V. Broadnax ("Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1997, and is, and was at all times refelTed to herein, an
attollleyat law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Reidsville, Rockingham County, North Carolina.
4.
Defendant was properly served with process and the hearing was held with
due notice to all parties.

5.
In about December 2002, Jason M. Miles ("Miles") hired Defendant to
represent him in a child custody/visitation case and paid Defendant an advance fee of
$400.00.
6.
On December 27,2002 Defendant filed a complaint seeking custody or
reasonable visitation on Miles' behalf.

7.
Defendant.

The opposing party filed an answer and served interrogatories upon

8.
Defendant did not answer the intelTogatories in a timely manner nor did he
obtain consent from the opposing party to delay answering the interrogatories.
9.
Opposing party filed a motion to compel discovery and for attomey's fees.
The motion was calendared for the June 2, 2003 civil court session, with a calendar call
on May 27,2003.
10.
Defendant failed to appear at calendar call on May 27,2003. The hearing
was set for June 12,2003. Defendant failed to appear for the hearing on June 12,2003.
·11.· . The Court granted opposing party's motion and entered an order on July
14,2003 requiring Miles to pay opposing counsel $1,600.00 as a sanction for failure to
pal1icipate in discovery.
12.
Miles 1iled a grievance with the State Bar on or about November 25,2003.
On or about December 22, 2003, Defendant received a Letter of Notice from the Chair of
the Glievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar regarding the grievance filed
by Miles against him.
13.
Defendant was required to respond within fifteen (15) days of receipt
purSLUU1.t to the tem1S of the Letter Of Notice aild Rule .0112(c) of the Discipline ahd
Disability Rules ofthe N011h Carolina State Bar (27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .01 12(c)).
14.
required.

Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen days as

15.
In or about September 2000 Latonya Rice ("Rice") hired Defendant for a
fan1ily law case involving changing the last name of her grandchild.
16.

On or abollt October 19, 2003 Rice filed a fee dispute with the State Bar.

17.
Defendant was notified of the fee dispute by certified mail on or about
October 27,2003 and was ordered to respond within 15 days.
18.

Defendant failed to respond or participate in the fee dispute program.

- 2­

19.
Based on Defendant's failure to respond or participate in the fee dispute
program, the State Bar opened a grievance file. On or about February 19, 2004
Defendant received a Letter of Notice from the Chair of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the fee dispute filed by Rice.
20.
Defendant was required to respond within fifteen (15) days of receipt
pursuant to the tem1S of the Letter of Notice and Rule .OlI2(c) of the Discipline and
Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar (27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01 12(c)).
21.
required.

Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen days as

On or about June 12, 2002 Margaret M. Steadwell ("Steadwell") hired
Defendant to help her regain her driving privileges.
??

23.

On or about October 27,2003 Steadwell filed a fee dispute with the State

Bar.
24.
Defendant was notified of the fee dispute by certified mail on or about
October 31, 2003 and was ordered to respond within 15 days.
25.

Defendant failed to respond or participate in the fee dispute program.

26.
Based on Defendant's failure to respond or participate in the fee dispute
program, the State Bar opened a grievance file. On or about March 3, 2004 Defendant
received a Letter of Notice from the Chair of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the fee dispute filed by Steadwell.
27.
Defendant was required to respond within fifteen (15) days of receipt
pursuant to the terms ofthe Letter ofNotice and Rule .OlI2(c) of the Discipline and
Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar (27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01l2(c)).
28.
required.

Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen days as

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the healing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over the Defendant, Richard V. Broadnax, and the subject
matter.
2.
The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

·3·

a.	 By failing to respond to discovery requests on behalf of Jason Miles in a
timely manner and failing to appear at the hearing on the motion to compel
discovery, Defendant neglected a client matter in violation of Rule 1.3.
b.	 By failing to respond to the Letters of Notice issued by the Chair of the
Grievance Committee concerning Jason Miles, Margaret Steadwell, and
Latonya Rice within the deadlines established in the Letters of Notice and by
the rules, Defendant failed to timely respond to inquilies by the Bar in
violation of Rule 8.I(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3).
c.	 By failing to respond to the notices of petition for fee dispute resolution for
fee disputes filed by Margaret Steadwell and Latonya Rice, Defendant failed
to participate in good faith with the fee dispute resolution process of the North
Carolina State Bar in violation of Rule I.S(f).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments of the parties concerning appropriate discipline, the hearing
committee hereby makes additional .
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.	

The Committee finds the following aggravating factors:
a.	

2.

Defendant has prior disciplinary offenses, as follows: Defendant
received a reprimand dated August 6, 2003 for failing to respond to
the North Carolina State Bar's letter of notice and Defendant
received an admonition dated Febmary 9, 2004 for neglecting a
..	 client nlaUer, failing to respond to the North Carolina State Bar's
letter of notice, and failing to participate in the State Bar's fee
dispute resolution program;

b.	

Defendant has engaged in a pattern of misconduct;

c.	

Defendant has engaged in multiple offenses;

d.	

Defendant's victim, Jason Miles, was vulnerable in that he lived in
Iowa and had to fly to North Carolina for any proceedings; and

e.	

Defendant showed indifference to making restitution.

The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
a.	 Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive.

-4­

3.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.
Defendant has significantly hanned his client, Jason Miles, by failing to
refund the uneamed portion of the fee paid by Miles to Defendant and by failing to pay
the $1,600 sanction imposed upon Miles for Defendant's failure to comply with
discovery.
5.
Defendant's failure to participate in mandatory fee arbitration and failure

to respond to the Letters of Notice from the State Bar interfered with the State Bar's

ability to regulate attomeys and undennined the privilege oflawyers in this State to

remain self-regulating.

6.
This DHC Committee has considered lesser altel11atives and finds that a

public censure or reprimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of

the halll1 caused by the conduct of the Defendant to the public and to the administration

ofjustice.

7.
This DHC Committee finds Defendant's conduct caused significant harm
and significant potential hann to clients, to the administration ofjustice, to the profession,
and to members ofthe public, and that a discipline more severe than public censure or
reprimand is necessary to protect the public.
8.
Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail to
aclmowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would be
inconsistent with orders of discipline entered by this body in similar cases and would
send the wrong message to attomeys regarding the conduct expected of members of the
Bar in this State.
9.
For those reasons, this DHC Committee believes and so finds that an
. Order calling for a disciplilie shod of a sllspei1sion ciftheDefendant's law license wOllld
not be appropriate.

Based upon the foregoing findings and conclusions of law and the arguments of
the parties, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The license of the Defendant, Richard V. Broadnax, is hereby suspended
for three years, beginning 30 days from the date of service of this order upon the
Defendant.

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the NOlih Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.

-5­

3.
Defendant sha11 comply with the wind down provisions contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this order Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address at which clients seeking retum of files can obtain such files
and shall promptly retum all files to his clients upon request.
5.
After serving one year of the active suspension of his license, Defendant
may apply for reinstatement upon filing a petition with the Secretary of tile North
Carolina State Bar demonstrating the following by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence:
a.	

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the tenTIS of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 oftlle State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

b.	

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon him.

c.	

That within 60 days of service of this order Defendant paid the $50
in costs owed in grievance files 03GI055 and 03G1217 in which
he received an admonition.

d.	

That within 60 days of service of this order Defendant paid $1,600
toOl asOriMiles wh6is uridei·c6urtordei·to pay $ 1;600 asasanCtiol1··
in Jason Miles v. Ivy Williams, 02 CVD 12825, Guilford County
District COllrt Civil Division in an order filed on July 15,2003.

e.	

That within 60 days of service of this order Defendant refunded to
Jason Miles the advance fee of $400 paid to him by Miles.

f.	

That not less than 60 days before seeking reinstatement Defendant
was evaluated by the Lawyers Assistance Program or by a
psychiatrist approved by the State Bar at his own expense, and that
he complied and continues to comply with any and all treatment
recommendations of the LAP program or the psychiatrist. The
medical evaluation and treatment shall be obtained at Defendant's
expense.

-6­

g.	

TIlat within ten days of obtaining the evaluation described above,
Defendant signed the appropliate releases and medical
authorizations and provided the releases to the North Carolina
State Bar Office of Counsel, authorizing counsel to speak with his
psychiatrist or the LAP personnel and obtain copies of his medical
records from the psychiatrist andlor other records from LAP.
Defendant shall not revoke these releases.

h.	

That DefendaI1t complied and continues to comply with any and all
requests by the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel for any
reports, medical records, LAP evaluations or mental health
evaluations at his expense

I.	

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home address.

J.	

That he has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar received after the effective date of this order
.within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner.

k.	

1.	

m.	

That he has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
or the laws of the United States or any state.
That he paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education
...	 (CLE) requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice during
the suspension.
That he has participated in the NOlih Carolina State Bar's fee
dispute resolution process for any subsequent petition received
after the effective date of this order, participated in good faith and
refunded all fees that were detennined to be subject to refund by
the mediation process.

6.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as he continues to comply with the
conditions set out in paragraphs 5 (f) - (m).
7.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions referenced in Paragraph
6, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in

-7­

§ .0114(x) ofthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
8.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of
his law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs 5 (a) - (m)
above before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law.
9.
The Discip linary Hearing Conmlission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .Oll4(x) of the
N011h Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

Si~ by the C~the consent

this the /~

day of

/1!tf3.e"

<::;;

ofthe other hearing committee members,
2004.

~tLv££2
M. Ann Reed
I
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Committee

-8­

...............

BEFORE THE
COMMISSION
cP
OF THE
~ ORTH CAROLlNA STATE BAR
Ri.·
04DHC20

rlf£l~lTILlNARYHEARING

_.-

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
ORDER FOR CORRECTION OF
CLERICAL ERROR IN ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
RICl-IARD V. BROADNAX, Attorney,

Defendant

This matter being before the hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed ofM. Ann Reed, Chair, T. Richard Kane, and Lorraine Stephens upon Plaintiffs
Motion for Correction of Clerical Error in the Order of Discipline previously issued in this case
in accordance with Rule 60(a) of the North Carolina Rules ofCivil Procedure and 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(z)(3) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules. Finding that clerical errors exist in the Order of Discipline previously
issued in this case and finding that such errors are appropriately cOlTected under Rule 60(a) of
the NOlih Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure,

.......... -

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that a Con'ected Order of Discipline be entered in this case,
cOlTecting clerical errors as follows: the paragraphs Lmder the Order of Discipline section are
renumbered as #1 through #9 consecutively, the reference to paragraph 6 in the current
paragraphs 7 and 9 are changed to paragraph 5, and any other references affected by the re­
numbering are· adj usted accordingly; . ·

Finding that con'ection of these clerical elTors makes no substantive change in the Order
of Discipline, IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that all applicable post-hearing time periods will
remain as they were prior to entry of this order, proceeding from service upon Defendant of the
original Order of Discipline in this case.
.I'l

th

+,
/ !<-u_ _

Signed b~~he consent of the other hearing committee members, this the
day of 1.1 ~ I ,2004.

~.~

.

. Ann Reed

Chair, Disciplinary Healing Committee


