BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
JEFFREY S. BERMAN, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATIER was heard on 8 March 2013 by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, Chair, William M. Claytor, and Karen B.
Ray pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar. Carmen Hoyme Bannon represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, Jeffrey S. Berman was represented by Dudley A. Witt and David B. Freedman.
Based upon the pleadings, stipulations, and evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing
panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintift; the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the Geueral Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Jeffrey S. Berman ("Defendant" or "Berman"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on 19 March 1988, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules
of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Berman was actively engaged in the
practice oflaw in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.
4.
Defimdant was properly served with process and received due notice of the
hearing in this mattcr.

5.
On 22 March 2011, Vanessa Greeson's five month old granddaughter, K.C., was
admitted to the hospital with serious injuries. The Guilford County Department of Social
Services (DSS) was notified.
6.
DSS held a meeting at the hospital before K.C. was discharged to discuss
concerns about her health and implement a plan for K.C.'s safety. Neither Greeson nor K.C.'s
parents were permitted by DSS to take K.C. home because they had been her primary caretakers
in the weeks preceding K.C.'s hospitalization.
7.
Greeson, KC.'s parents, and other family members agreed to a safety plan with
DSS that provided K.C. would live with Greeson's sister, Teresa Staley, and the only visitation
permitted would be supervised visitation by K.C. 's parents.
8:
Greeson and other family members were concerned that DSS would try to take
custody ofK.C.
9.
In late May 2011, Greeson sought legal advice from Berman regarding her
granddaughter's status and placement. They met several times, and Greeson's daughter (K.C.'s
mother) and KC. 's father accompanied Greeson to one of the meetings with Berman.
10,
Greeson told Berman that DSS was involved with the family and had placed K.C.
with Staley. Greeson also told Berman that DSS had identified her as one of the people who
could have ioflicted KC. 's injuries.
11.
Berman told Greeson that if they acted immediately, he could file something with
the court that would "trump" any action by DSS to take custody ofKC.
12.
Berman prepared a verified complaint for child custody on behalf of Greeson.
KC.' s parents were named as defendants.
13.
At the time he prepared the verified complaint, Berman was aware that in order
for a nonparent to obtain custody under North Carolina law, there must be a showing that the
child's parents acted in a manner inconsistent with their constitutionally-protected parental
status.
14.
Berman intentionally omitted from the custody complaint any allegation that
K.C.'s parents acted in a marmer inconsistent with their constitutionally-protected parental status.
15.
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 50A-209 requires all parties to custody proceedings to state
under oath the child's current address, where and with whom the child has lived in the preceding
five years, and the names and addresses of any non-party who has physical custody of the child.
16.
Berman prepared an Affidavit as to Status of Minor Child that Greeson executed
and Berman attached to the custody complaint. The affidavit stated that from birth through the
present, K.c. had lived with her "mother and/or third party," It provided no addressees) and did
not reveal that Staley had physical custody ofK.C.

2

17.
At the time Berman prepared the Affidavit as to Status of Minor Child, he was
aware of the requirements of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 50A-209. Berman also knew that K.C. (who was
only five months old) had been living with Staley pursuant to a DSS safety plan for more than
two months.
18.
Berman prepared a consent order giving Greeson joint legal custody and primary
physical custody ofK.C. On 7 June 2011, Berman filed the verified complaint for child custody
and affidavit, and presented the consent order only to the court ex parte.
19.
Because Berman intentionally omitted pertinent information from the Affidavit as
to Status of Minor Child, the document was misleading.
20.
Berman did not provide the court with the complaint or affidavit, did not inform
the COUll that DSS was involved with the family because of injuries to the child, or inform the
COUll that K.C. had been living with a third party due to concerns about her health and welfare.
21.

Berman falsely informed the COUll that K.C. was already living with Greeson.

22.
But for Berman's false statement and intentional omission of material facts, the
court would not have entered the order granting Greeson custody ofK.C.
23.
When DSS discovered that Greeson had obtained custody ofK.C. by way of the
consent order, it immediately filed a petition alleging that K.C. was abused, neglected, and
dependent. As a result, K.C. was placed in foster care for at least six months before she was
returned to her fanlily.
.
24.
Berman was certified as a mediator by the N01lh Carolina Dispute Resolution
Commission ("the Commission"), a statutorily-created agency established under the Judicial
Department.
25.
The Commission's role is to certify and regulate private mediators who serve
North Carolina cOUlls, which includes insuring that certified mediators are "of good moral
character and adhere to any standards of practice for mediators acting pursuant to . . . Rules
adopted by the Supreme Court."
26.
To maintain his certification, Berman was required to submit to the Commission
an annual Mediator Certification Renewal Application (hereafter "Renewal Application").
27.
In August 2011, Berman received notice of North Carolina State Bar grievance
#l1G0891, relating to a complaint filed with the State Bar regarding his representation of
Vanessa Greeson.
28.
In September 20 I I, Berman submitted his annual Renewal Application to the
Commission. Although the Renewal Application form specifically inquired whether any
complaints or disciplinary proceedings were pending against him before any professional
licensing or regulatory body, Berman failed to disclose that grievance #11 G0891 was pending
against him.

3

29.
In August 2012, Bennan again filed his annual Renewal Application. In the 2012
Application, Bennan certified and affirmed that no complaints or disciplinary proceedings were
pending against him with any professional licensing or regulatory body.
30.
In both the 2011 and the 2012 Renewal Application, Berman certified that he had
"given true, accurate, and complete infonnation" on the renewal form.
31.
At the time he submitted the September 2011 and the August 2012 Renewal
Applications, Berman was aware that grievance #11 G0891 was still pending against him.
Pursuant to Commission Rules, Berman was required to report to the Commission
32.
within 30 days of receiving notice of any "disciplinary complaint(s) filed with or actions taken
by a professional licensing or regulatory body."
33.
Berman was served with the complaint in this DHC case on 28 August 2012. He
did not report the pending DHC proceeding to the Commission within 30 days after he was
served with the DHC complaint.
34.
Berman represented the plaintiff in Goins v. Hyde, Guilford County file no 12
CVD 11092, a domestic case.
35.
On 5 December 2012, Berman presented the Goins complaint and a request for
emergency custody to the Chief District Court Judge.
36.

The Chief Judge denied Berman's request for emergency custody.

37.
Berman then asked the Chief Judge if the case could be set later that month for a
hearing on temporary custody. The Chief Judge said no, reminding Berman that pursuant to
local rules the parties were required to participate in mediation prior to a custody hearing.
38.
Berman then approached another District Court judge in the hallway of the
courthouse and asked him to hear his request for emergency custody in the Goins matter on 18
December 2012. This -oral request was not made in the course of official proceedings and
Berman did not give the opposing party notice of his communication with the second judge.
39.
Bennan did not inform the second judge that his request for emergency custody in
the Goins caSe had already been heard and denied by the Chief Judge.
Based on the record and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and this tribunal has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Jeffrey S. Bennan, and the subject matter of this proceeding.

4

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in tbat Berman violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:
(a) By filing a custody complaint on behalf of a non-parent that he knew did not
contain legally sufficient allegations to justify the relief sought, Berman brought a
proceeding that lacked basis in law andlor fact in violation of Rule 3.1;
(b) By teIling the court that K.C. already lived with Greeson, Berman knowingly
made a false statement of material fact to the tribunal in violation of Rule 3 J(a);
(c) By failing to disclose K.C.'s injury, current custodian, and DSS involvcment to
the court when presenting the consent order to the judge ex parte, Berman failed
to disclose all material facts known to him that would enable the judge to make an
informed decision in violation of Rule 3J(d);
(d) By misleading the court into ordering custody of K. C. to his client, Berman
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(c) and condnct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation
of Rule 8.4(d);
(e) By failing to disclose the pending grievance against him on the 2011 Renewal
Application, Berman engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
(f) By falsely certifying and affirming on the 2012 Renewal Application that no
complaints or disciplinary proceedings were pending against him, Berman
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(c);

(g) By failing to provide complete and truthful information to the Commission,
thereby impeding the Commission's ability to carry out its regulatory function,
Berman engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d); and
(h) By failing to disclose to the second judge that his request for emergency custody
in the Goins matter had already been denied by another judge, Berman failed to
inform the tribunal in an ex parte proceeding of all material facts that would
enable the tribunal to make an informed decision in violation of Rule 3.3(d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the additional
evidence regarding discipline presented at the hearing, the hearing panel hereby finds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The findings of fact in paragraphs I through 39 above are incorporated as if fully
set forth herein.

5

2.
specifically.

Berman has substantial experience in the practice of law and in custody cases

3.
KC., an infant who was less than a year old at the time of these events, was
extraordinarily vulnerable.
4.
At the time Berman prepared, presented, and filed the custody order granting
Greeson custody ofKC., Berman was aware that: (a) the baby had sustained serious i~uries, (b)
child protective services was involved with the family, and (c) DSS had identified his client as
one of the people who could have inflicted K.C.'s injuries. By engaging in the course of conduct
described above, Berman created a foreseeable risk of potentially catastrophic harm to the infant
by seeking to place her in the care of someone who had not yet been ruled out as the perpetrator
of abuse against KC.
"
5.
Greeson's stated purpose for hiring Berman was to try to avoid having her
granddaughter placed in foster care. The custody order Berman prepared and filed was the
impetus for DSS's decision to file a juvenile petition and place KC. in foster care. Thus,
Berman's actions in representing Greeson caused the very outcome she sought to avoid.
6.
Greeson relied on Berman's professional judgment and legal knowledge to
effectuate her goal of keeping K C. out of foster care. Both Greeson and her daughter testified
they would not have signed the consent custody order had they known what the consequences
would be.
7.
The juvenile court ultimately found that "there is no credible evidence ... that
either parent was responsible for [K.C.'s] injury." Berman's actions in representing Greeson
caused significant harm to KC. 's mother, in that she experienced substantial anxiety and distress
about her daughter's placement in a foster home, her visitation with KC. was very limited for a
period of time after K.C. entered foster care, and her daughter was not returned to her care until"
more than six months later.
8.
Greeson and her daughter indicated that due to their experience with Berman,
they will be less trusting of attorneys in the future.
9.
Lawyers have special duties as officers of the court to avoid conduct that
undermines the integrity of the adjudicative process. Causing or allowing the tribunal to be
misled by false statements or material omissions is a breach of a lawyer's duty of candor to the
tribunal. Berman's lack of candor with the court undelmined the integrity of the adjudicative
process.
10.
The orderly and efficient administration of justice is undermined when lawyers
are not forthright and truthful with the court.
II.
In his initial response to the State Bar regarding the grievance related to his
representation of Greeson, Berman sought to justifY his actions and did not express remorse.
12.

Berman has no prior professional discipline.

6

13.
Bennan's mediator certification was revoked by the Commission due to the
allegations of misconduct in this matter and due to Bennan's failure to report the pending
grievance against him on his 2011 and 2012 Renewal Applications.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional Findings
of Fact Regarding Discipline, and upon consideration of the factors set forth in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, SUbchapter B, § .0114(w), the hearing panel hereby enters the following
additional
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §
.0114(w) of the Discipline and Disciplinary Rules of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes
that the following factors are present in this case:
(a)

Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential hann was
foreseeable;

(b)

Circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;

(c)

Negative impact of the defendant's actions on client's and/or public's
perception of the profession;

(d)

Negative impact of defendant's actions on the administration of justice;

(e)

Impainnent of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation;

(f)

Effect ofthe defendant's conduct on third parties;

(g)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, or deceit;

(h)

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

(i)

A pattern of misconduct;

G)

Multiple offenses;

(k)

Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of the conduct in defendant's
initial response to the State Bar;

(I)

Lack of remorse in defendant's initial response to the State Bar;

(m)

Vulnerability of the victim;

(n)

Significant experience in the practice of law; and

(0)

Imposition of other penalties or sanctions.

7

2.
The hearing panel has considered admonition, reprimand, and censure as potential
discipline but finds that admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be sufficient discipline
because of the gravity of the harm to the administration of justice and the actual and potential
harm to the public in the present case. Furthermore, the panel finds that any sanction less than
suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant,
would not adequately protect the public, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
3.
In light of all the relevant facts and circumstances, the hearing panel finds and
concludes that the public will be adequately protected by a one-year suspension of Defendant's
license.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is hereby
suspended for one year, beginning 30 days from the date of service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124. As provided in § .0124(d), Defendant shall file
an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective
date of this order, certifying he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
The administrative fees and costs of this action, including deposition costs, are
taxed to Defendant. Defendant must pay the costs of this action within 30 days of service upon
him of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
1.
At the conclusion of the one year active suspension of his license, Defendant may
apply to be reinstated to the practice of law by filing a petition with the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar demonstrating compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement set
forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B § .0125(b) and demonstrating the
following by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
a.

That hc properly wound down his law practice and complied with the terms of §
.0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

b.

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service of the
statement of costs upon him;

c.

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of
his current business and home address;

8

d.

That he has responded to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar
received after the effective date of this order within 30 days of receipt 01' by the
deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner;

e.

That he has not engaged in the unauthorized practice of law during the period of
suspension; and

f.

That he has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct
United States or any state.

01'

the laws of the

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the 1st day
of May, 2013.

Walter E. Brock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

9

