NOV 2012
NORTH CAROL
WAKE COUNTY

FILEDDHC
~

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
~~
OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09 DHC 5

DIS

!';

II 9{ 51 ~\ 1.\

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)

v.

)

CONSENT ORDER

)

MARK L. BIBBS, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)

Defendant, Mark L Bibbs ("Bibbs" or "Defendant'), was ordered to appear and
show cause why the stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline entered in
this case on September 25,2009 should not be lifted and the suspension activated. This
matter was considered by a Heating Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed ofHaniett Smalls, Chair, Fred M. Morelock, and Karen Ray pursuant to 27
N.C.A.C. Chapter 1B §.0114(x). Plaintiff was represented by Margaret Cloutier.
Defendant was represented by Alan M. Schneider.
Based on the pleadings and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
finds by the greater weight of the evidence as follows:
1. The OHC has jurisdiction to hear this matter pllfsuant to 27 N.C.A.C. Chapter

1B § .0108(a)(1) and § .0109(1).
2. On September 25, 2009, the OHC entered an order finding that Bibbs had
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in several respects.
3. The September 25,2009 Order of Disciplinc (hereinafter "Order") sllspended
Bibbs's license to practice law for one year and stayed the sllspension for three years on
condition that Bibbs comply with the reqllirements set out in the order.
4. The Order ofOiseipline was served on Bibbs's attorney on September 28,
2009.
5. Bibbs has failed to comply with a number oftbe conditions oftbe stay ofthe
suspension of his license as follows:

a. The Order requires Bibbs to abstain Jl'om the consllmption of any
alcohol during the period of stay. Bibbs has consumed alcohol on the
following occasions:
i) on or abollt FebrualY 10, 2010 when he was present
in the Wilson County Courthouse while under the influence of an
impairing substance believed to be alcohol;
ii) on or about March 15,2010 when he fell in his
office and was seriously injured; and
iii) within reasonable proximity to June 6, July 20,
September 6, October 18,2011, and January 24, Febnlary24 and
Febl1lal'y 27, 2012, when random alcohol screening tests showed
positive reslJ!ts for the biomarkers of alcohol in his urine.

b. The Order requires Bibbs to comply with the monitoring
requirements of FirstLab Professional Health Monitoring Program, which
requirements include contacting the pl'ogl'am administrator on a daily basis.
Bibbs failed to properly contact the program administrator on thirty
occasions.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
of Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Defendant failed to comply with the following conditions of the stay of his
suspension contained in the Order:
a. That he abstain from the consumption of alcohol dnring the period of
stay; and
b. That he comply with the monitoring requirement ofFirtLab
Professional Health Monitoring Program that he contact the program
administrator daily.
3. Such violations wan3nt activation of a p01iion of the suspension and, if
Defendant successfully applies fol' ftlliher stay, extension of the period of stay of
suspension for some length of time and under such C011ditions sufflCient to demonstrate
that Defendant is able to maintain his sobriety.

2

Based on the forgoing Findit\gs ofFaet and Conclusions of Law, the Healing
Panel enters the following:
ORDER
1. The stay ofDefendan!'s suspension is lifted and three months of the one-year
suspension previously imposed is activated. PUfsuaut to Rule .0124(c) of the NOlth
Carolina Stale Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, this order and the suspension imposed
herein are effective 30 days after service of this order upon Defendant. Defendant must
comply with the obligations of a suspended att011leyunder RIlle .0124 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules alld the requirements of the O~der of
Discipline and as amended herein.

2. After serving tlle activated three months of his suspension, Defendant may
apply to have the remainder of the one-year sllspension stayed by petitioning fOf
reinstatement to active status as stated in paragraph 3 on page 6 oflhe Order of
Discipline. In seeking a stay, Defendant must comply with the requirements of
Rule .0125(b) ofthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and the
requirements for reinstatement contained in paragraph 3 and its subparagraphs on pages 6
and 7 of the Order of Discipline. If Defendant applies for a stay of the snspension pdor
to the expiration of the one-year suspension, the period of sobriety reflected in paragraph
3(d) shall equal the length of active suspension.
3. lfDefendant is granted a stay of the suspension prior to the expiration of the
one-year suspension period, Defendant's newly imposed stay shall be in effect for two
years and be subject to, and contingent upon compliance with, the terms of the stayed
suspension in the September 25, 2009 Order of Discipline and the following additional
conditions:
a. The number of screens for the metabolites of alcohol required
through the FirstLab Professional Health Monitoring Program shall he
increased to thirty-five per year.
b. For any screening for the metabolites of alcohol that FirstLab
repolts as non-negative (that is, positive, adulterated, substituted, or invalid),
the State Bar shall promptly notity Defendant and request a review of the
test by FirstLab's medical review officer to detelllline if any alternative
medical explanations exist for the non-negative results. Such review shall
be at Defendant's expense and Defendant shall fully participate in such
medical review services.
c. In the event the medical review process results in a report of a test
confirmed positive for the metabolites of alcohol, the stay shall be lifted alld
the one-year suspension activated as follows:

3

i. The State Bar shall promptly notify Defendant of the
reviewer's report and such notification shall begin the thilty-day
wind down period provided ill Rule .0124 of the Discipline and
Disability Rules. Defendant shall comply with all reqtlirements of
Rule .0124.
ii. The remaining portion of the one-yeat· suspension shall
become effective on the thitty-first day following notification to
Defendant of the reviewer's report.

iii. Within ten days of notification to Defendant of the
reviewer's roport, Defendant may file a petition challenging the
accuracy of the test. Defendant must attach to the petition
documentary evidence or affidavit of a medical professional that
tends to show that the initial testing or reviewer's report is in error,
inaccurate, or otherwise tll1l'eliable.
.
iv. The issues raised in Defendant's petition will be heard
at a hearing scheduled as soon as practicable following the filing of
the petition. Defendant shall have the burden of showing by the
greater weight of the evidence that the initial testing or reviewer's
report is in error, inaccurate, 01' otherwise tmreliable.
vi. The filing of Defendant's petition with the
accompanying documentation will toll the wind-down period and
the effective date of the suspension tllltil the hearing is held.
4. If Defendant is not issued a stay prior to the expiration of the one-year
suspension period, then before Defendant may be reinstated to active status he mllst
satisfy the requirements ofR\lle .0125(b) of the NOlth Carolina State Bat· Discipline and

4

Disability Rules and all requirements for reinstatement contained in paragraph 5 and its
subparagraphs on pages 11 and 12 of the Order of Discipline.
Signed by the undersigned Chait· of the Disciplinary Hearing Panel with the
consent of the other Hearing Panel members.

Dated this

a611>- day of

.iJlflY?m./wt

,2012.

.~tlu~/L
Harriett Smalls, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO:

('.."~-... .::seV\,,~{ey V\,<r2,cte.y, Oq~~ (0,,",&, .(0,-

...........Mafgaret Cloutier, Deputy Counsel
....---Attorney for Plaintiff
By signing this Consent Order Defendant knowingly and volllntal11y, with advice of
counsel, waives the procedures set fOlth in Rule ,0114(x) of the Discipline and Disability
Rules
~'1-'- - ,

/J'l
Alan M. Schnei er, Attotney for Defendant

5

