4\1 131{ /[

j;", \.
f

/-;,

J

/"

-AI!,J,m

Sf.

STATE OF NORTH CAR~IN!FI! t:::'
iJ"I

~

-;:p

~

p 20If'

I.<;;D DHAJIS

~

1.,,'

<'"'.

WAKE COUNTY

Gr ~

<..;.

,'i,~

~ "J""

C

~

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
I I DHC 2

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

JOE E. BIESECKER, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of M. Hood Ellis, Chair, Robert F. Siler and Percy L. Taylor
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB ยง .0114 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by William N. Fanel!.
Defendant, Joe E. Biesecker, was represented by Douglas 1. Brocker. Defendant waives
a fOlmal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the entry 0 f this
order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent
order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes, by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper pmty to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 ofthe North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Joe E. Biesecker ("Biesecker" or "Defendant"), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar on August 16, 1968, and is, and was at all times refened
to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of
the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the NOrtll Carolina State Bar
and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Lexington, Davidson County, North Carolina.

4.
On or about March 19, J998 Alan Horner ("Horner") and Stewart Gloor
("Gloor") formed a professional corporation, Horner-Gloor & Associates, P.A. ("the
Company") whose purpose was to provide land surveying services.
5.

Homer and Gloor each owned 50% of the shares of the Company.

6.
On or about Jan 12,2004 Gloor asked Homer to buyout Gloor's interest
in the Company.
7.
From January 12, 2004 through the end of March 2004 Gloor and Homer
had various discussions regarding the terms of the buy-out.
8.
On or about April 9, 2004, Gloor and Homer together with their respective
counsel met for the purpose of resolving their remaining issues. Defendant was not
present and did not represent either party at this meeting.
9.
A "memorandum of agreement" was signed by Horner and Gloor on
April 9,2004.
10.
Disputes arose thereafter between Gloor and Homer regarding alleged
breaches of the agreement.
II.
Horner commenced an action against Gloor in Davidson County Civil
Superior Court, North Carolina, File Number 04 CVS 2479 ("the Davidson County
action") seeking damages and various forms of relief
12.
Defendant represented Gloor in this action and alleged counterclaims on
Gloor's behalf.
13.
On or about February 13,2007 Superior Court Judge Presiding Erwin W.
Spainhour conducted a hearing on various motions in the Davidson County action.
14.
In that hearing, Judge Spainhour announced in open court that the
checking account from the Bank ofNOlih Carolina, bank account number ending
****2039, as owned by the Company shall be closed immediately; that the funds shall be
placed in the trust account of Joe Biesecker (Defendant), attorney for Gloor, and shall be
held by him, in trust for the benefit of both Gloor and Horner, until further order of the
Superior Court of Davidson County. A written order memorializing Judge Spainhour's
order was never prepared by Plaintiff s attorney, Scott Tippett, although he indicated to
the Court that he would do so.
15.
On or about February 15,2007, pursuant to Judge Spainhour's order,
Gloor wrote a check from the Company account to Biesecker, Tripp, Sink & Fritts, LLP
in the amount of $47,036.82 ("trust funds").
16.

This check was deposited into the trust account of Defendant's law firm.

17.
The funds deposited into Defendant's tnlst account were to be held in trust
for the benefit of Gloor and Homer, according to Judge Spainhour's ruling.
18.
Defendant received the trust funds pursuant to Judge Spainhour's oral
order. Subsequent to the February 13 hearing, Defendant made numerous efforts to
ensure compliance with the remainder of Judge' Spainhour's oral ruling.
19.
On April 20, 2007, Defendant filed a motion to dismiss the Davidson
County action on the ground that counsel for the plaintiff in that action had not prepared a
written order to reflect Judge Spainhollf's ruling made in open court on February 13,
2007.
20.

This motion was noticed for hearing on April 23, 2007.

21.
The hearing on the motion was continued from April 23, 2007 until the
September 10, 2007 term of Superior Court. Tippett requested the continuance and
Defendant agreed to it.
22.
On September 10, 2007, Gloor and Homer filed a joint Notice of
Voluntary Dismissal without prejudice in the Davidson County action. The notice was
signed by Tippett, Defendant and Gloor.
23.
Later that same day Defendant caused a check to be written from his
firol'S tnlst account to his client Gloor for the total anl0unt of the trust funds, $47,036.82,
pursuant to a letter from Gloor to Defendant, dated September 10, 2007 directing him to
send a check for the funds in his trust account to Gloor so he could put them in an
interest-bearing account. Contrary to Ius representation to Defendant, Gloor did not place
the returned funds in an interest bearing account but instead deposited them into the
business operating account for Stewart Gloor Land Surveying, P.A., unbeknownst to
Defendant at the time.
24.
Defendant noted on the check "Refund of funds paid into Trust on 2/15/07
Receipt # 78066".
25.

Gloor deposited this check the same day, September 10, 2007.

26.
Defendant did not make an application to the Superior Court seeking
authorization for the disbursement of the trust funds from his trust account.
27.
Gloor did not have the legal right to procure the withdrawal of the trust
funds from Defendant's trust account.
28.
Although Defendant knew that Defendant Homer was entitled to at least
one half of the tnlst funds held in the trust account, he mistakenly believed he had no
obligation to Homer because he concluded the voluntary dismissal without prejudice
nullified Judge Spainhour's order placing the funds in trust.

29.
Defendant did not advise Homer or his counsel of his intention to disburse
the trust funds.
30.
Defendant did not advise Homer or his counsel that he had disbursed the
funds to his client Gloor.
31.
Homer and his counsel did not learn that the funds had been disbursed
from Defendant's trust account until November 19, 2008 during the testimony of Gloor in
the Guilford court action.
32.
Gloor used the trust funds received from Defendant to pay personal bills
for he and his wife, his company's bills, and attorney fees, including $30,638.49 to
Defendant for legal fees related to his representation of Gloor in the Davidson County
action. The fees were paid by Gloor from the business operating account for Stewart
Land Surveying, P.A. over a month after the dismissal and Defendant's return of the
funds to Gloor. Defendant was not aware that Gloor had used the funds to pay personal
expenses, including his fees, until sometime during the proceedings in the Guilford
County action.
33.
Gloor's personal use of the funds was contrary to the advice of Defendant,
who wrote Gloor on September 12, 2004 that he was required to honor the memo of
agreement with Homer and that Homer was cntitled to his share ofthe account.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Pane! and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Joe E. Biesecker, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. Section 84-28(b) (a) as follows:
(a)
By disbursing the entire trust fund to Gloor, half of which
belonged to Homer, Defendant failed to identifY, hold and maintain the entrusted
property of Homer, in violation of Rule 1.15-2 (a) of tile Rules of Professional Conduct
and which had the effect of benefiting his client Gloor in violation of Rule US-2 0) of
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent
and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDIND DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant's conduct, the disbursement of the entire trust fund to Gloor,
caused significant harm to Horner. Horner was entitled to one half of the trust fund and

has not been able to recover it because Gloor dissipated the entire amount for his own
uses after receiving same from Defendant.
2.

Defendant has no prior discipline in his forty three years of practice.

3.
Defendant enjoys a reputation of good character in his professional and
personal life with the exception of the conduct at issue in this case.
4,
Defendant has cooperated with the State Bar's investigation ofthis matter
and in reaching a resolution in these proceedings.
5.
Defendant acknowledges his conduct violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct and is remorseful for his actions.
6.
In recognition of the harm to Homer, Defendant has made restitution to
Homer in the amount of$23,518.41, one half of the funds disbursed, to rectifY a
consequence of Defendant's conduct.
7.
Based upon Defendant's lack of prior discipline in forty three years of
practice, his good professional reputation, and his substantive experience in the practice
of law, there is little likelihood ofrepetition of misconduct.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the foHowing
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fom1s of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in27 N.C.A.C. lB ยง .OlI4(w) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and determines the following factors are applicable:
a. Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offense;
b. Good faith efforts to make restitution;
c. Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
d, Remorse;
e. Defendant's reputation for good character;
f. Defendant's substantial experience in the practice of law; and

g. Vulnerability of Horner.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it including Admonition, Reprimand and Censure in considering the
appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

3.
The Hearing Panel finds that censure is the appropriate discipline in this
case for the following reasons:
a. The general factors under 27 N.C.A.C. lB ยง .0114(w) of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the additional findings regarding
discipline that are established by the evidence in this case are of a nature to support
imposition of a censure.
b. Defendant has made a substantial effort to rectify his misconduct and is
remorseful for his acknowledged misconduct.
c. The conduct at issue in this case is an isolated incident in the context of
forty three years of practice without any prior discipline.
d. Protection ofthe public does not require the suspension of Defendant's
license to practice law.
e. Entry of an Order of Discipline imposing lesser discipline than a
censure would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the misconduct committed by
Defendant, would be inconsistent with discipline issued in prior cases, and would send
the wrong message to Defendant, other attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected ofmembers ofthe North Carolina State Bar.
f. The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that
Defendant be censured so t11at he understands his obligation to third parties and the legal
profession.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Conclusions
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the followillg:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.

Defendant, Joe E. Biesecker, is herby censured.

2.
The costs of this action are taxed to Defendant, including the cost of the
depositions taken in this case allowed by statute. The deposition costs were necessarily
incurred for the prosecution of this proceeding. Defendant will receive a statement of
costs from the State Bar and will pay tlJese costs within 30 days of the effective date of
this order.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Committee.

1'7 "day Of_--=)ep----"'-'/-edrvl_-"--'---'----_, 2011.

This the

M. Hood EllIs
Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Consented to by:

l...l ~(M"v>"

1\ยฃ

t~

William N. Farrell
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
P.O. Box 25908
Raleigh, NC 2761 1
Counsel for Plaintiff

