. .r

NORTH CAROLINA
,

WAKE COUNTY
,.,,.;-

, ;.. .:..:. :.' :

,>:,..13 F!;,

n.-:

,.i,J

\: .32

BEFORE THE COUPJCIL
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

- - -- -- IN THE >IATTER OF
CHAFLES THOMAS BIGGS,
Attorney at Law, Durham,
North Carolina

)

1

ORDER

)

THIS CAUSE came on to be heard before the Council of
The North Carolina State Bar at its regular quarterly meeting on
September 27, 1979, said meeting held in the Radisson Plaza Hotel,
Charlotte, North Carolina upon the petition of Charles Thc::.az
Biggs.

From said petition and the oral representations of James A.

Cole, attorney for Nr. Siggs, the Council finds the Eolloi~inqfacts:
1.

The Council of The B o r t h C=ro1i~iState Bar at its

regular meeting on April 5, 1977 ~cceptedthe resisnation of
Charles Thomas Biggs and the tender of his license to practice
law and suspended him from the practice of law for a period of
three (3) years.

Said suspension resulting from a conviction in

the United States District Court for the Middle District of North
Carolina.
2.

On February 15, 1978, Charles Thomas Biggs was

paroled by the Federal authorities and returned to a full and
active life in Durham, North Carolina, where he resides with his
family.

In addition, Mr. Eiggs has fulfilled all of the require-

ments of tile sectence imposed by the United States District Court
and was officially discharged as of January 30, 1979.
3.

On March 6 , 1979 Mr. Biggs filed a petition with the

Council requesting a modification of the original Order of
Suspension and a request that the March 6, 1979 petition be treatej
as a petition for reinstatement.
4.

By Order dated April 26, 1979, Grady B. Stott,

President modified the original Order of Suspension and further
ordered that the Council of The North Carolina State Bar at its
regular quarterly meeting to be held in September of 1979 consider the petition filed by Mr. Biggs and to determine at that
meeting whether or not his license would be returned to him
effective February 1, 1980.

5.

After giving full consideration to the facts set

forth above and the petition and Order mentioned above and the
oral representations presented at the meeting of the Council on
September 27, 1979, the Council adopted the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the Petition for Reinstatement filed by

Mr. Biggs be allowed and that the license of Charles Thomas Biggs
be returned to him on February 1, 1980.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Charles Thomas Biggs be
taxed with the costs of this proceeding; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President is authorized
and directed to enter an appropriate Order.
Pursuant to the Resolution adopted by the Council of The
North Carolina State Bar, it is ORDERED:
1.

That effective February 1, 1980, Charles Thomas

Biggs shall be reinstated to the practice of law and his law
license returned to him.
2.

It is further ordered that Charles Thomas Biggs

be taxed with the costs of this proceeding.

Done at Charlotte, North Carolina, pursuant to the
Resolution duly adopted by the Council of The North Carolina State
Bar on September 27, 1979.
This the

day of October, 1979

E. K. Powe, President
The North Carolina State Bar

