BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0487,04G1100 & 06G0863

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

lN THE MATTER OF
J. David Bartenfield,
Attorney At Law

1
1
1

REPRIMAND

1
I

On January 24, 2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar, Diane Gackenback, and
Frank Greiner.
Pursuant to Section .0 1 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee
found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a
member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty o f misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending
upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors.
The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent
attorney.

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession, o r a
member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Over the course of several years you engaged in various instances of misconduct including
assault, communicating a threat, secret peeping, open container, fleeing from a police officer, and
assaulting a police officer. Your conduct constitutes criminal acts reflecting adversely on your
honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and
conduct prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee considered in mitigation your recent cooperation
and efforts to address the underlying problems.

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will bc bcncficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October IS, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar rcgarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount of $100.00 are hereby
taxed to you.

Done and ordcrcd, this thc

a D*

day of

3 L b

u

~ i r n eR
s ~ O XChair
,
Grievance ommittee

,2008

1

