STATE OF NORTH CAROL
WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IS BCS 6

ORDER OF DISBARMENT
L. J. BLACKWOOD II

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I, Subchapter B, §
.0 117(a) ofthe State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon tender of an affidavit of
surrender of license executed by L. J. Blackwood II ("Blackwood") on October 20, 20 IS
and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on October 21, 20 15.
Based upon the aftidavit, the Council finds that L. J. Blackwood misappropriated
fiduciary funds in violation of Rules 8.4(b) and 8.4( c) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct. L. J. Blackwood's conduct is grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.
§ 84-28(b )(2).
WHEREFORE, upon motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the
following Order:

I.

The tender of surrender of license ofL. J. Blackwood II is hereby
accepted.

2.

L. J. Blackwood II is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in
North Carolina.

3.

Blackwood shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code,
Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules. Blackwood shall surrender his license and permanent membership
card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the
affidavit required by § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules within ten days after the expiration ofthe wind-down period
provided under § .0117(e).

4.

The administrative fees and costs of this action are taxed against
Blackwood.

5.

Blackwood shall comply with the reinstatement provisions of27 N.C.
Admin. Code, Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0125 and as a condition

precedent to reinstatement shall reimburse all misappropriated fiduciary
funds in the amounts and to the recipients determined by the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission upon consideration of his petition for reinstatement.
6.

Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Blackwood shall provide
the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients
seeking return of files can communicate with Blackwood and obtain such
files.

7.

Blackwood shall promptly return client files in his possession, custody, or
control to clients upon request, within 5 days of receipt of such request.

8.

Blackwood will be deemed to have received any such request 3 days after
the date such request is sent to Blackwood if the request is sent to the
address Blackwood provided the State Bar pursuant to the preceding
paragraph.

Done and ordered this 23rd day of October, 2015.

Ronald L. Gibson, President
North Carolina State Bar

2

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

THE COUNCIL

WAKE COUNTY

TO THE COUNCIL OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR:

L. J. Blackwood

1.

n, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:

I desire to surrender and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2.
My surrender is freely and voluntarily rendered, and is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.
3.
I am aware that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar regard ing allegations
that I misappropriated at least $87,938.38 of entrusted client funds.
4.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are

true.
5.
I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them.
This is the

I,

(!tlyJdaa

e.'O day of October, 2015.

m'6iCfL

the County of (Ju,,/haf

, Notary Public of
, State of

J1iof.fh (l;;1rodba
, celiify that L. J.
Blackwood II personally appeared before me this day,
was sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit is true
and accurate of his own personal knowledge, and
executed the foregoing Affidavit.
This the ;20 day of

tlc/t;ber

, 2015.

~<£~ Notary
.11, y.2.c-e
Public
My commission expires:

rYl, cJ2dd

I

K

