NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13G0717

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Thomas D. Blue, Jr.
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 24, 2014 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infOlmation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detelmine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In November 2010, your firm made a disbursement to a client from that client's funds in
the firm's trust account. This disbursement was recorded on the firm's general ledger but was
mistakenly not recorded on the client ledger. In January 2012, the firm disbursed to the client
what appeared to be the balance held for the client according to the client ledger. Because ofthe
omission of the November 2010 disbursement from the client ledger, the January 2012

disbursement over-disbursed funds from the trust account to this client, using other entrusted
funds in the trust account. The bookkeeping error and consequent over-disbursement were not
discovered until a new assistant was conducting a quatierly reconciliation of the firm's trust·
account in August 2013.
You were designated within your law firm as the attorney to supervise the non-attorney
assistant to whom reconciliation of the firm's trust account had been delegated. You made
yourself available for any questions the assistant had and you were aware the assistant sent ~
mails to various attorneys in the firm reflecting her review of trust account records. You did not,
however, review any reconciliations of the trust account. If you had been reviewing quarterly
reconciliations, you would have discovered either that your assistant was not doing
reconciliations or you would have discovered the error if the reconciliation had been properly
done. During the investigation it was also discovered that the firm did not have a system in
place to ensure clients received annual accountings when due.
Based on this evidence the Grievance Committee found you failed to adequately
supervise your assistant in violation of Rule 5.3(b). Additionally, you failed to fulfill the duty
delegated to you in the firm to ensure the firm's trust account was reconciled monthly and
quatierly in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d). Last, the firm did not have a system in place to provide
annual accountings when due under Rule 1.15-3(e). A cornerstone of client trust in an attorney is
that the attorney will properly protect and maintain entrusted funds. The Grievance Committee
recognized several mitigating factors in this case in determining appropriate disposition. The
firm had a system in place to record disbursements on both the client ledger and trust account
ledger, which overall worked well; there is only one error that is at issue in this case. The firm
had a process in place by which reconciliations of the trust account were to occur, with
appropriate provision for attorney supervision of the reconciliations. The non-attorney assistant
to whom reconciliations had been entrusted periodically sent e-mails to billing attorneys
reflecting her review of trust account records, which would seem to provide assurance that the
non-attorney assistant was fulfilling her trust account duties. When the error was detected, you
appropriately self-repotied to the State Bar on behalf of the firm, the firm ensured the trust
account was reimbursed, and the firm developed corrected procedures. While these mitigating
factors do not excuse your failure to supervise the assistant and to ensure trust account
reconciliations were being properly conducted, they do support issuance of written discipline
rather than referral to the Disciplinary Hearing Commission.
You are hereby reprimanded by the NOlih Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the J)..rJ-. day of_-2(V\.
__
fr_"'_____, 2014.

John M. Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

