~~1\ 12";\1 .
\

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

..01

....

A

s .
(i'

dUtV
-'
BEFORE THE
<o/61!Dl&9 LINARYHEARlNG COMMISSION

liS'r

c.'D/f(ll

WAKE COUNTY

CO

OF THE

- ORtH CAROLINA STATE BAR

'"

16 DHC 10

.~~

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE If··
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
KEITH C. BOOKER, Attorney,
Defendant
THIS MATTER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven Michael, Chair, William o. King, and Tyler B. Morris.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian P.D. Oten. Defendant, Keith C.
Booker, was represented by Dudley A. Witt. Defendant waives a fOlmal hearing in this matter.
The parties stipulate and agree to the findings offact and conclusions oflaw recited in this order,
and consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry of this order,
Defendant knowingly, freely, and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings and conclusions herein.
Based on the foregoing and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Keith C. Booker ("Defendant" or "Booker"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Baron 24 August 1996 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney
at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of .
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the relevant periods referred to herein, Booker was actively engaged in the
private practice ofIaw in the city of China Grove, Rowan County, North Carolina.
4.

Booker was properly served with the SUl1lmons and complaint in this matter.

1

5.
From at least May 2013 to May 2014, Booker maintained an attorney trust account
at Bank of America, account number ending in 1330.
6.
From at least May 2013 to the present, Booker maintained a business operating
account at Bank of America, account number ending in 7993.
7.
During the periods of time recited above that Booker maintained an attorney trust
account, Booker gave his office manager authority to electronically transfer funds from his trust
account to his operating and/or personal accounts without Booker's supervision or approval,
many of which resulted in the over-disbursements and commingling of personal funds with
entrusted client funds noted below.
8.
Booker shared his responsibility to create, maintain, and review the trust account
records required by the Rules of Professional Conduct and his responsibility to review his
operating account .records with his oUlce manager. Booker failed to provide sufficient
instruction to ensure his office manager could carry out her assigned duties in accordance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct and Booker failed to take reasonable steps to review his office
manager's conduct.
9.
During the periods of time recited above that Booker maintained an attorney trust
account, Booker engaged in the following conduct:
n. On multiple occasions, Booker and/or Booker's office manager electronically
disbursed funds from his trust account to his operating account and personal
account without maintaining any record in the bank documents identifYing the
client against whose balance in the trust accOlmt the disbursements were being
made;
b. Booker disbursed more funds from Iris trust account for particular clients than he
.had in the trust account for those clients;
c. Booker routinely deposited and disbursed entrusted client funds into and from his
business operating account;
d. Booker and/or Booker's office manager commingled Booker's funds with client
funds, both by depositing his personal funds into the trust accOlmt and by
depositing entrusted client funds in his operating and personal accounts;
e. Booker routinely failed to conduct monthly aod quarterly reconciliations of his
trust account;
f.

Booker failed to timely and accurately identify and track, per client, the funds
received and disbursed for each client;

g. Booker failed to show on some trust account checks the client(s) against whose
balance in the trust account funds were being disbursed by the check, or did not
accurately show the cJient(s) against whose balance in the trust account funds
were being disbursed; and

2

h. Booker failed to maintain records reflecting the client(s) to whom the funds being
deposited into his trust or operating account belonged, or did not accurately show
the c1ient(s) to whom the funds belonged.
10, On 14 June 2013, Booker deposited into his trust account payment made by client
Hicks in the amount 01'$350.00.
II. Hicks's payment included anticipated court costs and fines for Hicks's traffic ticket,
which were entrusted client funds, and attorney's fees.

12. After resolving Hicks's case, Booker paid Hicks's court costs and fmes on or about
15 July 2013.
13. Between 14 June 2013 and 15 July 2013, Booker should have maintained in his
trust account a sufficient balance to cover the court costs and fines associated with Hicks's traffic
ticket.
14. Booker did not maintain in his trust account a balance sufficient to cover lEeks's
comt costs and fines between 14 June 2013 and 15 July 2013.
15. Booker failed to safeguard Hicks's entrusted client funds, resulting in those funds
being used for the benefit of someone other than Hicks without authorization to do so.
.
16. On 14 June 2013, Booker deposited into his trust account payment made by client
Graham in the amount of $360.00.
17. Graham's payment included anticipated court costs and fines for Graham's traffic
ticket, which were entrusted client funds, and attorney's tees.
18. After resolving Graham's case, Booker paid Graham's court costs and fines on or
about 17 July 2013.
19. Between 14 June 2013 and 17 July 2013, Booker should have maintained in his
trust account a sufficient balance to cover the court costs and fines associated with Graham's
traffic ticket.
20. Booker did not maintain in his trust account a balance sufficient to cover Graham's
court costs and fines between 14 June 2013 and 17 July 2013.
21. Booker failed to safeguard Graham's entrusted client funds, resulting in those funds
being used for the benefit of SOmeone other than Graham without authorization to do so.
22. On 26 June 2013, Booker wrote check no. 4095 ont of his operating account in the
amount of $1 ,677 .00, made payable to the Clerk of Court for Davidson County.
23. Check 110. 4095 represented Booker's payment of court costs and fines associated
with traffic tickets for 4 of Booker's clients.

3

24.

As of26 June 2013, Booker's operating account maintained a balance of $33.91.

25.

As of 26 June 2013, Booker's trust account maintained a balance of$817.83.

26. On 26 Jlme 2013, Booker deposited into his trust account payments made by clients
Nixon, Uliciatlsky, and Mulligan totaling $896.37, raising his trust account balance to $1,714.20.
This deposit contained payment for anticipated court costs and fines associated with these
clients' respective cases, which were entrusted client funds, and Booker's attorney fees.
27. On 26 June 20]3, Booker or his office manager electronically transferred a total of
$1,675.00 from his trust account to his operating account.
28.

As a result ofthis transfer, Booker's trust account balance decreased to $39.20.

29. Check no. 4095 did not cover court costs and fines for and otherwise did not benefit
clients Nixon, Uliciansky, andlor Mulligan.
30. Booker failed to safeguard entrusted client funds belonging to Nixon, Uliciansky,
and Mulligan, resulting in those funds being used for the benefit of someone other than the
beneficial owners of the funds without authorization to do so.
31. On or before 2 August 2013, Booker received a total of at least $6,284.00 in
entrusted funds to be held for the benefit of 25 separate clients (clients Deberry, Hadden,
Rookwood, Ventura-Romero, Saunders, Holmes, Mills, Colson, Bemachec, Salazar, Robinson,
Simmons, Perry, Uliciansky, Huebner, Osorio, Speidel, Firooznia, Freeman, Holdaway, Beheler,
Delgado, Grant, Claffey, andlor Casey) to pay the court costs and fines associated with their
respective traffic tickets.
32.

Booker deposited these funds in his trust account.

33. Booker did not pay the court costs and fines associated with any of the 25 clients
listed in paragraph 31 until 10 October 2013.
34. Between 2 August 2013 and 10 October 2013, Booker should have maintained in
his trust account a minimum balance of$6,284.00.
35. Booker did not maintain in his trust account the required minimum balance of
$6,284.00 between 2 August 2013 and 10 October 2013.
36. Booker failed to safeguard entrusted client funds belonging to the 25 clients
identified in paragraph 31, resulting in those funds being used for the benefit of someone other
than the beneficial owners of those funds without authorization to do so.
37. In or around February 2013, William Mitchell retained Booker for representation
concerning a traffic ticket.
38. Mitchell paid Booker $548.00 for the representation.

4

39. Mitchell's payment to Booker included anticipated court costs and fines for the
ticket, which were entrusted client funds, and attorney's fees.
40. After retaining Booker, Mitchell made multiple inquiries of Booker about the status
of his case.
41.

Booker did not promptly respond to all of Mitchell's requests for infomlation.

42. Mitchell had a court date scheduled for 27 March 2013. Booker told Mitchell that
he would appear in court on Mitchell's behalf and that Mitchell did not need to appear in court
on the scheduled court date.
43.

Booker subsequently had Mitchell's court date continued to 17 April 2013.

44.

Booker failed to appear on Mitchell's behalf at the 17 Apri12013 court date.

45.

Booker did not infOim Mitchell of his failure to appear at the 17 April 2013 court

date.
46. On or about 16 May 2013, the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles
informed Mitchell that his driving privilege would be suspended due to his failure to appear in
court.
47. After receiving the suspension notice from the DMV, Mitchell made multiple
inquiries to Booker requesting an update on the status of his case.
48.

Booker did not respond to Mitchell's inqniries.

49.

On or about 22 May 2013, Booker resolved Mitchell's case.

50. Booker failed to timely pay the court costs and fines associated with Mitchell's
traffic ticket.
51. Booker never informed Mitchell that he had failed to timely pay the court costs and
fines associated with Mitchell's ticket.
52. On or about 20 June 2013, as a result of Booker's failure to pay the court costs and
fines associated with Mitchell's traffic ticket, Mitchell received another letter from the North
Carolina Department of Motor Vehicle informing him that his driving privilege would be
suspended for failure to pay the court costs and fines associated with his traffic ticket.
53. Mitchell contacted Booker inquiring about Booker's failure to pay the
and fines associated with his traffic ticket.

COUlt

costs

54. On or about 26 June 2013, Booker paid the court costs and fines ($488.00)
associated with Mitchell's traffic ticket.
55. Booker deposited Mitchell's payment of $548.00 into his attorney trust account on
or about 20 February 2013.
5

56. Because Booker did not pay the court costs and fine associated with Mitchell's
ticket until 26 June 2013, Booker should have maintained in his trust account a minimum
balance of $488.00 between the date of deposit (20 February 2013) and the date of disbursement
(26 June 2013).
57. Booker did not maintain the required minimum balance in his trust account to cover
Mitchell's court costs and fines between 20 February 2013 and 26 June 2013.
58. Booker failed to safeguard Mitchell's entrusted client funds, resulting in those funds
being nsed for the benefit of someone other than Mitchell without authorization to do so.
59. In or around May 2013, Brian Miller retained Booker for representation concerning
a traffic ticket.
60.

Miller paid Booker $510.00 for the representation.

61. Miller's payment to Booker included anticipated court costs and fines for the ticket,
which were entrusted client funds, and attorney's fees.
62. Booker promised Miller that he would get Miller's tramc ticket reduced to a charge
of9 miles per hour over the speed limit.
63. After retaining Booker, Miller andlor Miller's wife made multiple inquiries of
Booker about the status of Miller's case.
64. Booker did not promptly respond to all of Miller's or Miller's wife's requests for
information.
65.

In or around July 2013, Booker resolved Miller's case.

66.

Booker failed to timely pay the court costs and fines associated with Miller's traffic

ticket.
67. After resolving Miller's case, Booker informed Miller or Miller's wife of the
resolution and told Miller that he would send confirmation of the resolution.
68.

Booker did not provide Miller with confirmation of the resolution as promised.

69. Booker did not inform Miller that he had failed to pay the court costs and fines
associated with Miller's ticket.
70. On or about 8 August 2013, as a result of Booker's fhllm-e to pay the court costs and
fines associated with Miller's trafflc ticket, Miller received a letter from the North Carolina
Depat1ment of Motor Vehicles infonning him that his driver's license would be suspended for
failure to pay the court costs and fines associated with his traffic ticket.
71. Miller subsequently contacted Booker inquiring about Booker's failure to pay the
court costs and fines associated with his trafflc ticket.

6

72.

Booker did not pay Miller's court costs and fines ($508.00) until 13 September

2013.
73. Booker deposited Miller's payment of$510.00 into his attomey trust account on or
about 30 May 2013.
74. Because Booker did not pay the cOUli costs and fine associated with Miller's ticket
until 13 September 2013, Booker should have maintained in his trust account a minimum
balance of $508.00 between the date of deposit (30 May 2013) and the date of disbursement (13
September 2013).
75. Booker did not maintain the required minimum balance in his trust account to cover
Miller's court costs and fines between 30 May 2013 and 13 September 2013.
76. Booker failed to safeguard Miller's entrusted client funds, resulting in those funds
being used for the benetit of someone other than Miller without authorization to do so.
77. In or around May 2013, Mary Marlow retained Booker to represent her then-minor
son conceming a traffic ticket.
78.

Marlow paid Booker $350.00 for the representation.

79. Marlow's payment to Booker included anticipated court costs and fines for the
ticket, which were entrusted client funds, and attorney's fees.
80. Booker promised Marlow that he would get her son's traffic ticket reduced to a
non-moving violation.
81.

Booker did not resolve Marlow's son's case until!! October 2013.

82.

Booker failed to inform Marlow or her son that the case had been resolved.

83. Booker did not pay the cOUli costs and fines ($283.00) associated with Marlow's
son's ticket until 30 October 2013.
84. Booker failed to timely pay the court costs and fines associated ·with Marlow's
son's traffic ticket.
85. Booker deposited Marlow's payment of $350.00 into his attorney trust account on
or about 30 May 2013.
86. Because Booker did not pay the court costs and fines associated with Marlow's
son's ticket until 30 October 2013, Booker's t!"Ust account should have maintained a sufficient
balance to cover the court costs and fines from the date of deposit (30 May 2013) until the date
of disbursement (30 October 2013).
.
87. Booker did not maintain the required minimum balance in his trust account to cover
Marlow's son's COUlt costs and fines between 30 May 2013 and 30 October 2013.

7

88. Booker failed to safeguard Marlow's son's entrusted client funds, resulting in those
funds being used for the benefit of someone other than Marlow's son without authorization to do
so.
89.

During 2013, Booker represented Ishenika Carr in a domestic case.

90. In or around September 2013, Booker was paid $300.00 to file a motion for
contempt on Carr's behalf.
91.

Booker never filed the motion for contempt.

92.

Booker did not earn the fee Carr paid him concerning the motion for contempt.

93. On or about 2 December 2013, Carr terminated Booker's representation and
requested a refund of her paid fee.
94.

Booker did not promptly provide a refund of the unearned fee.

95. In or around April 2013, Samuel L. Cureton retained Booker for representation in a
divorce from his wife.
96.

Cureton paid Booker at least $990.00 for the representation.

97. Throughout the representation, Booker failed to respond and/or failed to timely
respond to Cureton's inquiries requesting an update on the status of his case.
98.

Booker never filed a complaint for divorce on Cureton's behalf.

99.

Booker did not provide the legal services for which Cureton paid him.

100. Booker did not earn the fee Cureton paid him.
101. Booker never refunded any unearned portion of Cureton's paid fee.
102. During 2014, Booker represented clients April Beije, James Pope, and James Gavin
in Cabarrus County concerning their respective traffic tickets.
103. Beije, Pope, and Gavin paid Booker forlhe representations.
104. Booker failed to appear on behalf of Beije, Pope, and Gavin at their respective
scheduled court dates in 2014.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the DHC has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Keith C. Booker, and over the subject matter ofthis proceeding.

8

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pmsuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By failing to appeal' at Mitchell's scheduled court date and by failing to timely
pay the court costs and fines associated with his Mitchell's traffic ticket, Booker
failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing a client in violation of
Rule 1.3, failed to promptly pay entrusted funds to a third Palty as directed by his
client in violation of Rule l.1S-2(m), and engaged in conduct that was prejudicial
to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
(b) By failing to infonn Mitchell of his faiJme to appear at Mitchell's scheduled
court date, by failing to inform Mitchell of his fililmc to timely pay the court
costs and fines associated with Mitchell's ticket, and by failing to promptly
respond to Mitchell's multiple inquiries regarding the status of his case, Booker
tailed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of the matter in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly comply with reasonable
requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
(c) By promising to have Miller's traffic ticket reduced to a charge of 9 miles per
hour over the speed limit, Booker made a false or misleading statement about the
services he could provide to Miller in violation of Rule 7.1 (a);
(d) By failing to timely pay the court costs and fines associated with Miller's traffic
ticket, Booker failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing a client in
violation of Rule 1.3, failed to promptly pay entrusted funds to a third party as
directed by his client in violation of Rule l.1S-2(m), and engaged in conduct that
was prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
(e) By failing to inform MilIer of his ticket being resolved, by failing to inform
Miller of his failure to pay the court costs and fines associated with Miller's
ticket, and by failing to promptly respond to Miller's multiple inquiries regarding
the status of his case, Booker failed to keep his client reasonably infoIDled about
the status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly
comply with reasonable requests for infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
(f) By promising to have Mal'low's son's traftlc ticket reduced to a non-moving

violation, Booker made a false or misleading statement about the services he
could provide in violation of Rule 7.1(a);
(g) By failing to timely resolve Marlow's son's traffic ticket and by failing to timely
pay the cOUit costs and fines associated with Marlow's son's traffic ticket,
Booker failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing a client in violation
of Rule 1.3, failed to promptly pay entrusted funds to a third paJty as directed by
his client in violation of Rule l.lS-2(m), and engaged in conduct that was
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

9

(h) By failing to inform Marlow or Marlow's son that the ticket was resolved and by
failing to inform Marlow or her son of his failure to pay the court costs and fines
associated with Marlow's son's ticket, Booker failed to keep his client
reasonably infornled about the status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);
(i)

By failing to file the motion for contempt on Carr's behalf, Booker failed to act
with reasonable diligence in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

G)

By failing to promptly refund Carr's paid fcc after being terminated from the
representation, Booker failed to take steps to the extent reasonably practicable to
protect a client's interest upon termination of representation in violation of Rule
1.16(d);

(k) By failing to file a complaint for divorce on Cureton's behalf, by otherwise
failing to compete the matter for which he was retained, and by keeping the
entire fee paid by Cureton despite failing to provide the legal services for which
he was retained, Booker failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness
in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3 and collected a clearly excessive
fee in violation of Rule \.S(a);

(I) By failing to respond to Cureton's inquiries concerning his case, Booker failed to
reasonably consult with his client about the means by which the client's
objectives were to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2), failed to keep
the client reasonably infOmled about the status of the matter in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3), and failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
(m) By failing to appear on behalf of clients Beije, Pope, and Gavin at their
respective scheduled court dates, Booker failed to act with reasonable diligence
in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3 and engaged in conduct that was
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(11) By failing to supervise and review his office manager's disbursements of
entrusted funds from his trust account, Booker failed to make reasonable efforts
to ensure a nonlawyer's conduct was compatible with his professional
obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(b);
(0) By failing to reconcile his trust accounts monthly and quarterly, Bookcr failed to
conduct the requisite reconciliations of his trust accounts in violation of Rules
l.1S-3(d)(I) and (2);
(p) By failing to accurately track, per client, the funds received and disbursed for
each client, Booker failed to properly identify and maintain entrusted funds in
violation of Rules 1.\S-2(a) and 1.lS-3(b)(S);
(q) By failing to show on each cancelled check the client against whose balance in
the trust account funds were being disbursed by said check and by failing to
show on each trust account deposit record the client to whom the funds being

10

deposited into the trust account belonged, Booker failed to maintain required
minimum records for his trust account in violation of Rules 1.I5-3(b)(1) and (2);
(r) By disbursing funds via electronic transfer from his trust account to his operating
or personal accounts without showing the name of the client against whose
balance in the trust account funds were being disbursed, Booker failed to
maintain required minimum records for his trust account in violation of Rule
1.l5-3(b)(3) and used an improper item to disburse fees or expenses to himself in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(h);
(8) By depositing personal funds into his trust account, Booker failed to maintain
entrusted funds separate from his property in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and
deposited funds belonging to him into a trust account in violation of Rule 1.152(f);
(t) By depositing entrusted client funds into his operating and personal accounts,
Booker failed to safeguard entrusted funds in violation of Rules 1.15-2(a) and
(b);
(u) By disbursing more funds for clients than he had in his trust account for those
clients' benefits, Booker failed to properly maintain and disburse funds in
violation of Rules 1.15-2(a), (j), and (m); and
(v) By failing to monitor and safeguard the entrusted funds that he held for the
benefit of clients Mitchell, Miller, Marlow's son, Hicks, Graham, Nixon,
Uliciansky, Mulligan, Deberry, Hadden, Rookwood, Ventura-Romero, Saunders,
Hohnes, Mills, Colson, Bemachec, Salazar, Robinson, Simmons, Perry.
Uliciansky, Huebner, Osorio, Speidel, Firooznia, Freeman, Holdaway, Beheler,
Delgado, Grant, Claffey, and/or Casey, resulting in those funds being disbursed
tor the benefit of someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds, Booker
failed to safeguard entrusted funds in violation of Rules 1.15-2(a), (b), and (j).
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Although Defendant's failure to properly monitor, track, and safeguard entrusted
funds - including Defendant's failure to adequately supervise his office manager's improper
handling of entrusted funds - resulted in some funds being misused for the benefit of someone
other than the beneficial owner of the funds, there is no evidence !bat Defendant knowingly or
intentionally misused entrusted client funds, there is no evidence that Defendant intended to
harm his clients, and there is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of
Defendant.

2.
Defendant ftilly cooperated with the State Bar throughout the disciplinary process,
and was candid and forthright in his responses to the State Bar's inquiries.

JI

3.
Defendant has been diagnosed with anxiety disorder and attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder. It is the opinion of Defendant's evaluating mental health professional
that Defendant has suffered trom these conditions for a substantial period of time that includes
the time frame of misconduct reflected in this Order, and that these conditions contributed to the
misconduct described in this Order.
4.
Defendant's conduct - to wit: severe neglect of multiple client matters, failure to
adequately communicate with his clients, failure to timely resolve the matters for which he was
retained, and failure to safeguard entrusted client funds - impaired his clients' ability to achieve
the goals of the representation and unnecessarily delayed resolution of his clients' pending cases.
Nevertheless, the evidence demonstrates that despite this neglect, Defendant consistently made
eff0l1s to rectify the consequences of his misconduct to ensure his clients' cases were ultimately
properly resolved.
5.
Defendant's conduct in over-disbursing entrusted funds from his tnISt account
caused significant harm to his clients whose entrusted funds were used for the benefit of
someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds without their knowledge or consent.
6.
Conducting quarterly reconciliations of the trust account is the lynchpin of proper
maintenance and protection of entrusted funds. Defendant's continued failure to reconcile his
trust account and failure to maintain proper trust account records demonstrates a pattern of
misconduct and demonstrates Defendant's intent to COlID1Ut acts where the potential harm is
foreseeable.
7.
Defendant's conduct ~ ranging from his neglect of his clients' cases to allowing
client funds to be improperly maintained or disbursed, even if inadvertent ~ placed entrusted
funds at risk and has the potential to cause significant harm to the standing of the profession in
the eyes of the public because it shows his disregard for his duties as an attorney. Such erosion
of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the repntation of, and fosters disrespect for, the
profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal profession is a building block for public trust in
the entire legal system.
8.
Defendant's failure to adequately track and facilitate the proper receipt and
disbursement of entrusted client funds was exacerbated by his failure to exercise any amount of
supervision over his office staffs handling of entrusted fnnds, including his office manager to
whom he delegated the authority to electronically disburse funds from his trust account.
Although some of the misconduct set out above is the result of actions taken by Defendant's
staff, Defendant is solely responsible for safeguarding client funds entrusted to him and for
maintaining proper trust account records as required by the Rules of Professional' Conduct.
Defendant's complete failure to supervise and review his staff s eff0l1s demonstrates
Defendant's intent to commit acts where the potential harm is foreseeable, and Defendant's
conduct impaired his clients' ability to achieve the goals of their respective representations.
9.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

Defendant acknowledges the wrongfnl nature of his conduct and is genuinely
remorseful for his misconduct.
10.

12

11.
Defendant has prior discipline. In 20] I, Defendant was reprimanded by the Stale
Bar's Grievance Committee for his neglect of four separate client matters (file nos. IOG0444,
IOG0487, 10G0608, 1OG0868) - including his tailure to appear on behalf of clients in their
respecti ve traffic cases and his failure to adequately communicate with his clients - as well as his
failure to timely respond to the State Bar during the grievance process. Although not discipline,
in 2013, Defendant was issued a Letter of Warning by the Grievance Committee in file no.
13G0207 for his failure to appear on behalf of a client in a traffic case.
12.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code I B § .0114(w)ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
2.
The Hearing Panel concludes that the following factors from § .Ol14(w)(I),
which are to be considered in imposing suspension or disbarment, are present in this case:
(a) intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
(b) Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on his clients' and the
public's perception of the legal profession; and
(c) impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals ofthe representation.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in § .OJ 14(w)(2)
of the- Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes that, although
Defendant misappropriated or converted assets to which the recipient was not entitled,
Defendant's conduct does not warrant disbannent.
4.
The Hearing Panel concludes that the following factors from § .0114(w)(3),
which are to be considered in all cases, are present in this case:
(a) Defendant's prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) a pattern of misconduct;
(d) multiple offenses;

13

(e) Defendant's timely good faith efforts to rectifY the consequences of his
misconduct;
(f) the effect of Defendant's mental health conditions on the conduct in question;
(g) Defendant's remorse;
(h) issuance of a letter of warning to Defendant within the three years immediately
preceding the filing of the complaint; and
(i) Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
5.
Defendant's neglect, failure to communicate, failure to timely resolve the matters
for which he was retained, and failure to safeguard entrusted client funds caused significant ham)
to his clients.
6.
Defendant's conduct caused signiticant ham1 to the public and to the
administration of justice by unnecessarily delaying resolution of his clients' cases. Justice is
achieved when all matters are timely pursued and resolved; justice is impeded by attorneys who
abandon their clients and their duties as an attorney, leaving their clients' cases and their clients'
interests in an ullllecessarily unceliain status such as that created by Defendant.
7.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses significant
potential harm to future clients and to the profession.
8.
The Heating Panel has considered admonition, reprimand, and censure as
potential discipline but finds that admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be sufficient
discipline because of the gravity of the harn1 to clients and the significant threat of potential harm
to the public.
9.
Due to Defendant's gross failure to adequately create, maintain, and review trust
account records as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct, Defendant's complete failure
to supervise his'office manager's conduct, the significant harm suffered by Defendant's clients as
a result of Defendant's conduct, and the significant potential harm resulting from Defendant's
conduct, the Hearing Panel concludes that active suspension of Defendant's license for a set
period of time is the only discipline that will adequately protect the public from future
transgressions by Defendant, that acknowledges the seriousness of the offenses Defendant
committed, and that sends a proper message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State. The Panel finds that any sanction less than
suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant,
would not adequately protect the public, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
10.
Under other circumstances, the misconduct in this case would warrant more
serious discipline. However, the unique circumstances surronnding this case justify lesser
discipline than would otherwise be appropriate. The factors that particularly warrant lesser
discipline include: Defendant's candor and complete cooperation dnring the disciplinary
process; Defendant's mental health conditions, which significantly contributed to Defendant's

14

misconduct; Defendant's acceptance of personal responsibility for his actions; Defendant' 5
acknowledgment of the wrongfulness and seriousness of his misconduct; and Defendant's
genuine remorse .
. Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters
the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
The license of Defendant, Keith C. Booker, is hereby suspended for five years,
. effective 30 days from the date of service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the effective date of this Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0124
ofthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §
.0124. As provided in § .0124(d), Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary ofthe
North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying he has
complied with the wind down rule.
4.
Within 10 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant shall promptly return all files
to his clients upon request.

5.
Defendant shal.l pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary, including the costs of all depositions and transcriptions of depositions
taken in this case, within 60 days of service of the statement of costs and administrative fees
upon him.
6.
At the end of the five-year active period of suspension, Defendant may apply for
reinstatement by filing a petition with the DHC in accordance with the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules and by showing by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that
he has complied with the following conditions for reinstatement:

(a)

That he has complied with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules;

(b)

That he has timely complied with paragraphs 2-5 of this section of tlle Order of
Discipline;

(c)

That, not more than 90 days before he petitions for reinstatement, Defendant has
been evaluated by a licensed and qualified psychiatrist or psychologist. Such
psychiatrist/psychologist shall be approved in advance by the NOrtil Carolina
State Bar Office of Counsel. Such psychiatrist/psychologist shall certify under
15

oath whether, based on his or her independent and comprehensive evaluation of
Defendant and in his or her professional opinion, Defendant currently has any
physical, mental, psychological, behavioral, cognitive, or emotional illness,
disorder, or other condition that impairs Defendant's ability to practice law, that
impacts Defendant's ability or willingness to comply with the Rules of
Professional Conduct, and/or that poses a risk of haml to the public if he
engages in the practice of law. Defendant bears the burden of proving that he
does not sufler from any such impairing condition at the time of reinstatement.
Defendant shall sign an authorization fonn consenting to the release of all
medical records and infonnation related to Defendant's evaluation to the Office
of Counsel, and Defendant shall not revoke that' release. Defendant shall
simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the Office of
Counsel and the psychiatrist/psychologist. Defendant shall direct the evaluating
psychiatrist/psychologist described herein to provide a written report of such
evaluation and recommended treatment, if any, to the Office of Counsel within
30 days of the evaluation taking place. In addition to the foregoing, Defendant
shall provide to the Office of Counsel a full description of all treatment
undertaken during the period of suspension, including the mental health
professional(s} administering such treatment, and Defendant shall certify that he
was complied with all treatment recommendationls) from his treating mental
health professional(s) 'during the period of sllspension. Defendant shall sign an
authorization fonn consenting to the release of all medical records and
infonnation related to Defendant's treatment to the Office of Counsel, aud
Defendant shall not revoke that release. All expenses of such evaluation,
report(s), and production of records shall be borne by Defendant;
(d)

That, at Defendant's sole expense, he has completed eighthours of trust account
continuing legal education programs, approved in advance by the Office of
Counsel, including at least one hour that includes discussion of quarterly
reconciliations of the trust account taught by Trust Account Compliance
Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar;

(e)

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar membership department advised
of his current physical home and business addresses and telephone numbers;

(f)

That he has accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar and
responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication 01' within
fifteen days of receipt of such coll1ll1unication, whichever is earlier;

(g)

That he has timely complied with his State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements, and paid all fees and costs assessed by the State
Bar and the Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline;

(h)

That he has participated fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees; and

16

(i)

That he has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
federal laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of suspension.

7.
If Defendant successfully petitions for reinstatement under paragraph 6 above,
Defendant's reinstatement to the active practice of law may be conditionally granted so long as
Defendant complies with the following additional condition:
(a)

For the next two years following the date Defendant is reinstated to active
practice, Defendant shall pelmit audits of his trust and operating accounts by the
. North Carolina state Bar. Such audits will be conducted at Defendant's
expense. The North Carolina State Bar will not exercise the right to audit the
Defendant's bank accounts more than twice a year. Such limitation on random
audits will not preclude the N0l1h Carolina State Bar from conducting any
audits for cause pursuant to the Rules of Professional Conduct. Furthermore,
any information or documentation obtained by the North Carolina State Bar
while conducting said audit(s) that indicates Defendant committed additional
violations of the Rnles of Professional Conduct may result in fUl1her
disciplinary proceedings being brought against Defendant.

8.
Defendant's conditional reinstatement shall be subjected to the same procedures
as set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x). Defendant hereby waives any right to other
administrative procedure regarding his conditional reinstatement and consents to his conditional
reinstatement being subject to the procedural structure of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .OI14(x).
If the Disciplinary Hearing Commission finds, after a hearing, that Defendant is not in
compliance with the condition listed in paragraph 7, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission shall
revoke Defendant's reinstatement to the active practice of law for a period of one (1) year, after
which time Defendant may again apply for reinstatement.

9.

The DisCiplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .OI14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules throughout the suspension and tln'oughout any period of conditional
. reinstatement to detennine Defendant's compliance with the condition listed in paragraph 7
above.
10.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuiug disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct discovered
or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct addressed in this Order.

17

day of

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the.]!!1~IV'G ......-;-2016.
.
.

YI//--t/~

en Michael, ChaIr
isciplinary Hearing Panel

&::(2.~_
Brian Oten; Deputy Couns
Attorney for the North Carolina State Bar

Keith C. Booker

18

