NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04G0607

IN THE MATTER OF
Tonza D. Ruffin.
Attorney At Law

REPRIMAND

On July 12, 2007 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by M. S.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar. the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
I'ommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a tinding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Your law partner, Teresa Smallwood, confessed to you that she had embezzled the
proceeds of your personal home loan, in which she was representing you, from the firm trust
account You failed to report the embeulement to the State Bar and failed to disclose the
erubezzlement in your response to a Letter of Notice sent to you by the Grievance Committee

The Grievance Committee found that your conduct violated Rule 8.3(a) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

I

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 198 1 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney ~ssueda reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the

,2007

day of

Committee

