NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
10G0444, 1OG0487, 10G0608, 10G0868

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Keith C. Booker,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRlMAND

On April 21, 2010, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by S.S., J.D., .T.F. and P.W.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjusti£Ying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievar1ce Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, ar1d the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
disciplinc depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injllly caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a W1'itten form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorncy has violated onc or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profcssion, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The GrievaI1ce Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this casc
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairmaI1 of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
S.S. retained you to handle a traffic ticket matter. You asked S.S. to provide a copy of the
ticket, the waiver form and the fee. The fee included the attorney fee aI1d court costs and fines.
S.S. failed to pay the fee or provide the ticket. You therefore did not appear in court on S.S.'s
behalf. S.S. was called and failed and the court issued a failure to appear. You subsequently
communicated with S.S. ar1d informed her that you needed to receive the attorney fee before

going to court. S.S. agreed to pay the attorney fee. You handled S.S.'s ticket and had the failure
to appear struck. You sent S.S. a letter infol111ing her of the outcome. The letter directed S.S. to
pay the cOUli costs and fines. The letter was retumed as undeliverable. The Committee did not
lInd that you neglected S.S.'s matter or failed to communicate the status of her matter.
Because S.S. did not receive wTitten communication regarding the status of her case, S.S. tried to
contact you at your Gastonia office only to find that thc phone number was disconnected. At no
time prior to closing your Gastonia office or disconnecting the phone did you infonn S.S. or your
other clients of the same. The Committee concluded that your failure to infonn S.S. and other
clients that you discmmected your phone number and provide an altel11ate number is a violation
of Rule 1.4(a). You failed to timely respond to the grievance in violation of Rule 8.I(b).
J.D. retained you to handle a traffic ticket matter. You directed J.D. to provide you with
the ticket, a copy of her driver's license, the waiver form and your fee. J.D. provided everything
except a copy of her license. You had JoO.'s matter continued twice in order to give lD. time to
provide a copy of her driver's license. However, you failed to inform J.D. that you could not
handle her ticket without the driver's license. Because of a clerical error, the third continuance
you sought was not granted. J.D. was therefore called and failed and the court issued a failure to
appear. Upon receiving notice of the failure to appear, J.D. tried to contact you at your
Wadesboro oftice only to lInd that the phone number was discOlmected. At no time prior to
closing the Wadesboro office or disconnecting the phone did you infoml J.D. or your other
clients of the same. Your failure to communicatc with the J.D. is a violation of Rule 1.4(a).
The Committee considered your argument that although you closed your Wadesboro and
Gastonia offices and therefore discmmected the phone numbers associated with those offices,
your letterhead contains an additional working phone number and therefore your clients had the
ability to contact you. Because the State Bar Attomey Clie!lt Assistance Program and the
Grievance Committee received several complaints peliaining to an inability to communicate with
you because your phone number was disconnected, the Committee detenllined that the presence
of another phone number on your letterhead, a number the clients obviously were not accustomed
to calling, does not excuse your obligation to inform your clients of a change to your contacl
information. Your failure to keep your client's apprised of your contact infonnation constitutes a
failure to communicate in violation of Rule l.4(a).
J.F. retained you to handle his traffic ticket matter. J.F. infomled your secretary that he
was charged with speeding 67mph in a 55mph zone. Your secretary accordingly quoted a fee.
Upon receipt of J.F.'s ticket, you realized that J.F. was charged with speeding in a work zone.
Because handling this type of ticket is more involved than a lypical speeding ticket, your fee is
higher. J.F. was quoted the wrong fee. Once you realized the error, you attempted to get J.F.'s
matter continued in order to give J.F. time to pay the COlTect fee. However, you failed to infoml
J.F. of the same in violation of Rule 1.4(a). Due to a clerical elTor, J.F.'s matter was not
continued. J.F. was called and failed and the court issued a failure to appear. J.F. contacted you.
For the first time, you informed J.F. that additional fees were clue. J.F. paid the additional fee.
The next day, you handled J.F.'s matter including getting the failure to appear struck. J.F. was
concel11ed that you would not handle his matter. J.F. retained Lawyer B to hanclle the ticket.
Lawyer B did so and paid the court costs and fines. Subsequently, the clerk noticed an
overpayment and provided J.F. with a refund. Under the mistaken belief that you handled his
ticket after Lawyer B handled the same ticket, J.F. filed a Petition for a Disputed Fee with the

State Bar. The 26 th District Fee Dispute Program Chair assigned the matter for mediation. You
failed to attend the mediation in violation of Rule 1.5(f).
P.W. retained you to handle a traffic ticket matter. On July 23, 20 I0, you handled the
ticket and had it reduced to improper equipment. Because you did not have a trust account
check, you did not pay P.W.'s court costs and fines at that time. On July 26, 2010, your secretary
informed P.W. that the ticket was handled and that P.W. would receive a letter explaining the
outcome. P.W. did not receive a letter. P.W. called several times, but did not receive a letter or
confirmation that the ticket had been handled. On August 25, 2010, P.W. received a letter from
the DMV stating that his license was subject to suspension for failing to appear in court on July
23,2010. P.W. immediately contacted you. It was only then that you reviewed P.W.'s file and
recognized your failure to timely pay the courl costs and fines. You neglected to ensure that
P.W's matter was handled in a timely manner in violation of Rule 1.3. You also failed to inform
P.W. that your error caused the DMV to send a suspension notice to P.W. in violation of Rule
1.4. Furthermore, you failed to timely respond to the grievance in violation of Rule 8.1 (b).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. TIle Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordanee with the poliey adopted JanuaIy 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the GrieVaI1Ce Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$100.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done aIld ordered, this the ;L.

RGBilr

