, -:'; !
'

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
?r:1Q I'i'! _rl
COUNTY OF WAKE
(1<.1.' .., . ,
u

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
["I I. cTUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
: I. ) . ..;1.1
18 R 439
!

('

r,:

. , ,I ''"'' • '-).

IN THE MATTER OF

TONY SAMI BOTROS, Attorney

(~

~.

ORDER PLACING ATTORNEY
TONY SAMI BOTROS ON
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

)
)
)
)

THIS MATTER came on for hearing on June 1, 2018 in Wake County
Superior Court after an Order to Show Cause was served upon Tony Sami Botros
notifying him of the issues to be considered and the time and place of the hearing.

A. Root Edmonson, Deputy Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar, appeared to
prosecute this matter as ordered by the Court, Attorney Botros appeared pro se on
June 1, 2018,

Shortly before 5:00 p,m., the Court adjourned the hearing in the

midst of the evidence, and announced in open court, with Attorney Botros present,
that the hearing would resume at 1:00 p.m. on June 6, 2018.

Attorney Botros

failed to appear at the resumption of the hearing on June 6, 2018, whereupon the
Court received further evidence and took the matter under advisement. Based upon
the evidence and arguments presented, the Court finds the following to be
supported be clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.

Tony Sami Botros, hereinafter referred to as ("Attorney Botros") was

licensed to practice law in North Carolina on August 28, 2013 and issued North
Carolina Bar License 45883. Since that time Attorney Botros has maintained an
office in Wake County located within the Tenth Judicial District.
1

2.

During the week of March 26,2018 Attorney Botros had a matter on the

Wake County Civil Superior Court Trial Calendar.

Beca use the matter in which

Attorney Botros appeared could not be heard on March 26, 2018 he was informe cl by
the Trial Court Administrator's office that his matter would be heard at 12:00 p.m.
on March 29, 2018 in Courtroom 10-B of the Wake County Courthouse.
3.

Lisa Tucker, the Superior Court Coordinator confirmed this with

Attorney Botros on several occasions between March 26, 2018 and March 28, 2018.
4.

Attorney Botros failed to appeal' at the appointed time on March 29,

2018 in Courtroom 10-B presided over by Judge A. Graham Shirley ("Judge Shirley").
The Courtroom Clerk in Courtroom 10-B received a call from the Courtroom Clerk in
Courtroom 2-A and indicated that Attorney Botros was in that Courtroom and was
attempting to determine which court had priority despite previously being told that
he was expected in Courtroom 10-B at 12:00 p.m. Judge Shirley went to Courtroom

2-A to discuss this matter with the presiding District Court Judge Ashleigh P.
Dunston (''<Judge Dunston").
5.

In the course of their conversation in Courtroom 2-A, Judge Dunston

informed Judge Shirley that she was of the opinion that Attorney Botros was
impaired. She recounted that while Attorney Botros was in or around Courtroom 2A, Judge Dunston observed that Attorney Botros spoke in a rambling and sometimes
ranting fashion, had slurred speech and dilated eyes, and that she believed him to be
uncleI' the influence of an impairing substance.

2

6.

The Courtroom Clerk in Courtroom 2-A also formed the opinion that

Attorney Botros was impaired. She observed that Attorney Botros initially appeared
lethargic, and that he spoke with slurred speech, was sweaty, and that he frequently
wiped his face and tugged at his collar. This same Clerk also encountered Attorney
Botros outside of the courthouse during the lunch hour, and Attorney Botros was
walking down stairs in a very unsteady manner and needed to steady himself on the
handrails.
7.

After speaking with Judge Dunston and upon leaving Chambers for

Courtroom 2-A, Judge Shirley witnessed Attorney Botros speaking with a Deputy of
the Wake County Sheriffs Office. Based upon Attorney Botros' speech he continued
to appeal' impaired and disoriented.
8.

It was only after Judge Shirley went to Courtroom 2-A that Attorney

Botros presented himself before Judge Shirley in Courtroom lO-B of the Wake County
Courthouse.
9.

Immediately upon appearmg before Judge Shirley, Attorney Botl'oS

requested five minutes to "collect" himself.

Attorney Botros appeared somewhat

distressed and disoriented.
10.

When Attorney Botros returned, Judge Shirley met with counsel in

Chambers. Attorney Botros' pupils were dilated, his speech was slurred, and he did
not appeal' to be able to speak in a coherent manner. Attorney Botros stated that he
was taking antidepressant medication and had been diagnosed with depression and
social anxiety disordor.

3

11.

Because Judge Shirley concluded that Attorney Botros was imp aired

and unable to adequately represent his client, Judge Shirley indicated that he would
not proceed with the matter. Attorney Botros indicated he was ready and willing to
proceed and stated he wanted to put that fact on the record. When Judge Shirley
asked Attorney Botros if he understood that if the Court were to go on the record it
would have no choice but to detail, in open Court and in front of Attorney Botros'
client, his reasons for continuing the case: Attorney Botros said, "Yes". Despite the
damage that it could cause to Attorney Botros' professional reputation and his
relationship with his client, Attorney Botros continued to insist that he wanted to
state on the record that he was ready to proceed. In an effort to protect Attorney
Botros, Judge Shirley refused to go back on the record or proceed with the hearing
and continued it until April 6, 2018 at 2:30 p.m. in Courtroom 10-A of the Wake
County Courthouse.
12.

The Courtroom Clerk in Judge Shirley's courtroom 'also formed the

opinion that Attorney Botros was impaired on March 29, 2018. She noted that he
was jumpy, erratic, sweating, not able to express coherent thoughts and that his eyes
were dilated.

This same clerk had seen Attorney Botros on March 26, 2018 at

calendar call, and his appearance and actions on March 29, 2018 were markedly
different from his more normal demeanor on March 26, 2018.
13.

After leaving Courtroom 10-A on March 29, 2018 Attorney Botros

returned to Courtroom 2-A.

There, Judge Dunston informed him that based upon

her observations and Judge Shirley's observations, she was not going to allow

4

Attorney Botros to proceed. Attorney Botros told Judge Dunston that he was not
taking anything other than prescribed medications and that he was not "high."
Judge Dunston asked whether he would submit to an examination by a Drug
Recognition Expert (DRE) and Attorney Botros answered he would. However, when
the DRE arrived, Attorney Botros stated that he did not want to submit to an
examination and just wanted to leave.
14.

At the hearing on April 6, 2018 in Courtroom 10-A before Judge Shirley,

Attorney Botros failed to appeal' at the appointed time. Because Judge Shirley had
other matters on the calendar he proceeded with those until Attorney Botros arrived.
15.

The nature ofthe matter in which Attorney Botros was appearing before

Judge Shirley was a Motion for Summary Judgment on a claim of Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress in which Attorney Botros represented the Plaintiff.
After argument of counsel for Defendants and over halfway through Attorney Botros'
argument Attorney Botros paused, appeared distressed, asked for a minute to drink
some water and then stated to the Court that he was not on his "A-Game" and
requested that the Court continue the matter. Judge Shirley refused that request.
16.

Judge Shirley took the Motion for Summary Judgment under

advisement, took a briefrecess, and asked to meet with Attorney Botros in Chambers.
Attorney Botros accompanied Judge Shirley into Chambers along with Ms. Kellie
Myers, the Trial Court Administrator for the rrenth Judicial District.
17.

In Chambers, ,Judge Shirley advised Attorney Botros that Judge Shirley

was concerned with his conduct on March 29, 2018 and that his conduct on April 6,

5

2018 did nothing to alleviate those concerns. <Judge Shirley informed Attorney 30tros
that the Court believed that his conduct of March 29, 2018 amounted to Contempt of
Court and a violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct and that the Court had
prepared a Motion to Show Cause, which he showed to Attorney Botros.

Judge

Shirley further informed Attorney Botros that first and foremost he was concerned
for Attorney Botros' well-being. Judge Shirley explained that he was prepared to
issue and file the Motion to Show Cause but would hold off on signing any order if
Attorney Botros would voluntarily present himself to the Lawyer's Assistance
Program (LAP) for an evaluation and follow any recommended treatment.

As a

further condition of not proceeding with the Motion to Show Cause, Judge Shirley
indicated that he would only defer entering the Motion to Show Cause if Attorney
Botros executed a release that would allow LAP to provide the following information
to the Court: (a) whether Attorney Botros made contact with LAP; (b) the status of
Attorney Botros' participation with LAP, including whether

01'

not he was compliant

with the clinical recommendations of the LAP; (c) a copy of any LAP Recovery
Contract entered into by Attorney Botros; and (d) the status of Attorney Botros' LAP
Recovery Contract.
18.

The release would not have gIven Judge Shirley any access to any

statements by and between Attorney Botros and any health care provider, nor would
it give Judge Shirley access to any diagnosis.

Judge Shirley informed Attorney

Botros that so long as he presented himself to LAP, participated in LAP and complied
with all clinical recommendations and terms of his LAP Contract Judge Shirley would

6

not sign

01'

file the Motion to Show Cause. The sole purpose of the release was to

monitor compliance with these conditions.
19.

Attorney Botros indicated that he wanted to voluntarily present hi:mself

to LAP and he thereafter executed the release.
20.

As a result of the April 6, 2018 hearing, the Court ultimately granted

the Defendants' Motion for Summary Judgment. In addition to the Court concluding
that the evidence did not show intentional or reckless conduct, Plaintiff fail€d to
present any evidence in the form required by Rule 56(e) of the North Carolina Rules
of Civil Procedure concerning any severe emotional distress suffered by Plaintiff. In
defense of this lack of evidence Attorney Botros complained to the Court that his
client's deposition had not even been taken.
21.

On April 30, 2018, Attorney Botros had a case that appeal'ed on the

Wake County Supel'ior Court trial calendar at line 35 entitled Leslie Epstein v. Daniel

Epstein and Ebbenstone Senior Care, Inc., 18 CVS 59. Attorney Botros represented
the Plaintiff in the matter.

Scheduled to be heard at this session of Court was

Plaintiffs Motion for Default Judgement and Defendant's Motion to Set Aside Default
Judgment and Defendant's Motion for Injunction. Attorney Botros failed to appeal' at
the calendar call and the Court did not heal' his client's Motion for Default Judgment.
The Court did grant Defendant's Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment and Motion
for Injunction.
22.

On May 2,2018 at 4:37 a.m. Attorney Botros sent an email to Ms. Kellie

Myers l'evoking the LAP l'elease and declaring it null and void. On May 2, 2018 at

7

4:45 a.m., and after receiving an out of office reply from Ms. Myers, Attorney Rotros
informed the Eastern Clinical Coordinator of LAP, via email, that he was revoking
the release as it was not voluntary.
23.

After the hearing in this matter was concluded on June 6, 2018,

Attorney Botros sent communications to the Court regarding this matter. Because
these communications were not offered as evidence

01'

argument during the hearing

in this matter, the communications have not been reviewed or considered by the
Court.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Court makes the following;
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.

This Court has personal and subject matter jurisdiction.

2.

The Court has jurisdiction of this cause pursuant to its inherent

authority over attorneys as officers of the Court.
3.

Attorney Botros received appropriate notice of these proceedings.

4.

Attorney Botros' conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,

demonstrates that Attorney Botros suffers from a mental or physical condition that
materially impairs his performance, judgment or competence as an attorney.
5.

Due to Botros' inability to effectively handle his clients' matters, and

the delays caused by his appearances in court in an impaired condition, his
continuing to practice law poses a threat of significant potential harm to his clients,
to the public, to the profession, and to the administration of justice.

8

6.

It is in the best interest of Botros' clients, the public, the profession

and the administration of justice that Botros should be placed on disability inactive
status until Attorney Botros has been evaluated and treated for his impaired
condition.
7.

It is in the best interest of Botros, his clients, the public, the profession

and the administration of justice for Botros to undergo, under the supervision of the
Lawyers Assistance Program ("LAP") or some other qualified provider approved by
this Court, a substance abuse evaluation, a psychiatric evaluation and a fitness to
practice evaluation, and to follow all treatment recommendations found to be
appropriate, prior to returning to active practice.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, this
Court hereby enters the following:
ORDER PLACING ATTORNEY TONY SAMI BOTROS ON DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS
1.

Tony Sami Botros is hereby placed on disability inactive status.

2.

Botros may petition the North Carolina State Bar for a hearing to

determine whether he should be reinstated to active status pursuant to the 27
NCAC IB, § .OI29(c).
3.

To be reinstated to active status, Botros must show:
(a)

("LAP")

01'

that, under the supervision of the Lawyers Assistance Program
some other qualified provider approved by this Court, he has
9

obtained a substance abuse evaluation, a psychiatric evaluation and a fitness
to practice evaluation, and has followed all treatment recommendations
found to be appropriate;
(b)

that he does not then suffer from a mental or physical condition

(which may include but is not limited to mental illness and/or substance
abuse) which significantly impairs his professional judgment, performance, or
competence as an attorney; and
(c)

that he has authorized LAP, each evaluator and each treatment

provider to answer inquiries made by the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar concerning Attorney Botros' professional judgment,
performance, competence and fitness to act as an attorney.
This the

8

clay of June 2018.

(,~Paul C. Ridgeway
Senior Resident Superior
10th Judicial District

10

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing document was served on the parties by depositing a copy
hereof, first class postage pre-paid in the United States mail, properly addressed as follows, and
with a courtesy copy by electronic mail, to:
A. Root Edmonson
NC State Bar
P.O. Box 25908
Raleigh, NC 27611
redmonson@ncbar.gov
Tony S. Botros
P.O. Box 37577
Raleigh, NC 27627-7577
tony@botroslaw.com

This the 8 th day of June, 2018.

Amy L. Turner
Trial Court Coordinator
PO Box 1916, Raleigh, NC 27602

