NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
1101194

WAKE COUNTY

IN TI-IE MATTER OF
Jeffery P. Boykin,
ATTORNEY AT LA W

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 19,2012, the Grievance Committee of the North CaTolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by J. F.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the JUles as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The JUles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Conm1ittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Conm1ission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant hann to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
In April 2009, Mr. H hired you to represent him in a personal injury claim. The drunk driver
had a liability policy with Nationwide. You sent a release to Nationwide that released the drunk driver
from all liability. Mr. H asked you to pursue his underinsured motorist claim with State
Farm. On January 20, 20 I 0, you stated that you accidentally e-mailed the general release that had been
executed for Nationwide to State Fam1 relative to Mr. H's underinsured motorist's claim. On February
8,2010, State Fal111 advised you that it denied the underinsured motorist coverage because of the
release you sent. You did not tell Mr. H that State Farm had denied his claim. Instead, on February 18,
20 10, you sent Mr. H the "release and covenant appropriate for this case" and asked him to execute it
and return it to you.

After State Farm denied Mr. H's claim, he e-mailed you for an update on his case. You either
failed to respond to the e-mails or responded in a vague mmmer. You led Mr. H to believe that
mediation was being scheduled when in fact you had not obtained any of Mr. H's medical records after
the accident mld you had no contact with State Farm after their denial of coverage.
On November 22,2010, Mr. He-mailed you with several questions. On December 4,2010, you
replied that you were in contact with State Farm and you would update them on Mr. H's ongoing
treatment. You knowingly made a false statement to Mr. I-I in that email.
On December 13, 2010, Mr. H fired you and asked for his file. Mr. H learned at that time that
his underinsured motorist claim had been denied.
The Grievance Committee found that you neglected Mr. H's case in violation of Rule 1.3. They
also found that you failed to keep Mr. I-I updated on the status of his case in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3).
However, the most egregious conduct in this matter was your misrepresentations to Mr. H about the
true status of his case. You never told Mr. H that State Farm had denied the underinsured motorist
claim; moreover, you misled Mr. H to believe that he had a viable claim. Your misrepresentations
violated Rule S.4(c) of tile Rules of Professional Conduct.
You me hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depmt from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh cmefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
Tn accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Cmolina State
Bm regmding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this OJ

~/l'liday of {1{L4G0~, 2012.
U

Margaret . Hunt, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bm

