STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO. 17 CRS 1878

WAKE COUNTY
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
v.

ORDER OF DISBARMENT
WALLACE W. BRADSHER, Jr.,
Attorney,
Defendant

,.

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of Wake
County upon the tender of surrender of the law license of Wallace W. Bradsher, J1'.
Respondent appeared pro se.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Wallace W. Bradsher, Jr., the court makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

Bradsher was licensed to practice law on August 18, 1990.

2.
During all periods relevant hereto, Bradsher was employed as the District
Attorney in Prosecutorial District 9-A, encompassing Caswell and Person Counties, North
Carolina.
3.
On June 18,2018 Bradsher was convicted by a jury in the Superior Court of
Wake County in case file no. 17CRS001878 of the following: Felony Obtain Property by False
Pretense, Felony Aid & Abet Obtain Property by False Pretense, Felony Obstruction of Justice,
Misdemeanor Obstruction of Justice, and Misdemeanor Willful Failure to Discharge Duties.
4.

Bradsher has submitted an Affidavit of SUlTender of Law License tendering his

license to practice law. The affidavit is accepted, although the court makes note that in
paragraph 5 of the Affidavit, Bradsher recites that "the Representative of the State Bar
indicated that if the convictions were vacated on appeal that I would be reinstated
immediately." The court finds that the representative of the State Bar, Margaret Cloutier,
stated to the court and Bradsher that the State Bar has authority to disbar and attorney both on
the grounds of a criminal conviction and on the basis of the underlying conduct, and that while
an attorney disbarred solely on the basis of criminal conviction would be entitled to have his or
her license reinstated if the conviction was oveliurned on appeal, the State Bar could conduct
separate proceedings for disbarment based upon the conduct of the attorney, and that in
situations like Bradsher's, the State Bar often waited until an appeal had run its course to
determine whether such further proceedings would be necessary. The State Bar made no
representation that in Bradsher's case, his license would be immediately reinstated if the
convictions were overturned

Date:

----~=-~~----

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Court makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. This court has jurisdiction over Bradsher and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. The courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary action against
attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
3. Bradsher's conviction of three felonies and two misdemeanors indicate that
Bradsher engaged in criminal acts that reflect ·adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(b), engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule of Professional
Conduct 8.4( c), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation
of Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(d).
4. Bradsher's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.
§ 84-28(b)(2).
5. Bradsher has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.

The sun-ender of the license of Wallace W. Bradsher, 1r. is hereby accepted.

2.
Wallace W. Bradsher, 1r. is DISBARRED from the practiceoflaw in North
Carolina effective upon entry of this Order.
3.

Bradsher shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §.0128

and s hall surrender his lav.r license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the

North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by Rule .0128 .
4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Bradsher shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Bradsher and obtain such files.
5.
Bradsher shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
expiration of at least five yearsfrom the date of entry of this order.
6.
Bradsher's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the North Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code
IB §§ .0128 and .0129(a) .
7.

The costs of this action are taxed against Wallace

2

~~~~~5{J.~.

Date:._ _--'o.r-"'-"--=--'-I4-_ _-=

Done and Ordered this the 25 th day of June, 2018.

Paul C. Ridgeway
Superior Court Judge Pres'

3

Certificate of Service

THIS IS TO CERTIFY that a copy of the foregoing Order was served upon the following
parties and persons by mailing a copy thereof by postage prepaid, first class mail or by
otherwise approved delivery addressed as follows:

Wallace W. Bradsher, Jr.
337 Denada Path
Roxboro, NC 27574

J. Patrick Latour
Assistant District Attorney
10th Prosecutorial District
Post Office Box 31
Raleigh, NC 27602

Margaret Cloutier
North Carolina State Bar
217 East Edenton Street
Raleigh, NC 27601

This, the 27th day of June, 2018.

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION

DW ,IL!:! =~!J /:.\ 2; ~~jle,no. \ 7 C-f«., -; ( ..- 1 !>
WAKE COUNTY
)

\

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
v.

WALLACE W. BRADSHER, Jr., Attorney,

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LAW LICENSE

Defendant

Wallace W. Bradsher, Jr., being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows :
1.

I desire to surrender and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2. My surrender is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my surrender.
3. I acknowledge that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar regarding
allegations that on June 18, 2018 I was convicted by ajury in the Superior Court of Wake
County in case file no. 17CRS001878 of the following: Felony Obtain Property by False
Pretense, Felony Aid & Abet Obtain Property by False Pretense, Felony Obstruction of
Justice, Misdemeanor Obstruction of Justice, and Misdemeanor Willful Fail to Discharge
Duties.
4. I do not acknowledge that the material facts alleged as a basis of the convictions are
true; however, I do acknowledge that a Jury did return guilty verdicts as set forth in Paragraph
3 above, and that r promptly gave notice of appeal to the North Carolina Court of Appeals.

5. In Judge's Chambers, I acknowledged before Judge Ridgeway and a representative of
the State Bar that based on the Jury Verdicts, that it would be inappropriate for me to hold a
license to practice law while the appeal was pending and r immediately tendered my N .C.
State Bar Card #17351 to the representative of the N.C. State Bar. Furthennore, Judge
Ridgeway acknowledged that r had contested the charges and that he would hot require me to
acknowledge wrongdoing in an affidavit while my cases were on appeal. Furthennore, the
Representative of the State Bar indicated that if the convictions were vacated on appeal that I
would be reinstated immediately. I, thereafter acknowledged that if my appellate remedies did I
not yield reversal of the relevant convictions that I would not further contest the matter with
the N.C. State Bar and would cooperate with the final surrender of my license.
6. r am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon my convictions, I could not successfully defend against them; because the
jury did in fact return verdicts of guilty as set forth in paragraph 3 above. ~ fRt~!(tOJl~·
Clerkof_~

~ :'!' :.'." '."

". "f

:;." ,
"

&~bmittJn~ mj~.~~igD:ati<?niflnd

ex;eGuting this affidavit because the N.C. State Bar has fairly
and accurately acKnowledged that 1 have a right to appeal my convictions, and they have
indicated that if the appeal is $uccessful I would be reinstated.
This the ;J{ dayof~~;:r£.~v~""...::-~_-, 2018~

J

Wallace W. Bradsher, Jr:

ry PU.blic

y Commission Expires:

:2 .- P - 2D2 .~

2

:".

I'"

••

~ '~.

