~~01'{iaf9i~~:k

rJ

,~
.(,~

STATE OF NORTH CAROL ~'§'
;::,.,

,..

&'1

d>

WAKE COUNTY

....?i:;;s
..

v-iN;;>n.

r~

'#'

BEFORE THE
RY HEARING COMMISSION
r1J /!:o...
&:
OF THE
'~~
~
_~Na H CAROLINA STATE BAR
~
14DHC 12

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATEi.9

'Ell~CIPr;

",."t: i \ ~""J

Plaintiff

v.
ROBERT A. BRADY,

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

,,<om"'1

Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, Renny Deese and Percy L. Taylor.
Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant,
Robert A. Brady, was represented by George B. Currin. Defendant waives a formal
hearing in the above referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to findings offact
and conclusions of law recited in this consent order. The parties consent to the discipline
imposed by this order. Defendant knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives his right to
appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings by
consenting to entry of this order.
Based upon the foregoing and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the NOith Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNOlth
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Robett A. Brady ("Defendant" or "Brady"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on 21 August 1977 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Brady actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Cary, Wake
County, Notth Carolina.

4.
On or about 1 April 1994, Brady and Dr. Susan Alexander ("Alexander")
executed a Separation and Property Settlement Agreement ("Agreement").
5.
The Agreement required, among other things, that Brady remain as guardian
on an investment account that had been created for the benefit of his daughter.
6.
The Agreement also required Brady to fund his daughter's post-high school
education and that Brady use the funds that were held in the existing investment account
for his daughter's post-high school education. Pursuant to the Agreement, Brady was
entitled to offset his obligation to provide for his daughter's post-high school education
using the funds held in the investment account.
7.
The investment account was opened on or about 5 September 1990 and
listed account title as Brady as custodian for his daughter ("Custodial Account").
8.
"UGMA."

The initial account documentation classified the account as "other"

9.
The Custodial Account was not created pursuant to Uniform Transfer to
Minors Act, N.C. Gen. Stat. § 33A-I et seq. though it was intended as a custodial account
for Brady's daughter.
10. The balance in the Custodial Account at the time the Agreement was entered
was $4,593.86.
11.
Account.

Beginning 1 April 1994, Brady deposited additional funds into the Custodial

12. Brady did not have any obligation to make these additional deposits into the
Custodial Account.
13. As of 31 January 2004, the balance in the Custodial Account had grown to
$73,071.41.
14. Between July 2004 and August 2005, Brady withdrew $82,000 of the funds
he deposited into the Custodial Account from the Custodial Account.
15.

Brady's withdrawals were made before his daughter's twenty-first birthday.

16. Brady used the funds he withdrew from the Custodial Account for his
personal and business use. These funds were not used for his daughter's post-high school
education and related living expenses.
17. Brady used his other personal funds to fulfill his obligation to fund his
daughter's post-high school education. Brady expended an amount in excess of $82,000
in fulfillment of his obligation to fund his daughter's post-high school education.

2

18.
Account.
19.

Brady had a fiduciary duty to his daughter as custodian of the Custodial

Brady breached his fiduciary duty to his daughter.

20. Although Brady did not notify Alexander of the withdrawals he made from
the Custodial Account, he did not conceal the fact that these withdrawals had been made.
21. As a result of Brady's withdrawals from the Custodial Account, the Internal
Revenue Service imposed a tax increase on his daughter and Brady paid such tax.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Robert A. Brady.
2. Defendant's conduct as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows: By withdrawing the funds that he
deposited into the Custodial Account from the account for his personal use and not the
use of his daughter, Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8A(d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant has been licensed to practice law for more than 37 years and
has no prior discipline.
2.
character.

Defendant's reputation in the community is that of a person with good

3.
Defendant paid the tax incurred on the funds that he withdrew from the
Custodial Account.
4.
Defendant transferred custodianship of the Custodial Account in or about
August 2011 and it had an approximate value of $12,000 at the time of the transfer.
5.
A cornerstone of the public's trust in an attorney is that the attorney will
properly protect and maintain entrusted funds, even when the lawyer holds the funds as a
custodian for his minor child. The failure of an attorney to properly maintain entrusted
3

funds tends to erode the confidence the public places in attorneys and harms the
profession as a whole.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code I B § .0 114(w)(I), and concludes that the following factors that warrant
suspension or disbarment are present:
a. Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable; and
b. Negative impact of defendant's actions on public's perception ofthe
profession.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0114(w)(2), and concludes that no factors that warrant disbarment are
present.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0114(w)(3), and concludes that the following factors are present:
a. Lack of prior disciplinary offense;
b. Timely good faith efforts to make restitution;
c. Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;
d. Remorse;
e. Character or reputation;

f.

Vulnerability of the victim;

g. 37 years experience in the practice of law.
4.
Defendant's conduct caused potential significant harm to his daughter in
that funds belonging to her for use for her post-high school education were used for other
purposes with no guarantee that there would be other funds available to fund said
education costs.

4

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including: censure,
reprimand and admonition and finds that discipline less than suspension would not
adequately protect the public from Defendant's future misconduct because entry of an
order imposing less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
offense Defendant committed and would sent the wrong message to lawyers and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and on the consent ofthe parties, the
Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant, Robert A. Brady, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for two
years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Brady.
2. Defendant shall pay, within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and costs
upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative fees and costs of this
proceeding.
3. The two year suspension is stayed for a period of 2 years as long as Defendant
complies with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant pays the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary of the State Bar within 30 days of service of the
statement of fees and costs upon him.
(b) Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business and home addresses. Defendant shall notify the State Bar
of any change of address within ten days of such change. His current
business address must be a street address, not a post office box or drawer.
(c) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of receipt of such communication or by the deadline
stated in the communication, whichever is sooner.
(d) Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition of which he receives notice after the
effective date of this order.
(e) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and CLE
requirements.

5

(f) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or of any state or local government.
4. Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end two years from the effective date
of the Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging
lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x), the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay
of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period
of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains
jurisdiction and the ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the two year
suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not
been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the
conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show
cause proceeding.
5. If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out above
in this Consent Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted in
accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §.0114(x).
6. If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the DHC may enter an order imposing such conditions as it deems proper for the
reinstatement of Brady's license at the end of the suspension. Additionally, Brady must
establish the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence prior to being reinstated
to the practice of law after any period of active suspension:
(a) Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the State Bar within thirty days of the date the order lifting
the stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
(b) Defendant complied with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB §
.0124 following entry of the order lifting the stay and/or activating the
suspension of his law license;
(c) Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against
him in this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon
him by the Secretary of the State Bar;
(d) That within 15 days ofthe effective date of the order activating the
suspension Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and
telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can communicate
with Defendant and obtain such files;
(e) That Defendant promptly provided client files to all clients who made a
request for return of their files;
6

(f) Defendant has kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business and home street addresses (not post office box or drawer
addresses) and notified the State Bar of any change in address within ten
days of such change;
(g) Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;
(h) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in
payment of all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client
Security Fund assessments, and other charges or surcharges the State Bar
is authorized to collect from him, including all judicial district dues and
assessments;
(i) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE hours in reporting of such
hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs; and

U) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States, or the laws of any state or local government during
his suspension.
7. The DHC will retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code
IB §.O 114(x) until all conditions of the stay of suspension are satisfied .

oftM other Hearing Panel members this

...§i.gned ~ Chair with the consent
the/.5 m'yof ..,JA Mh/'p~/ ,~.;7t7ISV

/

~~
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

WE CONSENT:

7

/J15. t---'_Iz..O'':f"
George B. Currin
Attorney for Defendant

8

