NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G0380

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
CORRY J. BRANNEN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 19, 2018 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. The grievance was
assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staff s
investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the NOlih Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is· defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hatm or potential hatm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In 2016, your cousin was indicted in New York State for attempted murder and several
other serious felonies. He fled New York and travelled to North Carolina, where he stayed with
another relative in Charlotte. You saw your cousin while he was in Charlotte and knew he was
staying at the other relative's home. The U.S. Marshals Service subsequently interviewed you in
connection with its fugitive investigation into your cousin. During the interview, you made

several false statements to the Marshals, including denying that your cousin had ever been to the
Charlotte area. Immediately after the interview, you alerted the occupants of the residence where
your cousin was staying that the Marshals would likely be arriving to look for him. Your actions
involved dishonesty, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A(c) and were
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d). Although this misconduct
raises serious questions about your judgment, the Committee determined that reprimand was the
appropriate discipline due to: (a) your lack of prior discipline, (b) your compliance with the terms
of a deferred prosecution agreement with federal authorities, and (c) the fact that the misconduct
occUlTed under exceptional circumstances that are extremely unlikely to recur.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

DM/lb

ftt t:l

day of ----F-'--"-'--+-_ _ _ _~

