h1'i>'[178'Z9i71 ?,

't-'t
11 /_)
/!j
OCl'
ul
~
<'011-"'"
11f.l:r
U1
0

f.JDIiC

$lo

STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

~

0)

Q,'"
BEFORE THE
DIS~ ARY HEARlNG COMMISSION
.)/frL i,l\\
OF THE
~
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14DHC 14

/~"

WAKE COUNTY

'

n

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
JERRY BRASWELL,

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on 12 September 2014 by a hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair, Joshua W.
Willey, J1'. and Michael S. Edwards. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the
North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Jel1'Y Braswell, was represented by Abraham P.
Jones.
Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby
makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the NOIth Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the anthority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Jel'l'Y Braswell ("Defendant" or "Braswell"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on 13 December 1977 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in NOlth Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws oftlle State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period refeITed to herein, Braswell actively engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Goldsboro, Wayne County, NOlth Carolina.
In or about January 2012, Patricia Cobb (hereinafter "Cobb") consulted with
4.
Braswell about obtaining a divorce.

14DHC 14
Page 1 of12

5.
Braswell did not insh'uct his staff person to verify Cobb's date of separation
as listed in the divorce complaint.
6.
Cobb had not yet been separated from her husband for one year when she
signed the verification for her divorce complaint.
7.
Braswell did not have any employees who were notaries when Cobb signed
the verification of her divorce complaint.
8.
Dming this time period, Braswell would call on his former employee,
Katherine Shadding (hereinafter "Shadding"), to notarize signatures in furtherance of his
law practice.
9.
Shadding performed the notary function for Braswell when Braswell called
to request it.
10.

On or about 30 May 2012, Braswell signed Cobb's divorce complaint.

II. Although the verification of Cobb's complaint was dated 30 May 2012,
Cobb could not have signed the verification on 30 May 2012.
12.

Braswell filed Cobb's divorce complaint on 13 June 2012.

13.
After a 22 January 2013 healing on the complaint, the court dismissed the
complaint because the verification was not valid
14. Braswell opened a trust account ending in no. 6108 at The Little Bank in
2009 ("Little Bank tmst account").
.
15. The Rules of Professional Conduct require lawyers to file a directive with
any ban1e where they maintain a trust account instructing the ballie to inform the State Bar
if any item drawn on the hust account is retumed unpaid due to insufficient funds.
16. Braswell failed to file a directive with the Little Ban1e for approximately
three years until Braswell was directed by the ballie to do so after an item was retumed
due to insufficient funds in the account.
17. On or about 19 September 2012, Braswell was contacted via email by an
unknown individual who identified herself as "Hrn.IDony Young" (hereinafter "Young").
18 .
support.

Young claimed to be seeking legal assistance to collect unpaid child

19. Young indicated that she resided in South Korea and that her ex-husband
lived in Goldsboro, North Carolina.
20.

All of Braswell's communications with Young were by email or telephone.
14 DHC 14
Page 2 of 12

21. Young provided Braswell with documents that she claimed supplied the
basis for her $941,000.00 claim for support from her ex-husband. These documents were
titled "Separation Agreement" and "Decree of Divorce" and were pm-pOltedly issued by
the South Korean court.
22.
English.

These purpOlted South Korean court documents were inexplicably written in

23. Braswell told Young that his representation of her would require him to file
a civil action in Wayne County so that the foreign judgment could be incorporated into a
North Carolina judgment, and that his fee for this representation would be a $3,500.00
payment up front plus 5% of the recovered support amount.
24. On or about 26 September 2012, Young returned the signed retainer
agreement to Braswell via email.
25. Young did not include the initial $3,500.00 payment with the signed retainer
agreement. Instead, Young requested (i) a non-post officc box address to which (0 send
the retainer fee, and (ii) the name of Braswell's banlc. Young insuucted Braswell not to
contact her ex-husband until Young authorized him to do so.
26. On 9 October 2012, before his receipt of the retainer or before undertaking
any action whatsoever on behalf of Young, Braswell received a Federal Express package
that contained a cashier's check for $298,900.00 purpOltedly issued by Chase Manhattan
Banlc. This cashier's check was sent under cover of memo titled "Child, Medical and
Spousal Settlement."
27. The memo was purportedly from Shin Young, Young's purported exhusband, though it was unsigned.
28. Braswell deposited the $298,900.00 check into his U'ust account on or about
10 October 2012.
29. Braswell notified Young of his receipt and deposit of this check via email on
or about 10 October 2012.
30. Young responded to Braswell's email within thirty-five minutes of his
sending of the email.
31. In her response, Young claimed that she needed the funds urgently. Young
instructed Braswell to transfer the full amount of the proceeds of the cashier's check less
Braswell's agreed upon fce i1lllllediately. Young fmther directed Braswell (i) to instruct
the ban1e to rnake the value date for the transfer "10 October 2012 BEFORE 12:00 PM",
and (ii) send her a copy of the transfer receipt and "the Federal Reserve Number."
32.

Young provided detailed wiring instructions f01" a ban1e in Japan, not South

Korea.

14DHC 14
Page 3 of12

33. On 10 October 2012, in less than two hours of his receipt of a response from
Young, Braswell instructed The Little Bank to wire f1lids in the amount of $280,600.00,
which was the full amount of the proceeds, less his retainer and 5% fee, to The Ban1e of
Fukuoka, Ltd. in Japan in accordance with Young's instructions.
34. When Braswell wired these funds to Japan and purpOlted to collect his legal
fee, Braswell had not taken any steps to incorporate Young's foreign judgment into a
North Carolina action or performed any other meaningful work on Young's behalf.
35. By wiring these funds to Japan within hours of his deposit of the cashier's
check, Braswell instructed the bank to disburse funds against provisional credit extended
upon deposit of a financial instrument that he could not reasonably believe waB celtain to
be honored when presented for collection.
36.

Braswell failed to safeguard the funds enhusted to him by his bona fide

clients.
37. Braswell's trust account had a balance of $13,266.72 prior to the deposit of
the $298,900.00 check.
38. Braswell inshucted the banle to issue a disbursement against uncollected
funds in an amount above that which his assets or credit could fund if the provisionally
credited item was dishonored.
39. On 12 October 2012, Braswell was informed that the $298,900.00 check
was counterfeit. The Little Bank attempted to reverse the wire transfer to Young's
account, but was unsuccessful.
40. The State BaT received notice that items drawn on Braswell's trust account
were returned for non-sufficient funds ("NSF Notice") after it was discovered that the
Young cashier's check was counterfeit.
41. On 22 October 2012, the State Bar asked Braswell to provide the following
documents in furtherance of its investigation of the NSF Notice: (i) October 2012 trust
account statement, (ii) copy of the $298,900.00 check, (iii) copies of all correspondence,
including letters, emails, fee agreements, wiring instructions, and copies of other
documents provided or shared between Braswell and Young, and Braswell and Young's
ex-husband, and (iv) documentation that showed that Braswell had replenished his trust
account to reimburse those clients whose funds were affected by the Young transaction.
42. On 8 November 2012, Braswell submitted a response to the 22 October
letter. However, Braswell failed to provide proof that he replenished the missing funds.
43. The State Bar responded to Braswell's November 8th letter on 9 November
2012 and requested the October and November 2012 banle statements for Braswell's
newly opened BB&T trust account, and reiterated its previous request for documentation
showing that Braswell had replenished the missing trust account funds.
14DHC 14
Page 4 of12

44. On 17 December 2012, Braswell responded to the 9 Novembcr 2012 request
by providing October, November and December 2012 bank statements for the BB&T
trust account. However, Braswell still failed to provide proof that he had replenished the
funds that had been taken from the Little Bank trust account.
45. The State Bar followed up with Braswcll again on 10 January 2013 and 16
January 2013 see1dng documentation that showed that Braswell had replenished the
missing trust account funds. In its 10 January 2013 letter, the State Bar also asked that
Braswell provide his most recent reconciliation reports for the Little Bank trust account.
46. Braswell failed to provide the requested documentation showing that he had
replenished the missing trust accmmi funds uniil28 January 2013.
47. Braswell did not provide copies of his qumterly reconciliations of the Little
Bank trust account that were requested by the State Bar.
48.

Braswell failed to quatterly reconcile the Littlc Bank trust account.

49. Braswell maintained earned fees in the Little Banlc trust account for future
payment of his quatterly tax obligations.
50. Braswell failed to maintain a ledger that showed what personal ftmds he
maintained in the Little Bank trust account.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, tlle Hem'ing Panel hereby enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All patties are properly before the Hearing Panel atld the Patlel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Jerry Braswell.
2.
The State Bar has failed to establish by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence the following:
(a)

That Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing
Cobb in her divorce matter in violation of Rule 1.3;

(b)

That Shadding's notarization of Cobb's signature established that
Defendant did not make reasonable efforts to ensure that a non-lawyer
under his supelvision engaged in conduct that was compatible with his
professional obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(b);

(c)

That by filing a complaint containing inaccurate information about the
date of separation which resulted in the dismissal of his client's
complaint, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence in

14DHC 14
Page 5 of12

.,,

representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3 and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
(d)

That by filing the Cobb complaint which contained a false verification
and jurat, Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(e)

That Defendant failed to maintain accurate client ledgers in violation of
Rule 1.1S-3(b); and

(f)

That Defendant failed to timely provide proof of his replenishment of
missing trust account funds in violation of Rule 8.1(b).

3.
Defendant's conduct as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By failing to file a directive with the Little Bank directing it to notify the
State Bar when an item drawn on the trust account was retumed unpaid
due to insufficient funds, Defendant failed to file a bank directive in
violation of Rule l.1S-2(k);
(b) By instructing the banle to wire funds out of his trust account against
provisionally credited funds from an instrument that he could not
reasonably believe was certain to be honored and that was in an amount
above that which his assets or credit could fund if dishonored, Defendant
failed to properly maintain and disburse entrusted funds in violation of
Rule l.1S-2(a) and used entrusted property for the benefit of a third person
in violation of Rule US-2(j);
(c) By maintaining earned fees in his trust account, Defendant failed to
maintain his funds separate from the funds of his clients in violation of
Rule US-2(a);
(d) By failing to maintain an accurate ledger that showed the funds belonging
to Braswell maintained in the trust account, Defendant failed to maintain
minimum records for accounts at banks in violation of Rule 1.15-3(b);
(e) By failing to reconcile his nust account, Defendant failed to perform
quatierly reconciliations of his general trust account in violation of Rule
l.1S-3(d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

l4DHC 14
Page 6 ofl2

I.
Defendant served as a Wayne County Resident Superior Court Judge from
2000 -2008.
2.
Prior to serving as a judge, Defendant served 10 years in the North
Carolina General Assembly.
3.
Defendant was censured by the Supreme Court in 2004 for improperly
failing to recnse himself from presiding over a matter in which the plaintiff in the case
before Defendant was an opposing party in a pending lawsuit against Defendant.
4.
Defendant reimbursed his clients for all funds that were used to make up
for the shortfall caused by the $280,600.00 wire transfer.
5.
Defendant reimbursed the banlc for a portion of the loss it suffered as a
result of wiring funds in reliance upon the fraudulent check. Despite Defendant's
payments to the bank, the Little Banlc still suffered more than a $200,000 loss from this
incident.
6.
Defendant's' failure to comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct
when handling entmsted funds has the potential to cause significant harm to the clients of
Defendant and to the public's perception of the legal profession.
7.
Defendant's failure to wait until provisionally credited funds were actually
credited to the trust account before seeking to disburse said funds placed the funds
entrusted to him by other clients at risk.
8.
A cornerstone of client nust in an attorney is that the attorney will
properly protect and maintain entrusted funds. Failure to do so erodes the confidence
clients place in attorneys who handle their affairs and hanns the profession as a whole.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§.0114(w)(1), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar, and concludes that the
following factors that walTant suspension or disbarment are present:
a. Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
b. Negative impact of Defendant's actions on clients' and public's perception of
the profession;

14DHC14
Page 7 ofl2

c. Effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties.
2. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§.OI14(w)(2), the Rules and Regulations ofthe State Bar, and concludes that the factors
present do not wan-ant disbarment.
3. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.OlI4(w)(3), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar, and concludes that the
following factors are present:
a. A prior disciplinary offense with the Judicial Standards Commission;
b. Remoteness of that prior offense;
c. Absence of dishonest motive;
d. Multiple offenses;
e. Timely good faith efforts to rectify consequences of misconduct;
f.

Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attihlde toward
the proceedings;

g. Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of conduct;
h. Good character and reputation;
1.

Vulnerability of victim;

j.

Thirty-five years experience in the practice oflaw.

4. Defendant's failure to properly maintain and handle entrusted funds betrays a
vital trust that clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal profession.
5. Defendant's misconduct caused potential significant harm to his clients in that his
failure to safeguard entrusted client funds placed his clients' funds at risk.
6. The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanciions including: censure,
reprimand and admonition, and finds that discipline less than suspension would not
adequately protect the public from Defendant's future misconduct because of the
potential significant harm to Defendant's clients caused by Defendant's failure to
properly manage entrusted client ftmds. A period of monitoring of Defendant's handling
of entrusted client funds and additional education is necessary to adequately protect the
public and avoid fuhlre misconduct.

14DHC 14
Page 8 of12

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the
Hearing Panel hcreby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant, Jerry Braswell, is hereby suspended fi'om the practice of law for two
years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Braswell.
2. Defendant shall pay, within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and costs
upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative fees and costs of this
proceeding.
3. The two year suspension is stayed for a period of 2 years as long as Defendant
complies with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant pays the administrative fees mld costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary of the State Bar within 30 days of service of the
statement of fees and costs upon him.
(b) Defendant shall provide to the State Bar's Office of Counsel qumierly the
written report of the three-way reconciliation of all attorney trust acconnts
to which he has access using the reconciliation method described iu the
State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook, rev. 05/2011, pages 34 - 43.
In addition to the three-way reconciliation report, Defendant shall provide
(i) client ledgers for each client whose funds are held in the liust
account(s) dnring the months covered by the submitted report, (ii) ledger
for any personal funds Braswell maintained in the liust acconnt(s) for
bank 01' credit card fees, (iii) the generalledger(s) for each trust account to
which Braswell has access, and (iv) the following banle documentation for
the qumier covered by the submitted report: the banle statement, canceled
checks mld deposit slips or other bank documentation that identifies the
source of all deposits into the acconnt for each liust account to which
Braswell has access.
(c) Defendant shall provide any other trust acconnt related records requested
by the Office of Counsel within ten days of the request.
(d) Defendant shall complete 3 additional honrs of trust account and 3
additional honrs of law office management continuing legal education
(CLE) each year. This CLE requirement is in addition to the CLE
requirements set out in 27 N.C.A.C. 1D § .1518.
(e) Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
Clll'l'ent business and home addresses. Defendant shall notify the State Bm'

14 DHC 14
Page 9 of12

I

•

of any change of address within ten days of snch change. His current
busincss address must be a street address, not a post office box or drawer.
(f) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar,
including communications fi'om the Attomey Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of receipt of such communication 01' by the deadline
stated in the communication, whichever is sooner.

(g) Defendant shall pmticipate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition of which he receives notice after the
effective date of this order.
(h) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and CLE
requirements.
(i) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or of any state or local government.
4. Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by futher order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under tllis Order end two years from the effective date
of the Order provided there m'e no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging
lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27
N.C.A.C. § lB.OI14(x), the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the
suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
complimlce with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period
of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains
jurisdiction and the ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the one year
suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not
been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the
conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show
cause proceeding.
5. If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more ofthe conditions set out above
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted in accordance
with 27 N.CAC. § lB.01l4(x).
6. If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the DEC may enter an order imposing such conditions as it deems proper for the
reinstatement of Braswell's license at the end of the suspension. Additionally, Braswell
must establish the following by cleat, cogent and convincing evidence prior to being
reinstated to the practice of law after any period of active suspension:
(a) Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the State Bar witllin tllirty days of the date the order lifting
the stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;

14DHC 14
. Page 10 of 12

(b) Defendant complied with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. § IB .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following entry of the order
liftiug the stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
(c) Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against
him in this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon
him by the Secretary of the State Bar;
(d) That within 15 days of the effective date of the order activating the
suspension Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and
telephone number at which clients seeking retum of files can commnnicate
with Defendant and obtain such files;
(e) That Defendant pl'Omptly provided client files to all clients who made a
request for return of their files;
(f) Defendant has kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
cmrent business and home slreet addresses (not post office box or drawer
addresses) and notified the State Bm' of any change in address within ten
days of such change;

(g) Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bm',
including communications from the Attomey Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;
(h) At tile time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is cunent in
payment of all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client
Security Fund assessments, alld other charges or snrcharges the State Bar
is authorized to collect fl'Om him, including all judicial district dues and
assessments;
(i) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of malldatory CLE honrs in repOliing of snch
homs or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;

OJ

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendallt has completed the·
additional 6 hours per yem' of trust account alld law office mallagement
CLE; and

(k) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
ofthe United States, or the laws of any state or local government during
his suspension.

14DHC 14
Page 11 of 12

7. The DHC will retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. §
IB.01l4(x) wltil all conditions oflhe stay of suspension are satisfied.
. ~ned
the,3/) cfaYof

bY~~ai); with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members this
~tA." , 2014.

alter E. Brock, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

14 DHC 14
Page 12 of12

