NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
04Gl104

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Amanda Stroud,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)


REPRIMAND

On July 17,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
A grievance file was established against you on September 10, 2004, relative to your
representation of Uvonne Koonce in a domestic matter. You did not respond promptly to that
grievance despite repeated efforts by the State Bar to get your response. Your failure to
cooperate in responding to the grievance is in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.

On July 14, 2004, Ms. Koonce filed a petition for resolution of a disputed fee with the
North Carolina State Bar. You were sent notification ofthe mandatory fee dispute resolution
process. However, you did not respond to Ms. Koonce's fee dispute petition. A second letter of
notification was sent to you, wherein you were asked to respond. You failed to respond to the
second notice regarding Ms. Koonce's fee dispute petition. Your failure to respond to the fee
dispute petition violates Rule I.S(f) and Rule 8.4(d) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ~ day of

JRF/lr

~ ~
Id

,

2008

