•.~"'!:"$fi7lf'/,90.
,c~ ~
1t O'q
:::.:

NORTH CAROLINA

S(j
f>

Ptt.t{)

WAKE COUNTY

'<=':,

<0", ~~
~IS

1J/I.Rr.,

• 0«.,"

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
r;;,; .
OF THE
, RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
~
15 DHC 10 .!..
<-",

lIP

'-I

Plaintiff

v.

ORDER STAYING SUSPENSION

PAUL B. BROCK,
DefendantlPetitioner

THIS MATIER is before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Joshua W. Willey, Jr., Chair, Shirley L. Fulton, and Bradley
Lail pursuant to a Petition for Order Staying Suspension filed by Paul B. Brock 31
August 2016.
Based upon a review of the records of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, the
Hearing Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Pursuant to a consent Order of Discipline filed in this matter on 19 August
2015, Brock was suspended from the practice oflaw for two years.
2.

The effective date of the Order of Discipline was 18 September 2015.

3.
The Order of Discipline provided that Brock would be eligible to seek a
stay of any remaining period of suspension after serving one year of active suspension
and upon compliance with conditions stated in the Order of Discipline.
4.

As of 18 September 2016, Brock had served one year of active suspension.

5.
Brock filed a verified petition on 31 August 2016 requesting a stay of the
remaining period of his suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status subject to
conditions and requirements set forth in the Order.
6.
The Order of Discipline requires that Brock be in compliance with
conditions set out therein to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of suspension.
7.
In his verified petition, Brock certified that he has satisfied all of the
conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.

8.
After conducting an investigation of Brock's compliance with the
requirements set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0125(b) and the conditions in the Order of
Discipline, counsel for the North Carolina State Bar did not file a response objecting to
Brock's petition for stay ofthe suspension.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.

All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Paul B. Brock, and
the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Petitioner, Paul B. Brock, has satisfied the requirements set forth in Rule
.0125(b) and the conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay of his suspension and
reinstatement to active status subject to Brock's continued compliance with all of the
conditions set forth in paragraph 7 of the "Order of Discipline" section of the 19 August
2015 Order of Discipline.
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:

1.
Brock's 31 August 2016 Petition for Order Staying Suspension is
ALLOWED, the balance of the suspension of his law license is stayed, and he shall be
permitted to resume practicing law subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph 2,
below.
2.
The remaining period of Brock's suspension of his law license is stayed as
long as he continues to comply with the following conditions:
a. Brock shall keep his address of record current with the State Bar and respond
to all letters of notice and requests for information from the State Bar by the
deadline stated in the communication;
b. Brock shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements and pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;
c. Brock shall participate fully and timely in the fee dispute resolution process
when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;
d. Brock shall not violate the laws of the United States or any state or local
goverrnnent, other than minor traffic violations; and
.
e. Brock shall not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

- 2-

3.
If Brock fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in
Paragraph 2 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. If
the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Brock's license is activated for any
reason, before seeking reinstatement or a subsequent stay Brock must show by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence that he has complied with the following conditions
during the active suspension:
a. That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses and notified the State Bar
of any change in address within ten days of such change;
b. That he has accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar,
responded to all communications from the State Bar by the deadline stated in
the communication, and participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee
dispute resolution process for any petition received after the effective date of
this Order;
c. That he has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or any state or local government during his suspension, other
than minor traffic violations;
d. That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
requirements of §.0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
4.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules throughout the period of stayed suspension.
5.
The stay of the remainder of Brock's suspension is effective immediately
upon the filing of this Order.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the knowledge and consent of the other members
of the Hearing Panel, the If'Orseptember, 2016.

Jo ua W. Willey, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-3-

