NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0461326

,.I-:

...

??

lUCHARDA. SCHWARTZ,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

On July 20,2006, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you in the above captioned matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bm,the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing in your case. After
considering the inforn~atiorlavailable to it, including yow responses to the letter of notice, the
Grievance Committee h i n d probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as
"reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action.
The Rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Colnlnission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.

A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in w&ch an attorney has violated one OI more provisions of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.

The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my du@to issue this reprimand.
One of your clients, a county board of education, sought your advice and legal services in
connection with allegations of sexual assault committed by upperclassmen against
underclassmen. Arrangements were made by school administrators for you to interview students
and some parents. You and your associate attorney distributed your business cards to those
interviewed, and told the parents of the underclassmen/victims that you had been brought in by
the board of education to determine the tnlth about the events. some of the parents of

underclassmen/victims believed that you were an independent investigator hired by the board of
education solely for the purpose of conducting an investigation and were not aware that you had
a preexisting attorney-client relationship with the school system. While conducting your
investigation, you also provided ongoing legal advice to school officials, including advice about
the wording of a press release on the issue. You failed to notify the parents of some of the
underclassmen/victims about your pre-existing attorney-client relationship with the school
system and about the fact that you were providing additional legal services and advice to the
board of education or failed to clarify those facts. Your associate attomey conducted an
interview of one mderclassman/victim and his notes of the interview reflect that this
underclassman/victim gave conflicting statements which your associate concluded were therefore
not credible as to whether there was an act of penetration. An act of penetration, if true, would
constitute a felony sexual offense. You were aware of the underclassman/victim's statements to
your associate when you met with the District Attorney and his chief deputy. Although you did
invite the District Attorney's office to subpoena your notes, including all witness statements
describing any alleged acts, you failed to tell the District Attorney and his chief deputy about this
underclassman/victim's statements to your associate and instead left them with the impression
that your investigation had yielded no evidence of penetration. Your conduct is a violation of
Rules 4.3 and 8.4(d). The Grievance Committee found that your misconduct was mitigated by
your lack of prior discipline and by your apparent lack of any dishonest motive.
You are hereby reprimanded by thc North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Colnmjttee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

h accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

-7%day of MAP

1%

,2007.

