<,:,."'-;'WS-~

/\'1 \~ . I io!)",. '''-'.
"'o;!

~

~

STATE OF NORTH CARO

:~

leo
\;,::-

WAKE COUNTY

\:

A

.A
~
Ila

.'~'
(/ ~
~
/0

~!OV 20)rl 0 .
BEFORE THE
v.:' i./.... l)ISC~INARY HEARING COMMISSION
1,1'-1::0
~J
OF THE
DHe
~RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
.~"Y
10 DHC 06
0

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
v.

STUARTA. BROCK, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair, C. Colon Willoughby, Jr. and David L.
Williams. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff. Defendant was represented by
Dudley A. Witt. Defendant waives a formal hearing in the above referenced matter. The
parties stipulate and agree to the6ndings of fact and conclusions of law recited in tlus
consent order. The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. Defendant
knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings by consenting to the entry of this
order.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.

2. Defendant, Stuart A. Brock (hereinafter "Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 2000 and was at all times referred to herein, an
Attomey at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the mles, regulations
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the
State of North Carolina.
3. Defendant was an associate in a multistate law firm from September 2000
through 31 January 2010.

4. Beginning in April 2008, Defendant represented Diane and Peter Baxter (the
"Baxters"), clients of the firm, in immigration matters.
5. When the representation began, the Baxters had already filed a petition for
permanent residence in the United States with the US Citizenship and Immigration
Services ("CIS"). They sought Defendant's help in facilitating and expediting tileir
immigration petition.
6. Defendant failed to make a request to expedite the Baxters' immigration
petition or to perform any other substantive work on their behalf.
7. Defendant gave the Baxters false updates purporting to slUlUnarize his work on
their case.
8. Defendant billed the Ba..xters for work he did not perform.
9. In Deeember 2008, Defendant falsely informed the Baxters that his request to
expedite their immigration petition was denied by sending Lawrence Baxter an email
Defendant claimed to have reeeived from a CIS liaison.
10. At the time Defendant falsely represented to the Baxters that his request to
expedite their immigration petition was denied, Defendant had not received any
eorrespondence from CIS.
II. Defendant fabrieated the email he forwarded to Mr. Baxter.
12. After Defendant sent the fabricated email to !vIr. Baxter, Defendant was
confronted by members of his fum about the Baxters' concern that he was negleeting
their case. At that time, Defendant falsely represented to members of his finn that he had
been working with a CIS employee named "Mary" who told him over the phone that the
Baxters' petition was being expedited and that doeuments were being sent to him to
verify Peter Baxter's immigration status.
13. Defendant did not have any e011UTIunications with a CIS employee named
"Mary." "Mary" was a fictitious person Defendant created to hide his neglect of the
Baxters' case.
14. Defendant later aclmowledged to membcrs of his firm that "Mary" was a
fictitious person.
IS. Defendant told members of his firnl that he had telephone conversations with
CIS employees on behalf of the Baxters seeking to expedite their immigration petition.
16. Defendant did not have any telephone conversations with CIS employees on
behalf of the Baxters seeking to expedite their immigration petition.

-2-

17. Defendant billed the Baxters for the telephone calls he falsely claimed to
have made to CIS on their behalf.
18. During the same time period that Defendant represented the Baxters,
Defendant represented another client of the firm in immigration matters (this client is
hereinafter referred to as "Client YF"). During his representation of Client YF,
Defendant was asked to have a travel restriction removed from Client YF's existing visa.
19. Defendant failed to contact CIS on behalf of Client YF to request removal of
the travel restriction and failed to perform any other substantive work on Client YF's
behalf related to removal of the travel restriction.
20. Defendant billed Client YF for work related to a request to remove a travel
restriction from Client YF's visa though Defendant failed to perfonn tllis work.
2]. Also during the same time period that Defendant represented the Baxters,
Defendant was retained to prepare and fIle an immigration application on behalf of
another firm client (this client is hereinafter referred to as "Client IA").
22. Defendant prepared the application for Client lA, but failed to file it.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
]. All parties arc properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Stuart Brock, and over the subject matter.
2. Defenclant's conduGt, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grolU1ds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-24(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a.

By neglecting his representation of the Baxters, Client YF and
Client lA, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and
pronlptness in representillg his clients iil violation of Rule 1.3;

b.

By falsely stating to the Baxters that their request to expedite had
been denied, fabricating an email from a fictitious CIS liaison and
falsely claiming to have made calls to CIS on behalf of the
Baxters, and by billing the Baxters and Client YF for work that he
did not perform, Defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4 (c);

-3-

c.

By billing the Baxters and Clicnt YF for work that he did not
perform, Defendant charged an illegal fce in violation of Rule
1.5(a);

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant was sutTering from inadequately treated bipolar disorder and
undiagnosed alcohol addiction during the time of his misconduct.
2. Defendant was suffering a major depressive episode at the time of his
misconduct.
3. All of the misconduct at issue in this case occurred during the timc period in
which Defendant suffered his major dcpressivc episode. Prior to this misconduct,
Defendant had a good reputation amongst his peers.
4. In January 2009 after the misconduct at issue, Defendant was hospitalized and
ceased practicing law. During his hospitalization, Defcndant learned that he had been
inadequately treated for his mental illness.
5. Upon his release from the hospital, Defendant promptly sought intensive
outpatient treatment for his mental illness and alcohol addiction. For two (2) months,
Defendant spent the entire eight (8) hour workday at a treatment facility undergoing
treatment though he did not stay overnight at thetreaiment facility.
6. Defendant did not work while he was in the intensive portion of his outpatient
treatment nor did he work for the three (3) month peliod next following his release from
the intensive outpatient treatment facility.
7. Defendant first returned to work as a non-legal consultant on human resource
matters - Defendant did not practice law dming this time. Defendant worked on one
matter as a consultant.
8. Defendant continued to refrain from the practice of law and nextworked as a
paralegal for four (4) months.
9. Defendant volmltarily refrained from the practice of law for a total of cleven
(11) months while he sought treatment for his mental illness and alcohol addiction, and
received cmffiseling about how to integrate his treatment with his practice oflaw.
Defendant retumed to the practice oflaw in December 2009 only with the consent of his
treating physicians.

-4-

10. Defendant has since obtained treatment from physicians experienced in the
treatment of bipolar disordcr and alcohol addiction and followed his physicians'
treatment recommendations.
12. Defendant's bipolar disorder contributed to his neglect of the immigration
matters described in the Findings of Fact section above:
13. The combination of Defendant's bipolar disorder and alcohol addiction likely
contributed to his misconduct.
14. Defendant has exhibited extreme remorse for his misconduct.
15. Defendant has no prior disciplinary history.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel cnters the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure and suspension.
2. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB ยง .OlI4(w)(l) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and finds the
following factors are applicable:
a.

negative impact of the Defendant's actions on puhlic's
perception of the profession;

b.

impaiIment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;

c.

acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication;

d.

experience in the practice oflaw;

e.

the absence of prior discipliIlaIY offenses;

f.

effect of mental disability and impairment on the conduct in
question;

g.

interim rehabilitation;

-5-

h.

full and free disclosure to the I-learing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

1.

remorse; and

J.

character and reputation.

3. Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the legal profcssion in that his
actions bring the legal profession into disrepute.
4.. Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to his clients by delaying their
immigration petitions and impeding their ability to legally remain in the United States.
5. Defendant's conduct has the potential to cause significant hmm to the legal
profession because it shovl's a disregard [or his obligation as an cttorney to be truthful at
all times.
6. The Hearing Pmlel has considered lcsser alternatives and finds that a censure,
reprimand or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
conduct, the harm to Defcndant's clients and the potential harm to the legal profession
caused by Defendant's conduct.
7. The Hearing Panel finds that discipline Sh01t of suspensiOn would not
adequately protect the public for the following reasons:
a.

Defendant's conduct reflects adversely on his trustworthiness or
fitness as a lawycr;

b.

Entry of an order imposing less severe discipline wouJd fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the misconduct and would send
the wrong mcssage to attorneys and the public about the
conduct expected of members of the Bar ofthis State.

8. The Hearing Panel would impose an active suspension of Defendant's license
to practice law if it were not for the evidence that:
a. Defendant's misconduct was apparently isolated to the time
period during which he suffered a major depressive episode;
b. Defendmt had an inadequately treated bipolar disorder and
ll11diagnosed alcohol addiction during the time of his
misconduct that likely contributed to Defendant's misconduct;
c. Defendant promptly sought treatment for his mental illness
after he learned that he had been inadequately treated for his

-6-

bipolar disorder and that he suffered from an undiagnosed
alcohol addiction; and
d. Defendant has continued medical and psychological treatment
and addiction counseling.
9. In consideration of the unique circumstances in which this misconduct
occurred, the Hearing Panel finds and concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by suspension of Defendant' s law license, stayed with conditions imposed upon
Defendant designed to ensure protection of the public and Defendant's continued
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the I-Iearing Panel
hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I. The law license of Defendant, Stuart A. Brock, is hereby suspended for five
(5) years effective from the date this Order of Discipline is servcd upon him. The period
of suspension is stayed for five (5) years as long as Defendant complies and continues to
comply with the following conditions:
a. Defendant shall continue with all prescribed medical and/or
psychiatric treatments as deteimined by his CUITent treating
psychiatrists and/or mental health professionals. If Defendant deems it
necessary to change medical providers in the future, Defendant shall
first submit the nar11e ar1d credentials of this proposed new medical
provider to the Office of Counsel for approval, which approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld.
b. Defendant shall direct his treating mental health care providers to
provide quarterly reports to the Office of Counsel describing in detail
Defendant's current treatment regimen, compliance with treatment
recollli-nendations, and prognosis and treatment plan for the next three
months. The first such report shall be submitted to the State Bar thirty
(30) days from the initial date of stay of Defendant' s suspension;
subsequent reports shall be submitted on the first day of the first month
of each quarter thereafter (January, April, July, October); any cost
associated with the counseling or reports shall be borne by Defendant;
c. Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel with releases
authorizing ar1d instructing psychological and mental health care
providers to provide the' Office of Counsel all medical records relating
to his evaluation, prognosis, care or treatment, including psychological

-7-

and mental health evaluations, and authorizing and instructing such
providers to submit to interviews by the Office of Counsel;
d. Defendant shall abstain from the consumption of any alcohol during
the period of the stay;
e. Defendant shall abstain from the consumption of any controlled
substance other than as expressly authorized by a treating physician
during the period of stay;

t: Defendant will register for random alcohol screens with a monitoring
service agreed to by the pm.iies. Such monitoring will include twelve
alcohol screens per year and will be at Defendant's expense; the
monitoring agreement will require the monitoring service to report to
the Stale Bar any failure (If Defendant to talee or pay for the test and
any positive test result; Defendant will enter into a monitoring
program within thirty days of the date of this order; Defendant will
sign all necessary releases or documents to authorize such repmiing
and shall not revoke such release(s) during the period of stay;
g. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home addresses and
notify the Bar of any change in address within ten (l0) days of such
change;
h. Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar, including cominunications from the Attorney
Client Assistance PrograJ.l1, within thirty (30) days of receipt or by the
deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner, and shall
participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective
date of this Order;
I.

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements;

J.

Defendant shall not violate tile Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or of any state or local government during
his suspension.

2. All medical records produced by Defendant in accordance WiUl the terms of
this Order shall be maintained under seal and not available for review by the pnblic
lIDless allowed by further order of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission after the
requesting party has shown by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that there is a
compelling need to obtain Defendant's medical records, that the requesting party is
legally authorized to obtain a copy of Defendant's medical records and timt the only

-8-

sourcc from which these records can be obtained is the State Bar. All medical records
produced by Defendant in accordance with the terms of this Order shall be available for
review by the Office of Counsel at the discretion of the Office of Counsel. Nothing
contained in this Order shall be construed to limit the OJIice of Counsel's access to
Defendant's medical records.
3. If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed
suspension provided in paragraph lea) - (j) above, the stay of the suspension may be
lifted as provided in ยง .01 14(x) ofthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules.
4. If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is
activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law,
Defendant must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied
with each of the following conditions:
a.

Defendant submitted his license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within thirty (30) days
after the date ofthe order lifting the stay and/or activating the
suspension of his law license;

b.

Defendant complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. lB ยง
.0124 oftlle State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following
the order lifting the stay ancl/or activating the suspension of his
law license;

c.

That at the time of the petition Defendant is not suffering from
any disability or addiction that would impair his ability to
practice law;

d.

Defendant has provided the Office of Counsel with releases
authorizing and instructing his psychological and mental health
care providers to provide the Office of Counsel all medical
records relating to his evaluation, prognosis, care or treatment,
including psychological and mental health evaluations, ,md
authorizing and instructing such providers to submit to
interviews by tlle Office of Counsel;

e.

Defendant has kept thc North Carolina State Bill" Membership
Depmiment advised of his current business and home addresses
and notified the Bar of any chffilge in address within ten (10)
days of such chmlge;

f.

Defendmlt has responded to all communications fTOm the North
Carolina State Bar, including communications from the
Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty (30) days of

-9-

receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner, and has participated in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition of
which he receives notice after the effective date of this Order;
g.

That at tile time ofms petition for stay, Defendant is current in
payment of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all
Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or
surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from him, and
including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

h.

That at the time of his petition for stay, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory Continuing Legal
Education (CLE) hours, in reporting of such hours or in
payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;

I.

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the laws of the United States Dr of any state or local government
during his suspension;

J.

Defendant has paid the fees and costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the
Secretary ofthe State Bar.

5. Defendant is taxed with the fees and costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary which shall be paid within thirty (30) days of service of the notice of costs upon
the Defendant.
Signed by the lmdersigned Chair wi1hl,t!le full knowledge and consent of the other
members ofthe Healing Panel, this is the _1_ day of I\"J"",'w> ,2010.

Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair
Hearing Pallel

-10-

i

l,

-ll-

