NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0801015

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Brian R. Brown,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 14,2010, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01l3(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Glievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You represented the estate ofK. J. W. on behalf of its administratrix, 1. J. During your
representation of the estate 1. J. sent you signed estate account checks with the payee line blank to be used
for payment of estate expenses. Your paralegal used the blank estate account checks to write checks made
payable to her and thereby embezzled over $200,000 from the estate. You failed to fulfill your duty of
safekeeping for the signed estate bankacco1-IDVchecks in violation Rule 1.15-2(d). Your paralegal was able
to embezzle from the estate because you failed·to properly supervise her in violation of Rule 5.3(b). Also,
you failed to regularly review the bank statements and cancelled checks in violation of Rule 1.3.

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committeetrusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adoptedJanuary 24, 2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing ofth~.administrativ~ and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Co~itte~, the co;t~ c;fthis action in the amount of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed
to you.

Done and ordered, this

02.2.... dayo~~.

,2010.

d«o~

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

