STATE OF NORTH CAROL ,-

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
DUJUAN E. BROWN, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Ronald R. Davis, Chair, and members William M. Claytor,
and Joe Castro, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0114{h). Plaintiff was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant,
Dujuan E. Brown, was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Both Plaintiff and Defendant
stipulate and agree to the findings offact and conclusions oflaw recited in this Consent
Order and to the discipline imposed. Brown has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the
following findings of fact and consents to the conclusions oflaw and entry of the Order
of Discipline. Brown freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry
of this consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel makes, by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, Dujuan E. Brown ("Brown" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar in 1990 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed io practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.

I

3.
On or about August 2,2011, in Alexandria, Virginia, Defendant drove a
vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, was involved in a wreck, and failed to stop
at the scene and report the wreck to law enforcement.
On November 21, 2011, in the Circuit Court of the City of Alexandria,
4.
Virginia, Defendant pled guilty to and was convicted of the felony of Driving While
. Intoxicated - Third Offense within 10 years in violation of Va. Code § 18.2-266 and
§ 18.2-270 and the misdemeanor of Hit and Run in violation of Va. Code § 46.2-894.
5.
Defendant was sentenced to consecutive sentences of 5 years for Driving
While Intoxicated - Third Offense, 12 months for Hit and Run, and 12 months for
Refusal. All but one year of the sentence was suspended for five years and Respondent
was placed on supervised probation for three years upon his release from incarceration.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that
Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Responsibility in effect at the time of the
conduct as follows:
a. By committing the felony offense of Driving While Intoxicated - Third
Offense within 10 years and by committing the offense of Hit and Run, .
Defendant engaged in criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8A(b), and by
committing the offense of Hit and Run, Defendant engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty in violation of Rule 8A(c).
3.
Defendant's convictions, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact
above, constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1) in that
Defendant has been convicted of criminal offenses showing professional unfitness.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

2

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
alcohol.

Defendant engaged in dangerous behavior while under the influence of

2.
Defendant's conduct caused harm to the standing of the profession in the
eyes ofthe public because it shows his disregard for his obligation to obey the law.
3.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

4.
Defendant self-reported this misconduct and has cooperated with the State
Bar's investigation of the conduct described herein.
5.
While incarcerated, Defendant successfully completed the Men's Sober
Living Unit Program, a ninety day intensive therapeutic program.
6.
After completing this initial ninety day program, Defendant spent over
ninety additional days (until May 24, 2012) in this inpatient program.
7.
Since November 20,2012, Defendant has been enrolled in Circulo de
Andromeda, a halfway house program, and has submitted to random urinalyses which
have all yielded negative results for the presence of alcohol.
8.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in determining the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .OI14(w)(I) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
(B)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;

(C)

Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity; and

3

(E)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on public's perception ofthe
profession.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes that two factors, commission ofa felony and dishonesty, are present
and require the Hearing Panel to consider disbarment. The Hearing Panel has considered
disbarment and has determined that.disbarment is not warranted here given the nature,
facts, and circumstances of the conduct in this case.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(A)

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

(F)

Pattern of misconduct;

(G)

Multiple offenses;

(J)

Interim efforts toward rehabilitation;

(K)

Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;

(S)

Defendant has practiced law for over 21 years; and

(U)

Other sanctions have been imposed by the court in connection with the
criminal offenses which include an active sentence followed by a
probationary sentence.

4.
Defendant's criminal conduct reflects upon his fitness to engage in the
practice of law and reflects negatively upon the legal profession.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the profession and the public. The Panel further
concludes that such discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the violations
committed by Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct
expected 9f members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that
suspension is necessary to adequately protect the public from future misconduct by
Defendant.

4

7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of suspension of Defendant' s law license would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Dujuan Brown, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for three years, effective immediately.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this Order upon
Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this Order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
Defendant, through counsel, has represented to the State Bar that he is not
engaged in the private practice of law and has no clients or client files and therefore is not
required to comply with the provisions of .0 124(a) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules concerning client notification.
5.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this disciplinary
proceeding within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and costs upon him.
6.
After serving one year of the active suspension of his license, Defendant
may be eligible to petition to have the remainder of the suspension stayed ifhe meets the
conditions set out below. Defendant must be in compliance with these conditions at the
time of his petition as well as at the time ofthe effective date of any stay of his
suspension. Defendant must prove compliance with these conditions by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence. After one year from the effective date of this Order,
Defendant may apply to have the remainder of the suspension stayed by filing a petition
with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar demonstrating the following:
(a)

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

(b)

That he paid the fees and costs of this proceeding within 30 days of
service of the statement offees and costs upon him;

5

(c)

That Defendant remained enrolled in and successfully completed the
Circulo De Andromeda halfWay house program;

(d)

That Defendant complied with all terms and conditions of any order of the
court pertaining to his guilty pleas and convictions, including, but not
limited to, reporting to the City of Alexandria Office of Probation and
Parole within 72 hours of his release from Circulo De Andromeda;

(e)

That Defendant has not been charged with any violation of his probation
or any criminal offense at any time from the date this Order is entered
through the date any petition is filed and that Defendant has not been
charged with any violation of his probation or any criminal offense at any
time from the date any petition is filed through the date any stay of his
suspension is granted;

(t)

That Defendant has not been incarcerated at any time from the date this
Order is entered through the date any petition is filed and that Defendant
has not been incarcerated at any time from the date any petition is filed
through the date any stay of his suspension is granted;

(g)

That Defendant has abstained from the consumption of any alcohol and
from the consumption of any controlled SUbstance, other than as expressly
authorized by a treating physician, continuously for the year immediately
preceding the filing of his petition for stay.
i.

This abstinence must continue from the date of the filing of his
petition through the effective date of any stay;

ii.

Evidence of compliance with this condition must include
compliance with any monitoring requirements required by Circulo
de Andromeda andlor the City of Alexandria Office of Probation
and Parole. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or
documents to authorize his case manager and his probation officer
to immediately report to the North Carolina State Bar: I) any
failure to test, and 2) any positive test (urine, blood, breath, or hair)
for the presence of alcohol andlor controlled substances and shall
not revoke the release during the period of monitoring;

iii.

Defendant shall instruct his case manager and probation officer to
immediately report to the State Bar any: I) failure to test, and 2)
positive test for the presence of alcohol (urine, blood, or breath)
andlor controlled substances;

iv.

In the event that no such testing is required in connection with
Defendant's convictions (Le. testing not required by Circulo de
Andromeda or Defendant's probation officer), or in the event that

6

such testing is required but the requirement of testing is
discontinued at any time while this Order of Discipline is in effect,
Defendant shall immediately so inform the State Bar. In that event,
evidence of compliance with this condition must include
compliance with the monitoring requirements of a monitoring
laboratory agreed to in advance by the Office of Counsel ofthe
North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "monitoring laboratory").
Such monitoring will be at Defendant's expense. Such monitoring
will include daily call-ins, random observed urine, breath, blood,
or hair collection, and testing for the substances identified by the
North Carolina State Bar. Such monitoring will include at least
twelve random drug and alcohol screens per year. Compliance
shall include having no failures to test and having no positive test
results that are not consistent with proper authorized use of a
prescribed medication. The monitoring agreement with the
monitoring laboratory will require the monitoring laboratory to
report to the North Carolina State Bar the following: any failure of
Defendant to call in; any failure of Defendant to submit an
observed urine, blood, breath, or hair sample at a location
approved by the monitoring laboratory when directed to do so by
the monitoring laboratory; any failure of Defendant to pay for a
test; any dilution or other indication of any attempt by Defendant
to alter his urine, blood, breath, or hair specimen or impair the
ability of the testing to detect alcohol or controlled substances in
his sample; and any positive test result. If there is any positive test
result, Defendant shall cooperate at Defendant's expense in any
medical review to determine whether any positive test result is
consistent or inconsistent with any authorized medications
prescribed to Defendant. The monitoring laboratory will report the
results of any such medical review to the State Bar. The
monitoring agreement will include authorization for the State Bar
to set the hours during which Defendant must call in and the hours
during which Defendant must have his urine, blood, breath or hair
sample collected. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or
documents to authorize such reporting and shall not revoke the
release at any time while this Order of Discipline is in effect;
v.

(h)

During the period of suspension, Defendant shall report to the
North Carolina State Bar any positive test for the presence of
alcohol and/or controlled SUbstances within 24 hours of learning of
a positive result.
That Defendant was evaluated within 30 days of the effective date of this
Order by a mental health provider who specializes in treatment of
substance abuse addiction;

7

(i)

That for the year immediately preceding his petition for stay, Defendant
followed and complied with any treatment recommendations ofthe mental
health provider, or, ifthere are no recommendations for further treatment,
participated regularly and continually on at least a weekly basis in a
counseling and support program designed to assist those with substance
abuse addictions;

G)

That Defendant submitted to a comprehensive evaluation by a mental
health professional who specializes in the treatment of substance abuse
addiction, who is selected by or acceptable to the Office of Counsel of the
North Carolina State Bar. This evaluation must occur no sooner than 90
days prior to the date offiling ofthe petition. The mental health
professional must have certified under oath, based on an independent
comprehensive evaluation of Defendant, that in hislher professional
opinion Defendant's addiction(s) are controlled and do not pose any risk
of harm to potential clients or the public and that he does not suffer fi'om
any addiction, disability, or mental, psychological, emotional, or other
condition or circumstance that significantly impairs his professional
judgment, performance, or competence as an attorney;

(k)

That Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current physical home address;

(I)

That Defendant has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar received after the effective date of this Order within 30
days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever
is sooner;

(m)

That Defendant paid all outstanding membership fees, dues, surcharges,
and assessments, Client Security Fund assessments and fees or costs
assessed by the DRC or the State Bar and complied with and satisfied any
outstanding continuing legal education requirements imposed by the State
Bar; and

(n)

That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States, any state, or the District of Columbia.

7.
The procedures of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Section
.0 l25(b) shall govern Defendant's petition for a stay of the remainder ofthe suspension
of his law license.
8.
lethe State Bar does not file an objection to Defendant's petition for a stay
of the remainder of his suspension as described in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125(b)(6), then pursuant to Section .0125(b)(5) the Secretary
shall put into effect the stay of the remaining period of suspension provided for in this
Order by reinstating Defendant to active status subject to the terms, conditions, and

8

requirements of this Order of Discipline, with Defendant's active status contingent upon
continued compliance with the terms of this Order. Such stay will continue in force only
as long as Defendant continues to comply with all conditions in this Order, including the
conditions set out in paragraph 10 below. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will
retain jurisdiction of the matter until all conditions of the Order are satisfied, under 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Section .01 14(x).
If the State Bar files an objection to Defendant's petition fur a stay of the
9.
remainder of his suspension as described in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter
B, Section .01 25(b)(6), then pursuant to Section .012S(b)(7) the Secretary shall refer the
matter to the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. The Chair of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission shall appoint a hearing panel and set the matter for
hearing as described in Section .012S(b)(7). The Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission shall appoint as members of the hearing panel the members entering this
Order if practicable.
10.
If Defendant is granted a stay of his suspension, the stay of his suspension
will remain in effect only if Brown complies, and continues to comply, with the
following conditions:
(a)

Comply with all terms and conditions of any order of the court
pertaining to his guilty pleas and convictions;

(b)

Abstain from the consumption of any alcohol during the period of
stay;

(c)

Abstain from the consumption of any controlled substance other
than as expressly authorized by a treating physician during the
period of stay;

(d)

Comply with the monitoring requirements of his probation officer
and any treating mental health professional. In the event that no
such testing is required by Defendant's probation officer or
treating mental health professional, or in the event such testing was
required but the requirement of testing is discontinued at any time
while this Order of discipline is in effect, Defendant shall
immediately so inform the State Bar. In that event, evidence of
compliance with this condition must include compliance with the
monitoring requirements of a monitoring laboratory agreed to in
advance by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar
(hereinafter "monitoring laboratory"). Such monitoring will be at
Defendant's expense. Such monitoring will include daily call-ins,
random observed urine, blood, breath, or hair collection, and
testing for the substances identified by the North Carolina State
Bar. Such monitoring will include at least thirteen random drug
and alcohol screens per year. Compliance shall include having no
9

failures to test and having no positive test results that are not
consistent with proper authorized use of a prescribed medication.
The monitoring agreement with the monitoring laboratory will
require the monitoring laboratory to report to the North Carolina
State Bar the following: any failure of Defendant to call in; any
failure of Defendant to submit an observed urine, blood, breath, or
hair sample at a location approved by the monitoring laboratory
when directed to do so by the monitoring laboratory; any failure of
Defendant to pay for a test; any dilution or other indication of any
attempt by Defendant to alter his specimen or impair the ability of
the testing to detect alcohol or controlled substances in his urine;
and any positive test result. If there is any positive test result,
Defendant shall cooperate in any medical review to determine
whether any positive test result is consistent or inconsistent with
any authorized medications prescribed to Defendant, at
Defendant's expense. The monitoring laboratory will report the
results of any such medical review to the State Bar. The
monitoring agreement will include authorization for the State Bar
to set the hours during which Defendant must call in and the hours
during which Defendant must have his urine, blood, breath, or hair
sample collected. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or
documents to authorize such reporting and shall not revoke the
release at any time while this Order of Discipline is in effect;
(e)

Report to the North Carolina State Bar any positive test (urine, blood,
breath, or hair) for the presence of alcohol and/or controlled substances
within 24 hours of learning of a positive result;

(a)

Sign all necessary releases or documents to authorize his probation
officer and/or treatment provider to report to the State Bar a
positive result of a test for the presence of alcohol and/or
controlled substances and shall not revoke the release at any time
while this Order of Discipline is in effect;

(b)

Instruct his probation officer and treatment provider to
immediately report to the North Carolina State Bar any positive
test (urine, blood, breath, or hair) for the presence of alcohol and/or
controlIed substances;

(c)

Engage in treatment by a mental health professional who
specializes in substance abuse addiction or participate in a program
approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar to ensure his
addiction(s) remain under control and pose no risk to clients or the
public. The mental health professional or the program shall notifY
the State Bar if Defendant fails to participate in the treatment or
program or fails to follow the recommendations of the mental

10

health provider or the program, as applicable. Defendant shall
ensure this notification is made. Defendant will sign all necessary
releases or documents to authorize such notification and to
authorize the mental health provider or program to discuss
Defendant's participation and treatment with the Office of Counsel
of the State Bar, and shall not revoke the release at any time while
this Order of Discipline is in effect;
(d)

Brown shall not violate the laws of the United States, any state, or
the District of Columbia, or any provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct during the period of the stayed suspension;

(e)

Brown shall not be not arrested or incarcerated for any reason
during the stay of his suspension;

(f)

Brown shall immediately notify the State Bar ifhe is charged with
any violation of his probation or any criminal offense;

(g)

Brown shall respond to all State Bar requests for information as
required by Rule 8.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by
the earlier of the deadline stated in the communication or within 30
days of receipt;

(h)

Brown shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements; and

(i)

Brown shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of his current home and business street (not
P.O. Box) addresses and telephone numbers.

If an order staying any period ofthis suspension is entered and the
11.
Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out in this Order of
Discipline, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in
§ .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion ofthe suspension of
12.
his law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must comply with the conditions set out in paragraph 5 above as well
as the requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB, § .01 25(b) in order to be reinstated from
this suspension to active status.
13.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules at all times while this Order of
Discipline is in effect.

II

L

~Signed b~e Chair wiJ4 the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day of ~Y:,'(ZVf\:('
,2013.

'f

Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSEN1ED TO BY:

~ I +113

Date

I

~

Date

Z
Date

12

/-?

I / 2013
•

ItJz()[S

7

/

