STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BA
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
GAVIN A. BROWN, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MAlTER came on for consideration before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission ("DHC") composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, and members David W.
Long and Christopher R. Bruffey, pursuant to 27 N. C. Admin. Code IB.0115(i). Plaintiff, the
North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant, Gavin A. Brown,
appeared pro se. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the fmdings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this Consent Order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant has
freely and voluntarily stipulated to the findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and
entry of the order of discipline. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the entry of this Consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipUlations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the propel' party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
Defendant, Gavin A. Brown, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
August 1972 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations
of the NOlth Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.

2.

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Brown was engaged
in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Waynesville,
Haywood County, North Carolina.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Gavin A. Brown. 17 DHC 29
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 1 of6

4.
In 1998, Brown prepared a general warranty deed conveying real property from
Bennett-Piper Enterprises~ Inc., a North Carolina Corporation, Grantor, to Kathleen Curl,
Grantee.
5.
On or about May 13, 1998, the deed was recorded with the Haywood County
Register of Deeds in book 465, page 887.

In 2016, when the property was being sold by Kathleen Curl, the buyers' attorney,
6.
T. Michael Jordan ("Jordan"), identified an error in the plat book reference in the 1998 deed.

7.

Jordan contacted Brown and notified him of the error.

8.
Brown prepared a general warranty deed from Bennett-Piper Enterprises, Inc.,
Grantor, to Kathleen Curl, Grantee, which corrected the plat book reference ("corrective deed").
9.
In 2016, Kendra M. Smathers ("Smathers") was a licensed notary public in North
Carolina and worked for Brown's law partner.

to.

On or about March 23,2016, Brown forged the signature of Smathers as Notary
Public on the corrective deed from Bennett-Piper Enterprises, Inc. to Kathleen Curl.
11.
Brown also obtained Smathers' notary seal without her knowledge or consent and
affixed the seal to the corrective deed.

The forged signature of Smathers and notary seal purportedly certified that James
P. Bennett ("Bennett"), the president of Bennett-Piper Enterprises, Inc., had personally appeared
before Smathers and executed the deed.
12.

13.
Although Bennett's signature appears on the corrective deed, Bennett was not
aware of the problem with the 1998 deed when Brown prepared the corrective deed.

14.
Bennett did not become aware ofthe problem \\ith the 1998 deed until several
months after the corrective deed was recorded.
15.
Prior to the corrective deed being prepared and recorded, Bennett had pre-signed
several deeds and left them with Brown for transactions unrelated to the property Bennett-Piper
Enterprises, Inc. conveyed to Curl in 1998.

16.

Brown affixed Smathers' signature and notary seal to one of the pre-signed deeds.

17.
Brown provided the corrective deed with the forged notary signature to the
closing attorney.

18.
Brown knew when he provided the corrective deed with the forged notary
signature to the closing attorney that the closing attorney would record the deed with the
Haywood County Register of Deeds.
19.
The corrective deed was recorded with the Haywood County Register of Deeds in
book 903, page 2367.
The North Carolina State Bar v. Gavin A. Brown, 17 DHC 29

Consent Order of Discipline
Page 2 of6

20.
By signing Smathers' name to the corrective deed without Smathers' knowledge
or consent, Brown committed the crime of common law forgery.
21.
Pursuant to N.C.G.S. ยง lOB-60(f), "[a]ny person who without authority obtains,
uses, conceals, defaces, or destroys the seal or notarial records of a notary is guilty of a Class I
felony."
22.
By using Smathers' notary seal on the corrective deed without Smathers'
authority, Brown violated N.C.G.S. ยง 10B-60(t).
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a) By forging the signature of the notary on the corrective deed, Brown committed a
criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in
other respects in violation of Rule 8A(b), and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and
b) By using the notary's seal on the corrective deed without authorization, Brown
committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness in other respects in violation of Rule 8A(b), and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, who was licensed to practice law in North Carolina in 1972, has
substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.
At the time of the misconduct, Defendant was the Mayor of Waynesville, N.C.
and reports of Defendant's misconduct were published in the local media.
3.
Defendant's conduct caused potential significant harm to the standing of the legal
profession in the eyes of the public in that such conduct by attorneys erodes the trust of the
public in the profession. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the
reputation of, and engenders disrespect for, the profession. Confidence in the legal profession is
integral to public trust in the entire legal system.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Gavin A. Brown, 17 DHC 29
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of6

4.
Defendant's disregard for the notary requirements ofthis State caused potential
significant harm to the administration of justice in the eyes of the public in that such conduct by
attorneys damages and undermines the integrity of a notarized signature. By disregarding these
requirements, Defendant showed indifference to his obligation as an attorney.

5.

There is no evidence demonstrating that Defendant intended to harm or that he
actually harmed the parties to the real estate transaction by signing the notary's name on the
corrective deed.
6.
The State Bar's investigation did not reveal any other instances in which
Defendant forged a notary's signature or improperly used a notarial seal.

7.
wrongdoing.

When confronted about the forgery, Defendant immediately acknowledged

8.
Although the individual whose signature Defenjant purportedly notarized was not
aware of Defendant's actions at the time, when he became aware that there was a problem with
the earlier deed, he was glad that his attorney had taken steps to fix the problem and cooperated
by executing a quitclaim deed to correct the problem.
9.
wrongdoing.

Defendant has publicly accepted responsibility for his actions and acknowledged

to.
Defendant's misconduct necessitated corrective legal action by third parties in
order to properly complete the real estate transaction.
11.
Defendant was prosecuted for the forgery and use of the notarial seal and on
September 20, 2018, entered pleas of guilty to the felonies of forgery of a deed and using a
notarial seal without authority. Defendant was placed on supervised probation and for twentyfour months, must abide by the terms of probation, which include compliance with monetary
conditions and completion of fifty hours of community service.
12.
Defendant has prior professional discipline - a 2010 Admonition for neglecting a
client matter and failure to communicate with the client.
13.
Defendant has not practiced law since September 2018 and does not intend to
practice law in the future.
Based upon the Findings of Fact. Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings Regarding
Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB.0116(f)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and determines the following factors are present which WatTant consideration of suspension of
Defendant's license:
The North Carolina State Bar v. Gavin A. Brown, 17 DHC 29
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 of6

(a) Defendant's intent to commit acts where the hann or potential hann is
foreseeable;

(b) Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
(c) Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the public's perception of the legal
profession;
(d) Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
(e) Effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties; and

(f) Defendant's conduct included acts of dishonesty, misrepresentatioI4 deceit, or
fabrication.
2.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B.0116(t)(2) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar
and concludes that the following factors warranting consideration of disbannent are applicable:
a) Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and
b) Commission of felony offenses;
3.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB.Ol16(t)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes that the following factors are applicable:

(a) Prior disciplinary offense;
(b) Dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) No pattern of misconduct;
(d) Imposition of other penalties or sanctions; and
(e) Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all forms of discipline and concludes that any
sanction less than active suspension of Defendant's law license would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the public,
and would send the wrong message to attorneys and to the public regarding the conduct expected
of members of the Bar of this State.
5.
Under other circumstances, the misconduct in this case would warrant more
serious discipline. The misconduct caused substantial potential harm to the public's confidence
in the integrity of the legal profession and the administration of justice. However, the Hearing
Panel finds and concludes that the unique circumstances surrolUlding this case justify lesser
discipline than would otherwise be appropriate. The factors that particularly warrant lesser
discipline include: there is no evidence Defendant's conduct resulted in actual hann to the
parties to the transaction; Defendant did not gain financially from his misconduct; Defendant has
accepted personal responsibility for his actions and has publicly acknowledged wrongdoing;
Defendant practiced law for over forty years without any public discipline; Defendant accepted
the consequences of his misconduct in the criminal justice system; the individual whose
signature Defendant purportedly notarized was not hanned and later cooperated with the

The North Carolina State Bar v. Gavin A. Brown, 17 DHC 29
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 of6

corrective action Defendant had been trying to accomplish; and Defendant has not practiced law
since this matter came to light and does not intend to practice law in the future.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings Regarding
Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of Defendant, Gavin A. Brown, is hereby suspended for two years,
effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the effective date of this Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0128
of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C. Admin. Code
1B.0128.
4.
Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within 30 days of service of the statement of costs upon him.
5.
Defendant may file a petition seeking reinstatement pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0129 prior to the end of the two-year period, but shall not be reinstated prior to the end
of that two-year period and until 30 days have elapsed from the date of the filing of the petition
for reinstatement.

--.!7

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

daYOf~)2019.

~C~
Donald C. Prentiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

Mary D. Willstead
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

The North Carolina State Bar v. Gavin A. Brown, 17 DHC 29
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of6

