, IQ 1

..">.~

:A:>

6 9 10 I/'

a~o

1l

{'-u>

-;.

'~ ~Si <Q~

STATEOFNORTHCAROLIN'~
'f:;'

<;£>

;::A

'DI)I.I_

EFORETHE
DlS«WLI.~ Y HEARING COMMISSION
,.""" OF THE

"Z0>?Sm t2 ii:"

WAKE COUNTY

I CA~06~~Al ~TATE BAR

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
JAMES THOMAS BROWN, JR, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, and members Fred M. Morelock
and Scott A. Sutton pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant,
James Thomas Brown, Jr. ("Brown") was represented by Tommy W. Jarrett and B.
Geoffrey Hulse.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and the
evidence presented at hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, James Thomas Brown, Jr. ("Brown"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1963, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.
3.
During a1l or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Brown was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Goldsboro, Wayne County, North Carolina.

4.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
5.

Brown was the closing attorney for the below listed transactions:

Buyer andlor
Borrower(s)
1. Henry Parker
Uzzell, Joe Boyett
and Rachel Boyett

Seller

Property

Date

Lender

H. Terry
Hutchens, P A,
Substitute Trustee

1/22/2004

Southern Bank
and Trust
Company

2. Henry Parker
Uzzell, Joe Boyett
and Rachel Boyett
3. Henry Parker
Uzzell, Joe Boyett
and Rachel Boyett
4. Bayview
Investments, LLC

H. Terry
Hutchens, PA,
Substitute Trustee
Ronald H. Davis,
Substitute Trustee

221-A Stanley
Chapel Church
Road, Dudley,
NC 28333
306 South
Virginia Street,
Goldsboro, NC
307 Hemlock
Street, Goldsboro,
NC27530
304 Moss Place,
Goldsboro, NC
27534
187 Vail Road
Pikeville, NC
27863
3476 Salem
Church Road,
Goldsboro, NC
27530
120 I East Holly
Street,
Goldsboro, NC
27530
105 Autumn
Winds Place,
Goldsboro, NC
27530
211 Brentwood

2/13/2004

Southern Bank
and Trust
Company
Southern Bank
and Trust
Company
Southern Bank
and Trust
Company
Southern Bank
and Trust
Company
Southern Bank
and Trust
Company

5. Bayview
Investments, LLC

H. Terry
Hutchens, P A,
Substitute Trustee
Chase Manhattan
Mortgage Corp.

6. Henry Parker
Uzzell, Kristina A.
Uzzell

H. Terry
Hutchens, P A,
Substitute Trustee

7. Henry Parker
Uzzell, Kristina A.
Uzzell

Brock & Scott,
PLLC, Substitute
Trustee

8. Bayview
Investments, LLC

David R. Caudle,
Substitute Trustee

9. Henry Parker
Uzzell

David W. Neill,
Substitute Trustee

Drive,
Dudley, NC
28333

3/1912004

3126/2004

9/1612004

5/17/2005

7/1/2005

Southern Bank
and Trust
Company

1012112005

Southern Bank
and Trust
Company

4/26/2006

Southern Bank
and Trust
Company

6.
The above-listed transactions were purchase transactions, through which
the buyer/borrower acquired ownership of the property.
7.

Brown was aware that the above transactions were purchase transactions.

2

8.
The buyer/borrowers were aware in each of the above transactions that the
transaction was a purchase transaction.
9.
For the transactions identified above, Brown prepared HUD- I Settlement
Statements that falsely reflected that the transactions were refinance loans rather than
purchase transactions and provided those false HUD-I Settlement Statements to the
lending institution, Southern Bank and Trust Company ("Southern Bank").
10.
Brown prepared and submitted the false refinance HUD-I Settlement
Statements at the direction of Mark Webb, Vice President and City Executive of the
LaGrange branch of Southern Bank.
II.
Southern Bank underwrote the loans as if they were refinance loans rather
than purchase loans. This resulted in Southern Bank loaning more funds than it
otherwise would have in purchase transactions. In several instances, the amount loaned
exceeded the purchase price of the property and the borrowers received money from the
closings.
12.
Brown was aware that this method of closing purchase transactions as if
they were refinance transactions resulted in the borrowers receiving cash at closing.
13.
Brown knowingly provided false HUD- I Settlement Statements to
Southern Bank.
14.
Brown provided the false HUD- I Settlement Statements to Southern Bank
for the purpose of influencing the bank. Brown knew the purpose of providing the HUDI Settlement Statements to the bank was for the bank to rely on the HUD-I Settlement
Statements.
IS.
Brown was not aware of the scheme Mark Webb was perpetrating upon
Southern Bank, as later detailed in Webb's criminal information, nor did Brown have any
intent to assist Webb in his fraudulent scheme.
16.
Southern Bank is, and was at the time of the transactions at issue, an
institution the accounts of which were insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC).
17.
It is a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1014 for a person to knowingly make a
false statement to an institution the accounts of which are insured by the FDIC for the
purpose of influencing the action of the institution, punishable by a fine up to
$1,000,000.00 and imprisonment of up to 30 years. This criminal offense is a fclony
offense.
18.
The underlying grievance file was opened on January 5, 2012, 6 years
after all but the last transaction itemized above.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:

3

------------------_

.... - - _ ...

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
At the conclusion of the State Bar's case, Defendant made a motion to
dismiss. The motion to dismiss was granted in part, as to all allegations not constituting a
felony and not within 6 years of the date the underlying grievance was opened.
3.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By knowingly preparing and providing Southern Bank with false refinance
HUD-l Settlement Statements, Brown committed criminal acts (18 U.S.C.
§ 1014) that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in
other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c); and

(b)

By knowingly preparing and providing Southern Bank with a false
refinance HUD-I Settlement Statement in the 9th transaction listed above
and by closing this transaction in which he knew the lender had received a
false refinance HUD-l Settlement Statement, Brown assisted others in
criminal conduct (18 U.S.C. § 1014) in violation of Rule 1.2(d) and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

4. The conclusion that Brown's conduct was in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1014 is
based upon the evidence, the wording of the statute, and the way the statute has been
interpreted and applied by the United States Supreme Court and federal Courts of Appeal.
5. The evidence was not sufficient to find by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence that Brown was aware of Webb's fraudulent scheme and intended to assist with
his scheme. Accordingly, the Hearing Panel found Brown's assistance to others in the 9th
transaction as referenced in paragraph 2.(a) above did not violate 8.4(a) which would
have required knowing assistance or inducement or 8.4(b) which would have required
knowing participation in the conspiracy for which Webb was convicted.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the
evidence presented at hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following additional

4

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
Attorneys are held to a higher standard of conduct primarily because
I.
clients rely on their attorneys to explain and interpret legal documents to them, such as a
HUD-I Settlement Statement.
2.
Clients rely on their attorneys to warn them of any liability they could
incur by virtue of executing a legal document. Brown should have warned his clients, the
borrowers, in the above 9 transactions of the liability they could incur by signing the false
HUD-I Settlement Statements. Instead, Brown presided at the closings where his clients
signed the false HUD-I Settlement Statements and wou Id have advised his clients to sign
these documents.
3.
Banks are not normally thought of as vulnerable entities. Nevertheless,
banks rely on closing attorneys to carry out closings in an ethical, lawful, and proper
manner. Lenders rely on the HUD-I Settlement Statements to accurately reflect the
nature of the transaction and the receipt and disbursement of funds in these closings. In
this manner, Southern Bank relied upon Brown to prepare and provide accurate HUD-I
Settlement Statements and, because of this reliance, was a vulnerable victim in these
closings.
4.
The loans in the 9 transactions above were not underwritten in accordance
with the policies established by Southern Bank to manage risk in purchase loans, due to
the misrepresentation of the loans as refinance transactions. This created the potential for
financial harm to the bank.
5.
The borrowers have not defaulted on the loans identified above, and the
loans to Bayview Investments, LLC had been paid off at the time of the hearing in this
matter.
6.
The conduct of Brown at issue in this case occurred 7-9 years prior to the
hearing in this case. Brown engaged in the conduct for 2 clients in 9 transactions all
involving Mark Webb. There is no evidence of any other conduct by Brown involving
misrepresentation in the COUrse of his 50 year career.
7.

Brown has a reputation for honesty and trustworthiness in his community.

8.
Information concerning Webb's conduct and the allegations against
Brown in this disciplinary matter appeared in the Goldsboro News-Argus, the local
newspaper in Brown's community.
9.
Goldsboro.

The allegations against Brown have been discussed among attorneys in

10.
Brown's conduct was a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1014 in light of how the
United States Supreme Court and the federal Courts of Appeal have interpreted the

5

statute, such that the elements are met even if the defendant is acting in concert with a
complicit insider. However, this was a technical violation given the unique facts of this
case.
II.
Brown's production of the inaccurate HUD-I Settlement Statements was
motivated by a desire to satisfy his clients and the lender and not out of any dishonest or
selfish motive.
12.
Although Brown cooperated with Webb's request for an inaccurate HUDI Settlement Statement in these transactions, Brown and his assistant knew Webb was
aware ofthe true nature of these transactions. Other information Brown provided Webb,
such as the preliminary opinions of title in Southern Bank's files for 3 of the 9
transactions, accurately showed the purchase nature of the transaction. It remains,
however, the attorney's overriding obligation to refuse to cooperate in any manner with
conduct involving misrepresentation.
13.
Brown expressed genuine regret. Brown also, however, expressed the
justification that no harm was caused to Southern Bank, without the recognition that there
was a significant risk of very significant harm to the bank and to Brown's clients who
could have been criminally prosecuted.
14.
Brown received an admonition in 1997 for failing to communicate with a
client and failure to promptly return a client file.
15.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOlms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .01l4(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors are present, but did not warrant
suspension or disbarment in light of the totality of the evidence in this case:

(a)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;

(b)

Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;

6

(c)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
of the profession; and

(d)

Acts of misrepresentation.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are present, but did not warrant disbannent in
light of the totality of the evidence in this case:
(a)

Acts of misrepresentation; and

(b)

Technical commission of a felony.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Defendant's prior discipline;

(b)

Remoteness of Defendant's prior discipline;

(c)

Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;

(d)

Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

(e)

Delay in the initiation of disciplinary proceedings through no fault of
Defendant;

(f)

Defendant's remorse;

(g)

Defendant's good character and reputation;

(h)

Vulnerability of victim;

(i)

Defendant's experience in the practice of law; and

(j)

Other penalties or sanctions, in the fonn of embarrassment from the public
knowledge and discussion of the misconduct in Brown's community and
in the form of the humbling experience of having his peers questioned
about his conduct, given the reputation for good character Brown had built
and nurtured over his 50 years of practice.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition or a reprimand
but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline. The Panel
7

-----------------

..~ .. -

..

concludes that such discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the violations
committed by Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in this State.
5.
The Hearing Panel considered sllspension or disbarment but concludes in
light of the unique circumstances of this case and in light of the impact of the
consequences already experienced by Defendant that neither suspension nor disbarment
is necessary to protect the public or the profession in this matter for this Defendant.
6.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
censure is necessary to adequately protect the public. The Hearing Panel finds that an
order imposing discipline short of censure would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
All alleged violations ba,ed on conduct not constituting a felony and not
within 6 years of the date the underlying grievance was opened are DISMISSED.
2.
Defendant, James Thomas Brown, Jr., is hereby CENSURED for the
remaining violations set forth herein.
3.
Administrative fees and costs are taxed to Defendant. Brown shall pay all
administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within 30
days of receipt of the statement offees and costs.

Signed by th~hair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
C-e~, 2013.

--U- day of

J;;Ali?

Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel

8

