NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATIER OF
Petition for Reinstatement of
ROBERT BROWN, Jr., Attorney

)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF
REINSTATEMENT

THIS MATTER was heard on January 30, 2015 by a Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission upon Petitioner Robelt Brown, lr.'s July 29, 2014 Petition for Reinstatement filed
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB ยง.0125 and the terms of the Order of Discipline in 08 DHC 8.
Petitioner was represented by Karen Bethea-Shields. The NO,rth Carolina State Bar was
represented by Margaret 1'. Cloutier. The Panel consisted of Chair Walter E. Brock, Jr., and
members Joshua W. Willey, Jf., and Patti Head. Based upon the record and the evidence
presented, the Panel makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On February 9,2009 an Order of Discipline was entered suspending Petitioner
Robelt Brown, Jr. from the practice oflaw for five years effective thirty days from the date the
order was entered. The effective date of the Order of Discipline was March 11,2009.
2.
The Order of Discipline provided that Brown could apply for a stay of any
remaining period of snspension after serving three years of the active suspension and upon
compliance with conditions stated in the Order. Brown did not apply for a stay of the suspension.
3.
Brown filed a Petition for Rcinstatement on July 29, 2014. The North Carolina
State Bar filed all Objection to Petition for Reinstatement on August 26, 2014. A hearing before
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission (DHC) was scheduled pursuant to the provisions of 27
N.C.A.C. 1B ยง.0125(b)(7).
4.
To bc eligible for reinstatement, Brown had the burden of establishing by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence that he complied with the following conditions set forth in the
Order of Discipline:
(a) That Brown submitted to comprehensive psychiatric evaluations by two separate
psychiatrists selected by or acceptable to the NOlth Carolina State Bar: (1) a bom'd
celtified psychiatrist and (2) a psychiatrist who specializes in treating sexual offenders
in the professions.

That both psychiatrists have celiified under oath, based on a comprehensive evaluation
of Brown, thaI in their professional opinion he does not suffer from any condition
creating a predisposition for inappropriate sexual behavior.
That Brown must attach to his reinstatement petition the sworn celiiiications from the
two evaluation psychiatrists. Brown also must attach to his reinstatement petition
releases or authorizations instructing the evaluating psychiatrists to discuss their
evaluations of him and to release any corresponding records to the State Bar Office of
Counsel;
(b) That Brown has complied with all of the requirements of Discipline Rule .0124;
(c) That Brown has complied with all of the requirements of Discipline Rule .0 125(b);
(d) That Brown has paid all costs assessed by the Secretary in connection with this
proceeding, including deposition costs, within thirty (30) days of service ofthese costs
upon him by the Secretary;
(e) That Brown has responded to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar by
the deadline stated in the communication;
(t) That Brown has not violated any federal or state laws during the term of the
suspension; and

(g) That Brown has not violated any provisions ofthe Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar during the term of suspension.
5.

Brown has complied with the conditions 4(a) through (g) as set out above.

6.
Brown has also complied with the requirements under Section .0125(b)(3) that
apply to his situation.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Robert Brown, Jr., and the
subj ect matter ofthis pl'Oceeding.
2.
Brown has satisfied the requirements for reinstatement set out in the Order of
Discipline and should be allowed to resume the practice of law, subject to conditions designed to
protect the public.

2

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
ORDER
1.
Robeli Brown, Jr.'s Petition for Reinstatement is ALLOWED, and he shall be
permitted to rcsume practicing law subject to the following conditions:
(a) Brown shall continue with psychotherapy for a minimum of one year, at such frequency as
may be recommended by his therapist. Brown shall ensure that his treating therapist
provides written reports quarterly to the State Bar Office of Counsel stating that Brown has
attended such sessions as recommended by his therapist and that he is fully compliant with
all therapy. TIle reports shall be due April 10,2015, July 10,2015, October 10,2015 and
January 10,2016. All expenses of such treatment and reports shall be borne by Brown;
(b) Brown shall execute written waivers and rcleases authorizing the Office of Counsel to
confer with Brown's treating therapist for the purposc of determining if Brown has
cooperated and complied with recommended treatment and shall not revoke such releases
during the period of one year;
(c) Brown shall not represent any female clients for a period of one year;
(d) Brown shall not directly or indirectly supervise any female employees for a period of one
year; and
(e) Brown shall submit quarterly to the Office of Counsel affidavits certifying compliance
with the conditions set fOlih in paragraphs (c) and (d) above. These affidavits shall be due
April 10, 2015, July 10, 20 IS, October 10, 2015 and January 10,2016.
2.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofiliis matter
pursnant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, ยง .0125(d) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules for the duration ofthe conditions set forth herein. Any
violation of the conditions set forth herein could result in revocation of the reinstatement.
3.
Brown is taxed with tl1e costs and administrative fees of this proceeding, which
Brown shall pay within 30 days of the date of !his Order.
4.

This Order is ctlective immediately upon entry.

Signed by the

ilio

lill~~d Chair with !he knowledge and consent of the other members of

Ii~""g ",,01, <hi>)L d" "fFOd~ ~,
Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
3

