ff !114R

~\"O 41Sj

.<,\

oJ"

C7)

NORTH CAROLINA

.

r---.

J::

CD

•

..<!i
~

'Ofl .

'DIiIC

'"'"

WAKE COUNTY

(./b

2.

ILED

c0

/4

,;f'c'"

\,,'

':5

;: .: ;

BEFORE THE
DI~ PLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
.~
OF THE
",,c\' NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
10 DHC 28

- \J.>-

I

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR.
Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

KELTON T. BROWN, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, and members Theodore C. Edwards,
II and Joe Castro. Carmen Hoyme Bannon represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State
Bar. Defendant, Kelton T. Brown, was represented by Dudley A. Witt. Both parties
stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent
order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all
right to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations
of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.

2.
Defendant, Kelton T. Brown (hereafter "Defendant" or "Brown"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 24 March 2001 and is an Attorney at Law
subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina. Brown's license to practice law in
North Carolina was active from the date of his admission until 2 December 2004, when
he was administratively suspended. Brown's license was reinstated on 27 July 2005 and
remained active until 9 September 2008, when it was again administratively suspended.
Brown's law license remains administratively suspended as of the date of the filing of
this complaint.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Brown was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained law offices
in Raleigh and/or Knightdale, Wake County, North Carolina.

4.
Brown was properly served with process and received due notice of the
hearing in this matter.
5.
Brown represented Brenda and .lamel Winstead (collectively "the
Winsteads") in personal injury cases related to an accident that occurred on 15 May
2006.
6.
On or about 20 December 2006, Brown received a total of $13,300.00 in
settlement proceeds for the Winsteads. Brown deposited the Winsteads' settlement
proceeds into his attorney trust account.
7.
According to disbursement summaries signed by the Winsteads and
provided by Brown to the State Bar, Brown was authorized to disburse the $13,300.00 as
follows:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

$7,684.83 to the Winsteads;
$3,400.00 to an individual named R. Holden on behalf of the Winsteads;
$2,195.43 to Brown Law Group for fees and costs; and
$19.74 to an entity called Nash Medical Records.

8.
The disbursement summaries signed by the Winsteads did not authorize
Brown to use the Winsteads' entrusted funds for the benefit of Brown's other clients.
9.
Brown deposited the Winsteads' funds on 20 December 2006, and the
balance in his attorney trust account was reduced to zero by 5 April 2007.
10.
None of the checks written fi'om Brown's trust account during the period
from 20 December 2006 through 5 April 2007 was payable to Brenda Winstead, lamel
Winstead, R. Holden, or Nash Medical Records.
II.
None of the checks or other withdrawals from Brown's trust account
during the period fi'om 20 December 2006 through 5 April 2007 has a notation indicating
it was drawn on the Winsteads' client balance.
12.
None of the checks or other withdrawals from Brown's trust account
during the period from 20 December 2006 through 5 April 2007 corresponds to any of
the authorized disbursement amounts set forth in paragraph 7 above.
13.
Brown represented to the State Bar that he actually disbursed the
$13,300.00 he received for the benefit of the Winsteads as follows:
(a) $4,389.00 payable to Brown Law Group and deposited into Brown's
operating account on 12/21/06;
(b) $4,000.00 as a counter withdrawal;
(c) $2,376.00 payable to Brown and deposited into Brown's operating
account on 2/1/07; and
(d) $2,535.00 that remained in Brown's trust account and was used for the
benefit of other clients.

-2-

14.
By way ofthe two deposits dated 21 December 2006 and 1 February 2007.
Brown transferred $6,765.00 of the Winsteads' entrusted funds into his operating
account.
15.

Brown's operating account was overdrawn by 27 February 2007.

16.
During the period from 21 December 2006 through 27 February 2007,
Brown used the funds in his operating account to pay for personal expenses.
17.
Brown did not maintain client ledgers accounting for his receipt and
disbursement of entrusted funds for the Winsteads, nor did he provide either of the
Winsteads with a written accounting of his receipt and disbursement of entrusted funds
upon the complete disbursement of those funds.
18.
On 23 October 2008, the Chair of the North Carolina State Bar Grievance
Committee issued a Subpoena for Cause Audit ("SCA") commanding Brown to produce
to the State Bar all attomey trust account records he was required to maintain pursuant to
Rule 1.15-3 of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Brown was served with the SCA on
27 October 2008.
19.
State Bar investigators made repeated attempts throughout 2009 to obtain
from Brown sufficient information to complete the audit. Brown did not provide the
documentation he was required to produce pursuant to the SCA, nor did he provide
specific information and documentation requested by the investigators.
20.
following:

Nonetheless, the records Brown did produce to the State Bar revealed the

(a) Brown routinely made counter withdrawals from his trust account. In
these transactions, funds were withdrawn either as cash or in the form of a
certitied check. Brown did not consistently maintain either copies of
certitied checks or receipts reflecting his distribution of cash. For almost
all of these counter withdrawals, Brown's records reflected neither the
recipient of funds disbursed fi'om his trust account nor the client balance
upon which those funds were drawn.
(b) Trust account checks payable to Brown that did not reflect the client
balance upon which the checks were drawn.
(c) Brown failed to perform monthly or quarterly reconciliations of his
attorney trust account.
(d) Brown failed to maintain client ledgers, reconciliations, and other required
documentation of his receipt and disbursement of entrusted funds.
21.
On 9 September 2008, Brown's license to practice law was
administratively suspended for failure to comply with the State Bar's Continuing Legal

-3-

Education (CLE) requiremcnts and for failure to pay membership dues. His license
remained administratively suspended through the filing ofthe complaint in this case.
22.
In February 2009, Brown appeared in Guilford County District Court on
behalf of Terry Law, who was charged with possession of marijuana and drug
paraphernalia.
23.
Also in February 2009, Brown appeared in Wake County District Court on
behalf of Ricky 1. Floyd, who was charged with drug trafficking. Brown entered a plea
of guilty on behalf of Floyd, but sentencing was continued to a later date.
24.
Throughout 2009, Brown continued to communicate with the Wake
County Assistant District Attorney (ADA) assigned to Floyd's case. Brown did not
reveal to the ADA or to the Wake County court that his law license was suspended.
25.
On motion of the ADA, Floyd's plea was set aside because Brown had not
been licensed to practice law at the time the plea was entered.
26.
On 23 April 2009, Brown entered a notice of appearance on behalf of
Jeremy A. Smith (AKA Jeremy Colebrook) (hereinafter "Smith") in a criminal case in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina.
27.
On 4 May 2009, Brown appeared in federal court on behalf of Smith and
entered a guilty plea.
28.
When it came to the federal court's attention that Brown had not been
licensed to practice law at the time of Smith's plea, the plea was set aside.
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
I.
All the parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Kelton T. Brown, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.O.S. §§ 84-28(b)(2) & (b)(3) as follows:
(a) By using a portion of the Winsteads' entrusted funds for the benefit of
other clients and by transferring funds held in trust for the Winsteads into
his operating account where the funds were used for personal expenses,
Brown failed to identitY, hold, and maintain entrusted property separate
from his own property in violation of l.I5-2(a), used entrusted funds for
his own benefit and/or the benef1t of third parties in violation of Rule 1.152(j), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty in violation of Rule
8A(c);

(b) By failing to maintain client ledgers or render final accountings to the
Winsteads, Brown failed to maintain a record of receipts and
disbursements for each person from whom and for whom funds were

- 4-

received in violation of Rule 1.15-3(b) and failed to provide written
accountings of the receipts and disbursements of all trust funds upon the
complete disbursement of the funds in violation of 1.15-3(e);
(e) By engaging in the conduct described in Finding of Fact 20 above, Brown
drew items on the trust account, payable to himself, which did not indicate
the client balance on which the item was drawn in violation of 1.15-2(h),
made cash withdmwals from his trust account in violation of 1.15-2 (i),
failed to perform or maintain trust account reconciliations in violation of
1.15-3(d), and failed to maintain the minimum required records for
attorney trust accounts in violation of 1.15-3(b) & 1.15-3(g);
(d) By failing to provide information, documentation, and trust account
records as required by the SCA and as repeatedly requested by the State
Bar, Brown failed to produce trust account records for inspection and
copying upon request by the State Bar in violation of Rule 1.15-3(h) and
knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (a) and N.C.G.S. § 8428(b)(3);
(e) By continuing to practice law while his license was suspended, Brown
engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(a);
and
(f) By entering pleas on behalf of Smith and Floyd that were later set aside
because Brown was not licensed to practice law at the time of the pleas,
Brown engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8A(d).

Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing
panel hereby makes the foliowing additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The findings of fact in pamgraphs I through 28 above are reincorporated
as iffuliy set forth herein.
2.
Defendant was admonished by the Grievance Committee in 2007 for
neglect of a client matter and failure to comply with trust account rules. The admonition
also cited Brown's failure to respond as required to the State Bar's requests for
information and his misrepresentation of facts to the Grievance Committee.
3.
Commingling personal and entrusted funds and failing to properly account
for client funds causes a foreseeable risk of harm by putting client funds in jeopardy.

-5-

4.
Because the pleas entered by Brown on behalf of Floyd and Smith had to
be set aside. the disposition of those cases was delayed and court time and resolll'ces were
wasted.
5.
Self-regulation of the legal profession relies upon the cooperation and
participation of lawyers in the self-regulatory process. When a lawyer fails to respond to
a lawful inquiry from a disciplinary authority, it undermines the system of self-regulation.
6.
Although Brown failed to pay one of the Winsteads' medical providers
from their settlement proceeds, he later paid their indebtedness to the provider using
personal funds, demonstrating a good faith effort to rectify the consequences of his
misconduct.
7.
Brown acknowledges his failure to comply with the Rules of Professional
Conduct and is remorseful.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the hearing panel hereby makes the
following additional
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I.
The hearing panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N .C.A.C.
I B § .0 114(w) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar and
finds the following factors are present in this case:
a.

Intent of the defendant to commit acts whcrc thc hann or potential harm is
foreseeable;

b. Circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness,
or integrity;
c. Negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of
justice;
d. Acts of dishonesty;
e. Multiple instances of failure to participate in the legal profession's selfregulation process;
f.

Misappropriation of assets of any kind to which the defendant or recipient
is not entitled, whether fi'OIn a client or any other source;

g. Prior disciplinary offenses;
h. Multiple offenses;

-6-

i.

Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel or cooperative attitude toward
the proceedings;

J.

Good faith efforts to rectify the consequences of his misconduct; and

k. Remorse.
2.
Brown's misconduct caused significant harm to his clients, in that he used
entrusted funds for personal benefit. His mishandling of entrusted funds also put client
funds at risk, thereby causing significant potential harm to his clients.
3.
Brown's failure to comply with the State Bar's lawful demands for
information about his handling of client funds impeded the self-regulatory process and
thereby caused significant harm to the profession.
4.
Brown's misconduct in continuing to practice law when his license was
suspended caused significant harm to the administration ofjustice.
5.
The hearing panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that
suspension of Defendant's license or a public censure, reprimand, or admonition would
not be sufficient discipline because of the seriousness of Defendant's misconduct and the
gravity of the actual harm Defendant's conduct caused to clients, the administration of
justice, and the legal profession and because of the gravity of the significant potential
harm to potential clients, the public, the administration ofjustice, and the legal profession
if Defendant were permitted to continue practicing law.
6.
The hearing panel has considered all lesser sanctions and finds that
discipline short of disbarment would not adequately protect the public, the profession and
the administration ofjustice for the reasons set forth above and for the following reasons:
(a)

Defendant engaged in misconduct involving dishonesty. Such offenses
demonstrate that the offending attorney is not trustworthy. The public
should be able to assume that all lawyers are trustworthy.

(b)

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and
would send the wrong message to attorneys and to the public regarding the
conduct expected of members ofthe Bar of this State.

(c)

The protection of the public, the legal profession and the administration of
justice requires that Defendant not be permitted to resume the practice of
law until he demonstrates the following: that he has reformed; that he
understands his obligations to clients, the public, the legal profession and
the administration of justice; and that permitting him to practice law will
not be detrimental to the public or the integrity and standing of the legal
profession or the administration of justice. Disbarred lawyers are required
to make such a showing before they may resume practicing law.

-7-

Based upon the foregoing and with the consent of the parties, the hearing panel
hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.

Defendant, Kelton T. Brown, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of

law.
2.
Defendant shall surrender his license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this
order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall pay the costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar, including administrative fees, DHC costs,
and costs of the transcription and depositions taken in this case as follows: court reporter
costs; transcription costs; shipping, handling, and transmittal costs. Defendant must pay
the costs and fees within 30 days of service upon him of the statement of costs by the
Secretary.
4.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions of27 NCAC IB § .0124 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

I

,-!tsigned by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members. this the

I~ aaYOf~~::)~l I.

I

/)

~

\

/~7
/l
c:e~

,--"""""n D. Michae L/
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

~
*.C60J-""~
Carmen Hoyme Bannon, Deputy Counsel
Altom ;lIar Flail/itT

Kelton T. Brown
D~rel7dal7/

-8-

