NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE
OF WILLIAM M. COBB, JR.

FORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
00 BCS 13

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §
.OII7(a) of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon an affidavit of tender of
surrender of license executed by William M. Cobb, JI. on October 17,2000, and filed in
the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on October 18, 2000.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that William M. Cobb JI.'s conduct of
misappropriating in excess of $7,500.00 of fiduciary funds entrusted to him constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that he, violated Rules
8.2(b) and 8.2(c) of the North Carolina Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon Motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the
following Order:
1. The tender of surrender of license of William M. Cobb, JI. is hereby accepted.
2. William M. Cobb, Jr. is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in
North Carolina.
3. William M. Cobb, JI. shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. Chapter
1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules and shall
surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary ofthe North
Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline
& Disbarment Rules.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against Cobb.
Done and ordered this 20th day of October, 2000.

~;gp,nJ"p
The N.C. State Bar

BEFORE THE NORTH CAROLINA
STATE BAR COUNCIL
00 BCS 1.3..

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

AFFIDAVIT OF TENDER
I, William M. Cobb, Jr., being duly sworn, depose and say:
1.
I, William M. Cobb, Jr., hereby tender my license and desire to resign
from The North Carolina State Bar. This resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered,
is not the result of coercion or duress, and I am fully aware of the implications of
submitting this resignation.
2.
I acknowledge that the Office of Counsel has given me adequate
opportunity to seek the advice of an attorney concerning the implications of submitting
this resignation, and I am currently represented by counsel in this matter.
3.
I understand that the State Bar Council will consider this affidavit of
surrender at its meeting on October 20, 2000, and I waive any further notice.
I am aware of a pending investigation or other proceedings regarding
allegations that I misappropriated in excess of $7,500.00 of fiduciary funds entrusted to
me. I acknowledge that I have been given adequate opportunity by the State Bar Office
Counsel to produce documentation and records to contradict the allegations that I have
misappropriated fiduciary funds. I have not been able to do so. It is my belief that all
funds due the beneficiary have been repaid in full with six percent interest. I
acknowledge that the North Carolina State Bar has not completed a full audit to
determine the total amounts misappropriated and that I have an obligation to repay all
amounts misappropriated in full prior to seeking reinstatement if I ever elect to do so.
4.

5.
I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the grievance is
predicated are true.
6.
I am submitting this resignation because I know that if charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend
against them.
Further affiant sayeth not.
Thil74ay of October, 2000

Swo:~rJo and S~d before me

thif/'..I!f.day of . )Q./I. i, 2000.


~i)Q'!,~~)
Notary Public

My Commission expires:

6 .­

~8 d.--000
'j

