NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Plaintiff .

v.
JAMES

i. LANGDON, ATTORNEY

I

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

Defendant

This matter came before aHearing Committee of the Dis~iplinary Hearing Commission
composedI of Richard T. Gammon, Esq., Chair; M. Ann Reed, Esq.; and, H. Dale Almond,
pursuant ~o 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B Section .OI14{h) of the Rules ah4
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. The defendant James R. Langdon, was represented
by Alan M. Schneider. The plaintiff was represented by Fern Gunn Simeon. Defendant has
agreed to waive a formal hearing in the above referenced matter. Both parties stipulate and agree
to the fmdings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline
imposed. ,Further, the Defendant hereby waives his right to appeal this consent order or
challenge'in any way the sufficiency of the findings. Based upon the consent of the parties the
hear,ing c~mmittee hereby enters the following:
~

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes o(North Carolina, and the Rules and RegUlations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
I

i

~

I'

,

2.; The Defendant James R. Langdon (hereafter, Langdon), was admitted to the North
Carolina ~tate Bar on August 24, 1996, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney
at law lic~nsed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the ·laws of the State of North Carolina.

3.: During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Langdon waS actively engaged in
the practi~e of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Charlotte, North
Carolina. :
4. Langdon was employed as an associate with the Poyner & Spruill law firm and was

1

,

assigned to handle various cases.
5. In July 1999, Langdon agre~d to file eight complaints against accoUllt debtors of
Labor Day on behalf of his client.
6. Prior to December 22, 2000, Langdon misrepresented to his client that he had filed
the eight lawsuits when in fact no lawsuit had been filed against the account debtors.

I

7. Langdon finally drafted, the eight complaints against the account debtors of Labor
Day on or about December 22, 2000.
8. Langdon was supposed to 40mesticate a foreign judgment agai~st Labor Day and
execute on the judgment, but failed to do so.
9. In March 1999, Langdon began representing a client regarding the client' s Ii,en on the
.
Laniers' car (hereafter, the Lanier case).

10. Langdon was supposed to file a complaint on behalf ofms client in the Lanier case,
but he never filed it.
11. Langdon misrepresented to his client that he had initiated the lawsuit, When in fact he
had not filed a complaint in the Lanier case.
12. In 1999, Langdon was supposed to draft a consent order in the Massey Chapter 13
bankruptcy matter. Langdon drafted the consent order, but never followed up to see that the
court entered the order.
13. In May 1999, Langdon agreed to represent a client against Devise Aviation Contract
Personnel Inc., (hereafter, Devise Aviation), Debra Cobb, and DamiQn Hayes.

I

14. Langdon filed a complaint against Devise Aviation, Debra Cobb, and Damion Hayes.

Devise Aviatiori and Debra Cobb were served with the complaint.
15. Damion Hayes was not served properly with the complaint. Langdon told his client
that he needed to hire a process s~rver or private detective to find Hayes in order to serve the
complaint on him. The client authorized Langdon to hire a process server or private detective to
find Hayes. Langdon neither followed through with hiring anyone to serve the compl~t on
Hayes, nor took any steps to have Hayes served with the complaint.
16 . Langdon never pursued default judgments against Devise Aviation and Debra Cobb,
the parties that were served with the complaint.
17. On August 19, 1999, a client asked Langdon to pursue legal action ag"ti:p.st Optical
Fiber Network and David Middleton..

2

I

18. It took approximately six months for Langdon to file a summons and complaint
against Optical Fiber Network and David Middleton.

19~ Langdon obtained service by certified mail on Optical Fiber Network. Neither
Optical Fiper Network nor David Middleton filed an answer. Langdon did not obtain a de!'ault
judgment ~gainst Optical Fiber Network and David Middleton.
20 i In March 2000, Langdon drafted complaints against Doug and Robert Uhlig on
behalf of defendant's client. The complaint was never served on Doug Uhlig, and Langdon
inadvertently filed the complaint against Robert Uhlig in the wrong county.

I

21. In late summer or early fall of2000, Langdon's client asked him to seek a default
judgment ~gainst Doug and Robert Uhlig. However, Langdon never corrected the improper
filing of the complaint against Robert Uhlig and he never pUrsued a default judgment against
Doug and Robert Uhlig, as instructed by his client.
22.1 In July 2000, Langdon was supposed to seek a claim and delivery of a cat from David
Hobbs. L~gdon never filed a complaint for claim and delivery on his client's behalf against
Hobbs.
I

I

23. ;In
february 1999, Langdon filed actions against Katherine Dunn, Susan
Dunn, and
I
,
BryanDunp.
I

24. iThe Bryan Dunn case was on the clean-up calendar on October 14, 1999 and
December 16, 1999. According to Langdon, on December 16, he obtained a continuance in the
cases. He thought that the Bryan Dunn case was continued on December 16; however, the court
dismissed it by clerical error.
25. Langdon failed to follow-up on the Bryan Dunn case to determine the status of the
case, When p.e did not see the matter appear on any subsequent clean-up calendars.

I

26. On May 4,2000, Langdon's client asked him to file motiohs for relief from stay in
the Montjoy and Pittman cases.
.

I

.

27. ~angdon did 1;1ot draft the motions for relief from stay in the Montjoy and Pittman
cases until IDecembet 4, 2000.

tn

28. December 1998, Wayne Sigmon, bankruptcy trustee for a debtor, Anne Michael
Holdings (hereafter, Holdi1;1gs), sued Langdon's client for fraudulently receiving merchandise
from Holdings.
.
29. Langdon did not respond to the debtor's discovery in Holdings case.

3

I

,

30. Langdon did not c{)nduct any discovery in the Holdings case.
31. None of Langdon's clients complained about the conduct referenced herein.
32. The above referenced conduct occurred during a period of time in which Langdon
was experiencing significant personal problems in his life ap.d was suffering from depression.
33. The above referenced conduct was causally connected to Langdon's depression.

I

34. As a result of the conduct referenced herein, Langdon voluntarily sought help from
the Lawyers Assist~ce Program (hereafter, LAP) and was referred to the Pl1:villon Internati{)nal
Treatment Center for inpatient treatment.
35. Upon successful completion of a 28-day inpatient treatment program, Langdon
entered into a two-year Recovery Contract with LAP on May 7, 2001.
36. Langdon has fully complied with his LAP Recovery contract and has made excellent
progress in addressing the personal problems he was experiencing during the time period in .
which the conduct at issue occurred.
37. The Director of LAP reports that, .given Langdon':s.jmpeccable.co:mpliance, insight,
acceptance of responsibility and his therapeutic work over the last two years, it is his opinion that
La,ngdon does not pose a danger to clients and can safely engage in the practice of law.
38. Langdon is currently empoyed with Moore & VanAllen, PLLC(hereafter, MVA) and
has been so employed since December of 2000.
39. Langdon has kept MVA fully informed about the misconduct that occurred at his
former firm and has kept MVA fully apprised of his progress with the LAP program.

I

40. MVAreports that Langdon has made excellent progress .and is han~ling any and- all
client matters promptly and diligently .
. 41. No grievances have been filed against Langdon with the North Carolina State Bar
since he left his former firm in December of2000.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the fOllowing:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the Committee has
jurisdiction over defendant, James R. Langdon, and the subject matter of this proceeding.

4

I

t._.

2. The Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipli~e pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
.
a. By not acting with reasonable diligence and p~omptness in representing his various
,clients, Langdon neglected his clients' cases in violation of Rule 1.3 of the North
Carolina
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
!
'
b. By misrepresenting to his client the true status of the actions against account debtors
of Labor Day, Langdon engaged in condl,lct involving a misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4 (c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

,

i

c. By telling his client that he had filed a lawsuit in the Lanier case, when he had not
flIed a complaint and no legal action had been initiated, Langdon engaged in conduct
involving a misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4 (c) of the Revised Rules of
professional Conduct.
I

Bas~d upon the

consent of the parties, the hearing committee also enters the following:

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Langdon's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

(a)
(b)

multiple offenses; and
a pattern of misconduct.

r

I

2. Langdon's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:

(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)

absence of any prior disciplinary record
absence of selfish motive
Langdon suffered from significant personal problems during the time period in
which the violations occurred and has actively and successfully sought treatment
and counseling since April 2001
efforts to rectify the consequences of his misconduct
full and free disclosure to the North Carolina State Bar and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedi~gs
good,character and reputation
remorse
interim rehabilitation; and
The conduct in question occurred more than two years ago.

3.

The mitigating factors significantly outweigh the aggravating factors. '

(a)
(b)!
(c)

(d)
(e)

I

Bas¢d upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLUSIONS OF LAW and the
FINDINGS ;REGARDING DISCIPLINE and based Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing

5

I
.:'

.

"

,'"

•

CqhUnittee enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license of the defendant, James R. L~gdon, is hereby suspended fotone year
from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon him. The period of suspension is stayed for
.
two years upon the following conditions:

I

a. Langdon shall t:(xecute another 2-year Recovery Contract with the LAP
Program and satisfactorily participate in the LAP Program throughout the ,
period of his stayed suspension.
b. Langdon shall sign appropriate waivers to pennit LAP to' make qu~erly
repo1,1:s to the State Bar's Office of Counsel and to report any f~lureof
Langdon to comply with this Order and his LAP recovery contract. Langdon
is responsible to ensure that quarterly reports are received by the State Bar's
Office of Counsel on January 1, April I, July 1, and October 1 dUring e·ach
year of the stay.
c. During the period of the stay, Langdon will pay all membership dues and
Client Security Fund assessments and will comply with all Contintung Legal
Education requirements on a timely basis.
d. During the period of 'the stay, Langdon will keep his address of record with
the North Carolina State Bar current, will accept all certified mail from the
North Carolina State Bar, and will respond to all letters of notice and requests
for information from the North Carolina state Bar by the deadlines stated in
the communication.

I

e. Langdon shall not violate any state or federal laws during the period of the
stayed suspension.

f. Langdon shall not violate any provisions of the Ru1es of Professional Conduct
during the period of his stayed suspension; and
g. Langdon shall pay all costs incurred in this proceeding, as assessed 'by the
Secretary, within 30 days of service of the notice of costs upon him.
2. If, upon a motion by the State Bar, a Hearing Committee of the DHC fmds that
Langdon has violated any of the conditions' in Section, 1(a)-(e) of this Order QfDiscipline, the
suspension of Langdon's, license shall be activated. If the suspension is activated, prior to
seeking reinstatement of his license, Langdon must:
a.'

comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1; Subchapter

6
t" I·'"

I

\ .'.~

·/p_1

c4

".

B, Sec.. 0125(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules; 'and
b.

satisfy all the conditions set forth in section 1 (a)-(e) of~s Order of
Discipline prior to seeking reinstatement.

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
members ~f the Hearing Committee.
This the

$b

day of

~

I

,2003

~~
RlCharT:Gammon, Chai~'

Hearing

eo=::;~fA'~.:J ".~~
~~

.We Consent:

Alan M. Schneider
,.
Attorney for Defendant

.

~

~~.~~
~ounni
Simeon
Attorney f0r Plaintiff
:

I

. !

7

I
.. :'

