NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09GI 265 and IOGOOO I

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
William E. Brown,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRlMAND

On July 22,2010, the Grievance Committee of the NOlih Carolina State Bar met and
.considered the grievances filed against you by E.C. and S.M.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, incl uding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjustif)'ing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. TI1e Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential harn1 to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairn1an of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
E.C. retained you to represent her in a domestic matter. E.C. paid $1,500 towa your
legal fee. Shortly thereafter, E.C. discharged you. E.C. requested a refund. You failed to
respond to E.C. in violation of Rule 1.4(a). E.C. filed a fee dispute petition. You failed to
respond to the fee dispute in violation of Rule 1.5(f). Becanse you failed to respond to the fee
dispute, a grievance file was opened. In response to the grievance you stated that illness

prevented you from responding to the fee dispute. You also stated that you prepared pleadings
on behalfofE.C. and therefore earned the $1,500 collected. You were asked to provide evidence
of your illness and copies of the pleadings. You failed to respond to Deputy Counsel's request in
violation of Rule 8.l(b).
S.M. retained you to represent him in civil litigation. S.M. filed a grievance indicating
that you failed to communicate the status of the litigation with him and failed to return his file.
You received the letter of notice detailing S.M.'s grievance. You provided a written response to
the grievance. Deputy Counsel sent you two letters seeking additional infonuation. You failed
to respond. Deputy Counsel sent you a subpoena to appear and produce S.M.'s file. In response
to the subpoena, you mailed a copy ofS.M.'s file to Deputy Counsel. You failed to appear at the
State Bar office as directed by the subpoena. Deputy Counsel communicated with you by
telephone to obtain additional information. Your failure to timely respond to Deputy Counsel's
follow up letters until subpoenaed is a violation of Rule 8.1 (b). The Grievance Committee
concluded that there is not clear, cogent and convincing evidence that you failed to communicate
with S.M. or failed to return S.M.'s file.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

c2C:. day of.,e.Y::~~~~~====-,

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

2010

