BEFORE THE
UNARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09DHC 33

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ORDER

v.
WILLIAM E. BROWN, Attorney,
Defendant
Defendant, William E. Brown ("Brown" or "Defendant") was ordered to appear
and show cause why the stay ofthe suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline
entered in this case on July 19,2010 should not be lifted and the suspension activated.
This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed ofJ. Michael Booe, Chair, and members Harriett Smalls and Dr. Charles L.
Garrett, Jr. pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0114(x). The Plaintiffwas represented by Jennifer A. Porter. The
Defendant was represented by Bryce D. Neier. Based upon the evidence presented at the
hearing in this matter, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by the greater weight of the
evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On July 19, 2010, an Order of Discipline was entered in this matter. The
Order was served on Defendant on July 26,2010. The effective date of the Order of
Discipline was August 25, 20 I O. The Order of Discipline entered on July 19, 20 lOin this
matter shall be referred to herein as "the Order ofDiscipline."

2.
The Order ofDiscipline imposed a three year suspension of Defendant's
license to practice law. The Order of Discipline provided that the suspension would be
stayed for three years, contingent upon compliance with the conditions stated in the
order.
3.
Paragraph 3.0. ofthe Order ofDiscipline required Defendant to violate no
provision ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar during the
term ofthe stayed suspension.
4.
Rule 1.3 of the Rules ofProfessional Conduct requires a lawyer to net with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client.

5.
Defendant had been retained by Pamela Monroe to represent her to obtain
a divorce from Carl Monroe. Defendant failed to properly notice Ms. Monroe's divorce
hearing set for September 13, 2010 and thereby failed to diligently represent Ms. Monroe.
Defimdant's failure to diligently represent Pamela Monroe later caused
6.
problems to develop when Ms. Monroe and Carl Monroe discovered they were not
divorced in November 2010.
7.
Rule 1.5(t)(2) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct requires a lawyer to
participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process.
8.
On August 20, 2010, the State Bar served Defendant with notice of the
Petition for Resolution of Disputed Fee filed by Virginia Akins. Defendant's response to
the fee dispute was due no later than September 4, 2010. Defendant failed to respond and
failed to participate in the fee dispute process.
9.
On August 25,2010, the State Bar served Defendant with notice of the
Petition for Resolution ofDisputed Fee filed by Jackie R. Godwin, Jr. Defendant's
response to the fee dispute was due no later than September 9,2010. Defendant failed to
respond and failed to participate in the fee dispute process.
10.
On September 16,2010, the State Bar served Defendant with notice of the
Petition for Resolution of Disputed Fee filed by Varonica Morrison. Defendant's
response was due no later than October 1,2010. Defendant failed to timely respond to
the notice offee dispute. Defendant submitted a late response on October 12, 2010. The
State Bar sent a supplemental inquiry to Defendant requesting additional information and
documentation. Defendant failed to respond to this supplemental inquiry.
11.
On September 10,2010, the State Bar served Defendant with notice ofthe
Petition for Resolution of Disputed Fee filed by Jackie Godwin, Sr. Defendant's
response was due no later than September 25,2010. Defendant failed to respond to the
fee dispute and failed to participate in the fee dispute process.
12.
Rule 8.1(b) requires a lawyer not to knowingly fail to respond to a lawful
demand for information from a disciplinary authority.
13.
On August 26, 2010, the Stale Bar served Defendant wilh a Letter of
Notice in grievance file 10G0500 (complainant Norman K. Pettit). Defendant's response
10 the Letter ofNolice was due 15 days from receipt. Defendant failed to respond within
15 days of receipt.
14.
On October 8, 2010, the State Bar served Defendant with a Letter of
Notice in grievance file 10G1004 (complainant Jackie Godwin, Jr.). Defendant's
response to the Letter of Notice was due 15 days from receipt. Defendant failed to
respond within 15 days ofreceipt.

-2-

15.
On October &, 2010, the State Bar served Defendant with a Letter of
Notice in grievance file lOG1005 (complainant Virginia D. Akins). Defendant's
response to the Letter ofNotice was due 15 days from receipt. Defendant failed to
respond within 15 days of receipt. Defendant submitted a late response. On November
10, 20 I 0, the State Bar sent a letter to Defendant requesting additional information with a
due date of November 29, 2010. Defendant failed to respond to this request by
November 29, 2010. Defendant submitted a late response to the request for additional
information on December 22, 20 I O.
16.
On January 5, 2011, the State Bar served Defendant with a Letter of
Notice in grievance file lOG 114& (complainant Varonica Morrison). Defendant's
response to the Letter ofNotice was due 15 days from receipt. Defendant failed to
respond within 15 days of receipt.
17.
Defendant had the ability to timely respood to the fee disputes and
grievances listed above.
1&.
Paragraph 3.1. of the Order of Discipline required Defendant to pay all
costs assessed by the Secretary in connection with the disciplinary proceeding, including
deposition costs and expert witness costs as allowed by statute, within 30 days of service
of a statement ofthese costs upon him.
19.
The Assistant Clerk of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission sent the
statement of costs to Defendant by regular mail on August 18, 2010 and served
Defendant with the statement of costs by certified mail on September 25, 2010.
20.
Based on the service date of September 25, 2010, Defendant was required
to pay the costs no later than October 25, 20 IO.
21.
Defendant failed to pay the costs within 30 days of service ofthe
statement of costs.
22.

Defendant did not pay the costs until March 4, 20 I 1.

23.

Defendant had the ability to pay the costs in a timely manner.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over the Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
The hearing in this matter was conducted pursuant to Rule .01 14(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. The standard applicable at this
hearing is as set out in Rule .0114(x), to wit: "After such a hearing, the hearing panel
may enter an order lifting the stay and activating the suspension or any portion thereof,
·3·

and taxing the defendant with the costs, if it finds that the North Carolina State Bar has
proven, by the greater weight ofthe evidence, that the defendant violated a condition."
The standard that applies to civil contempt is not the applicable standard for this hearing.
3.
Defendant, William E. Brown, has failed to comply with the following
conditions ofthe stay of his suspension contained in the Order ofDiscipline:
a.
That he pay the costs of the proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon him;
b.
That he not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct during the
stay of his suspension.
4.
The evidence was insufficient to establish that Defendant or his staff
continued to represent Pamela Monroe after the date by whieh he was required to
terminate representation of female clients under the Order of Discipline.

5.
Defendant substantially complied with terminating his representation of
his female clients, obtaining treatment through therapy, and submitting reports to the
State Bar.
6.
Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct requiring him to
respond to the State Bar on at least eight occasions during the stay ofthe suspension in
this case. The Hearing Panel cannot countenance an attorney failing to respond to the
State Bar. Although the testimony indicates Defendant is an effective attorney in the
courtroom, an essential obligation of each attorney's professional life is participating in
the self-regulation ofthe bar.

7.
Defendant's failure to timely pay the costs taxed against him is a
substantial violation ofthe conditions ofthe stay ofthe suspension.
8.
Defendant's violations ofthe Rules ofProfessional Conduct and his
failure to timely pay the costs of the disciplinary proceeding warrant lifting the stay and
activating a portion of his suspension.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Additional Findings and Conclusion, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER
1.
The stay ofDefendant's suspension is lifted and six months ofthe three
year suspension previously imposed are hereby activated. Pursuant to Rule .01 24(c) of
the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, this order and the
suspension imposed herein are effective 30 days after service ofthis order upon
Defendant.
2.
Defendant must comply with the obligations of a suspended attorney
under Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and the
requirements of the Order of Discipline.

-4-

,

.
3.
After serving the activated six months of his suspension, Defendant may
apply to have the remainder ofthe three year suspension stayed by petitioning for
reinstatement to active status as stated in paragraph 5 on page II of the Order of
Discipline. In seeking reinstatement, Defendant must comply with the requirements of
Rule .0 125(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and the
requirements for reinstatement contained in paragraph 5 and its subparagraphs on pages
II and 12 ofthe Order of Discipline. If reinstated to active status prior to the expiration
of the three year suspension period, Defendant's active status shall be subject 10, and
contingent upon compliance with, the terms of the stayed suspension in the Order of
Discipline for the remainder ofthe three year suspension period.
4.
If Defendant is not reinstated to active status prior to the expiration ofthe
three year suspension period, then before Defendant may be reinstated to active status
he must satisi)' the requirements of Rule .0125(b) of the North Carolina Slate Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules and all requirements for reinstatement contained in
paragraph 5 and its subparagraphs on pages II and 12 of the Order of Discipline.
Signed by the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Panel with the
consent of the other Hearing Panel members.

f):1~1.

~

This thC"'fT_day of_-/-II---!.f)..!:.O\~Rs,~~_ 20 II.

9MiZQ:~~~
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-5-

