NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13G0068

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

William E. Brown,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 18,2013 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by E. M
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the mles as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detenlline that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hanll or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
E. M. asked for your help in a child custody case. She filed a grievance alleging that you
neglected her case and failed to return her telephone calls. You were served with the letter of
notice on March 29, 2013 . You failed to respond to the letter of notice within fifteen days of its
service upon you. The State Bar subpoenaed you to its office to respond to the grievance. You
were served with the subpoena, but you did not appear at the State Bar office.

Your failure to respond to this grievance violated Rule 8.1 (b). The Grievance Committee
found as an aggravating factor that you have failed to respond or promptly respond to grievances
and fee dispute petitions on many occasions.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Connnittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depmi from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the J.diILday of ~~

Grievance Connnittee

MMHllb

,2013.

