NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G 1441

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Valderia D. Brunson,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On October 20, 2011, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant hann to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You were the closing lawyer for a 2006 real estate transaction in which C.C. agreed to purchase
the home ofD.M. and L.M., a married couple. D.M and L.M. defi'auded c.c. in cOlU1ection with this
transaction, using him is a straw buyer in an attempt to avoid foreclosure and pocketing the excess
proceeds of the mortgage loan obtained by C.C. You were not aware of, and did not knowingly
participate in, D.M. and L.M.'s efforts to defraud C.C. Nonetheless, you violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct in ways that made it possible for D.M. and L.M. to defraud your client, C.C.
Specifically, you agreed to communicate with C.C. about the transaction entirely through L.M.
You did not explain to C.C. that this arrangement would require you to disclose confidential
information to a third party whose interests were divergent from C.C.'s interests. By failing to obtain

C.C.'s infonned consent to disclose confidential infom1ation to a third party, you violated Rule 1.6(a).
By relying exclusively on a third party to communicate important infonnation about the representation,
you failed to reasonably consult with your client, failed keep your client reasonably infonned, and failed
explain matters to the extent necessary Lo allow your client to make infonned decisions, in violation of
Rule 1.4(a) & (b). Your acquiescence to this arrangement made it possible for L.M. and D.M. to
orchestrate the fraud and thereby cause significant hann to your client, C.C.

In addition, by failing to ascertain that L.M. and D.M.'s home was in foreclosure prior to the
initially-scheduled closing date and by failing to obtain the statutorily-required signature(s) from C.C.'s
wife on the closing documents, you failed to act with reasonable diligence in violation of Rule l.3.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $1 00.00 is hereby taxed to
you.
Done and ordered, this «..2-day of _~'-"'=-:::=;';.-_' 2011.

Rt5"nald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

--------

