BEFORE THE
ARY HEARlNG COMMISSION
OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12 DHC 18

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintilr,
v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

V ALDERlA D. BRUNSON, Attorney
Defendant.

This matter came belore a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, M. H. Hood Ellis, and Dr. Charles L. Garrett. Carmen
H. Bannon represented Plaintilf, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Valderia D. Brunson,
represented hersel[ Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter. The parties stipulate and
agree to the lindings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order. The parties
consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry of this order,
Detendant knowingly, tl'eely and voluntarily waives her right to appeal this consent order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the lindings. Based on the foregoing and on the consent
of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintin: the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Delendant, Valderia D. Brunson, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on
18 August 2000 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Brunson was actively engaged in the
practice oflaw in Durham, Durham County, North Carolina.

4.

Brunson was properly served with process and received due notice of the hearing

in this matter.
5.
In connection with her law practice, Bnmson maintained two attorney trust
accounts at BB&T, a general trust account (account number ending 8506) and a real estate trust
account (aCcount number ending 6041).

6.
In August 2009, the State Bar conducted a random procedural audit of Brunson's
general and real estate trust accounts. The audit revealed numerous failures by Brunson to
properly maintain and document her attorney trust accounts, including:
(a) The trust accounts contained iimds other than client funds;
(b) Brunson failed to file a written directive with BB&T to report to the State Bar
any time a trust account check was presented against insutlicient funds;
(c) Bnmson did not promptly disburse client fimds;
(d) Brunson failed to maintain required records of deposits;
(e) All checks from the trust accounts did not show the client balances against
which they were drawn;
(f) Individual client ledgers were not accurate;
(g) Brunson failed to perform monthly or quarterly reconciliations; and
(h) Brunson did not always provide written accountings to clients.
7.
On 21 August 2009, Brunson signed a statement indicating that she would remedy
all of the trust accounting deficiencies identified by the auditor within thirty days.
8.
Despite repeated requests and guidance from the State Bar auditor over the
ensuing year, Brunson tailed to completely correct the deficiencies. In particular, she did not
reconcile the real estate trust account and was unable to identity the beneficial owners of the
tunds in that account.
9.
in August 20 I 0, the State Bar served Brunson with a Subpoena tor Cause Audit.
The State Bar analyzed the trust account and client documents produced by Brunson in response
to the SUbpoena.
10.
The State Bar's analysis of Brunson's real estate trust account revealed that the
balance in the account was approximately $17,700.00 less than the total amount of entrusted
funds Brunson should have held in trust.
11.

The deficit in Brunson's real estate trust account was caused by:
(a) An un-funded loan of $22,500.00 for a closing that occurred in May 2006;
(b) $2,665.00 that was erroneously wired out of the account twice in connection
with a July 2007 closing; and
(c) Accumulated bank fees and charges that exceeded the amount of Brunson's
funds on deposit in the trust account.

2

12.
In early 2007, when several checks Irom her real estate trust account were
dishonored due to insutlicient filllds, Brunson deposited approximately $6,800.00 of personal
funds into the account. She did not, however, determine the amount of the deficiency or the
reason there were insutlicient funds on deposit in her trust account.
J 3.
Bnlllson's deposit of personal funds only partially replenished the deficit in the
account, and was not earmarked as a remedy for an identified deficit.

14.
Brunson did not perform quarterly reconciliations of her real estate trust account
beginning in at least 2006, when the unfunded loan caused the initial deficit in her account.
15.
In December 2008, Brunson used entrusted funds for her own benetit by
inadvertently disbursing $311.00 from the real estate trust account to pay her Verizon bill.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Valderia D. Brunson, and over the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(I) and N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)
(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By failing to direct her bank, in writing, to report to the State Bar any trust
account check presented against insufficient filI1ds, Brunson violated Rule 1.152(k);

(b) By failing to maintain complete trust account documentation and client ledgers,
Brunson violated Rules 1.15-3(b) and (g);
(c) By failing to reconcile her trust accounts, Brunson violated Rule 1.15-3(d);
(d) By failing to provide clients with written accountings of entrusted funds Brunson
violated Rule I.IS-3(e);
(e) By depositing personal funds into her trust account without identirying the source
of the account deli cit and earmarking the deposit as a remedy for that deficit,
Brunson comingled personal and entrusted funds in violation of Rule I. J5-2(f);
and
(t) By disbursing funds from her trust account to pay a personal bill, Bnlllson used
entrusted funds for personal benetit in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j).

3

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Although Brunson's failure to properly identifY, account for, and maintain
entrusted funds created a foreseeable risk of harm to the clients whose money she held in trust,
Brunson's mismanagement of her trust account does not reflect dishonest or selfish intent.
2.
A lawyer's mismanagement of entrusted funds erodes the confidence clients place
in attorneys who handle their affairs. As a result, such conduct harms the profession as a whole.
3.
Brunson coming led personal funds with entrusted funds in her trust account in an
etfort to protect client funds when she realized there was a deticit in the trust account.

4.
Brunson's use of entrusted funds to pay her Verizon bill was inadvertent and upon
discovery ofthe error, she replenished the trust account.
5.
After the August 2009 random audit, Brunson reconciled her general tnlst
account, fully disbursed the funds therein, and closed the account. Entrusted funds remain in her
real estate trust account.
6.
In 201 I the State Bar's Grievance Committee issued to Brunson: (a) an
Admonition for failure to timely disburse title premiums and obtain title policies, and (b) a
Censure for disclosure of confidential information, failure to communicate, and lack of diligence.
7.

Brunson cooperated fully with the State Bar's investigation of this matter.

8.

Brunson is currently employed as corporate counsel and does not handle entrusted

tunds.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension and disbarment.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB S .01 14(w)(2), and determined that although this case involves technical misappropriation of
assets to which the defendant was not entitled, the misappropriation was inadvertent and
therefore does not warrant disbarment.
3.
18

The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.

S .OI14(w)(I) and (3) and determines the following factors are applicable:
4

(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the potential harm was foreseeable;
(b) Prior disciplinary otlenses;
(c) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(d) Multiple offenses;
(e) Remorse; and
(f) Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings.

4.
A censure, reprimand, or admonition would be insutlicient discipline because of
the significant potential harm to clients and the profession caused by Defendant's conduct.
5.
Although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to warrant more discipline than a
censure, it does not warrant an active suspension of her license.
6.
The public will be adequately protected by suspension of Delendant's license,
stayed lor a period of time with conditions imposed upon Defendant to ensure protection of the
public and continued compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct. Among other things,
if and when Defendant resumes practicing law in a capacity other than corporate counsel, she
must demonstrate that she is properly maintaining and accounting for any funds received by her
in tmst or in a fiduciary capacity.
7.
A stayed suspension of Defendant's law license is warranted insofar as entry of an
order imposing less severe discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
misconduct and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct
expected of members orthe Bar of this State.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The law license of Defendant, Valderia D. Bmnson, is hereby suspended tor two
years. The suspension shall be stayed lor five years as long as Defendant complies with the
conditions identified in paragraph 2, below.
2.
The suspension of Defendant's law license shall be stayed for five years as long
as Defendant complies and continues to comply with the following conditions:
(a) Within 90 days of this order's elfective date, Defendant shall provide the State
Bar with a complete list of all clients for whom Defendant should be holding
5

funds in trust, contact information for each of those clients, and the amount of
money to which each of those clients is entitled;
(b) If the balance in Dellmdant's trust account is less than the total amount of funds
due to clients, Defendant shall be personally responsible for paying any amounts
still due to clients after the funds in Deflmdant's trust account are completely
disbursed. Defendant must make the payments for which she is personally
responsible within one year after the funds currently in her trust account are
disbursed.
(e) Defendant shall cooperate in all efforts by the State Bar to return entrusted funds
to their rightful owners, including but not limited to any disbursement action tiled
in the Wake County Superior Court;
(d) Detlmdant shall immediately notifY the Office of Counsel if she resumes any torm
of legal practice other than in-house counsel. In addition, on October 30 and
April 30 of each year during the period of the stay, Defendant shall submit an
affidavit to the Office of Counsel indicating her employment status and/or the
nature of her legal practice.
(e) If at any time during the period of the stay Defendant resumes any form oflegal
practice other than in-house counsel, Defendant shall arrange for an active
member in good standing of the North Carolina State Bar who has been approved
by the Office of Counsel and practices in the county of her practice to serve as her
practice monitor. Before Defendant resumes practicing in a capacity other than
in-house counsel, she must supply the Office of Counsel with a letter trom the
approved monitoring attorney contirming his or her agreement to: (a) meet with
Brunson monthly to review Brunson's cases; (b) provide supervision to ensure
that Brunson timely and completely handles client matters; and (c) provide
written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel on the
following dates as they occur during the duration of the stay of the suspension:
January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. Brunson will be responsible for
the cost, if any, charged by the monitor tor this supervision.
(I) If at any time during the period of the stay Defendant resumes any form oflegal
practice that involves handling entrusted funds:
I.

Defendant shall open a new trust account and have a CPA audit the new
trust account on a quarterly basis to ensure Defendant's compliance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

11.

The CPA must report quarterly to the Office of Counsel concerning the
compliance of Defendant's trust account with the Rules of Professional
Conduct, including but not limited to any accounting irregularities and any
deviance from the requirements of the Rules ofProtessional Conduct, with
a copy of the report sent simultaneously to Defendant. The CPA's reports
are due no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter (first quarter's
6

report due April 30, second quarter's report due July 30, third quarter's
report due October 30, and fourth quarter's report due January 30). It is
Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and submits
the reports as required herein;
111.

If any of the CPA reports referenced in paragraph (g)(ii) above note any
irregularities or deficiencies, Defendant shall take all remedial action
necessary to bring the trust account into compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct and shall provide proof of the remedial action and
compliance to the Oflice of Counsel of the State Bar and to the CPA
within 30 days of the date of the CP A' s report;

IV.

If any of the CPA reports referenced in paragraph (g)(ii) above note any
irregularities or deficiencies in Defendant's handling of entrusted fill1ds,
the CPA shall provide a subsequent report regarding whether Defendant's
remedial actions were sufficient and whether Defendant's account(s) has
been brought into compliance with the Rules of Protessional Conduct.
The CPA shan provide this report regarding remedial measures to the
Office of Counsel within 30 days of Defendant's provision of proof of
remedial action. It is Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA
completes and submits the reports as required herein.

(g) All CPA evaluations, reports, and services referred to herein will be completed
and submitted at Defendant's sole expense;
(h) Failure of the CPA to submit any report required by this Order shall be grounds to
lin the stay and activate the suspension;
(i) Detendant shall successfully complete four hours of continuing legal education in
the area of trust account management within the tirst year after the etlective date
of this order. Defendant shall provide written proof of successtul completion of
the CLE courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the courses. This
is in addition to the standard annual CLE requirements;

(j) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during her suspension;
(k) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of her current business and home addresses and shan notity the Bar of
any change in address within ten days of such change;
(I) Defendant shan respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,

including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process tor any petition of which she receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;
7

(m)Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State Bar
that is sent to her; and
(n) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements.
3.
If Defendant fails to comply with any or the conditions of the stayed suspension
provided in paragraph 2(a) - (n) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in ยง .
o114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4.
If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is
activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law, Defendant
must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that she has complied with each of the
following conditions:
(a) Defendant submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order lifting the
stay and/or activating the suspension of her law license;
(b) Defimdant complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB ยง .0124 following the
order lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension of her law license;
(cl Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of
her current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change;
(d) Defendant responded to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and participated in good faith in the State Bar's tee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which she received notice after the etlective date of
this Order;
(el Defimdant promptly accepted all certified mail sent to her by the State Bar;
(f) That at the time of her petition for stay, Defendant is current in payment of all
Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments
and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from her, as
well as all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

(g) That at the time of her petition for stay, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory CLE hours, in reporting of such hours, or in payment of
any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;
(h) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during her suspension;

8

(i) Defendant has paid the administrative tees and costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon her by the Secretary of the State
Bar; and
(j) Defendant has complied with any other conditions deemed necessary for

reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel pursuant to the order lifting the stay
of the suspension of Defendant's law license.
Any order of the Administrative Committee of the North Carolina State Bar
5.
placing Brunson in inactive status fur any reason shall toll the running of the suspension, the
period of the stay of the suspension, and Brunson's obligation to comply with the terms of the
stay of the suspension under this order. Upon Brunson's reinstatement to active status by the
Administrative Committee, the tolling of the running of the suspension and the stay of the
suspension under this order shall be lifted, at which time Brunson's obligation to comply with
the conditions of the stay of the suspension in this order will resume.
6.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary, which Defendant shall pay within thirty days of service of the notice of costs
upon Defendant.
7.

This Order shall be etrective on the date it is tiled.

5eq+et

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the knowledge and consent of the other members
of the Hearing Panel, this is the
day of
,2012.

l.:L

G, l~

Sharon B. Alexander,
Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

. -)

~~--=

LYalderiil D. Brunson

half

Owwn if Cf3a-u~

Carmen H. Bannon
Atlomey for Plaintiff

[)~fe/Jda/Jt

9

