NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G0675

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Assata K. Buffaloe,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April IS, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by W. C.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
TIle Glievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In 2007 through 2009 you were an Assistant Distlict Attorney in Bertie County. In 2007

W. C. was charged with child sexual abuse. He remained incarcerated during the pendency of
those charges. You had some familiarity with the charges against Mr. C. because you provided
assistance to the ADA assigned to Mr. C. 's cases at the probable cause hearing and in preparing
the indictments in September 2007. In early January 2009 the Department of Social Services

forwarded to an assistant in your office a document containing information tending to negate the
guilt ofMr. C. The assistant placed the docwnent in the office file relating to Mr. c.'s charges.
This document was not provided to Mr. C.'s attorney. In mid-January 2009, in an effort to
facilitate the flow of cases in Superior Court, you made a plea offer to Mr. C.'s attorney without
reviewing the office file. You again made a plea offer to Mr. c.'s attorney in April 2009, again
without reviewing the office file. Because you did not review the file before making the plea
offers, you were unaware of the exculpatOly information contained in the file. When that
document was brought to your attention, you dismissed the charges against Mr. C. and he was
then released from jail.
By failing to review the office file before extending plea offers to Mr. c.'s attorney, you
did not act with reasonable diligence in violation of Rule 1.3 and you failed to make a reasonably
diligent inquiry and to timely disclose to the defense all evidence required to be disclosed in
violation of Rule 3.8(d). In issuing this discipline the Grievance Committee recognized that the
file was not formally assigned to you but also recognized the harm or potential harm your actions
caused Mr. C.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
1n accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

Oday of--"'---frC"A"L---' 2010

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

