Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLlNE

v.
DAIVA S. BULLUCK, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the. Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Shirley L. Fulton, Chair, and members Beverly T. Beal and
Bradley Lail, pursuant to NOlth Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant
Daiva S. Bulluck appeared pro se. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to
the fmdings of fact and conclusions of law recited in tlus consent order and to the
discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily stipulates to the foregoing fmdings .
of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and entry of the order of discipline.
Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convin~g evidence the following:

Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of NOlth Carolina and is the proper party to bring tbis
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNOlth
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the NOlth Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Daiva S. Bulluck ("Bulluck"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 2008, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to tlle laws of the State of NOlth
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar aud the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all patties.

J

4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant and
Bridgette D. Johnson were engaged in the practice of law in the State ofNOlth Carolina
and maintained a law office in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.
5.
From 2009 to 2013, Defendant failed to comply with celtain trust account
requirements, as follows:
a. Failed to maintain client ledgers for each person or entity from whom
or for whom entrusted funds were received;
b. Failed to conduct monthly and quarterly trust account reconciliations;
c. Failed to identify clients on deposit slips; and
d. Failed to use business size checks containing an anxiliary On-Us field.
6.
Defendant failed to ensure there were funds in the tmst account for a client
before disbursing funds for the client £i'om the trust account. On occasion this resulted in
Defendant disbursing funds from the tmst account attribnted to a client for whom she did
not have funds in the trust account. Some of these disbursements were to third parties on
behalf of the clients and some of the disbursements were for attomey's fees to Defendant.
7.
Defendant failed to ensure she deposited fimds into the correct account
and would sometimes inadvertently deposit entrusted funds into the operating account
instead of the trust account.
8.
On occasion, Defendant would try to rectify deposit and disbursement
errors by transfell'ing funds from the operating account to the trust account.
9.
The State Bar conducted a random audit of Defendant's trust account in
June 2013. In response to the results of the random audit, Defendant attempted to
reconcile the trust account and made transfers from the operating account to try to
address deficiencies.
10.
Defendant and Ms. Johnson disbanded their fnUl in July 2014. Their finn
tmst account had a zero balance as of June 30, 2014.
11.
Defendant provided the State Bar with certain trust account records.
Subsequently, the State Bar requested additional records £i'om Defendant. Defendant
failed to respond to the State Bar's request for additional records made to her by
telephone in April 2015.
Based upon the consent of the pruties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Daiva S. Bulluck

Page 2 ofl0

Conclusions of Law

1.

All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grolmds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to maintain client ledgers, Defendant failed to maintain a ledger
containing a record of receipts and disbursements for each person or entity
from whom and for whom entrusted funds were received and the cmTent
balance of funds held in the trust account for each such person or entity in
violation of Rule 1.15-3(b)(5);

(b)

By failing to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations of the trust
account, Defendant failed to total the individual client balances shown on
the ledger of a general trust account with the current bank statement
balance for the trust account each qU81ter in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d)(1)
and failed to reconcile the balance of the trust account as shown on the
lawyer's records with the cmTent ban1c statement balance for the trust
account each month in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d)(2);

(c)

By failing to identifY on deposit slips the clients for whom funds were
being deposited into the trust account, Defendant failed to maintain the
requisite record listing the name of the client to whom the funds deposited
into the trust account belonged in violation of Rule 1.15-3(b)(1);

(d)

By disbursing funds ii-om the trnst account for the benefit of clients who
did not have funds in the trust account at that time, Defend811t failed to
appropriately maintain and disburse entrusted funds in violation of Rule
1.15-2(a), G), and (m);

(e)

By failing to respond to the State B81"S Apri12015 request for additional
records, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for
information from a disciplinary authority in connection with a disciplinary
matter in violation of Rule 8.1 (b).

Upon the consent of the p81ties, the He81'ing Panel hereby finds by cle81', cogent,
and convincing evidence the following additional:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
1.
Maintaining client ledgers and conducting monthly 81ld qUaiterly
reconciliations of the trust accOlmt al'e integral to the proper mainten81lce and protection
of entrusted funds.

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Daiva S. Bulluck

Page 3 oflO

2.
When Defendant opened the law finn with Ms. Johnson after passing.the
bar, neither had any prior training or experience in managing a tmst account.
3.
Defendant and Ms. Johnson received help in operating as a business but
had no assistance with managing a trust account.
4.
5.
Defendant.

Defendant has no prior discipline.
There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of

6.
Defendant and Ms. Johnson disbmsed funds for clients when they had no
funds or insufficient funds in the trust accolUlt for the client, thus misusing other
entrusted funds in the trust account.
7.
Defendant and Ms. Johnson had remedied all deficiencies in the iTUst
account when they closed their practice.
8.

Defendant is not clUTently managing a trust account.

9.

Defendant has aclmowledged her failme to properly maintain entrusted

funds.
10.
The legal profession has the privilege of being self-regulating. It can only
fulfill its regulatory duty, however, if its members participate in the self-regulation
process. When attorneys fail to respond to inquiries of the State Bar, it jeopardizes the
effectiveness of self-regulation.
11.
Although Defendant failed to provide the additional client infOlmation
requested by the State Bar, she did meet with the State Bar's investigator and provide
some records.
12.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censme, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel malces the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOlms of
discipliue available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enlUllerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State.Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension:
a.
Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm is foreseeable, to wit: failing to maintain client ledgers and conduct

Order of Discipline
The North Carolina State Bar v. Daiva S. Bulluck

Page 4 ofl0

reconciliations and thus COmpr0111lSmg her ability to properly maintain and
disburse entrusted funds; and
b.
Potential negative impact of Defendant's actions on clients' or the
public's perception of the profession.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(2) of the Ru1es and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. 1B§ .01l4(w)(3) of the Ru1es and Regu1ations of the NOlih Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:

a.

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

Mnltiple offenses;

d.

A pattern of miscondnct;

e.
Fu11 and free disclosure to the Heating Panel and cooperative
attitnde towat'd the proceedings;
f.

Remorse; and

g.

Vulnerability of Defendant's clients.

4.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entlUsted
funds betrays a vital trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal
.
profession.
5.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential hat'lll to futnre clients.
6.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel fuliher concludes that such
discipline would fail to aclmowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regat'ding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.

Order of Discipline
The North Carolina State Bar v. Daiva S. Bulluck

Pag~ 5 of10

7.
This Hearing Paner has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions
to avoid significant harm or the potential for significallt halm to clients.
8.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel fmds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact a11d Conclusion Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent afthe
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

Order of Discipline
1.
Defendant, Daiva S. Bulluck, is hereby suspended fi:om the practice oflaw
for three years.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs alld administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and fees.
Defendant shall pay the costs within thirty days of service of the statement of costs upon
her.
3.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply dUTing the period of the stay, with the
following conditions;
a.
Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's
Trust Account Handbook, using the Trust Account Reconciliation sheet provided
in the Handbook, for all trust accounts she maintains. Defendant shall provide the
three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with fimds in the trust
account(s) during that month, ledger for any personal fimds maintained in the
trust account(s) for brulic or credit card fees, her trust account ledger, and the bmll(
statements, cancelled checks, and deposit slips for each month. These documents
are due on the 15 th day of the following month - for exmnple, the three-way
reconciliation for the month ofJanUalY is due on February 15.;
b.
Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA audit all trust accounts
maintained by Defendant.· This audit shall assess whether Defendant has in her
trust account the client fimds she should. be maintaining for her clients at that
tinle, as well as Defendant's compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The
CPA's audit shall include addressing the items on the CPA Report Template
which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendant. The quarterly audit repOlts
from the CPA are due no later than 30 days after the end of the qumter - for
exmnple, the CPA audit for the first qumter of the calendar year (Janumy,
February, and Mal·ch) is due on April 30;

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Daiva S. Bulluck

Page 6 000

c.
If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report 01' the CPA
audit reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 01'
Rule 1.1-5-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the date of
the three-way reconciliation rep01t 01' the CPA audit and shall provide
documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar within 2 days of the
date of the remedial action;
d.
Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of
Counsel to provide any information regarding her tlUSt accounts 01' to sign and
. provide any release 01' authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to obtain
information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a trust account,
.
by the deadline stated in the request;
e.
Defendant certifies that she is not handling entrusted :funds 01'
maintaining all attorney trust account at the time she signed this consent order.
Within 30 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall provide the
Office of Counsel of the State Bar with documentation showing the closing of any
and all trust accounts. Thereafter, for as long as Defendant is not handling
entrusted or fiduciary funds 01' maintaining an attorney trust accOlmt, on a
monthly basis Defendant shall snbmit to the Office of Counsel an affidavit
celtifying that she did not handle any entrusted 01' fiduciary funds in that month.
This affidavit shall be executed on the last day of each month and provided to the
Office of Counsel by the 5th day of the following month (e.g. the affidavit for
January would be executed January 31 st and due to the Office of Counsel by
Febmary 5~1). Such affidavit shall be in lieu. of the three-way reconciliation report
required in paragraph 3a. For as long as Defendant is not handling any entrusted
01' fiduciary funds and is not maintaining an attorney trust account, the
requirements of paragraphs 3a to 3d above shall be tolled;
f.
Within the first year of the stayed period of suspension, Defendant
shall complete four hours of continuing legal education in the area of trust
account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. At least
on0 such session shall be taken before the end of the next calendar quarter (i.e., by
March 30, June 30, etc.) following the entry of this order and at least one such
session shall be the Trust Accouuting Rules Continuing Legal Education Program
taught by the TlUst AccOlUlt Compliance Counsel for The North Carolina State
Bar. Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE
courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the courses. These four
hours are in addition to the continuing legal education requirements set out in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1D § .1518;

g.
Defendant shall leeep the NOlth Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current physical business address (not a Post Office
box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notifY the Bar of any
change in address within ten (10) days of such change;

Order of Discipline
The North Carolina State Bar v. Daiva S. Bulluck

Page 7 oflO

h.
Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to
the address on record with the Membership Depmiment of the North Carolina
State Bar;
i.
Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bm' by the deadline stated therein with
full and complete responses and all requested documentation;
j.
Defendant will timely comply with the State Bm continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;

k.
Defendant will pay all membership dues, Client Security Fund
assessments, and any other related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable
deadline;
1.
Defendant will not violate any of the Rcles of Professional
Conduct in effect during the period of the stay;
m.
Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Cmolina
or of the United States, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the
stay; and
n.
Defendant paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secrewy within thilty days after the statement of costs and fees was selved
nponher.
4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years fi-om the
effective date of the Order provided there me no motions 01' proceedings pending alleging
lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to
§ .0114(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. . If a motion
or proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the
suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension wocld otherwise
have terminated, the DHC retains the jmisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the three yem' suspension in whole 01' in pmt if it finds that any of
the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
such pending motion 01' proceeding.
S.
Any order of the Administrative Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar placing Defendant in inactive status for any reason shall toll the running of the
suspension, the period of the stay of the suspension, and Defendant's obligation to
comply with the terms Dfthe stay of the suspension under this order. Upon Defendant's
reinstatement to active status by the Administrative Committee, the tolling of the running
of the suspension and the stay of the suspension nnder flus order shall be lifted, at which

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Daiva S. Bulluck

Page 8 oflO

time such Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions of the stay of the
suspension in this order will resume.
6.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of Defendant's suspension may
be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
7.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing a petition, demonslmting compliance with the requirements § .0125 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, any requirements in the order
activating the suspension, and the following requirements by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence:
a.
Defendant properly wound down her law practice and complied
with the terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
b.
Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar
infonned of her current information for her physical address (not a Post Office
box), telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of her
suspension;
c.
Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of the suspension;
_. d.
Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for
infOlmation from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with
full and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of her suspension;
e.
Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding
continuing education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of her
petition for reinstatement;
f.
Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct
in effect during the period of the suspension;
g.
Defendant did not violate any laws of the State ofNOlth Carolina
or of the Uuited States, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the
suspension; and

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Daiva S. Bulluck

Page 9 of10

h.
Defendant paid all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding
as assessed by the Secretary by the date of the filing of her petition for
reinstatement.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing C011l1nission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .01l4(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

f7 1[J
---Ll(1.!-'1l/:::-.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of .,().fA'..~ 2015.
.

Agreed and consented to by:

Date'

Daiva S. Bulluck
Defendant

Date

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Daiva S. Bulluck

Page 10 oflO

