FII~E
Frl GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
~,

~

,,,SU.PERIOR COURT DIVISION

WAKE COUNTY

ZllL, .:IlL 2 f

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE

JIf;l!k, C jUi'HY, C.S.C.
r)-'J
\.) f

c", ' - , _ .• _,

1li1

10· 29 13 CVS 10889

~_.~. _ _ _ _ _=~~
... _. .

Petitioner

.
CONSENT ORDER OF
DISBARMENT

v.

DONALD H. BUMGARDNER, Attorney,
Respondent

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of
Wake County upon the tender of surrender of the law license of Donald H. Bumgardner.
Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Leanor Bailey Hodge. Jim
R. Funderburk represented Respondent, Donald H. Bumgardner.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Donald H. Bumgardner and the consent of the parties, the court makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. Bumgardner was licensed to practice law on 14 August 1970.
2. During all periods relevant hereto, Bumgardner was actively engaged in the
practice of law in Gastonia, Gaston County, North Carolina.
3. On several occasions beginning as early as 2010, Bumgardner failed to deposit
clients' settlement checks into a trust account and instead negotiated these checks
at local check cashing centers.
4. Bumgardner continued to accept entrusted funds on behalf of clients and to
negotiate their settlement checks at check cashing centers even after Bumgardner
was enjoined by this Court from handling entrusted funds.
5. Bumgardner failed to provide an accounting to clients on whose behalfhe
received settlement proceeds.
6. Bumgardner made several disbursements to himself from the trust account
without identifying on the face of the check the client balance from which the
disbursement was drawn.
7. On 12 August 2013, after being contacted by the State Bar, Bumgardner closed
his trust account by withdrawing the remaining $2,500 from the trust account.
Bumgardner misappropriated these funds and misappropriated other client funds

in excess of$1 million between 2010 and December 2014. Bumgardner also
failed to pay the medical liens of several personal injury clients.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. This court has jurisdiction over the Respondent and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.

2. The courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary action
against attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
3. By failing to deposit client settlement checks into a trust aCCQunt and instead
negotiating them at local check cashing centers, Respondent failed to deposit
entrusted property into a trust account and maintain it according to the Rules of
Professional Conduct in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 1.IS-2(a)(b).
4. By continuing to handle entrusted client funds after the Court entered the Consent
Order of Preliminary Injunction, Respondent engaged in conduct prejudicial to
the administration of justice in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 8A(d).
S. By failing to provide accoUntings to clients for whom Respondent received
settlement proceeds, Respondent failed to communicate with the client in
violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 1.4(a)(3) and (b) and failed to account
for trust funds in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 1.IS-3(e).
6. By misappropriating entrusted funds in excess of $1 million, Respondent used
entrusted property for the benefit of one other than the legal or beneficial owner in
violation Rule of Professional Conduct 1. 1S-2(j), committed a criminal act that
reflects adversely on the lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer
in other respects in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(b) and engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(c).
7.

By failing to pay the medical liens of several personal injury clients, Respondent
neglected his representation of clients in violation of Rule of Professional
Conduct 1.3.

8. Bumgardner's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
9. Bumgardner has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

ORDER
1. The surrender of the license of Donald H. Bumgardner is hereby accepted.

2

2. Donald H. Bumgardner is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North
Carolina effective upon entry of this Order.
3. Bumgardner shall wind-down his law practice within 30 days of entry ofthis
order in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §.0117(e).
4. Bumgardner shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §.0124
and shall surrender his law license and permanent membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124.
S.

Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order, Bumgardner shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of
files can communicate with Bumgardner and obtain such files.

6. Bumgardner shall promptly return client files to clients upon request, within 5
days of receipt of such request. Bumgardner will be deemed to have received any
such request 3 days after the date such request is sent to Bumgardner if the
request is sent to the address Bumgardner provided the State Bar pursuant to the
preceding paragraph.
7. Bumgardner shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
expiration of at least five years from the date of entry of this order.
8. Bumgardner's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125.
9 .. The costs of this action and administrative fees assessed by the State Bar are taxed
against Donald H. Bumgardner.
Done and Ordered this

r;)

7day of '~

,2015.

l;L~t~f,~~drl1¥ks

Seen and consented to:

Donald H. Bumgardner, Respondent

1m R. Funderburk
Counsel for Respondent

~~Q£[IJL

Le#madey Hodge
"
'J7
Deputy Counsel, North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Petitioner
I
3

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

;::It

,
WAKE COUNTY

~THE

,~,~!:: U

GENERAL COURT OF mSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
13 CVS 10889

'filS ~'J,_
II It £,,1"1 ,I.
'0: 29
to,
I I,..
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
W!\KE COUi'TV, CS.C.
Petitioner
BL-~-~.~. ~ __ ~AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER
v.
OF LAW LICENSE
DONALD H. BUMGARDNER, Attorney,
Respondent

Donald H. Bumgardner, being first duly sworn, deposes and says:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Section
.0117 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation. I affirm that I
have had the opportunity to consult an attorney before filing this Affidavit.
3. I am aware that there is a pending investigation against me regarding the following
allegations:
a. On several occasions beginning as early as 2010, I failed to deposit clients'
settlement checks into a trust account and instead negotiated these checks at local
check cashing centers. I continued to accept entrusted funds on behalf of clients
and to negotiate their settlement checks at check cashing centers even after I was
enjoined by this Court from handling entrusted funds.
b. I failed to provide an accounting to clients on whose behalf! received settlement
proceeds.
c.

On 12 August 2013, after being contacted by the State Bar, I closed my trust
account by withdrawing the remaining $2,500 from the trust account. I did not
identify a client on this and other disbursements I made to myself from the trust
account. I misappropriated the $2,500 I withdrew on August 12'h and
misappropriated other client funds in excess of $1 million between 2010 and
December 2014. I also failed to pay the medical liens of several personal injury
clients.
Donald H. Bumgardner
Affidavit of Surrender
13 CVS 10889
Page I of2

4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend
against them,

This the

l~

day of __
J_v_r_'-'"-I_____, 2015.

()~p#l
Donald H.

Bumg~

I, lrD.L~
.--r€.-('\o
, Notary Public of the County of bCl S. +0 n ,
State ofNar Carolma, certify that Donald H. Bumgardner personally appeared before
me this day, was sworn, and acknowledged the due execution of the foregoing Affidavit.

P

Sworn to and subscribed before me
This the

\e;- day of 3lA.JIj

,2015.

~Q~p,~L5{)
otary Public
My Commission Expires:

0-/].5"- JLtJ

TRACEY P. TENO

Notary Public. North Carolina
Gaston County

~~:~_~~~~~J~t:s

Donald H. Bumgardner
Affidavit of Surrender
13 CVS 10889
Page 2 of2

