i'9'UfTi7?z>
NORTH CAROLINA
WAKgCOVNTY

/~

( G::l'\
..
BEFORE THE
",,"
FEB 2M:SCIPi5f:. ARYJiEARING COMMISSION
(Y)
::::
OFTHE
<>1
FILED DHC =TI! CAROLINA STATE BAR
0t 6 BSR 6 & 11 DHC 3

IN THE MATTER OF
CONSENT ORDER
OF

Petition for Reinstatement of
Robert J. Burford, AHorney

REINSTATEMENT

THIS MATIER is before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
ComrtJissioncomposed of Beverly T. Beal,Chait, Williatn O. King and Michael S.
Edwards pursuMI to a Petition tor Reinstatement filed by Robert j. Burford on 6
December 2016. Petitioner was represented by MarkL. Bibbs. The North Carolina State
Bar was represented by Carmen Hoyme Bannon.
Based upon the records of the Disciplinary Hearing COn,mlissioll and the Consel)t
of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
.
FINDINGS OF FACT
L
In an Order of Discipline filed 5 January 2012, a heating. panel of the
Disciplhmry Hearing Commission suspended Burford from the praotice of law fol' two
years.
2.
Burford's suspension was stayed upon compliance With certaincondl(ions,
one of which required Budord (0 disburse funds from his trust accountto clients within
90 days of the effective date orthe Order of Discipline.
3,
III a $Ubseqllent show-cause proceeding, the DHC determined that Burford
had failed to remit the .funds to clients as required by the Order of Discipline and that he
had engaged in additional viOlations of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the
period of stayedsuspertsion.
4.
On 10 October 2012, the DHC entered au Order Lifting Stay and
Activating Suspension. Pursuant to that order, Burford's two year suspension was
activated, effective 23 November 2012,
5.
At the concl!1Sion of the two year actj ve suspension of his Iicense,Burford
was eligible to apply for reinstatement to the practice of law by filmga petition with the
Secretary oflhe North Carolina State Bar. In .order to be reinstated to active status,
Burford had the burden of establishing the followmg by clear, cogent, and convmcing
evidence:

(a) Compliance with all provisions of 27 NCAt IB§ .0124 within 30 days after
service of the Order Lifting StllY aud Activating SuspensIon;
(b) Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed itl 27
N.C.A.C. lB §.01:25(b)iand
(0) Complianoe with the oOfiditionsset forth in paragraph 2 on pages 7-8 of tile

original Order of Discipline, including:
L

Defendant shall complete six (6) hours of accredited Continuing legal
education in the area of trust account management by 31 December

:1013.

ii. Defendant shall . . . comply with all Contin\ling Legal Ed\lcation
requirements on a timelybl\Sis.
6.
B\ltfotd filed a Petition for Reinstatement Oll 6 December 2016,andthe
North Carolina State Bar filed a Response to Petition for Reinstatement on 5. January
2017. A hearing before the DfICwas schedutedpursuant to the provisions of 27
N.C.AC. IB §.0125(b)(7).
.
7.
Burford did not submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
onhe State Bar within 30 days of his suspension, as required by 27 NCAC IB § .0124.
Burford indicates that he did not comply with luis requirement beca\lse he was unable to
locate his law license and State Bar membership card.
8.
Burford did not fiJethe affidavitregatdingthe wind-down of hls practice
required by 27 NCAC IB § .0124. He did not beHeve he was required to submit the
affidavit because he did not have any active cases at that time.
9.
Prior to petitioning for reinstatement Burford completed six hours of CLE
.in the area of trust account management, but he did not complete thoSe hours by the 31
December 2013 deadline set f01ihin the Order ofDiscipllnll.
10.
At the time he filed his petiti011 for reinstatement,· Burford had an
uutstanding balance due to the State Bar's CLB department. He. has. now paid. that
balance.
Based on the foregoing Findings of FMt and with the consent oflhe parties, the
Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are propedy heforethe Disciplinary Hearing Commission and
the Commission has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Robert J,Burford, and the subject matter
ofthis proceeding.

2

2.
Burford's non--compliance with the requirements for reinstatement
described above are technical and de minimus. Particularly in light of the fact that he has
been actively suspended tor considerably longer than the two-year term imposed, these
minor non~compliance issues do no! Wf\ITau! denying Burford's petition for
reinstatement.

J.
Burford has substantially satisfied the I'equirements for reinstatement set
out in the Ord.er of Discipljn!) atid his license to ptalJticc!aw should therefore be
reinstated.
Based upon thelotegoingl'iudings ofl'actand Conclusions of Law; ahd with the
consent of the parties, the Heating Panelentersthefollow~

ORDER
1.
Robert J. Burford's Petition for Reinstatement is ALLOWED, and he shall
be permitted to resume praetking law effective immediately upon entry ofthis Order.

2.
Petitioner is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this
proceeding, whlchPetit!oner shall pay within 90 days of the date of tbis Ol'der.

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the knowledge and. consent of the other

:-rio

.f'"G!.b~

members of the Hearing Panel, this ~ day of JoiI\l¥!l'Y, 2017.

BEVERiY't:liIrL, CHAIR
DISCIPLINARY HEARING PANEL

3

WE CONSENT:

!BBS, Attorney focPetitioner

~+l,~.L(nC)
CARMEN HOYME gANNON, Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

4

