BEFORE THE

STATE OF NORTH L-J-\.l\.U'L

"Vf;j~SCI~~PlR HEARING COMMISSION

OF THE
r$11~TH CAAOLINA STATE BAA
12DHC27

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA
Plaintiff

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
CAROLE P. BURLEY, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, Harriett Smalls and Percy L. Taylor
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0114 ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Barry S.
McNeill. Defendant, Carole P. Burley, was represented by Alan M. Schneider.
Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and consent to
the entry of this Order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant waives any right to
appeal this consent Order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel hereby makes, by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Carole P. Burley ("Burley" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on March 5, 1999, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws ofthe
State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all 01" part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Burley was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Oriental, Pamlico County, North Carolina, doing business as Carole P. Burley,
Attorney and Counselor at Law.

4.
Burley represented an indigent client in the Craven County District Court
proceeding in State v. Charles Harris, No. 09-JA-33 (Craven County) ("Harris").
5.
Burley submitted a fee application, dated June 12,2009, for her legal
services rendered in Harris for the time period from April 3, 2009 to July 2,2009, listing
4.0 in-court hours and 5.5 out-of-court hours, for a total time claimed of9.5 hours.
6.
On July 6,2009, the presiding judge approved the hours submitted and
awarded Burley a payment of $712.50.
7.
Burley received a payment of$712.50 from Indigent Defense Services
("IDS") on or about October 20, 2009 for her legal services in the Harris case.
8.
Burley submitted a second fee application, dated March 12,2010, in
Harris for the time period from July 3,2009 to March 12,2010, listing an additional 3.5
in-court hours and 4.0 out-of-court hours, for a total time claimed of7.5 hours.
9.

The proceedings in the Harris case were completed on March 12, 2010.

10.
Burley did not perform additional legal services in the Harris case after
March 12, 2010.
11.
After the second fee application referenced in Paragraph 8, Burley wrote a
letter to the presiding judge on December 13, 2010 enclosing a copy ofthe second fee
application and reminding the presiding judge that it had not been approved.
12.
On March 1, 2011, ahnost a year after her submission of the second fee
application referenced in Paragraph 8 and having not received payment on this second fee
application after sending the letter and enclosure referenced in Paragraph 11, Burley sent
a second reminder letter to the presiding judge requesting that he process the second fee
application in the Harris case along with two others.
On March 10, 2011, Burley submitted to the presiding judge a duplicate
13.
fee application in Han'is, listing on this duplicate fee application the time period from
July 7, 2009 to March 10,2010, and seeking payment for 3.5 in-court hours and 4.0 outof-court hours, for a total time claimed of 7.5 hours.
14.
This duplicate fee application by Burley referenced in Paragraph 13 listed
a "3/10/10" disposition date for the Harris case, whereas the proceedings in the Harris
case were completed on March 12, 2010.
15.
The March 10,2010 disposition date for the Harris case Burley listed on
this duplicate fee application referenced in Paragraph 13 was incorrect and resulted from
a notation in Burley's time records.
16.
In response to her submission of the duplicate fee application referenced
in Paragraph 13, on or about March 16, 2011 the presiding judge approved 5.0 hours and
awarded Burley a payment of$375.
2

17.

Burley received the $375 payment from IDS on or about April 5, 2011.

18.
Burley's receipt of the $375 payment from IDS, referenced in Paragraph
17, constitnted payment in full to Burley for the legal services she performed in the
Harris case.
19.
After receiving the $375 payment from IDS, Burley did not notify the
presiding judge or IDS that her duplicate fee application referenced in Paragraph 13
duplicated her earlier second fee application referenced in Paragraph 8.
20.
Because Burley's March I, 2011 letter to the presiding judge explained
that the letter referenced in Paragraph 11 had enclosed fee application duplicates, Burley
saw no reason to notify the presiding judge or IDS that her duplicate fee application
referenced in Paragraph 13 duplicated her earlier second fee application referenced in
Paragraph 8.
21.
After receiving the $375 payment from IDS, Burley did not withdraw her
duplicate fee application referenced in Paragraph 13 and it remained pending with the
presiding judge.
22.
Burley did not notify the presiding judge or IDS that she had received the
April 2011 payment of$375 from IDS for payment in full for her legal services in the
Harris case.
23.
On September 28,2011, the presiding judge mistakenly signed the still
pending duplicate fee application order referenced in Paragraph 13, along with fee
application orders for Burley in other appointed cases.
24.
In signing the duplicate fee application order referenced in Paragraphs 13
and 23, the presiding judge approved 6.0 hours, mistakenly awarding Burley an
additional payment of $450 for her legal services in the Harris case.
25.
The juvenile district court clerk retnrned this duplicate Harris fee
application order referenced in Paragraphs 13 and 23 to Burley, along with the fee
application order in one other unrelated case, because the presiding judge had signed the
fee application orders in the wrong spaces.
On October 19, 20 11, Burley retnrned the incorrectly signed fee
26.
applications referenced in Paragraph 25 to the presiding judge with a note requesting that
the fee application orders be re-sil,'1led in the correct spaces.
27.
Because of the lapse in time since the March 12,2010 final disposition
date for the Harris case, Burley consulted with IDS and became concerned that IDS
would not process this duplicate Harris fee application referenced in Paragraphs 13, 23
and 26 once the presiding judge re-signed it.
28.
Burley did not review her Harris file records to determine if she
previously had been paid in April 2011 for her legal services in the Harris case.
3

29.
At the time of the resubmission of the fee applications referenced in
Paragraph 23, Burley did not realize or remember that she previously had been paid in
April 2011 for her legal services in the Harris case.
30.
On November 17,2011, the presiding judge re-signed the fee application
orders referenced in Paragraph 26, again mistakenly approving 6.0 hours and an
additional payment of $450 to Burley for her legal services in the Harris case.
31.
Burley found the re-signed fee applications referenced in Paragraph 30 in
her courthouse inbox and, because of her concerns referenced in Paragraph 27, she
falsely modified the Harris fee application ending date, disposition date, and fee
application date from the year "2010" to "2011."
32.
Burley made the modifications referenced in Paragraph 31 so that IDS
would process and approve the $450 payment to her.
33.
After making the modifications to the re-signed Harris fee application
referenced in Paragraph 31, Burley filed the Harris fee application order as modified with
the juvenile district court clerk on November 17,2011, who processed and forwarded the
modified fee application order to IDS on November 18, 2011.
34.
In response to the falsely modified Harris fee application order referenced
in Paragraphs 31 and 33, Burley received the $450 payment from IDS on or about
December 12, 2011.
35.

Burley was not entitled to the $450 payment from IDS.

36.
By receiving from IDS both the payment of $375 and the payment of
$450, Burley received duplicate payments for her legal services in the Harris case.
37.
After being notified of the duplicate payments referenced in Paragraph 36,
Burley repaid IDS the $450 on April 16, 2012.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Carole P. Burley, and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Burley's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a) By falsely modifying the fee application ending date, disposition date, and
fee application date after the fee application had been signed by the
presiding judge, and then submitting the falsely modified fee application
for filing by the clerk and payment to her by IDS, Defendant made false
statements of material fact to a tribunal or failed to correct false statements
4

of material fact previously made to the tribunal in violation of Rule
3.3(a)(1).
3.
The parties agree and consent that there is no clear, cogent and convincing
evidence that Burley committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on her honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) by
receiving the duplicate payments for her legal services rendered in the Harris case
without disclosing the duplicate payments to the presiding judge or to IDS.
4.
The parties agree and consent that there is no clear, cogent and convincing
evidence that Burley engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel also fmds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.
In October 2011, Defendant resnbmitted the fee application for payment
of her legal services in the Harris case not realizing or remembering that she earlier had
received payment in full for the Hanis case in April 2011.
3.
Defendant's false modifications of the fee application had the potential to
cause significant harm to the public's perception of the legal profession.
4.
Defendant made the false modifications of the fee application because she
became concerned that, given the IDS mle that prohibits payment on fee applications
submitted more than one year after the final disposition date of a case, IDS would not
process and pay her what she mistakenly believed she was owed at the time for her legal
services in the Harris case.
5.
As of October 18, 2012, IDS's mles now permit an appointed attorney to
apply for a deadline extension of no more than 30 days or to apply for a deadline waiver,
options that were not available to Defendant in November 2011.
6.
Defendant has been cooperative during the State Bar's investigation of
these matters.
7.
remorse.

Defendant accepts responsibility for her conduct and has exhibited

8.
Defendant has not previously been disciplined for violating the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following
5

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all ofthe factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .OI14(w)(3) ofthe Rules and Regnlations of
the North Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. Defendant does not have a record of prior disciplinary offenses in New
York, where she has practiced since 1984, or in North Carolina since
being admitted by comity in March 1999;
b. Defendant has made full and free disclosure to the hearing panel or has
demonstrated a cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
c. Defendant is remorseful for her conduct; and
d. Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors warranting consideration of suspension
of Defendant's license:
a. Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession; and,
b. Defendant's conduct had a negative impact on the administration of
justice.
3.
The Hearing Panel has also carefully considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regnlations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes that the only factor present in this instance that would
warrant consideration of disbarment is Defendant's acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation,
deceit, or fabrication.
4.
The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline available
and concludes that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, the potential significant harm to the
public, the administration of justice, and the legal profession, would not adequately
protect the public, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public
regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar.
5.
The hearing panel finds and concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by imposing a period of active suspension which is stayed upon Defendant's
compliance with conditions designed to ensure protection of the public and to ensure
Defendant's compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.

6

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of Defendant, Carole P. Burley, is hereby suspended for one
year. This period of active suspension is stayed for one year upon Defendant's
compliance with the following conditions:
a.
Defendant shall keep and maintain accurate records of her
submission of fee applications in her appointed cases, the entry of fee
application orders awarding her payments, and her receipt of the awarded
payments from IDS. Upon ten (10) day advance notice to Defendant, the
Office of Counsel of the State Bar may request inspection of Defendant's fee
application recordkeeping to ensure compliance;
b.
Defendant must pay the costs and administrative fees of this action
as described in paragraph 5 below;
c.
Defendant shall provide the North Carolina State Bar with a
physical mailing address which shall not be a post office box address and keep
her address of record with the North Carolina State Bar current. Defendant
shall accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar and respond
to allleUers of notice and requests for information from the North Carolina
State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or within fifteen (15)
days of receipt, whichever is later;
d.
Defendant shall timely comply with her State Bar membership and
continuing legal education requirements and pay all fees and costs assessed by
the applicable deadline;
e.
Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the fee dispute
program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;
f.
Defendant shall not violate the laws of any state or of the United
States; and
g.
Defendant shall not violate any provision of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
2.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated
in Paragraph I above, then the stay of the suspension of her law license may be lifted as
provided in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules. If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of
Defendant's license is activated for any reason, before a subsequent stay ofthe
suspension can be entered Defendant must show by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence that she has complied with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability
7

Rules and the conditions set out in Paragraphs 1 (a) - (f) above for any subsequent stay of
the suspension.
3.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of any active period of suspension as
provided in Paragraph 2 above, Defendant must provide in her application for
reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of the following:
a.
Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
& Disability Rules; and
b.
above.

Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraphs 1 (a) - (f)

4.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct
discovered or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct
addressed in this Order.
5.
All costs and administrative fees ofthis action are taxed to Defendant.
Defendant must pay the costs of this action within 120 days of service upon her of the
statement of costs by the Secretary.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x) ofthe North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspension.

)vI? Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
d.~dayof
t:#
,2013.

---''''-'''''Fn. D. Michael, Cliai

Disciplinary Hearing Panel

C

Barry S. cNeiII
Deputy C unsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Carole P. Burley
Defendant pro se

7

(Li~~

Alan M.Schneider
Counsel for Defendant
8

