NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
98G 066(11)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Petitioner

v.
HILDA BURNETT-BAKER, ATTORNEY
Respondent

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF RECIPROCAL
DISCIPLINE

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chair of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §§
.0105(a)(12) and .0116(a) ofthe N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules and based
upon the record in this matter, the undersigned makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. By order dated July 14, 1997, the Supreme Court of New Jersey issued an
order suspending Respondent, Hilda Burnett-Baker, from the practice oflaw in New
Jersey for a period of three months. The order found that Respondent also had prior
discipline in the State of New Jersey.
2. On Jan. 31, 1998, the undersigned Chair of the N.C. State Bar Grievance
Committee issued a Notice of Reciprocal Discipline to Respondent.
3. The Respondent was served with the Notice of Reciprocal Discipline
Proceeding by certified mail on Feb. 21, 1998.
4. On March 23, 1998, the Respondent filed a Response to the Notice of
Reciprocal Discipline.

5. This matter was considered by the Grievance Committee of the N.C. State Bar
at its meeting on July 16, 1998.
6. The Respondent failed to demonstrate that imposition of the same discipline
would result in grave injustice and failed to demonstrate other grounds justifying
disposition of this matter other than by an order of reciprocal discipline as provided by 27
'
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, SUbchapter B, § .0116(b).
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS the Chair of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1. The North Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this
proceeding and over the person of the Respondent, Hilda Burnett-Baker.
2. The procedure for imposition of reciprocal discipline pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0116 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules has bet?n complied with.
3. The order of the Supreme Court of New Jersey found that the Respondent
neglected a client's case which constitutes conduct in violation of former Rule 6(b)(3),
failed to communicate with the client, which constitutes a violation of former Rule
6(b)(1) and falsely told the client that a lawsuit had been filed, which is conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of former Rule 1.2(c)
of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct and which justifies the imposition of
reciprocal discipline in this state.
4. The order suspending Respondent's license to practice law which was
imposed by the Supreme Court of New Jersey should be imposed on the Respondent's
right to practice law in the state of North Carolina.
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1. The Respondent is hereby suspended from the practice of law in North
Carolina, effective 30 days from service of this order upon the Respondent.
2. Respondent shall forthwith surrender her license certificate and membership
card to the Secretary of the N.C. State Bar.
3. Respondent is hereby taxed with the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary.
4. Respondent shall not resume the practice of law in North Carolina until she has
submitted proof to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar that she has complied
with all provisions of the order of discipline entered by the Supreme Court of New Jersey

and has complied with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1 Subchapter B, §
.0125(b) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules.
5. Respondent shall comply with the wind down provisions of 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disbarment
Rules.

_.,....I\,l

This thez.c:_~-aay of July, 1998.

-

