WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

MARCIA Y. BURTON, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER TRANSFERRING
DEFENDANT TO DISABILITY INACTIVE
STATUS AND STAYING DISCIPLINARY
PROCEEDING

)

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Donna R. Rascoe, Chair, Theodore C. Edwards II, and Karen B. Ray. Carmen Hoyme
Bannon represented the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Marcia Y. Burton, represented herself.
Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent
order and to the transfer of Defendant to disability inactive status. Defendant freely and voluntarily
waives any right to appeal the entry of this consent order transferring her to disability inactive status.
Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the pmiies, the hem'ing pm1el hereby
finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Mm'cia Y. Burton (hereafter "Defendant" or "Burton"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar in 1996 and is an Attomey at Law licensed to practice in NOlih
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State ofNOlih Carolina.
3.
Burton's license to practice law was administratively suspended in October 2009 for
failure to pay membership dues ffi1d failure to satisfy mffi1datory CLE requirements. Blllion's license
remains administratively suspended as of the date of this order.
4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Burton engaged in the
practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Charlotte, Mecklenburg
County, North Carolina.

5.
Burton's ability to practice law has been impaired by substance abuse and mood
disorder. In 2007, Burton's use of alcohol escalated to the point of abuse and/or dependence, and in
December 2007, Burton contacted the Lawyers' Assistance Program (LAP) for help with alcoholrelated problems. Soon thereafter, she was diagnosed with alcoholism and depression.
6.
In or about March 2008, Burton was admitted to Behavioral Health Center First Step
at CMC-Union ("First Step") for approximately three weeks of inpatient treatment for alcohol
dependence.
7.
After her discharge from First Step, Burton continued to receive outpatient treatment
for alcohol dependence from Tammy Bell, LCSW. Burton discontinued outpatient treatment in the
spring of 2009 because she no longer had insurance coverage.
8.

In April 2008, Burton executed a two year Self-Referral Addiction Contract with

LAP.
9.
Although Burton has been treated for alcoholism and depression, the treatment she
has received to date has been ineffective in that her current use of alcohol and/or her current
depression interferes with her ability to effectively practice law.
Burton's alcohol dependence is a mental condition that significantly nnpaus her
10.
professional judgment, performance or competence as an attorney.
II.
Burton's depressed mood may also be a mental condition that significantly impairs
her professional judgment, perforn1ance of competence as an attorney.
12.

Burton requests and consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

13.
Prior to entcring into this conscnt order, Burton was advised to confer with
independent counsel and did consult with attorney Dudley A. Witt.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing panel
makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Defendant and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Burton is disabled within the meaning of 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0103(19) and should be
transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118 and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8428(g).
3.
Disciplinary proceedings in this case should be stayed as long as Burton remains in
disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118(d)(3). If Burton is returned to active

status by the Commission, the disciplinary proceeding will be rescheduled by the Chair of the
Commission.
ORDER
I.
Defendant, Marcia Y. Burton, is hereby transferred to disability inactive status m
accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g) and 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118(b)(6).
2.

Burton shall refrain from practicing law in Nm1h Carolina until she:
(A) is reinstated to active status by the Commission pursuant to the procedures set forth
in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0125(c); and
(B) has satisfied any other outstanding requirements of the State Bar's CLE and
Membership departments for reinstatement irom her administrative suspension.

3.
The disciplinary action filed by Plaintiff is stayed until such time as Defendant is
reinstated to active status.
4.
The North Carolina State Bar, pursuant to Rule .0118(f), may continue to investigate
allegations of misconduct against Defendant, including the taking of whatever depositions it deems
necessary to preserve evidence. No further orders from the Disciplinary Hearing Commission shall
be necessary to take such depositions.
5.
The costs of this proceeding are taxed against Defendant and the Secretmy of the
State Bar shall send a statement of costs to Defendant.
6.
.0118(b)(6).

This order shall be eiTective immediately upon entry pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB §

Sig~d by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this is the~ay
of November, 2010.

'1Je~

~
Donna R. Rascoe, Chair
Disciplinary I-Iearing Panel

{~.o

