;~Zi22?J?t

/~

STATEOFNORTHCARO '...::.:

..

~

~o!:2

Q':~,
'(;,..)

JAN 201wISCI c

WAKE COUNTY
0' ,

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
15DHC 50

'\.,

THE NORTH CAROLINA STA' t~t.§ljj.,~·
Plaintiff

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
KEVIN p, BYRNES, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, Irvin W. Hankins, III and Patti Head. Carmen
Hoyme Bannon represented Plaintiff. Eben T. Rawls III represented Defendant.
Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order. The parties consent
to the discipliue imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry of this order,
Defendant knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent order
or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations promulgated by the North Carolina State Bar.
2.
Defendant, Kevin P. Byrnes, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar
in August 1981, and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the 'laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
matter.

Byrnes was properly served with the summons and complaint in this

4.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Byrnes was actively engaged
in the practice oflaw in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
5.
In connection with his law practice, Byrnes maintained multiple attorney
trust accounts.

6.
During the period from 2003 through 2011, Byrnes did not reconcile his
trust accounts by totaling individual client ledger balances and compariIig them to the
current trust account bank statement balances. Lawyers are required to perform this type
of trust account reconciliation at least quarterly.
7.
During this same period, Byrues did not promptly deliver to all clients
andlor third parties entrusted funds to which they were entitled. For example, Byrnes
failed to pay the $825.00 hazard insurance premium for a 2003 closing he performed for
Larry and Julie Curtis. The $825.00 balance remained in his trust account for more than
eight years.
8.
In April 2008, Byrnes closed an attorney trust account he had maintained
at First Charter Bank, receiving a cashier's check for $10,048.95, which represented the
balance iIi the account at the time it was closed. Bymes did not deposit those funds into
another trust account. Byrnes did not maintain records documenting the beneficial
owners of the $10,048.95 in the First Charter Trust ACcount, and he never negotiated the
cashier's ·check.
.
.
9.
During the period from 2009 through 2011, Byrnes maintained two trust
accounts at First Trust Bank (account number ending in -0276, referred to hereafter as
the "general trust account," and account number ending in -2966, referred to hereafter
as the "real estate trust account"), and one trust account at Suntrust Bank (account
number ending in -4465).
10.
In November 2011, the Wake County Superior Court entered an order of
preliminary injunction prohibiting Byrnes from handling entrusted funds. As a result of
this order, the banks placed holds on the three trust accounts referenced in paragraph 9,
above. There has been no activity in the accounts since they were frozen in 20 II.
11.
At the time the accounts were frozen, there was a combined total of more
than $87,000.00 in the three trust accounts referenced in paragraph 9, above. Byrnes did
not maintain sufficient documentation to allow him to identify the beneficial owners of
approximately $57,000.00 of those entrusted funds.
.
12.

During the period from 2009 through 20 II, Byrnes:
(a)

(b)

Issued checks from his general trust account made payable to "cash,"
including the following:
•

A $4,000.00 check dated 21 January 2010;

•

An $1,800.00 check dated 11 May 2010; and

•

A $200.00 check dated 2 July 2010.

Failed to maintain individual client ledgers reflecting each client's
balance of funds held in trust.

2

(c)

Did not provide written accountings to clients when all entrusted funds
were disbursed, or at least annuiilly.

(d)

Did not direct the banks at which he maintained trust accounts to
notify the State Bar in the event an item drawn on the account was
presented against insufficient funds.

13.
On multiple occasions during the period from 2009 through 2011, Byrnes
advanced funds from his general trust account on behalf of a client when he did not have
funds (or did not have sufficient funds) in the account for the benefit of that client. For
example:
(a)

In June 2008, Byrnes disbursed $1,747.45 from his general trust
account to pay real estate taxes for the Estate of Harold Brown.
Byrnes held no funds in trust for the estate at that time. When Byrnes
received $1,747.45 on behalf;of the Estate of Harold Brown in
November 2008, he deposited it into his real estate trust account, not
the general trust account from which he had made the corresponding
disbursement.

(b)

Byrnes was the closing attorney for a June 2008 purchase of real estate
The closing proceeds were
by Stonehunt Development LLC.
deposited into Byrnes' general trust account. Byrnes did not issue
payment from his general trust account for the title insurance on this
closing. Instead, in September 2009, Byrnes disbursed $1,196.00 from
his real estate trust account as payment for title insurance on the
Stonehunt closing. There were no funds on deposit in the real estate
trust account for the benefit of Stonehunt.

(c)

In October 2008, Byrnes issued two checks from his general trust
account, each in the amount of $2,500.00, in connection with his
representation of Oscar Lopez. Byrnes did not make the $5,000.00
deposit to cover these disbursements until October 2010.

(d)

In November 2009, Byrnes received $947.00 in connection with his
representation of William Belk, and deposited that amount into his
general trust account. Approximately two weeks later, Byrnes issued a
$1,241.00 trust account check to himself in connection with the Belk
matter. This disbursement exceeded the amount of funds Byrnes had
in trust for Belk by $294.00.

(e)

In May 2010, Byrnes was the closing lawyer for a refinance
transaction for Bob and Lynn Sizemore. In connection with that
closing, Byrnes disbursed $566.94 more than he received in tmst for
the benefit of the Sizemores. This over-disbursement was not
identified or corrected until January 2011.

(f)

In June 2011, Byrnes received $89,801.23 as commissioner for the
sale of property belonging to the Estate of Connie Harris. Byrnes
3

deposited those funds into his general trust account. Byrnes disbursed
the entire $89,801.23, plus an additional $3,500.00 payment to
Rosedale Funeral Home on behalf of the Estate of Connie Harris. No
deposit was ever made to cover the $3,500.00 over-disbursement on
behalf of the estate.
14.
By making the disbursements described in paragraph 13, above, Byrnes
used funds entrusted to him by other clients to cover disbursements for the benefit of
clients for whom he did not have funds (or d,id not have sufficient funds) on deposit. The
beneficial owners of the funds in Byrnes' trust account did not authorize Byrnes to use
their entrusted funds for the disbursements described in paragraph 13.
15.
During the period from 2009 through 2011, Byrnes failed to maintain the
following records for his trust accounts:
(a) Documentation of the source of all deposits and the client on whose behalf
the deposit was received.
'
(b) Copies of all checks drawn on the accounts showing the recipient of the
disbursement and the client balance against which it was drawn.
(c) Complete, accurate general ledgers of receipts and disbursements
identifying the client on whose behalf each receipt and disbursement was
made.
16.
During the period from 2009 through 2011, Byrnes disbursed funds from
his general trust account by methods (i.e., debits, telephone transfers, and checks without
client attributions) that did not reflect the recipient of the disbursement and/or the client
balance against which it was drawn. Some of the disbursements without client
attributions were payable to Byrnes.
17.
Byrnes' trust accounts were randomly audited by the State Bar in
September of 2010. The audit revealed multiple trust accounting deficiencies, as
indicated in the First Claim for Relief above.
18.
Byrnes was allowed 60 days from the date of the audit to correct the
deficiencies in his trust accounts, but failed to do so.
19.
In November 2010, January 2011, March 2011, and April 2011, the
State Bar auditor made repeated requests of Byrnes for evidence that he had taken the
necessary corrective measures. Although the auditor allowed mUltiple extensions of
time for Byrnes to comply, as of May 2011, Byrnes still had not provided the
documentation requested by the auditor.
20.
When Byrnes failed to correct the deficiencies identified in the random
audit, the State Bar opened grievance file 11 G0659 to investigate his apparent violation
of the Rules of Professional Conduct related to attorney trust accounts. In August
2011, Byrnes was served with a Letter of Notice and Subpoena for Cause Audit in
grievance file 11 G0659.

4

21.
Byrnes partially complied with the subpoena for cause audit, but did not
produce all of the documentation responsive to the subpoena. '
22.
In December 2011, the State Bar requested specific trust account
infonnation and documentation regarding, among other things, transfers between
Byrnes' trust accounts, telephone transfers, and cash withdrawals. Byrnes failed to
respond to this request.
23.
During calendar years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013,
Byrnes' income exceeded the minimum threshold above which an individual is required
to file federal and state income tax returns.
24.
In each of these tax years, Byrnes was aware of the deadlines for filing
state and federal tax'returns and paying any tax liability.
25.
Byrnes failed to file, within the times required by law, federal income ,tax
returns showing his tax liability for tax years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011,2012, lind
2013.
26.
Byrnes failed to pay, within the times required by law, his federal income
tax liability for tax years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013.
27.
In November 2014, the IRS filed a tax lien against Byrnes, indicating that
he owed $91,879.26 to the Department of the Treasury, and that the liability remained
unpaid, despite demands for payment.
28.
Byrnes failed to file, within the times required by law, North Carolina
state income tax returns showing his tax liability for tax years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010,
2011,2012, and 2013.
29.
Byrnes failed to pay, within the times required by law, his state income tax
liability for tax years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013.
30.
Byrnes' unpaid state income tax liability to the North Carolina Department
of Revenue is in excess of$16,000.00, not including penalties, interest, or fines.
31.
Byrnes' failure to timely file federal and state income tax returns for tax
years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011,2012, and 2013 was willful.
32.
Byrnes' failure to timely pay state and federal tax liabilities due for tax
years 2007, 2008, and 2009 was willful.
33.
Pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 7203, willful failure to file and pay federal income
tax within the time required by law is a criminal act.
Pursuant to N.C.G.S. § 105-236(a)(9), willful failure to file and pay North
34.
Carolina income tax within the time required by law is a criminal act.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, and with the consent of the parties, the
Heating Panel makes the following:
5

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Kevin P. Byrnes, and over the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grtunds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-24(b)(2) and (b)(3) in that
Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct and § 84-24(b)(3) as follows:

I
I

(a)

By failing to perform quarterly reconciliations of his trust accounts,
Defendant violated Rule U5-3(d);

(b)

By failing to promptly deliver to clients and/or third parties entrusted
funds to which they were entitled, Defendant violated Rule 1.15-2(ni);

(c)

By failing to deposit the entrusted funds ftom his First Charter:' Bank
account into another trust account when he closed the First Charter
account, Defendant failed to promptly deposit entrusted funds into a trust
account in violation of Rule U5-2(b);

(d)

By failing to maintain documentation establishing the beneficial owners of
the entrusted funds in the First Charter Bank account, Defendant failed to
maintain complete and accurate records of all entrusted property he
received in violation of Rule 1.15-3(g);

(e)

By failing to maintain sufticient documentation to allow him to identify
the beneficial owners of approximately $57,000.00 held in the three trust
accounts Defendant maintained as of 2011, Defendant failed to maintain
complete and accurate records of all entrusted property he received in
violation of Rule 1.15-3(g);

(f)

By issuing trust account checks payable to "cash," Defendant violated
Rule I.IS-2(i);

(g)

By failing to maintain individual client ledgers, Defendant failed to
maintain ledgers containing a record of receipts and disbursement for each
person or entity from whom and for whom funds were received and
showing the current balance of funds held in the trust account for each
such person or entity in violation of Rule U5-3(b)(5);

(h)

By failing to provide written accountings of entrusted funds to clients
when all entrusted funds were disbursed and at least annually, Defendant
violated Rule 1.15-3(e);

(i)

By failing to direct the banks at which he maintained trust accounts to
notify the State Bar in the event that an item drawn on the trust account
was presented against in sufficient funds, Defendant violated Rule 1.152(k);

I

6

G)

By using funds entrusted to him by other clients to cover disbursements
for the benefit of Clients' for whom he did not have funds o'n deposit,
Byrnes used entlUsted property without authorization for the benefit of
someone other than the beneficial owner of that property in violation of
Rule LlS-2G);

(k)

By failing to maintain adequate documentation of deposits into his trust
accounts, Defendant violated Rule 1.15-3(b)(l);

(I)

By disbursing funds from his trust account by methods that did not reflect
the recipient of the disbursement andlor the client balance against which it
was drawn, Defi:mdant failed to maintain adequate documentation of
disbursements in violation of Rule 1.15-3(b)(2) and (3), and made
payments to himself from the trust account using items that did not capture
the client balance upon which the disbursement was made in violation of
• Rule 1.15-2(h);

(m)

By failing to respond to inquiries from the State Bar regarding the
investigation of his trust account and failing to fully comply with a State
Bar subpoena, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to lawful demands
for infonnation from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b),
and knowingly failed to answer fonnal inquiries issued by the State Bar in
a disciplinary matter in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3);

(n)

By willfully failing to file his state and federal income tax returns for tax
years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, Defendant engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and committed
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his trustworthiness or fitness as a
lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b); and

(0)

By willfully failing to pay his state and federal income taxes for tax years
2007,2008, and 2009, Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty
in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and committed criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule
8.4(b).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice of law.

2.
There is no evidence that Defendant intended to hann his clients and there
is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of Defendant. Although
Defendant inadvertently misused client funds for the benefit of other clients, there is no

7

evidence that Defendant knowingly or intentionally used entrusted funds for his own
benefit..
3.
Defendant's conduct in over-disbursing entrusted funds from his trust
account caused significant potential harm to his clients whose entrusted funds were used
for the benefit third parties without their knowledge or consent. Defendant's conduct
also impaired his clients' abilities to achieve the goals of their respective representations
by, for example, delaying the satisfaction of all financial obligations associated with their
real estate transactions.
4.
Conducting quarterly reconciliations of the trust account is the Iynchpin of
proper maintenance and protection of entrusted funds. Had Defendant been conducting
quarterly reconciliations, he would have seen balances remaining for various clients
which would have signaled that work, such as obtaining the title policy, still needed to be
done for these clients. Additionally, had Defendant been conducting quarterly
reconciliations, he would have maintained awaren¢·ss of whose funds were in his trust
accoun( Defendant's failure to reconcile his trust account and failure to maintain proper
trust account records was a pattern of misconduct that demonstrates Defendant's intent to
commit acts where potential harm is foreseeable.
5.
Improperly maintaining and disbursing client funds--even inadvertentlyplaces entrusted funds at risk and has the potential to cause significant harm to the
standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows a lawyer's disregard
for his fiduciary puties as an attorney.
6.
When lawyers violate the law in their business and personal affairs,
including noncompliance with generally applicable tax laws, it brings disrepute upon the
legal profession and undermines public confidence in lawyers.
7.

In 34 years of practice, Defendant has had no prior disciplinary offenses.

8.
Defendant suffers from chronic anxiety and depression, which
compromised his ability to manage his personal and professional responsibilities,
including properly monitoring and documenting entrusted funds and tending to his
personal financial obligations.
9.

Dettmdant has been fully cooperative in this disciplinary proceeding.

10.
Defendant acknowledges that the conduct described in this order was
wrong. He has expressed genuine remorse for his actions, and a commitment never to
engage in such misconduct again. Although it appears that no client was injured or
negatively impacted by the Defendant's conduct, he understands and regrets how his
conduct has negatively impacted public perception of the legal profession. He has
expressed sincere commitment to corrective actions in both personal and professional
endeavors. Defendant has also expressed a desire to be a resource to other professionals
overwhelmed by personal or professional burdens.

8

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above, the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOTIns of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the
North Carolina State Bar.
2.
The Hearing Panel concludes the following factors from § .0114(w)(I)
warrant consideration of suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) Defendant committed acts or omissions where the harrri.or potential hann
was foreseeable;
(b) Defendant's actions had a potentially negative impact on the public's
perception of the profession; and
(c) Defendant's actions impaired his clients' abilities to achieve the goals of
the representation.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in §
.OlI4(w)(2) and concludes that although Defendant engaged in technical
misappropriation and in acts of dishonesty with respect to his income tax returns,
disbannent is not necessary to protect the public in this case.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in §
.OI14(w)(3) and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) The absence o1'a selfish motive;
(c) Pattern of misconduct;
(d) Multiple offenses;
(e) Personal or emotional problems that affected the conduct in question;
(f) Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

(g) Remorse; and
(h) Degree of experience in the practice oflaw.

9

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the misconduct at issue and the harm or potential harm Defendant's
misconduct caused to clients and the profession.
6.
When a lawyer engages in criminal acts reflecting adversely on his
trustworthiness or fitness, it is among the most serious types of professional misconduct
and typically warrants imposition of a lengthy active suspension or disbarment. Under
other circumstances, the misconduct in this case would warrant more serious discipline.
However, the Hearing Panel finds and concludes that the unique circumstances
surrounding this case justify lesser discipline than would otherwise be appropriate. The
factors that particularly warrant lesser discipline include:
(a) Defendant's long history of practice without prior discipline;
(b) The fact ihat Defendant's depression and anxiety were major contributing .
factors in his failure to properly manage entrusted·· funds and to satisfy··
his income tax obligations;
(c) The fact that prior to the entry of this Order, the Defendant had
voluntarily fIled all delinquent tax returns;
(d) Defendant's acknowledgment of wrongdoing, genuine expression of
remorse; his voluntary and proactive compliance with tax filing
requirements; his continuing and ongoing treatment and therapy with
skilled mental health professionals; and his commitment to never
repeating the misconduct all reflect that the most serious levels of
discipline are not necessary to protect the public.
7.
The Hearing Panel tinds that an order imposing discipline short of
suspension of Defendant's law license would not adequately protect the public, the legal
profession, or the administration of justice for the following reasons:
(a) The Rule violations and factors under § .01 14(w)(I) and (w)(3) that are
present in this case are of a nature that support imposition of suspension as
the appropriate discipline; and,
(b) Entry of less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and would send the
wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected
of members of the Bar in this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

10

1.
The license Df Defendant, Kevin P. Byrnes, is hereby suspended fDr five
years, effective 30 days frDm the date of service ofthis order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
Df the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the effective date of this
Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule
.0124 of the NOlih Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .0124. As provided in § .0124(d), Defendant shall .file an affidavit with the
Secretary of the NDrth Carolina State Bar within 10 days Df the effective date of this
Drder, certifying he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and the costs of this actiDn
as assessed by the Secretary. Defendant sh~ll pay the costs and al:\ministrative fees Dfthls
'. action as assessed by the Secretary prior to'. seeking reinstatement Dr a stay of any portion
Df the suspensiDn.
5.
Within 30 days after service of this Order, Defendant shall provide the
State Bar's Office of Counsel with an address and telephDne number at which clients
seeking their files can communicate with Defendant. Defendant shall prDmptly return all
files to his clients upDn request.
6.
After serving no less than two years of the suspension, Defendant may
apply for a stay of the remaining periDd Df suspension imposed by this Order by filing a
verified petitiDn with the Secretary Df the NDrth Carolina State Bar. In additiDn to'
complying with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in Rule .0125 of the NDrth
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, to be eligible for a stay Df the
remaining period Df suspensiDn, Defendant must demonstrate compliance with the
foliDwing conditions by clear, cogent, and cDnvincing evidence:
(a) Defendant shall timely cDmply with paragraphs 2-5 of this section of the
Order of Discipline;
(b) Defendani shall complete four hours of trust account continuing legal
educatiDn, approved in advance by the Office of Counsel, including at least
one that includes discussion of quarterly reconciliations of trust accounts
taught by Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the North Carolina State
Bar;
(c) Within 30 days of this Order's effective date, Defendant shall retain a CPA
to assist in the reconciliation of Defendant's trust accounts' and
identification all clients whose funds are deposited in the accounts Dr are
missing from the accounts. Any CDsts associated with retaining the CPA
shall be at Defendant's sole expense. When Defendant's trust accounts are
I 11\0 requirements in this paragrapb and paragraph 6(d) apply to the three trust accounts identified in
Finding of Fact #9 above, and to the $1O,04S.95from Defendant's First Charter Trust Account. described
in Finding of Fact #S.

11

reconciled, Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel with a
reconciliation report from the CPA that inCludes the identification of: (i)
every client whose funds are in Defendant's trust accounts; (ii) the
appropriate recipients of those clients' funds; (iii) any shortage in the
accounts; and (iv) any funds which cannot in the exercise of due diligence
be identified and are therefore subject to escheat;
(d) As of the date of this Order, Defendant is enjoined from handling entrusted
funds by the Wake County Superior Court (case no. 11 CVS 17756).
Within 90 days after the reconciliation of Defendant's trust accounts
described in the preceding paragraph, and after obtaining the approval of
the Office of Counsel, Defendant shall petition the Wake County Superior
Court to dissolve the injunction. Within 30 days after the injunction is
dIssolved, Defendant shall reimburse to his trust accounts any shortage
identified in the reconciliation and properly disburse all funds inhis trust
accounts, including escheating all unidentified funds in accordance with
Rule 1.l5-2(q). When' all of the entrusted funds are disbursed, Defendant
shall close all of the trust accounts he maintained prior to the date of this
Order;
(e) Defendant shall file any outstanding federal and state income tax returns
along with all associated schedules and attachments thereto, and Defendant
shall timely file all federal and state income tax returns that come due
during the period of active suspension. Defendant shall provide proof of
these filings to the Office of Counsel within 30 days of filing;
(t) Defendant shall pay all outstanding state and federal tax liabilities, fines,
and penalties, and Defendant shall timely pay all state and federal tax
liabilities, tines, and penalties accrued during the period of active
suspension. If applicable, Defendant shall comply with the terms of
payment plans with the IRS and N.C. Department of Revenue for payment
of back taxes, interest, and penalties during the period of active suspension;

(g) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the Internal Revenue
Service and the North Carolina Department of Revenue;
(h) Defendant shall execute any written waivers and releases necessary to
authorize the Ofl1ce of Counsel to confer with the Internal Revenue Service
or the North Carolina Department of Revenue for the purpose of
determining whether Defendant has complied with all requirements of this
Order. Defendant shall not revoke these waivers and releases during the
period of active suspension;
(i) Defendant shall comply with all treatment recommendations of the
clinicians from whom he is receiving treatment for depression and anxiety;
(j) Prior to or at the time of filing any petition for reinstatement or stay,
Defendant shall provide written releases to the North Carolina State Bar

12

Office of Counsel, authorizing all clinicians from whom he received any
recommended treatment during the period of active suspension to
communicate with the Office of Counsel and to release to the Office of
Counsel records relating to his treatment;
(k) Defendant shall ensure that each provider from whom he received any
recommended treatment during the period of active suspension generates a
written report to the State Bar setting forth: (i) a description of
Defendant's participation in and compliance with treatment, (ii) the
clinician's opinion as to whether Defendant has any physical or mental
impairment, or other condition or illness that could adversely affect his
ability to practice law; and (iii) the clinician's recommendations, if any,
regarding ongoing treatment. The reports shall be provided to the Office
of Counsel prior to or at the time Defendant files any petition for stay or
reinstatement;
(I) Defendant shall have the burden of establishing by clear and convincing
evidence that, at the time he seeks reinstatement or a stay of the
suspension, he does not have any physical Of mental impainnent, or other
condition or illness that significantly impairs his professional
performance, judgment or competence.

(m) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical home and business addresses and telephone
numbers, and shall notify the membership department within 10 days of
any change to his contact infonnation;
(n) Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar
and respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
(0) Defendant shall timely comply with State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements, and pay all fees and costs assessed by the
State Bar and the Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline;

(p) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed
fees; and
(q) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state
or federal laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of
active suspension.
7.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license
pursuant to this Order, the stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies
with the following conditions:

13

(a) Each month that Defendant operates a trust account in connection with his
law practice, Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel with an
accurate three-way reconciliation (as described in the State Bar Lawyer's
Trust Account Handbook) for all trust accounts he maintains. With each
monthly three-way reconciliation report, Defendant shall also submit
accurate client ledgers for all clients with funds in the trust account(s)
during that month, a ledger for any personal funds maintained in the trust
account(s) to cover bank or credit card fees, his general trust account
ledger(s), and the bank statements, cancelled checks, deposit slips, and any
other document or instruction (such as wire or electronic transfer records)
regarding the deposit or disbursement of entrusted funds. These docnments
are due on the 15th day of the following month - for example, the trust
account docnmentation for the month of January is due on February 15;
(b) Each quarter that Defendant operates a trust or fiduciary account in

connection with \lis law practice, Defe.ndant shall have a Cl.'A audit those
accounts. Defendant will be responsible for any associated costs. This
audit shall assess whether Defendant has in his trust account the client
funds he should be maintaining for his clients at that time, as well as
Defendant's compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The quarterly
audit reports from the CPA are due no later than 30 days after the end of
the quarter - for example, the CPA audit for the first quarter of the calendar
year (January, February, and March) is due on April 30;
(c) If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit
reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Detendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the
date of the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall
provide documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar within
5 days of the date of the remedial action;
(d) Defendant shall comply with all requests from the Office of Counsel for
information regarding his trust account(s), and with all requests to execute
releases or authorizations that will allow the Office of Counsel to obtain
information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a trust or
fiduciary account;
(e) Defendant shall timely file all federal and state income tax returns that
come due during the period of stayed suspension. Defendant shall provide
proof of these filings to the Office of Counsel within 30 days of filing;
(t) Defendant shall timely pay all state and federal tax liabilities, fines, and
penalties accrued during the period of stayed suspension. If applicable,
Defendant shall comply with the terms of payment plans with the IRS and
N.C. Department of Revenue for payment of back taxes, interest, and
penalties during the period of stayed suspension;

14

(g) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the Internal Revenue
Service and the North Carolina Department of Revenue;
(h) Defendant shall execute any written waivers and releases necessary to
authorize the Office of Counsel to confer with the Internal Revenue Service
or the NOlih Carolina Department of Revenue for the purpose of
determining whether Defendant has complied with all requirements of this
Order. Defendant shaH not revoke these waivers and releases during the
period of stayed suspension;
(i) Detl:mdant shall comply with all recommendations for ongoing treatment
set forth in the clinicians' reports described in paragraph 6(k), above.

OJ

Defendant shall provide a written release to the North Carolina State Bar
Office of Counsel, authorizing all providers from whom he is receiving any
ongoing treatment to communicate with the Office ot Counsel and to
release to the' Office of Counsel records relating to his' compliance with
treatment recommendations. Defendant shall not revoke these releases
during the period of the stay.

(k) Defendant shall ensure that all providers from whom he is receiving any
ongoing treatment send a quarterly written report to the State Bar
confirming that he is complying with treatment recommendations and is
not suffering from any physical or mental condition that significantly
impairs his professional judgment. The reports shall be due each January
30, April 30, July 30, and October 30 during the stayed suspension.
(I) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical home and business addresses and telephone
numbers, and shall notify the membership department within 10 days of
any change to his contact information;

(m) Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar
and respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
(n) Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and
continuing legal education requirements, and pay all fees and costs
assessed by the State Bar and the Client Security Fund by the applicable
deadline;
(0) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed
fees; and

(P) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state
or federal laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of
stayed suspension.

15

8.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated
in Paragraph 7 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
9.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension, or if some part of the
suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must provide in his
application for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of the following:
(a) Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0125; and
(b) Compliance with the conditions set out in paragraph 6, above.
10.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct
discovered or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct
addressed in this Order.
11.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 18 § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the suspension, and any stay thereof, and until
all of the conditions in paragraph 6 above are satisfied.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the knowledge and consent of the other
~y of January, 2016, nunc pro tunc
members of the Hearing Panel, this is th~

""",,,15,2016

_~~

~;It

Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

16

~11~~c~~
Carmen Hoyme Bannon
.
Attorney for Plaintiff

17

