..

r . - .~.

J

,

. ':""r

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

l

,. ~... , ....

, .IN. THB
GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
'-'
I pn
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
11 "1 20 P 3: 12 18 CVS 3872
~

(lID

WAKE COUNTY
~

,~

)

I,

.1 ,.:

:.'. J \ '

-" ,

, ' J '{

_,

v.S,C.

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE B :R,
Petitioner

--- - -

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISBARMENT

DAVID H. CAFFEY, Attorney
Respondent

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of Superior Court of Wake County.
Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian P.D. Oten. Respondent,
David H. Caffey, represented himself.
Based upon the Affidavit of SUlTender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, David H. Caffey, and the consent of the paliies, the Court makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Respondent, David H. Caffey ("Caffey"), was licensed to practice law in North Carolina
on 19 August 1978 and is, and was at all times refened to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in NOlih Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Cal'olina State Bar and the laws of the State ofNOlih Carolina.
2. Caffey's address of record with the North Carolina State Bar
Pal'kway, Suite 200, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27104,

IS

4400 Silas Creek

3. During the periods relevant hereto, Caffey was engaged in the practice of law
Winston-Salem, Forsyth County, North Cal·olina.

III

4. Between July 2017 and February 2018, Caffey misappropriated over $3,655.00 of
entrusted client funds from his attorney trust account and used these funds for his personal
benefit or for the benefit of someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds without
authorization to do so.
5. Caffey desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his license to practice
law in North Cal·olina.
6. Caffey's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. Caffey is fully aWal'e ofthe implication of submitting his resignation.

(

'1,

~

)'5t,

1

,/

7. Caffey is aware that there is presently pending an investigation with the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the conduct described above. Caffey acknowledges that the material facts
upon which the State Bar's investigation is predicated are true.
8. Caffey has submitted his resignation because he knows that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could not successfully defend against
them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties, the Court
makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By misappropriating entrusted client funds, Caffey used entrusted funds for his personal
benefit or for the benefit of third parties not entitled to the funds in violation of Rules 1.15-2(a),
(b), and (k), and Rules 8.4(b) and (c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. Caffey's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8428(b)(2).
3. The courts of this State have inherent authority to take disciplinary action against
attomeys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
4. This Court has jurisdiction over the person of David H. Caffey and over the subject
matter of this proceeding.
5. Caffey has engaged in professional misconduct wan·anting disbarment.
IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1. David H. Caffey is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina.
2. Caffey shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter
B, Section .0128 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and shall
surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0128. Caffey shall have thirty (30) days from
the date of the entry of this order to complete the requirements of § .0128.
3. Caffey shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the expiration of at least
five years from the date of entry of this order.
4. Caffey'S law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to the satisfaction
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North Carolina State Bar that he
has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0129 of the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.

2

,

.'

: "

- .. ~

_J

5. Caffey shall provide to the State Bar within thirty days of the effective date of this Order
an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of their files can communicate
with Caffey and obtain such files.
6. Caffey shall return client files to the client within five days of receipt of a request for
return of the client file. Caffey will be deemed to have received any such request three days after
the date the request is sent to him if the request is sent to the address Caffey provided to the State
Bar pursuant to this Order.
7. If Caffey fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0128 and the Court
appoints a trustee to wind down any portion of Caffey's practice, Caffey shall reimburse the
State Bar for all expenses incuned by the State Bar in winding down Caffey's practice. Such
expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility fees, rent payments, moving
expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage or other mailing expenses, and
compensation paid to the trustee and/or the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated with
the trusteeship. After the Court has discharged the trustee, the State Bar shall send an invoice of
wind-down expenses to Caffey at Caffey's last known address of record with t~e North Carolina
State Bar, and Caffey shall pay such invoice in full within 90 days of the date of the invoice.
Caffey shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he has reimbursed the State Bar for all winddown expenses incuned.
8. The costs of this action are taxed against Caffey.

Dated this

)tf- day of ~pr 1/

,2018.

Superior

.

~

0- '--{/I~

CONijED TO:

Brian P.D. Oten, Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Attorney for Petitioner

3

, IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
18 CVS 3872

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

. f,:,
WAKE COUNTY

n

lD'8 APR 20 P 3: 12
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BARF :,' ::Ii l '1':; c.S.C.
Petition~'/

-~-~

-.

-~.

v.

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LA W LICENSE

DAVID H. CAFFEY, Attomey,
Respondent
David H. Caffey, being first duly swom, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or duress. I
am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.
3. I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation with the North Carolina State Bar
regarding allegations that, between July 2017 and February 2018, I misappropriated at least
$3,655.00 of entrusted client funds from my attomey trust account and used these funds for my
personal benefit or for the benefit of someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds
without authorization to do so.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them.
This the

1L day of .fl;n /1

GfefA~1\.

,2018.

~.s

G:rrJ,?~

I,
C, ((\t{tf1
,Notary Public of the County of
State of North
Carolina, certify that David H. Caffey personally appeared before me this day and acknowledged the due
execution of the foregoing Affidavit.
'ibed before me, this the Ji..!!day of

t9p

f"',

~)

, 2018.

~~~7MIi:~~~-::'~;::;';;;:'~N::;~!;::N~,.:;M~y Commission Expires:
STEPHEN C. MATHIS

1f/31IMI?
r7

NOTARY PUBLIC
FORSYTH COUNTY
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

MY COMMlSSlON ~x~~~~~~~U2019
,

.

