6;<E$~~

~~.
j''Ic'

Ii:

11/'''~
"J.r:::;

M4/?

STATE OF NORTH C,tpUNA
t~~)

201~

~l

WAKE COUNTY~"
\~",.,~

"(' /;.') .

THE NORTH CAROLINA

0';

c;:;
BEFORE THE
DISb PLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
8:;
OF THE
~lNORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
/'~
16 DHC 3R

l~

STA?~~A1\:e>

Plaintiff/Respondent

v.

ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR
STA Y OF SUSPENSION AND
IMPOSING MODIFIED
CONDITIONS FOR SEEKING STAY

R. KELLY CALLOW A Y, JR., Attorney,
Defendant/Movant

This matter was heard on March 2, 2018 by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ("DHC") composed of Allison C. Tomberlin, Chair, David W. Long, and Michael S.
Edwards upon the Motion by the Defendant/Movant, R. Kelly Calloway, Jr., seeking a stay of the
remaining period of his suspension. Defendant/Movant, R. Kelly Calloway, Jr., represented
himselfpro se. Deputy Counsel Barry S. McNeill appeared as counsel for the North Carolina State
Bar ("State Bar").
Based on the stipulations of the parties, the exhibits introduced into evidence by the parties,
and the testimony presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Defendant/Movant, R. Kelly Calloway, Jr. ("Calloway" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the State Bar on August 20, 1993, and actively engaged in the practice of law in
Hendersonville, Henderson County, North Carolina until being administratively suspended by the
Administrative Committee of the State Bar effective September 16,2016.
2.
On October 18, 2016, a panel of the DHC filed a Consent Order of Discipline
("Consent Order") suspending Defendant for a period offour years, effective 30 days from service
of the Consent Order upon Defendant.
3.
The Consent Order provided that after one year of active suspension, Defendant could
apply for a stay of the remaining period of suspension by filing a verified motion demonstrating
by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Defendant has met all requirements for
reinstatement set out in former 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125(b) (now found in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB § .0129(b», as well as celtain conditions specified in the Consent Order.

4.
Defendant accepted service of the Consent Order on October 18, 2016 (the
Acceptance of Service was filed on October 19,2016), and therefore Defendant's four-year DHC
suspension became effective on November 17,2016.
5.
Defendant became eligible to seek a stay of the remaining period of suspension on
November 17,2017, one year from the effective date of his suspension.
6.
Under 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0118(c)(1), Defendant may file a motion seeking
a stay of the remaining period of suspension "no earlier than 60 days before the first date of
eligibility to apply for a stay."
7.
On October 24, 2017, Defendant filed the present Motion seeking a stay of the
remaining period of his four-year DHC suspension. However, as Defendant acknowledged at the
hearing, his Motion was not verified by him as required by the express language of the Consent
Order.
8.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118(c)(2), as well as the express language
in the Consent Order, Defendant has the burden of proving compliance with each condition by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence.
9.

Defendant did not comply with the requirement offormer 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B

§ .0124 (now found in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0128) that within IS days of the effective date
of the Consent Order, Defendant shall provide the State Bar's Office of Counsel with an address
and telephone number at which clients seeking the return of files can communicate with Defendant
and promptly obtain such files.
10. Defendant did not comply with the "wind down" provision offormer 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .OI24(d) (now found in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0128(d)) that "[w]ithin 10 days
after the effective date of the ... suspension order, the ... suspended attorney will file with the
secretary an affidavit showing that he or she has fully complied with the provisions of the order,
with the provisions of this section, and with the provisions of all other state, federal, and
administrative jurisdictions to which he or she is admitted to practice."
11.
The Consent Order specified the following as a condition for Defendant to obtain a
stay of the remaining period of his suspension:
b) In addition to his annual requirement of 12 hours of CLE and within the
next 12 months following the effective date of his suspension, Defendant
shall complete an additional three (3) hours of CLE, approved in advance
by the Oft1ce of Counsel, related to law oft1ce management;
12.
Defendant did not timely meet the condition of taking the three (3) hours ofCLE,
approved in advance by the Office of Counsel, related to law oft1ce management. Defendant did
eventually seek and obtain Deputy Counsel's approval of the CLE on January 12,2018, and
completed the three hours oflaw office management CLE on January 15 and 16,2018.

2

13.
The Consent Order specified the following as a condition for Defendant to obtain a
stay of the remaining pOltion of his suspension:
j) Defendant shall pay all costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within thirty (30) days after service of the notice
of costs on him.

14.
Defendant acknowledged that the DHC Clerk twice sent the invoice for costs to
him by certified mail, but both were returned to the DHC Clerk as unclaimed by him.
15.
On October 19, 2017, during the preparation of his present Motion, Defendant
became aware that he had not received the bill for the costs of the administrative fees assessed by
the Secretary ofthe State Bar.
16.
On October 20, 2017, Defendant contacted the DHC Clerk as to the amount and
remitted a check for the costs that same date. The DHC Clerk received the check in the amount of
$1,162.96 from Defendant and deposited the check on October 25,2017.
17.
Therefore, Defendant did not timely comply with the costs and administrative fees
payment condition.
] 8.
In explaining his failures to comply or timely comply with the conditions for
obtaining a stay of the remaining period of his suspension, Defendant testified that he had been in
a state of depression due to the circumstances of his State Bar disciplinary proceeding and marital
problems, but had not sought counseling 01' treatment from a professional due to lack of access to
financial resources.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction of
DefendantlMovant, R. Kelly Calloway, Jr., and his Motion seeking a stay of the remaining period
of his suspension.
2.
The panel, in its discretion, concludes pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.01I8(d)(3), that Defendant has not shown by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has
met all requirements for reinstatement set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §§ .0 128(d) and
.0 129(b)(3), as well as the specified conditions for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension
referenced in findings of fact Paragraphs 9, 10, 12, and 17 above.
3.
The four-year suspension entered by the DRC panel, effective November 17,2016,
shall remain in effect and is not stayed.
4.
Pursuant to its authority under 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118(e), the Hearing
Panel imposes modified and/or additional conditions for Defendant's eligibility for a stay during
his current period of suspension.
3

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing Panel
hereby enters the following:

ORDER
1.
Defendant's Motion is denied since he has not shown by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence that he has met all requirements for reinstatement set out in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B §§ .0128(d) and .OI29(b)(3), as well as the specified conditions for a stay of the remaining
period of his suspension referenced in findings offact Paragraphs 9, 10, 12, and 17 above.
2.
The four-year suspension entered by the DHC panel, effective November 17,2016,
shall remain in effect and is not stayed.
3.
The Hearing Panel imposes the following modified andlor additional conditions for
Defendant's eligibility for a stay during his current period of suspension:
a) This Order will become effective upon service upon Defendant pursuant to
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .01l6(g);
b) After six months from the effective date of this Order, Defendant may again
apply for a stay ofthe remaining period of his suspension by filing a motion
in this proceeding pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .01lS(c)
demonstrating by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has met all
requirements for reinstatement set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §§
.0128(d) and .0129(b)(3), as well as any previously unmet conditions
referenced in findings of fact Paragraphs 9 and 10 above;
c) Defendant shall not be required to again meet the specified conditions he
untimely met referenced in findings of fact Paragraphs 12 and 17 above, or
again meet any other conditions he already has met;
d) Within ten (10) days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall
contact the Lawyer Assistance Program ("LAP") of the State Bar to
schedule and obtain an evaluation for treatment by LAP or its designee;
e) If deemed appropriate by LAP, Defendant shall enter into a contract with
LAP and shall comply with all LAP treatment recommendations; and,

f) Defendant shall sign a release so that LAP or its designee may consult with
and furnish monthly reports to the State Bar's Office of Counsel concerning
Defendant's compliance with any treatment recommendations, with the first
report being due to the Office of Counsel on or before March 31, 2018, and
successive monthly reports thereafter due to the Office of Counsel on or

4

before the last day of the month until Defendant is terminated from his
contract with LAP.
4.

Defendant shall bear the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding.

Signe<A by ~he..f~~ir with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members this the
day of
IW-/c \
,2018,
~1

--",-L~·[)~---->,,;i=-==~,,-----'Allison C. Tomberlin, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

5

J2

