NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORETIIE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07GI042

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Clair Campbell,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 24,2008 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considcring the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee tound probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievancc Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential harm to a client, thc administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the pUblic, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman orthe Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You advertised in a telephonc book regarding your services. In your ad, you stated the
following: "CALL US IT'S JUST THAT EASY! Get the money you deserve!" You also had a
magnet that was attached to the telephone book page with your ad. The magnet had the
following message: "HURT? CALL US, It's Just That Easy!" On the magnet, a man is shown
holding what appears to be a check. The Grievance Committee found that your ad and magnet

create unjustified expectations in violation of Rule 7.1 of the Rules of Professional Conduct. The
statement, "Get the money you deserve", implies that the reader deserves something without
regard for the merit orthe claim. "It's just that easy", combined with the statement, "Get the
money you deserve", and the man holding up a check also creates the expectation that
compensation for any claim is guaranteed and easy.
On both the telephone ad and the magnet, you used the photo of a man without
identifying him as a spokesperson. Your failure to identify that person as a spokesman or actor
violates Rule 7.I(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. You also have examples of some of
your "Past Results" or "Cases Settled". There is no context provided for these settlements, and
the information that is printed in your ad is misleading and create unjustified expectations in
violation of Rule 7.I(a)(I) and (2) oflhe Rules of Professional Conduct.
You also offer in your ad "Immediate assistance with lost wages, medical bills,
transportation". That statement violates Rule 1.8(e) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct, as it may appear that you are providing financial assistance to a client in connection
with pending or contemplated litigation,
A copy of your television ads were reviewed by staff counsel. Most of the problems
found with yOUI' printed ad are found in yOUI' TV ads. The dramatization disclaimer appears on
some of the television ads, but it does not appear conspicuously at the beginning and end of every
ad, as requited by Rule 7 .1 (b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
11,e Grievance Committee was concerned about your statement in the television ad that
one could receive "more money" if one hired an attorney, The committee's concern was whether
or not that statement could be factually substantiated. You sent an article, "Frequency of
workers-camp claims declining, report finds", whieh you claim supports the above referenced
statement. The article does not specifically indicate that one receives more money when a lawyer
is involved in the case. FurthernlOre, the article relates to workers' compensation claims, and not
to the many other areas of law mentioned in your advertisements.
The Grievance Committee was very concerned about the numerous problems with your
printed and television ads. The Grievance Committee strongly urges you to seek the advice of
the State Bar ethics counsel, as you stated you would do in your response, before publishing or
running any other advertisements,
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by YOll, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing urthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00,00 are hereby taxed (0 you.

Done and ordered, this the

JRF/lr

3J.

day of

LVVl~.R.

,2008

