FILED
STATE OF NORTH C~~A I

PI1 2: 26

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
COUNTY OF WAKE vW"I<E COUi\ITY, C.S.C.
15-R-455
INRE:
ATTORNEY ALFREDP. CARLTON,JR.
(N.c. State Bar No. 6544)

ORDER OF ATTORNEY DISCIPLINE
(pUBLIC REPRIMAND)

This matter is before the Court upon a referral from the North Carolina State Bar
requesting that this Court exercise its inherent authority and concurrent jurisdiction over reports
alleging misconduct by Attorney Alfred P. Carlton, Jr.
Because Attorney Carlton was involved in representing parties in active litigation against
the North Carolina State Bar at the time of the reports, the North Carolina State Bar referred the
matter to the Honorable James 1. Gale, Special Superior Court Judge for the North Carolina
Business Court for review. Judge Gale appointed J. Gentry Caudill to conduct an investigation
into matters related to allegations that attorney Alfred P. Carlton, Jr. violated Rule 1.I5-2(a) of
the N0l1h Carolina Rules of Professional Responsibility. Judge Gale referred this matter to this
Court for a probable cause determination. The Court has accepted this referral under its inherent
authority.
The parties have stipulated and the Court finds the following:
Mr. Carlton received ten payments that exceeded the amounts he had billed for work
performed for his client World Law Group ("World Law"). The advance payments began with
the first payment from World Law in July 2013 and continued through October 2014. Upon
receipt, and in each instance, Mr. Carlton placed the whole payment into his firm's operating
account.

Mr. Carlton's client was aware of and approved of this practice. The client suffered no
financial loss and was not harmed or damaged by Mr. Carlton's actions as all advanced amounts
were subsequently earned by Mr. Carlton within a relatively short period of time. The client has
not complained, and is satisfied with the legal services provided by Mr. Carlton.
The payments fi'om World Law in excess of amounts invoiced were advance payments.
See 2000 Formal Ethics Opinion 5 & RPC 158 (April 15, 1994). Therefore, the excess money

paid by the client remained "entrusted property" under NC RPC 1.15-I(e). Under NC RPC 1.152(a), Mr. Carlton was required to place all client entrusted property in his firm's trust account,
which he did not do. Such actions constitute a violation ofNC RPC 1.15-2(a).
The Court finds and concludes that Mr. Carlton violated NC RPC I.15-2(a).
Attorney Carlton has no history of previous attorney misconduct resulting in disciplinary
action.
The Court has considered all available sanctions and finds that a Public Reprimand
should be issued in this matter.
A Public Reprimand is a serious form of attorney discipline and is warranted for
professional misconduct of this nature.
WHEREFORE, Attorney Alfi'ed P. Carlton, Jr. is hereby publicly reprimanded by this Court

for professional misconduct. This sanction shall serve as a strong reminder of the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.
This Public Reprimand shall be forwarded to the North Carolina State Bar and
maintained as a permanent record in the judgment book of the North Carolina State Bar and the
Bar shall forward a copy of this Order to the parties who originated the inquiry. The attorneys
who repOlied this matter are commended for bringing this matter to the attention of the Bar.

In Re: Attorney Alfred P. Carlton, Jr. (NC State Bar No. 6544); 15-R-455.

I ~.t

So ordered this, the -----'_ _ _ day

hbflk~

of~,

2016.

The Hono able Donald W. Stephens
Senior Resident Superior Court Judge
Tenth Judicial District

In Re: Attorney Alfred P. Carlton, Jr. (NC State Bar No. 6544); 15-R-455.

