13

····005297

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINAF! LEDIN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
WAKE COUNTY
ZOI3 SEP 2LI PH 12: liS FILENO.: 13M _ __
'\;~l,t\KE

CC)U[\l1Y C S r-

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER OF . ..~.
SURRENDER OF THE LA" HGENSE---.- __
OF

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

J. LEE CARLTON, JR., Attorney

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge ofthe Superior Court of
Wake County upon the tender of surrender of his law license by J. Lee Carlton, Jr.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, J. Lee Carlton, Jr. (hereinafter "Carlton"), the Court makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Carlton was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in March 1981 and
is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State of North Carolina.
2.
During all of the periods relevant hereto, Carlton was engaged in the
practice of law in Raleigh, North Carolina.
3.
Carlton is aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding
allegations that he knowingly prepared BUD-I Settlement Statements that did not
accurately show the disbursements in certain FHA insured real estate transactions.
4.
Carlton pled guilty to a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1012 for this conduct
pursuant to a plea agreement under which he also agreed to surrender his license to
practice law.
5.
Carlton desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in North Carolina.
6.
Carlton's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result
of coercion or duress. Carlton is fully aware of the implication of submitting his
resignation.
7.
Carlton acknowledges that the material facts upon which the investigation
is predicated are true.

8.
Carlton has submitted his resignation because he knows that if disciplinary
charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could not
successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
By knowingly preparing HUD-l Settlement Statements that did not
accurately show the disbursements in certain FHA insured real estate transactions, in
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1012, Carlton engaged in criminal acts that reflect adversely on
his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule
8.4(b) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
2.
Carlton's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b )(1) and (2).
3.
The Courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary
action against attorneys practicing therein.
4.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person of J. Lee Carlton, Jf. and of the
subject matter of this proceeding.
5.

Carlton has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.
Carolina.

J Lee. Carlton, Jr. is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North

2.
Carlton shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124.
Carlton shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the entry of this order to complete the
requirements of § .0124.
3.
Carlton shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
expiration of at least five (5) years from the date ofthis order.
4.
Carlton's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North

Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125.
5.

The costs ofthis action are taxed against Carlton.

Done and Ordered this ~ day of ____~~'--"---'--_ _ _ _ _ _, 2013.

CONSENT TO BY:

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF ruSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILENO.: 13M _ __

WAKE COUNTY
AFFIDAVIT TENDERING THE SURRENDER OF THE LICENSE OF
J. LEE CARLTON, JR.
I, J. Lee Carlton, Jr., being first duly swom, say:
I.

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of Section .0117 ofthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Section .0117.

2.

My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3.

I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations that I
Imowingly prepared HUD-I Settlement Statements that did not accurately show the
disbursements in certain FHA insured real estate transactions. I have pled guilty to a
violation of 18 U.S.c. § 1012 for this conduct, pursuant to a plea agreement under
which I have also agreed to surrender my license to practice law.

4.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
!me.

5.

My resignation is being submitted because I know that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.
Respectfully submitted, this the

~~

day of

k:-€-- ,

J, 0Ci£6n Has[)'}Uf;;S;-cc)' Notary Public of the County of
Wa
State of North
Carolina, certify that J. Lee Carlton, JI. personally appeared before me this day, was swom, attested that the
foregoing Affidavit is ttue and accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.

")?ro1

This heoltJ ~.-7~~4:..u..u..""-,,,.
oy-Public
My commission expires:

q /<6' b4
I

I

JASON RASMUSSEN
Notary Public
Durham County
North Carolina
My Commission Expires Sop 8. 2014

