:\\1.\:' 1415 lOI?
.....-8'/0

.!iii>'\

Cl)

co

41'

F:'j,

STATE OF NORTH CARO NA
ItO

II'.

d

';(,

VB

:(~&ISCI

Ii(' If.,j/tC
'¢.f1

WAKE COUNTY

V

JUl 20.

r-

~

BEFORE THE

ARY 1-IEARlNG COMMISSION
OF THE
RTII CAROLINA STATE BAR

::;:

~j;

08 DI-IC 17

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

RANDY A. CARPENTER, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on 25 and 26 June 2009 before a hearing committec of thc
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, F. Lane Williamson, and
members T. Richard Kane and David L. Williams. Jennifcr A. Porter and William N.
Farrell, Jr. represented Plaintifi: the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant appeared pru
se.

Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated facts, and the evidence introduced at the
hearing, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following
FiNDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar eState Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant. Randy A. Carpenter ("Carpenter"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1997, and is, and was at a.JI times refelTed to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in NOith Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
Carpenter was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was
set, and the matter came before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.
4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein. Carpenter was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Spruce Pine, Mitchell County, North Carolina and/or Newland, Avery County, North

Carolina.
5.
During all of the relevant periods referred to herein Carpenter was also a
licensed surveyor and engineer in North Carolina.
6.
Beginning in about October 200 I, Anthony Porter (hereinafter "A.
Porter") began real estate development activities in Mitchell County, North Carolina on a
project known as the Village of Penland.
7.
The Village of Penland project (hereinafter "Village of Penland" or
"Penland project") encompassed various subdivisions on land acquired by the developers
in Mitchell County, North Carolina, including subdivisions such as River Pointe, Penland
Reserve, Penland Heights, Falling Waters, Diamond Lake, Crystal Lake. Penland Village,
and Winery Heights. The project was also at times referred to as Communities of
Penland. The phrase "Village of Penland" as used herein refers to all development of
land in Mitchell County, North Carolina by the developers identified below between
about Oetober 2001 and December 2007.
8.
A. Porter was the developer for the Penland project, along with Frank
("Skip") Amelung and Richard Amelung. who will be referred to jointly herein as "the
developers".
9.
The developers operated by and through various entities. including but not
limited to Peerless Property Management, Inc.; Peerless Real Estate Services. Inc;
Village of Penland. LLC; Communities of Penland, LLC; Penland Investment Group,
LLC; Bailey's Peak Investment Group. LLC; SOT. LLC; COP Land Holdings, LLC; and
MFSL Land Holdings, LLC.
The developers also called themselves "The Peerless
Development Group" and "The Peerless Group."
1O.
Carpenter, who had performed engineering servIces for A. Porter on a
previous project known as Bear Ridge in early 200 I. began performing surveying.
engineering and/or legal services on the Village of Penland projeet in about October
2001.
II.
Carpenter performed the surveying and engineering for the Village of
Penland project from about 2001 through 2007.
12.
Carpenter certitled and filed the plats with the Mitchell County Register of
Deeds for the Village of Penland in which he deJined the lots that would comprise the
Village of Penland and its various subdivisions.
13.
Carpenter certiJied and filed plats for the Village of Penland preceding the
sale of the lots by the developers and throughout the time during which lots were being
sold.
14.
Carpenter was the closing attorney for most of the real estate transactions
for the Village of Penland. closing several hundreds oflot purchase transactions.

2

15.
As closing attorney, Carpenter represented the seller. the buyer/borrower.
and the lender.
16.
One lender, First Charter Bank, required a certification from an engineer
that the lots that would be the collateral on its loans were suitable for an in-ground septic
absorption system.
17.
Carpenter sent letters to First Charter Bank stating that he had examined
the lots being purchased and that were being used as security for the loan and that the
property was suitable It)r an in-ground septic absorption system for a specified type of
residence (e.g. a three-bedroom home) (hereinafter referred to as the "septic letter'').
18.
These septic letters contained misrepresentations because Carpenter had
not inspected the lots at issue and evaluated the factors relevant under applicable
regulations for the specific lots at issue and/or the lots were not each individually suitable
as they existed at that time for an in-ground septic absorption system.
19.
Carpenter knew the septic letters he was executing and providing to First
Chartcr Bank were false.
20.

Carpenter did not notify First Charter Bank of the false nature of the septic

letters.
21.
Carpenter closed these transactions involving Villagc of Penland lots and
First Charter Bank despite his knowledge that First Charter Bank had false information
regarding the suitability of the lots for septic systems at the time of the closings.
22.
In the Penland project closings for which Carpenter was closing attorney,
the lcnders designated the amount of the loan and the amount of money to be provided by
the buyer/bolTower.

n. HUD-I Settlement Statements were prepared by Carpenter or a nonattorney under Carpenter's supervision for each transaction that stated the amount of the
loan and the amount due from the buyer/borrower as designated by the lender.
24.
Carpenter, as closing attorney and settlement agent, was responsible for
ensuring the HUD-l Settlement Statement accurately recited the receipt and disbursement
of funds in the transaction.
25.
The I-IUD-I Settlcment Statements prepared by Carpenter or a nonattorney under Carpenter's supervision did not accurately show the receipt and
disbursement of funds in the Penland project closings.
26.
The funds designated as due from the buyer/borrower were usually listed
on the HUD-l Settlement Statements on line 201, as eamest money.
27.
The HUD-I Settlement Statements typically listed the earnest money as
having been paid by the buyer/borrower and received by the seller.

-,

1

28.
In the transactions where the HUD-! Settlement Statements listed the
earnest money as paid by the buyer/borrower and received by the seller, in fact the
buyer/bolTower had not paid any funds to the seller or to anyone else for the listed earnest
money.
29.
Certain HUD·! Settlement Statements prepared by Carpenter or a nonattorney under Carpenter's supervision listed the money due from the buyer/borrnwer in
line 303, as funds paid by the buycr/bolTower at closing.
In the transactions where the I-IUD· I Settlement Statements listed the
30.
money due from the buyer/borrower as paid by the buyer/borrower at closing in line 303,
in fact the buyer/borrower had not paid any funds at closing.
31.
The devclopers concocted what they described as a "lot sale program
which included having the buyers borrow the funds the lenders required the
buyer/bolTowers to produce. The buyers would borrow this amount through a finance
company owned by the developers. No payments would be due from the buyer to the
finance company until maturity of the promissory note to the finance company, which
would have a maximum term of 2 years. Additionally, under the "lot sale program" the
developers agreed to lease the lots being purchased from the buyer for up to 2 years for
an amount equal to the buyer/borrower's debt to the lender. The developcrs agrced to
prepay the lease payments to the buyer. At the end of the lease period, the developers
would have an option to purchase the lots for an amount equal to the outstanding
principal amount of the lender's loan plus the amount due to the finance company.
32.
Generally. however, even if a promissory note was signed between the
buyer and the financing company for the amount the lender required to be produced by
the buyer/borrower. no funds were actually paid to the developers for buyer/borrower.
33.
Carpenter kncw the HUD·I Scttlement Statcments listing cam est money
paid by or on behalf of the buycrs/borrowers were false.
34.
Carpenter knew the HUD·I Scttlement Statements listing money paid at
closing by the buyer/bOlTowers were false.
35.
Carpenter did not inform the lendcrs that thc HUD·I Settlemcnt
Statemcnts listing earnest money or closing funds paid by or on behalf of the
buyers/borrowers were false.
36.
Carpenter closcd the transactions despite knowing that the I-IUD-I
Settlement Statements were false.
37.
Some of the lots in thc Penland project were encumbered by a deed of
trust securing a loan from Capital Bank to some of the developers. The original principal
amount was $2.470,000.00 and the deed of trust secured that loan with Lots I - 8! of
Penland View, Phases 1 and 2. As individual lots were sold, release decds and payments
to Capital Bank were required to release those lots from this blanket deed of trust.
4

38.
Certain of the HUD- I Settlement Statements notified the lenders that
money was being sent to Capital Bank to release the lots at issue hom Capital Bank's
deed 0 ftrust.
39.
In some of those transactions, neither Carpcnter nor any non-attorney
assistant working under his supervision on these closings sent the money to Capital Bank.
[n those instances, the funds were usually held for or provided to the developers.
40.
Carpenter did not notify the lenders when he failed to send timds to
Capital Bank despite such disburscment being listed on the HUD-I Settlement Statement.
41.
Carpenter did not notify the lenders when HUD-l Settlement Statements
showing disbursement of funds to Capital Bank were false.
4~.
At a certain point between
the developers owed him money.

~OO~

and

~007,

Carpenter took the position that

At a certain point between 2002 and 2007, Carpenter refused to close
43.
transactions for the Village of Penland project unless the developers would allow him to
disburse to himself at least about $5.000.00 - $10,000.00 from the developers' proceeds
ti'om each closing.
44.
Subsequently, Carpenter received at least $5.000.00 - $10.000.00 per
closing in most if not all closings from about late 2005 through 2007.
45.
This financial incentive to close Village of Penland transactions created a
conflict of interest between Carpenter's interests and those ofthe lenders.
46.
Two of the developers. A. Porter and Frank Amelung, pled guilty in the
United States District Court, Western District of North Carolina. of conspiracy to commit
fraud. including bank fraud, securities [i·aud. and wire and mail fraud upon buyers and
lenders in connection with the Village of Penland project.
47.
By closing transactions in which C31penter knew the lender had received
t,dse information, Carpenter faci litated others in conspiracy to commit fraud upon the
buyers and the lenders in connection with the Village of Penland project.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact. the hearing committee enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the
comIn ittee has jurisdiction over the Defendant. Randy A. Carpenter, and the subject
matter.

5

2.
Defendant's conduct as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), for engaging in conduct
in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his actions as
follows:
a.
By submitting false information to lenders in real estate
transactions, including false IIUD-l Settlement Statements and false septic letters,
Carpenter engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
b.
By closing transactions in which Carpenter knew the lender had
received false information, Carpenter facilitated others in conspiracy 10 commit
fi'alld upon the lenders in violation of Rule 8.4(a) and 8.4(c); and
e.
By acting as closing attorney for transactions in which he knew the
lender had received inaccurate information and in which he collectcd a dcbt from
the seller's proceeds, Carpenter engaged in representation involving a concurrent
conflict of interest in violation of Rule I. 7(a).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments presented at the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the
hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Banks are not normally thought of as vulncrable entitics. Nevertheless.
the banks relied upon Carpenter as closing attorney to eany out the closing in an ethical,
lawful, and proper manner. These institutions are particularly vulnerable to the conduct
of attorneys that circumvent or knowingly facilitate others in the circumvention of
safeguards employed to avoid fraud.
~

The lenders relied on the BUD-I Settlement Statements to accurately
reflect receipt and disbursement of funds in these closings. Most of the lenders required
that they be provided with the HUD-I Settlement Statement for review and approval
prior to closing. The lenders relied on the HUD-I Settlement Statements post-closing to
aecurately show the actual receipt and disbursement of funds for the closings. The
lenders relied on the entry in line 201 of the I-IUD-] Settlement Statements showing
payment of earnest money or the entry in line 303 of the HUD-I Settlement Statement
showing payment by the buyer/borrower at closing, as applicable, to show the
buyer/borrower had contributed his or her own money into the transaction. Such personal
contribution by the buyer/borrower was required by each lender and relied upon in the
lender's attempt to reduce the risk of default on the loan by the buyer/borrower.
Carpenter's preparation and submission of HUD-I Settlement Statements that he knew
did not accurately show the receipt anel disbursement of funds and Carpenter's failure to
6

rcceive and disburse funds as retlected on the HUD-l Settlement Statements cvaded the
safeguards relied upon by the lenders.
3.
Carpenter's interest in receiving $5,000 to $10,000 per closing from late
2005 through 2007 as payment for an outstanding debt not otherwise being paid by the
developers created a financial incentive for Carpenter to close these transactions even if
not in the best interest of the lenders. Carpenter received over $2,000,000,00 from funds
loaned by BB&T, First Charter, Carolina First, and United Community Bank for
purchases in the Penland project.
4.
The fi'aud found to have occurred in the Penland project is public
knowledge. The criminal chargcs of ccrtain of the dcvelopers and others involved in the
project, and their guilty pleas, are public record. An internet blog has reported details
about the Penland project and CallJenter's involvement.
5.
All but a few of the loans made by BB&T. First Charter, Carolina First.
and United Community Bank for purchase in the Penland project are now in default.
Each bank has written off losses from these loans in the tens of millions of dollars.
6.
Carpenter engaged in conduct involving misrepresentation and deceit over
a substantial period of time.
7.
Clients are entitled to attorneys they ean trust. Carpenter, by engaging in
conduct involving misrepresentation and deceit over a substantial period of time, has
shown himself to be untrustworthy. When an attorney violates that trust, it harms the
public and the profession.
8.
Carpenter suggested in his defense that the parties desircd that the IIUD-1
Settlement Statements falscly show funds received from the buyer/borrower. It is no
defense to attorney misconduct that a client requested such misconduct. Should a client
request that an attorney engage in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud. deceit, or
misrcpresentation, it is the duty of the attorney to refuse to engage in, or assist with, such
conduct.
9.
Carpenter's obligation as closing attorney was to produce an accurate
HUD-1 Settlement Statement for each transaction.
Accurate HUD-l Settlement
Statements are necessary for the system of finance in real estate to function.
10.
practice law.

Carpenter has no prior disciplinary record concerning his license to

11.
The hearing committee has carefully considered all of the different forms
of discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment. in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and upon the evidence and arguments presented at the hearing
7

concernIng appropriate discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following
additional

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

Carpenter's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors listed

111

'27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0114(w)(l):

a.

Dishonest or seltish motive:

b.

A pattern of misconduct: and

c.

Multiple offenses.

Carpenter's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors listed
2.
27 N.C. Admin. Code I B § .01 14(w)(2):

3.

a.

Absence of a prior disciplinary record: and

b.

Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings.

111

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

Carpenter's conduct rcsulted in signil1cant harm to the lenders.
4.
Carpenter's conduct evaded safcguards relied upon by the lenders. Hundreds of loans
went into default, resulting in tens of millions of dollars in losses to the lenders.
5.
Carpentcr's conduct resulted in significant haml to the profession, due to
the public nature of, and publicity from, the fraudulent project and the associated criminal
charges and convictions.
6.
Carpenter's conduct, involving misrepresentation and deceit over a
substantial period of time, resulted in significant harm to his clients and the profession
and posed potential signil1cant harm to the public that may have sought to retain him or
those who may have dealt with him in other capacities. When an attorney violates the
trust clients and others should be able to have in attorneys, it harms the public and the
profession.
7.
The hearing committee has considered all lesser forms of sanctions
available to it and finds that disbarment is the only appropriate discipline in this case, for
the following reasons:
a.

Carpenter committed misdeeds involving moral turpitude and
violations of the public tmst. including fraudulent conduct,
material misrepresentations, and deccit. Misconduct involving
8

misrepresentations and deceit are among the most serious that an
attorney can commit.
Such offenses demonstrate that the
offending attorney is not trustworthy. Clients are entitled to have
trustworthy attorneys;
b.

Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than disbarment would
fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Carpenter, would be inconsistent with discipline issucd in prior
cases involving similar misconduct, and would send the wrong
message to attomeys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the North Carolina State Bar; and

c.

The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that
Carpenter not be permitted to resume the practice of law until he
demonstrates the following: that he has reformed; that he
understands his obligations to his clients, the public, and the legal
profession; and that permitting him to practice law will not be
detrimental to the public or the integrity and standing of the legal
profession or the administration of justice. Disbarment is the only
discipline available that requires an attorney to make such a
showing before he or she may be reinstated.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee
hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant, Randy A. Carpenter, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice
of law in North Carolina.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this ordcr upon
Defendant,
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provIsIons contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an aftidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective dale of this order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
The costs of this action are taxed to Dciendant, including costs of the
depositions taken in this case as allowed by statute. Defendant must pay the costs within
30 days of service of the statement of costs upon him.
9

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
this the 15th day of ./uly, 2009.

F.-Line Wil1iamson, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

10

