NORTH CAROLINA	

BEFORE THE COUNCIL

WAKE COUNTY

In re: Frank W. Ballance,
Attorney at Law

Order of Disbarment

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to Section .0017 of Subchapter B of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar upon an affidavit of tender oflicense executed by Frank W. Ballance
and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on 19 October 2004.
Based upon the affidavit of tender oflicense, the Council finds that Frank W. Ballance
was convicted of the crime of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and money laundering in
violation of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 371 upon a plea of guilty to count I of an indictment in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, file number 5:04-CR-282-IBOI,
a felony. The Council also finds that Frank W. Ballance has waived his rights to notice of this
hearing and the right to be heard before the Council. The Council concludes that the offense for
which Frank W. Ballance was convicted is a serious crime showing professional unfitness to
practice as defined by Rule .0103(17) ofthe State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules and N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(I) and constitutes grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. §84­
28(b)(2) in that Frank W. Ballance violated Rules 8.4(a), (b), and (c) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct and that the Council may enter an order of discipline accordingly.
WHEREFORE, upon motion duly made and seconded, the Council ofthe North Carolina
State Bar enters the following order:
I.	

The tender of surrender oflicense of Frank W. Ballance is hereby accepted.

2.	

Frank W. Ballance is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in North

Carolina.


3.	

Frank W. Ballance will comply with the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .0024 of
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and will surrender his
license and permanent registration card to the Secretary ofthe North Carolina State
Bar along with the affidavit required by Subchapter B, Section .0024.

4.	

The costs of this action are taxed against Frank W. Ballance.

Done and Ordered, this the 21 st day of January, 2005.

---3i-JJj~

Robert F. Siler, President

The North Carolina State Bar


NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

~.".~
BEFORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE NORTII CAROLINA STATE/~~\I 10 ,Jd;;),;,..
05 BCS ~
~f::
/1~};1.
'"'v

::::

;;
AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER

J4/1

,..

...

~Oo.t"

r-il.[3

OJ

1,
I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North
Carolina pursuant to the provisions of27 N,C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Section .0117 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
2.
My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of

coercion or duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3,
I am aware that there is pending an investigation arising out the following:

on November 9,2004 r was convicted of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and money

laundering in violation of 18 U.S,C. Sec. 371 upon a plea of guilty to count 1 of an

indictment in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina,

file number 5:04-CR-282-1BOl.

4.
I acknowledge that material facts upon which my guilty plea was based

are true, although r have not admitted all matters contained in the introduction to that

indictment.

5,
1am, however, submitting my resignation because I know that if

disciplinary charges were predicated upon my guilty plea, I could not successfully

defend against them.


the¢,lL~ay of January 2005.

Sworn to and subscribed before me
this the ,ao"'" day of January, 2005.

Notary Public
My commission expires:

J\A..V\~ /0 ( ().oof,

r;i

~J

OL.JrP
,~
II\",
~
""Sl~ '\'i.~~

0'cO

Frank W, Ballance, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows: ~wJ

This

~\

