COLUMBUS COUNTY

~;.:.::' ~ :tlN:tTl-p:~~:,GENERAL COURTS OF JUSTICE

NORTH CAROLINA

"'"SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
Or(' I L. tA~RJ:537?3, 15CRS1345, 15CRS1346,
L,J,
15CRS13~7~ 15CRS1348, 15CRS1349

')015
,.

i' fi
,._/t,

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

LII".1 (:)
i ! '"
itll.;:,

r

f

: \

'v'

....,1, ~);j; i

J

"
(' ('
'.j,::.',-.

RY~__ , r~
)

v.
RANDY LEMAY CARTRETTE

)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by Randy Lemay
Cartrette, the Court makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Randy Lemay Cartrette ("Cartrette") was licensed to practice law in North Carolina on August
21, 1999.
2. Cartrette operated a law office in Columbus County, North Carolina.
3. On this date, Cartrette entered pleas of guilty to one (1) misdemeanor count of common law
forgery and seven (7) misdemeanor counts of common law obstruction of justice.
4. Cartrette is in fact guilty of the criminal offenses to which he pled guilty.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Court makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By committing the acts described in his Affidavit of Surrender of Law License and by being
convicted of one (1) misdemeanor count of common law forgery and seven (7) misdemeanor
counts of common law obstruction of justice, Cartrette violated Rules 8.4(b), (c) and (d) of the
North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. Cartrette's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8428(b)(1) and (2).
3. The courts of this State have inherent authority to take disciplinary action against attorneys
licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
4. This Court has jurisdiction over Cartrette and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
5. Cartrette's misconduct has caused significant actual harm to the legal profession and to the
public'S perception of and confidence in the justice system.

Page 1 of2

-

"

6. The Court finds that lesser alternatives, including public censure, reprimand, admonition or
suspension of Cartrette's law license would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of
the actual and potential harm to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal profession
caused by Cartrette's misconduct.
7. The Court has considered lesser sanctions and determined that any discipline short of
disbarment would not adequately protect the public for the following reasons:
a. Cartrette's misconduct involves moral turpitude and violations of the public
trust.
b. Cartrette's misconduct involves misrepresentations and deceit. Misconduct
involving misrepresentations and deceit are among the most serious that an
attorney cali commit.
c. Cartrette's criminal offenses reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or
fitness as a lawyer.
d. Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.
e. Protection of the public and of the legal profession require that Cartrette not be
reinstated to the practice of law until he demonstrates the following: that he has
reformed; that he understands his obligations to his clients, the public, and the legal
profession; and that permitting him to practice law will not be detrimental to the
public or the integrity and standing of the legal profession or the administration of
justice. Disbarred lawyers are required to make such a showing before they may be
reinstated to the practice of law.
IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1. Randy Lemay Cartrette is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina.

2. This Order of Disbarment is effective immediately upon entry.
3. Randy Lemay Cartrette shall comply with the provisions of Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his license and
permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the
affidavit required by Subchapter B, SeGtion .0124.
Done and Ordered this

l!i- day of~~",--~+-,
ge Presiding

Page 2 of2

COLUMBUS COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURTS OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
14CRS53753, 15CRS1345, 15CRS1346,
15CRS1347, 15CRS1348, 15CRS1349

)
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

)

)

v.

)

RANDY LEMAY CARTRETTE

)
)
)

AFFIDA VlT OF SURRENDER
OF LAW LICENSE

Randy Lemay Cartrette, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or duress. I
am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.
3. I have today entered a plea of guilty to one (1) misdemeanor count of common law forgery
and seven (7) misdemeanor counts of common law obstruction of justice. I am in fact guilty of
these charges. I committed common law forgery as follows: I asked an assistant district attorney
to consent to a motion to recall an order for arrest. I falsely represented to the assistant district
attorney that the case was pending in district court. After the assistant district attorney gave his
consent, I changed the file number on the motion to recall an order for arrest by adding the letter
"S" to the file number to reflect that the case was in fact pending in Superior Court. I committed
common law obstruction of justice by falsely representing to an assistant district attorney that the
above-referenced case was pending in district court rather than in superior court and that my
client had failed to appear for court when in fact my client had not been served with the initial
process. I also committed common law obstruction of justice by falsely representing to a superior
court judge that my client had failed to appear for court when in fact my client had not been
served with the initial process and by knowingly presenting to district court judges petitions on
behalf of my clients for limited driving privileges for which I knew my clients were not eligible.
4. I know that if disciplinary charges were predicated upon these criminal offenses, I could not
successfully defend against them.
5. I consent to be disbarred from the practice of law in North Carolina.

'l!'1lr.,D (C{,y1o, 0L {. t//

This the/_{_ day of

,2015.

4'---r;7'.~\-----­
..

~

R~~'--

Page I of2

~~\G.vr't- t

fuLJ-e.

C

I,
U , Notary Public of the County of
U!UVY\!:1,..s ,State of
North Carolina, certify that Randy Lemay Cartrette personally appeared before me this day, was
sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of his own personal knowledge,
and executed the foregoing Affidavit.
------'~~~=~---, 2015.

My Commission Expires:

IG1/ 'i II

f

--~+I~~I~~---

Page 2 of2

