"

~b.5676"
.9.

......... "

J

...s
7l'

.~

0((1

"->

:; Ph
STATE OF NORTH CAROLI

c1.

"

<'0
78

//'
if>

~>

,-,,'
,~~

~S'D I1Lp_, ,:;1

BEFORE THE
L5~IP~i}';!ARY HEARING COMMISSION
~
-:::;.
OF THE
l1;[2ZJ\1~l'i)
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
, c
16 DHC 39

<;'~

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
MICHAEL C. CASEY, Attorney,

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing panel ofthe Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Beverly T. Beal, Chair, N. Hunter Wyche, Jr., and Randy
Moreau. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, Michael C. Casey was represented by Deanna Brocker. Defendant waives a
formal hearing in the above referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order. The parties consent
to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to this order, Defendant
knowingly, freely, and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the pmties, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the NOlth Carolina General
Statutes, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Michael C. Casey (hereafter "Defendant" or "Casey"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 29 August 1998 and is an Attorney at Law
subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State ofNOIth Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Casey was actively engaged
, in the practice of law as a partner in the law firm of Casey & Ragaller, PLLC in Nags
Head, Dare County, North Carolina.
4.

Casey practiced primarily real estate law.

Page 1 of11

5.
The la firm of Casey & Ragaller maintained a general attorney trust
account with RBC Bank ending in number 8897. In March 2012, RBC Bank changed
ownership to PNC Bailik. The RBC trllst account ending in 8897 became PNC Bank !l'llst
account ending in hwlber 460 I (hereinafter collectively known as "trust account").
6.
On aveJage, Casey would process approximately 6,000 transactions a year
through the trust acco Jnt.
7.
In 200&, the trust account was the subject of a random procedural audit.
The procedural audit s owed various deficiencies in Casey's trust account management.
8.
After t e 2008 procedural audit, Casey represented to the State Bar that he
would correct the defi ,iencles in his trust account management.
9.
conducted.

l

In No ember 2012, an investigative audit of'the trust account was

10.
The in estigative audit showed various deticiencies in Casey's trust
account managemenJ, including failure to always perform quarterly three-way
reconciliations of the rust account, failure to promptly disburse client funds, and using
entrusted funds held f I' the benefit of one client to make disbursements for the benefit of
other clients.
11.
The 2, 12 investigative audit of the trust account revealed similar
deficiencies to those f, und during the 2008 procedural audit.
12.
It timh l' showed that Casey failed to conect the deficiencies in his trust
account management ound during the 2008 procedural audit.

~ovember

13.
On 7
2005, funds in the amount of $405,451.43 were wired
into the trust account tr·om an unknown source (hereinatier "unknown wire funds").
14.

Casey dould not identify the source of the unknown wire funds.

15.
As of 11 ovember 2012, Casey had not escheated in accordance with N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 116B-53 the unknown wire funds that had been in the account since
November 2005.
16.
In or a~out November 2011, Casey determined that thirteen clients
maintained a balance df entrustcd funds in de minimis amounts: amounts less than
$10.00.
I

~J,

17.
Casey iled to promptly disburse on behalf of those thirteen clients the
funds he maintained i de minimis amounts on their behalf.
18.
On 01' a out 4 November 2011, Casey wrote trust account check number
31999 for $866.20 to is firm as (a) payment of attorney fees and cost reimbursements
disbursement to his firm of the de minimis amounts of entrusted
for seven clients and

(jl
I

NCSB v. Case)'

Consent Order of Discipli~e
Page 2 of 11

funds held in the account for the benefil of the thilteen clients as described in paragraph
16 above.
19.
Casey failed to indicate on the $866.20 check the names of the clients
from whose trust account balances the funds were drawn.
20.
Casey had not been given authorization from his clients to transfer to his
finn the de minimis amounts he held in the trust account on lheir behalf.
21.
In December 20 II, an unknown third party breached the computer
secudty for the trust account and wired $319,811.00 out of the trust account without
Casey's knowledge or authorization.
22.
Casey became aware of this transaction in January 2012 upon receipt of
his December 2011 bank statement.
23.
Casey informed the State Bar of this unauthorized transaction in January
2012. Casey fUliher informed the State Bar that the bank indicated it would provide
provisional coverage and replenish the funds once it finalized its fraud investigation and
detenn ined that the withdrawal was thell.
24.
The bank did not replenish the stolen funds though it ultimately
determined that the withdrawal was theft.
25.

Casey did not replenish the stolen funds until on or about 10 December

2012.
26.
Casey continued to use the trust account after the funds as described above
were withdrawn from the trust account, thereby utilizing entrusted funds deposited since
December 2011 to satisfy the claims of other clients whose funds were among those
stolen by the unknown third party.
27.
From 30 July 2009 through 10 January 2012, Casey disbursed funds from
the trust account on fOUlieen occasions for the benefit of clients who did not have
sufficient funds in the trust account to cover such disbursements.
The excess disbursements Casey made wcre paid using other clients'
28.
enttusted funds and/orthe unknown wire fimds.
29.
Casey reimbursed the trust account for the disbursements described, but
did not do so on a timely basis.
Based upon the consent of the pmties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W

NCSJ3 JI. Ca.\'(v
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of 11

I.
All par~ies are properly before the Hearing Panel, and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defe\ldant, Michael C. Casey, and over the subject matter.
2.
Defen~ant's conduct, as sci fOlth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for disciplinelpursuant to N.C Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violatcd the Rules of I?rofessional Conduct as follows:
(a)

By failing to always reconcile the trust account quarterly, Casey failed to
perforrb quarterly "econciliations of his trust account in violation of Rule
LIS-31d);

(b)

By failing as of November 2012 to escheatthc unknown wirc funds,
Casey failed to escheat unclaimed prope'ty in accord with N.C. Gen. Stat.
§I 16-~S3 in violation of Rule LIS-2(g);

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

Based upon th foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makcs by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the followin
ADDITIO AL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I,
Casey ooperated with the State Bar's investigation into his handling of
entrusted client funds.

2.

Casey las no prior discipline.

3.
Casey cposited $10,000 of his own funds into the trust account to
replenish the shOltage created by the December 2011 unauthorized withdrawal. Casey's
insurance provider pI' vided the additional $309,811.00 needed to replenish the trust
account for the unaut orized withdrawal.
On or bout 7 January 2014, Casey escheatecl the unknown wire funds to
4.
the State of North Cat lina.

5.
Casey isbursed to his firm the client funds he maintained in de minimis
amounts-based upon is incorrcct interpretation of an Ethics Advisory opinion that
concluded that the Ru es of Professional Conduct do not appear to prohibit an attomey
from requesting that c ients, on occasion, agree to waive the return of certain
insubstantial or de mi Imis amounts.
6.
Althouph Casey failed to discover the instances in which he misapplied
clients' entrusted fun3s until thc investigative audit was underway, Cascy promptly
replenished the trust1ccount upon his discovery ofthe improper disbursements.
7.
Casey ikely would have discovered his misuse of entrusted propel1y if he
had been reconciling is trust account in accordance with the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

8.
Casey as been performing monthly 3-way reconciliations of his trust
account at least since ecember 2015.
9.
Casey' failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted funds
betrays a vital trust cl ents and the public place in attomeys and the legal profession.
Clients are entitled to ave their fllllds handled with the utmost care.

10.
Casey' failure to properly maintain a trust account placed entrusted client
funds at risk and has t)e potential to cause significant harm to the standing of the
profession in thc eyes ofthe public because it shows his disregard for his duties as an
attorney. This tends t erode the public's confidence in attorneys. Confidence in the
legal profession is a b ilding block for public trust in the entire legal system.

NCSB

1'.

Casey

Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 of 11

11.
Casey s failure to always pel'form quarterly reconciliations of his trust
account after indicati g after the 2008 procedural audit that he would do so demonstrates
his intent to commit cts where the potential hann is foreseeable.
Based upon t e Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the
Additional FindingSjf Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties. the
Hearing Panel makes the following;
ONCLUSIONS OF LA W REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

I.
The Hearing Panel has considered all ofthc factors contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0:114(w)(I) and concludes that the following factors that warrant
suspension or disbarIent are prescnt:
(a) Intent ofthe defendant to commit acts whcre the harm or potential harm is
foresetable; and
(b) Negativc impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
oflhe rl'OfesSion.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code I B § .dI14(w)(2) and concludes that no factors that warrant disbarment are
present.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § '°111 14(w)(3) and concludes that the following are applicable in this
matter:
(a) Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) MUltiJle offenses;
(c)

Defen~ant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

Cd) Good bhal'ac!el' and reputation; and
(e)

Defen~ant has been licensed to practice law for approximately eighteen

years. 1

4.
Defenhant caused harm to his clients by using their entrusted funds to pay
the obligations of othler clients and by disbursing their de minimis funds to his f11'111
without authorizatiOli to do so.
5.
Defenrant caused potential significant harm to his clients by failing to
properly manage their entrusted funds.

I

NCSB 1'. Casey
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of 11

6.
Defen ant's conduct placed entrusted funds at risk and has the potential to
cause significant hal' to the standing ofthe profession in the eyes ofthe public because
it shows his disregar for his duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence in
attorneys tends to suI y the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a
whole. Confidence il the legal profession is a building block for public trust in thc cntire
legal system.
7.
The H al'ing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including: censure,
reprimand, and admo ition, and tinds that discipline less than suspension would not
adequately protect th public from Defendant's futurc misconduct because (i) of the
gravity of the harm a· d potential significant harm to clients, and (ii) a period of reporting
pursuant to a stayed [!Spension is necessary to ensure Defendant's proper handling of
entrusted funds.
Based upon t e foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact Reg I'ding Discipline, and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline,
and on the consent a the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
Defen ant, Michael C. Casey, is hereby suspended from the practice of
I.
law for two years, er clive 30 days from sel'vice of this order upon Casey.
2.
Defen ant shall pay, within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and
costs upon him by th Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative fees and costs of this
proceeding.
3.
The t a year suspension is stayed for a period of two years as long as
Defendant complies ith all of the following conditions:
(a) Defen ant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assess d by the Secretary of the State Ba!' within 30 days of se!'vice ofthe
staten ent of fees and costs upon him.
(b) Each onth Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar w th the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's
Trust ccount Handbook, using the Trust Account Reconciliation sheet
provi cd in the Handbook, for all trust accounts he maintains. Defendant
shall rovide the three-way reconciliation report, client ledge!'s for all
client~ with funds in the trust account(s) during that month as may be
reqUeted by the Office of Counsel, ledger for any personal funds
maint· ined in the trust account(s) for bank or credit card fees, his trust
aecou t ledger, and the bank statements, cancelled checks, and as may be
requested by the Office of Counsel, deposit slips for each month. These
docu ents are due on the 15 th day of the following month - for example,

Ncsn v. Casey
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 of 11

\

the three-way reconciliation for the month of January is due on February
15;
(c) Each quatter, Defendant shall have a CPA audit all trust accounts
maintained by Defendant. This audit shall assess whether Defendant has
in his trust account the client funds he should be maintaining for his
clients at that time, as well as Defendant's compliance with all
requirements of Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The CPA's audit shall
include addressing the items on the CPA Report Template which will be
provided by the State Bar to Defendant. The quarterly audit reports from
the CPA are due no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter - for
example, the CPA audit fOI' the tlrst quarter of the calendar year (January,
February, and March) 'is due on April 30. It is Defendant's sole
rcsponsibility to ensure that the CPA completes and submits the reports
required herein;
(d)

If either the monthly threc-way reconciliation repOlt or the CPA audit
reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule I. I 5-2 or
Rule I. I 5-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the
date of the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall
provide documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar
within 2 days of the date of the remedial action;

(e)

Defendant shall provide any other records requested by the Office of
Counsel with in ten days of the request;

(I)

By the deadline stated in the request, Defendant shall comply with any
requests from the Office of Counsel to provide any information regarding
his trust account(s) or to sign and pl'Ovide any release 01' authorization to
allow the Office of Counsel to obtain information directly from any bank
in which Defendant maintains a trust account;

(g)

Within six months of the effective cIate ofthis order, Defendant shall
complete the trust account continuing legal education (CLE) course taught
by State Bar Trust Accounting Compliance Counsel (usually titled "Trust
Accounting Rules" or "Trust Accounting Rules: Avoid the Pitfalls.") This
CLE requirement is in addition to the CLE requirements set out in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code ID § .1518;

(h)

Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business address, office telephone number, and office e-mail
address. Defendant shall notify the State Bar of any change of address
within ten (10) days ofslIch change. His current business address must be
a street address, not a post office box or drawcr;

NCSlJ v. Casey
Consent O"del' of Discipline
Page 8 of 11

(i)

Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the State Bar;

Q)

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar,
including communications t/'om the Attorney CI ient Assistance Program,
within thirty (30) days of receipt of such communication or by the
deadlinc stated in thc communication, whichever is sooncr;

(k)

Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition that is pending at the time of entry of
this order or of which he receives notice after the effective date of this
order;

(I)

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed therefor by
the appl icable deadline;

(m) Defendant will pay all State Bar andjudicial district membership dues,
Client Security Fund assessments, and any other related dues, fees,
assessments andlor costs by the applicable deadline; and
(n)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or of any state or local government.

4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end two years from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no pending motions or show cause
proceedings alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code I B § .OlI4(x), the DHC retains jurisdiction until all
conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause
proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay ofthe suspension
is pending when the period of the stay ofthe suspension would otherwise have
terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension
and activate the two year suspension in whole or in part ifit finds that any of the
conditions ofthe stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
sllch pending motion or show cause proceeding.
5.
If Detendant fails to comply with anyone or more ofthe conditions set out
above in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted in
accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code I B § .0114(,,).
6.
!fthc stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order imposing such
conditions as it deems proper for the reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of
the suspension. Additionally, Defcndant must establish the following by olear, cogent

NCSB v. Casey
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 9 of11

and convincing evidence prior to being reinstated to the practice of law after any period
of active suspension:
(a)

Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the State Bar within thirty (30) days of the date of the order
lifting the stay andlor activating the suspension of his law license;

(b)

Defendant complied with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code I B §
.0124 following entry of the order lifting the stay andlor activating the
suspension of his law license;

(c)

Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against
him in this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon
him by the Secretary of the State Bar;

(d)

That within fifteen (15) days ofthe effective date of the order activating
the suspension Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and
telephone number at which clients seeking return of files could
communicate with Defendant and obtain such files;

(e)

That Defendant provided within ten days client tiles to all clients who
made a request for return of their files;

(I)

Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business street addresses (not post office box 01' drawer
addresses) and notified the State Bar of any change in address within ten
days of such change;

(g)

Defendant responded to all communications fi'om the State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance
Program, within thirty (30) days of receipt or by the deadline stated in
the communication, whichever is sooner~

(h)

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in
payment of all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client
Security Fund assessments, and other assessments, charges or
surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from him, including all
judicial district dues and assessments;

(i)

At the time of his petition for reinstatement. there is nO deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE hours in reporting of such
hours 01' in payment of any fecs associated with attendance at CLE
programs;

U)

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant has completed
within the six months that immediately preceded his petition for

NCSB v. Casey
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 10 of 11

reinstatement the trust account CLE course taught by NC State Bar
Trust Accounting Compliance Counsel Peter Bolac (usually titled
"Trust Accounting Rules" or "Trust Accounting Rules: Avoid the
Pitfalls");
(k)

Defendant did not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States, or the laws of any slate or local government during
his suspension; and

(I)

Defendant participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition that was pending at the time of entry
of this order or of which he received notice after the effective date of
this ordel·.

7.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0 114(x) until all conditions of the stay of
suspension are satisfied.

the

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members this
day of Dt2.02-VY\b.e~
,2016.

'3te\

Beverly T. Beal, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
WE CONSENT:

Michael C. Casey
Defendant

NCSB v. Casey
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 11 of 11

