WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
CONSENT
ORDER

v.
FRANK A. CASSIANO, JR., Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of David W. Long, Chair, and members R. Lee Farmer and Brandon Gosey, pursuant
to N.C. Admin. Code IB.0115(d). Plaintiff was represented by Maria J. Brown. Defendant, Frank
A. Cassiano, Jr. ("Cassiano" or "Defendant"), was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Both
Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited
in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant consents to entry of this order of
discipline and freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this order.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the pat1ies' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the NOl1h Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
NOlth Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Frank A. Cassiano, Jr., was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
1988 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct
of the NOl1h Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State ofNOl1h Carolina.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process, and the matter came before the
Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
4.
During the relevant period refened to herein, Defendant was engaged in the practice
oflaw in Greenville, Pitt County, NOlth Carolina.
5.
Mr. Edgar Cox held title to two parcels ofland in Block "B" of the Fifth Addition
to College View, Greenville, Pitt County, North Carolina (collectively, "the Properties"): Parcel
04936, located at 1301 E. 5th Street ("the 5th Street Propelty"), and Parcel 23532, located at 409
South Eastern Street ("the Eastern Street Property").
6.
In the spring of 2010, Defendant and Mr. Cox spoke about the possibility of Mr.
Cox selling the Properties to Defendant.

7.
In the course of the discussion, Mr. Cox told Defendant that he did not want his
children to have to sell the Properties after he died but wanted his children to enjoy the benefit of
the proceeds from the sale of the Properties.
8.
Mr. Cox also told Defendant he was concerned about the expenses and tax
consequences associated with selling the Properties.
9.
Defendant advised Mr. Cox that Defendant could create a trust to receive title to
the Properties and name Mr. Cox's children as beneficiaries to the bust.
10.
Defendant further advised Mr. Cox that this arrangement would reduce the capital
gains taxes associated with the sale of the Properties, simplify the administration of Mr. Cox's
estate upon his death, and maximize the value received by Mr. Cox's heirs.
11.
Defendant agreed, on behalf of Mr. Cox, to prepare and file the documentation
necessary to create the trust.
12.
In undeliaking to create estate planning documents for Mr. Cox, Defendant entered
into an attorney-client relationship with Mr. Cox.
13.
Defendant's representation of Mr. Cox had the potential to be materially limited by
Defendant's personal interest in purchasing the Properties on terms favorable to Defendant.
14.
interest.

Defendant's representation ofMr. Cox therefore involved a concurrent conflict of

15.
Defendant did not disclose to Mr. Cox that, because Defendant was personally
interested in purchasing the Propeliies, Defendant's representation of Mr. Cox therefore involved
a concurrent conflict of interest.
16.
Defendant did not obtain Mr. Cox's informed consent, confirmed in writing, to the
conflicted representation.
17.
Concurrent with the formation of the attorney-client relationship, Defendant and
Mr. Cox agreed that Defendant would purchase the Properties from Mr. Cox for $349,000.00.
18.
Defendant and Mr. Cox agreed that Defendant would make monthly payments
toward the $349,000.00 purchase price ofthe Properties in the form of deposits into a bank account
in the name of the trust Defendant promised to create for Mr. Cox for the benefit of Mr. Cox's
heirs.
19.
Defendant and Mr. Cox agreed that Defendant was to have paid the full purchase
price of the Propeliies, plus 3% interest on any unpaid principal, by 24 April 2020.
20.
Defendant drafted a promissory note memorializing a $349,000.00 debt to Mr. Cox,
representing the agreed-upon purchase price for the Properties ("the Note").
21.
to make.

The Note did not specify the due dates or amounts of any payments Defendant was

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 2 of12

22.
On 15 May 2010, Defendant executed the Note in the name of "This Is It, Inc." and
then executed a personal guaranty on the Note.
23.
mechanism.

Mr. Cox's interest in the Note was not secured by any deed of trust or other

24.
The terms of the arrangement between Defendant and Mr. Cox for the sale of the
Properties were not fully transmitted in writing in a manner that could be reasonably understood
byMr. Cox.
25.
Defendant did not advise Mr. Cox in writing of the desirability of seeking
independent counsel with regard to the arrangement with Defendant.
26.
Defendant did not obtain Mr. Cox's informed consent, in a writing signed by Mr.
Cox, to the essential terms of the arrangement and Defendant's role in it.
27.
In May, June, and July 2010, Defendant repeatedly made statements to Mr. Cox
that he would establish the trust for the benefit of Mr. Cox's heirs, create a bank account in the
name of this trust, and deposit the full amount of the purchase price of the Properties and interest
thereon in the form of monthly payments to this account.
On 9 July 2010, Defendant prepared and had Mr. Cox sign an "Addendum to Note"
28.
("the Addendum").
29.
The Addendum relieved Defendant of the obligation to make payments into the
account created for the trust Defendant was to establish on Mr. Cox's behalf "until such time as
the Trust is, in fact, in place."
30.
On 28 July 2010, Defendant recorded a series of documents ("the Deeds") relating
to the Properties:
(a) For the 5th Street Property
1.

Quit Claim Deed in Trust
Deed Book 2768 Page 750
Grantors: Edgar Lee Cox and wife (now deceased), Natalie Z. Cox
Grantee: This Is It, Inc., Trustee

2.

Deed
Deed Book 2768 Page 754
Grantors: Edgar Lee Cox and wife (now deceased), Natalie Z. Cox
Grantee: This Is It, Inc., Trustee

(b) For the Eastern Street Prope1iy

1.

Quit Claim Deed in Trust
Deed Book 2768 Page 800
Grantors: Edgar Lee Cox and wife (now deceased), Natalie Z. Cox
Grantee: This Is It, Inc., Trustee

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 3 of 12

2.

31.

Deed
Deed Book 2768 Page 803
Grantors: Edgar Lee Cox and wife (now deceased), Natalie Z. Cox
Grantee: This Is It, Inc., Trustee

Pursuant to Defendant's instructions, Mr. Cox had executed the Deeds on 28 June

2010.
32.
On 28 July 2010, the same day the Deeds were recorded, Defendant recorded four
land trust documents related to the Properties ("Land Trust Documents"):
(a) For the 5th Street Propeliy
1.

Fifth Street #2 Land Trust Agreement
Deed Book 2768 Page 741
Name of Trust: Fifth Street #2 Land Trust
Beneficiary: Ben's Interest, LLC
Trustee: This Is It, Inc.
Date Trust Established: 28 June 2010

2.

Trustee's Affidavit & Certification of Trust
Deed Book 2768 Page 747
Name of Trust: Fifth Street #2 Land Trust
Beneficiary: Ben's Interest, LLC
Trustee: This Is It, Inc.
Date Trust Established: 28 June 2010

(b) For the Eastern Street Propeliy
1.

Eastern Street #2 Land Trust Agreement
Deed Book 2768 Page 790
Name of Trust: Eastern Street #2 Land Trust
Beneficiary: Ben's Interest, LLC
Trustee: This Is It, Inc.
Date Trust Established: 28 June 2010

2.

Trustee's Affidavit & Certification of Trust
Deed Book 2768 Page 797
Name of Trust: Eastern Street #2 Land Trust
Beneficiary: Ben's Interest, LLC
Trustee: This Is It, Inc.
Date Trust Established: 28 June 2010

33.
The Land Trust Documents created a land trust pertaining to each of the two parcels
of the Properties with This Is It, Inc., named as trustee and Ben's Interest, LLC named as the
beneficiary.
34.
Defendant signed each of the Land Trust Documents on 28 June 2010 as Vice
President of This Is It, Inc., Trustee.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 4 of12

35.

Mr. Cox did not sign any of the Land Trust Documents.

36.
The only beneficiary named in any of the Land Trust Documents is Ben's Interest,
LLC, a Nevada limited liability company fOlmed on 5 June 2009.
37.
The only member of Ben's Interest, LLC is Mid-Atlantic Holding Co., Inc., a
Nevada corporation also fOlmed on 5 June 2009.
38.
Mr. Cox.

Neither Ben's Interest, LLC nor Mid-Atlantic Holding Co., Inc., has any relation to

39.
own benefit.

Defendant created Ben's Interest, LLC, and Mid-Atlantic Holding Co., Inc. for his

40.
Documents.

At some point, Defendant provided Mr. Cox with copIes of the Land Trust

41.
Defendant's provision of copies of the Land Trust Documents to Mr. Cox misled
Mr. Cox into believing that Defendant had established the Land Trusts and the entities named
therein for the benefit of Mr. Cox and/or his heirs.
42.
On 5 August 2010, Defendant, as Vice-President of This Is It, Inc., granted a Real
Estate Deed of Trust on the 5th Street Property to secure an $80,000.00 loan from The Little Bank.
43.

The proceeds of the $80,000.00 loan went to Defendant.

44.
Defendant began offering the Eastern Street Property for rent in September 2010
th
and the 5 Street Property in January 2011.
45.

The proceeds from Defendant's rental of the Properties went to Defendant.

46.
In spring 2013, Mr. Cox's daughters Mary Gouras and Helen Uebler asked
Defendant for information regarding the trust, the status of payments to the trust, and the bank
account associated with the trust.
47.
Defendant told them he would "get back to them" with the information regarding
the trust bank account.
48.
Defendant never provided Mr. Cox or his daughters with information regarding the
trust bank account.
49.
On 3 September 2013, Defendant, as Vice-President and Secretary/Treasurer of
This Is It, Inc., granted a Deed of Trust on the Eastern Street Property to secure an $18,000.00
loan.
50.

The proceeds of the $18,000.00 loan went to Defendant.

51.
Ms. Gouras and Ms. Uebler contacted Defendant again in 2015 and asked for
information about the balance of funds in the bank account for the trust.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 5 ofl2

52.
Defendant informed them that the entire amount due under the Note would be
deposited and available for disbursement by 24 April 2020.
53.
Deferidant further indicated he would be getting in touch with someone who could
allegedly provide information regarding the trust's bank account.
54.

Defendant did not provide Mr. Cox or his daughters with the requested information.

55.
Mr. Cox's daughters met again with Defendant on 12 April 2016 and asked again
about the deposit of funds into the trust's bank account.
56.

Defendant again assured them that he would provide the requested information.

57.
Defendant never supplied Mr. Cox or his daughters with an account number or any
infOlmation for a bank account associated with a trust established for the benefit of Mr. Cox and/or
his heirs.
58.

No such bank account or trust ever existed.

59.
In representing to Ms. Gouras and Uebler that he would get back to them with
information about the trust bank account when no such account existed, Defendant deceptively
purported that he had taken action on behalf of Mr. Cox.
60.
On 2 February 2017, Mr. Cox sued Defendant for breach of contract, unjust
enrichment, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud in the inducement, constructive fraud, fraud, unfair
and deceptive trade practices, and attorney malpractice related to the transaction for the sale of the
Properties (the "Civil Suit").
61.
In the Answer Defendant filed in the Civil Suit, Defendant stated that he had never
been given any instructions to set up any account or trust naming Mr. Cox's children as
beneficiaries and that the list ofMr. Cox's children that he received was not intended to be used
to name beneficiaries to any instrument.
62.

Defendant's representations to the court, set out in paragraph 61, were false.

63.
At the time Defendant made the representations to the court set out in paragraph
61, he knew that they were false.
64.
Between Mr. Cox's conveyance of the Properties on 28 June 2010 and settlement
of the Civil Suit on 14 November 2017, Defendant made no payments to Mr. Cox or a designee,
to any tmst benefitting Mr. Cox and/or his heirs, or to any bank account for the benefit ofMr. Cox
and/or his heirs.
65.
Defendant used his position as Vice President of This Is It, Inc., the designated
trustee for Ben's Interest, to obtain for his own use legal title to the Properties, rent monies from
tenants of the Properties, and the proceeds of loans secured by the Properties.
66.
The transaction and terms by which Defendant acquired his interest
Propelties from Mr. Cox, his client, were neither fair nor reasonable to Mr. Cox.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 6 of 12

III

the

67.
For tax years 2010-2014, the Pitt County property taxes for the Properties were paid
by This Is It, Inc. or I.e.-B.H., Inc., a North Carolina corporation formed on 3 May 1995.
Defendant is the registered agent and President of I.C.-B.H., Inc.
68.
The property taxes for tax year 2015 were not paid until 30 November 2017, and
the property taxes for tax years 2016 and 2017 remain unpaid. As of 22 March 2018, the
outstanding property tax balance for the 5th Street Property is $6,633.30, and the outstanding
property tax balance for the Eastem Street Prope11y is $3,529.73.
69.
Because of the delinquent property taxes, the Pitt County Tax Office initiated
foreclosure proceedings against the Prope11ies on 7 January 2018.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction over
Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.e. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b )(2) as follows:
(a) By undertaking to represent Mr. Cox where the representation stood to be
materially limited by Defendant's personal interest, without obtaining Mr.
Cox's infOlIDed consent, Defendant represented a client when the
representation involved a concurrent conflict of interest in violation of Rule
1.7(a)(2);
(b) By failing to infOlID Mr. Cox of Defendant's own self-interest in the
transaction for the sale of the Properties and of the resulting concurrent
conflict of interest in Defendant's representation of Mr. Cox, Defendant
failed to promptly inform a client of a circumstance with respect to which
the client's informed consent was required in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(1);
(c) By transacting with Mr. Cox for the sale of the Properties on telIDS that were
neither fair nor reasonable to Mr. Cox, without fully documenting the telIDS
of the transaction in writing, without advising Mr. Cox in writing of the
desirability of seeking independent counsel, and without obtaining Mr.
Cox's informed written consent to the essential terms of the transaction and
Defendant's role in it, Defendant entered into a prohibited business
transaction with a client in violation of Rule 1.8(a);
(d) By failing to ensure that the Deeds and Note were drafted in a manner that
appropriately protected Mr. Cox's interests, failing to ensure that Mr. Cox's
interest in the Note was secured by a deed of trust or other mechanism, and
failing to establish the trust for the benefit of Mr. Cox's heirs as promised,
Defendant failed to act with reasonable promptness and diligence in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 7 of12

(e) By drafting the Deeds, Note, and Addendum in a manner that allowed him
to take title to the Properties without requiring him to pay the purchase
price, Defendant intentionally prejudiced or damaged his client during the
course of the professional relationship in violation of Rule 8.4(g);
(f) By failing to advise Mr. Cox that he had not created a trust on behalf ofMr.
Cox's heirs and had not set up a bank account into which he could make
payments according to their agreement, Defendant failed to reasonably
consult with a client about the means by which the client's objectives were
to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2), failed to keep a client
reasonably informed about the status of a matter in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to explain a matter to
the extent reasonably necessary to permit a client to make informed
decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b);

(g) By providing Mr. Cox with copies of the Trust Documents and making
misrepresentations to Mr. Cox and his daughters about the means by which
he was going to effectuate Mr. Cox's interests and the extent to which he
had already done so, Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and
(h) By falsely asserting in his Answer in the civil suit that he had never been
given any instructions to set up any account or trust naming Mr. Cox's
children as beneficiaries and that the list of Mr. Cox's children that he
received was not intended to be used to name beneficiaries to any
instrument, Defendant knowingly made a false statement of material fact to
a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(1), engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation
of Rule 8.4(d).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 69 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
Mr. Cox trusted and respected Defendant as a neighbor, friend, and attorney, and
Defendant abused the trust Mr. Cox reposed in him. In patiicular, Mr. Cox relied upon Defendant
to effectuate a pati of Mr. Cox's estate plan, and Defendant subjugated those important interests
of Mr. Cox to his own financial interests.
3.
Defendant exacerbated the hatm to Mr. Cox, his client, by failing to provide timely,
accurate, honest infotmation-and indeed by providing false and dishonest infonnation-about
the extent to which he had effectuated Mr. Cox's interests in accord with his professional
obligations to Mr. Cox.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 8 of12

4.
Mr. Cox incuned significant legal fees in order to seek redress through the court
system for the harm caused by Defendant's misconduct.
5.
Mr. Cox's lawsuit against Defendant was settled on 14 November 2017. Defendant
met some of the monetary conditions of the settlement agreement reached that day but failed to
abide by the telms of the settlement agreement. Pursuant to subsequent orders of the court,
Defendant was to ensure execution of various settlement documents and that the necessary
individuals and corporate entities possessed legal authority to execute the settlement documents,
which he failed to do. For this failure, by consent order entered 12 March 2019, Defendant was
found in civil contempt of court. He has since performed a portion of the requirements to purge
his contempt; all that remains is for him to continue paying Mr. Cox's attorney fees according to
the schedule set out in the order. Defendant showed his indifference to making restitution-and
indeed exacerbated the harm to his client-by failing to comply with the settlement agreement and
the court orders memorializing the agreement.
6.
When attorneys engage in illegal or dishonest conduct and demonstrate a lack of
regard for the administration of justice, they erode the respect and confidence of the public in the
legal profession and unde1mine public trust in the legal system as a whole.
7.
On 16 December 2016, an administrative suspension order was served on
Defendant for his failure to complete his Continuing Legal Education ("CLE") requirements for
2015. Defendant did not comply with the suspension order within 30 days, and Defendant's license
to practice law was administratively suspended as of 17 January 2017. Shortly thereafter,
Defendant completed his 2015 CLE requirements in compliance with the suspension order and
submitted a petition for reinstatement. Defendant's reinstatement petition was considered by the
Administrative Committee of the North Carolina State Bar on 19 April 2017, and Defendant was
not reinstated. As of 19 April 2017, the ongoing administrative suspension of Defendant's law
license was due to the character and fitness concerns raised by the State Bar's pending
investigation of the conduct at issue in this case.
8.
discipline.

Defendant has been practicing law for 28 years and has no prior professional

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above, the additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB.0116(f)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar
and concludes the following factors warrant consideration of disbarment or suspension of
Defendant's license:
(a) Intent of defendant to cause the resulting halm or potential harm;
(b) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm
is foreseeable;
(c) Circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty,
trustworthiness, or integrity;
(d) Elevation of the defendant's own interests above that of the client;
The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 9 of 12

(e) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's
perception of the profession;
(f) Negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of
justice;
(g) Impaitment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation; and
(h) Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0116(f)(2) and concludes that, although Defendant engaged in conduct implicating the
following factor, disbarment is not warranted in this case:
(a)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.O 116(f)(3) and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)

Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
Dishonest or selfish motive;
Indifference to making restitution;
Multiple offenses;
Vulnerability of victim;
Defendant's degree of experience in the practice oflaw; and
Imposition of other penalties or sanctions.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or censure but
concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
misconduct at issue and the harm and potential harm Defendant's misconduct caused to the client,
the profession, and the administration of justice.
5.
The Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing discipline short of suspension of
Defendant's law license would not adequately protect the public, the legal profession, or the
administration of justice for the following reasons:
(a)

The factors under 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.Ol16(f)(I) and (f)(3) that are
present in this case are of a nature that suppOli imposition of suspension as
the appropriate discipline, and

(b)

Entry of less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness
of the offenses Defendant committed and would send the wrong message to
attomeys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the
Bar in this State.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
1.
Defendant, Frank A. Cassiano, Jr., is hereby suspended from the practice of law for
five (5) years, effective thirty (30) days from service of this order upon Defendant.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 10 of12

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty (30) days following the date this Order of Discipline
is served upon him.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB.OI28. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar within ten (10) days of the effective date of this order, certifying he has complied with
Rule .0128.
4.
Within fifteen (15) days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with a street address (not a P.O. box or drawer address) and mailing address at which
clients seeking return of their files and records in Defendant's possession or control may obtain
such files and records and at which the State Bar may serve any notices or other matters upon him.
5.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary and shall pay the costs within thirty (30) days of service of the notice of costs
upon Defendant.
6.
Defendant shall receive credit toward service of the active suspension for all time
that Defendant has not practiced law after his petition for reinstatement from administrative
suspension was first considered and not granted. For purposes of calculating the length of the
suspension, Defendant's five-year suspension shall be deemed to have begun on 19 April 2017.
7.
At the conclusion of the five-year active suspension of his license, Defendant may
apply to be reinstated to the practice of law by filing a verified petition with the Secretary of the
NOlth Carolina State Bar demonstrating compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement
set fOlth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0129(b) and demonstrating the following by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence:
(a)

That Defendant has (1) paid a total of $4,857.50 to Mr. Cox through his
counsel William F. Hill as reimbursement for reasonable attorney's fees and
costs pursuant to the Consent Order Granting Motion for Contempt and
Sanctions filed 12 March 2019; (2) paid all real or personal property taxes
on the Properties cunent to the date of reinstatement; (3) obtained insurance
policies on each propelty which are standard and customary for stand-alone
residential rental propelties insuring against liability for personal injmy to
all third parties and all types of property damage with The Edgar Lee Cox
"Sweet Thing" Trust listed as an additional insurance and loss payee on
such policies; and (4) continued to make monthly payments of $2,500.34 to
The Edgar Lee Cox "Sweet Thing" Trust and is not in an-ears at the time he
seeks reinstatement;

(b)

That Defendant has kept the NOlth Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his cunent business and home addresses and notified
the Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

(c)

That Defendant has responded to all communications from the NOlth
Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in the communication or within
thirty (30) days if no deadline is stated and has participated in good faith in
the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition received after
the effective date of this Order;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 11 of12

~

.

•

,
(d)

That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or any state or local government during his
suspension other than minor traffic violations;

(e)

That Defendant paid the costs of this action within thirty (30) days after
service of the statement of costs;

(f)

That Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128; and

(g)

That Defendant has otherwise complied with the requirements of 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB.0129(b).

,

8.
This Consent Order shall not in any way prohibit Mr. Cox from continuing to
pursue all available remedies against Defendant or any third parties related to the performance or
breach of the Mediated Settlement Agreement entered into between the parties in Civil Action
Number 17-CVS-341 currently pending in the Superior Court of Pitt County, North Carolina, or
the enforcement of all provisions of any orders entered in said Civil Action after the parties
entered into the Mediated Settlement Agreement.
9.
Defendant may file a petition seeking reinstatement and setting forth the above
requirements up to 30 days prior to the end of the suspension period but shall not be reinstated
prior to the end of the suspension period.

Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other Hearing
Panel members.

;~
This the I f; day of _
I_+¥,-__;2019.

D vid W. Long, Chair
DisciplinalY Hearing Panel
Agreed and consented to by:

Attomey for Plaintiff

· Frank
1~
~
~Jl~
A. Cassiano, Jr.
Defendant

Attomey for Defendant

The North Carolina State Bar v. Frank A. Cassiano, Jr.
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 12 of12

