.... !
I

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
15 DHC 31

STATE OF NORTH CARO

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
v,

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

LEROY R, CASTLE, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair, and members Shirley L, Fulton and Randy A, Moreau
pursuant to 27 N,C.A.C. 1B § ,0114 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar. Plaintiff was represented by Deputy Counsel Margaret T, Cloutier, Defendant, Leroy R,
Castle appeared pro se, Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties,
Based upon the pleadings, stipulations, and evidence presented at the hearing, the
Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
PINDINGS OF FACT
I,
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws ofNOlth Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of Title 27 ofthe North Carolina
Administrative Code),
2,
Defendant, Leroy R. Castle (hereafter "Castle" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1984 and is, and was at all times referred to herein,
an attorney at law licensed to practice in NOith Carolina, subject to the laws ofthe State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3,
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State ofNOlth Carolina and maintained a law office in
Durham, Durham County, North Carolina,

· .. ...... I

4.
On or about April 1, 2014 Castle met with C. King to discuss a custody matter
involving the Department of Social Services and her young nephews.
5.

Castle agreed to represent King.

6.
King gave Castle original documents pertinent to the custody action. Castle
promised to copy and return the original documents to King.
7.
Castle told King he would prepare a custody motion and let her lmow when it was
ready for signing.
8.

Castle did not contact King about signing the completed custody motion.

9.
King subsequently requested Castle to return the original documents King had
provided to Castle by calling, texting, and emailing Castle.
10.
Castle did not respond to King, did not provide documents for her to sign, and did
not return her original documents.
11.
King contacted the NOlth Carolina State Bar Attorney-Client Assistance Program
(hereafter "A-CAP") for assistance in obtaining her documents from Castle.
12.
A representative of the A-CAP contacted Castle on October 2, October 14, and
October 21, 2014 requesting Castle to return King's original documents to her.
13.
Castle did not respond to the A-CAP representative nor did he return the
documents to King after being contacted.
14.

Castle did not return King's documents to her tmtil after January 9, 2015.

15.
King and Castle did not enter into a formal written contract for services and King
did not pay any ftmds to Castle toward a retainer or fees as quoted by Castle; nevertheless, King
met with Castle, discussed her matter in confidence, and sought Castle's advice on lUng'S
specific matter with the intent that Castle would represent her in the matter.
Based upon tl1e evidence and the foregoing Findings of Faet, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All patties are properly before the Hearing Panel, and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.

An attorney-client relationship was established between Castle and King.

3.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

2

'.1

(a)

By failing to prepare the custody motion as he agreed to do, Castle failed to act
with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of
Rule 1.3; and

(b)

By failing to return King's original documents after multiple requests to do so,
Castle failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in reprcsenting a
client in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests
for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to take steps to the extent
reasonably practicable to protect a client's interests upon termination or the
representation in violation of Rule 1.16(d).

Based on the forgoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the evidence presented
at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
As a result of Castle's failure to prepare documents relating to the custody matter,
King was unable to attempt to intervene in the matter involving her nephews.
2.
When Castle was unresponsive to her effOlis to contact him, King felt that she
could not seck the help of another lawyer in the matter because Castle had not returned her
original custody documents.
3.
King relied on Castle to help her with the matter regarding her nephews and felt
that without Castle's help her wishes would not be heard by the cOUli or the Depatiment of
Social Services.
4.

Castle has practiced law since he was licensed in 1984.

5.
Castle continued to insist that he had no duty to prepare the docU1l1ents for King
or to return her original documents promptly at her request, even in light of this Panel's
determination that an atto1'l1ey- client relationship had been established and that the Rules of
Professional Conduct regarding a lawyer's duties to clients applied to Castle in this matter.
6.
Castle has been previously disciplined by the North Carolina State Bat·, to wit:
a)
Admonition for trust account deficiencies discovered by the random audit
atld failure to respond to Bar in 1998;
b)
Censure for neglect of appeal and failure to respond to Bar in 2001;
c)
Reprimand for failure to participate in fee dispute alld failure to respond to
the grievance in 2005;
d)
Reprimand for failme to return client file in 2006; and
e)
Two year suspension (six months active) for neglect, failure to
communicate with client and failure to respond to Bar in 2008

3

..... !

7.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional Findings
of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(1) of the Ru1es and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes that the following factor is present:
(a)

Intent of the Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .01 14(w)(2) of the Rnles and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes no
factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors are applicable in tbis matter:
(a)

Prior discipline;

(b)

Pattern of misconduct;

(c)

Multiple offenses;

(d)

Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of the conduct;

(e)

Vulnerability of the victim; and

(1)

Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing lesser discipline but concludes that
such discipline would not be sufficient in light of Castle's actions, his past discipline and the
potential significant harm that could have resulted from his conduct.
5.
The Hearing Panel further concludes that the only ways to protect the public will
be to suspend Castle's license for a substantial period oftime.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

4

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Leroy R. Castle, is hereby SUSPENDED from the practice oflaw for
a period of three years effective sixty days from the service of this Order upon him.
2.
Castle shall surrender his law license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than sixty days following service of this Order upon him.
3.
Castle shall pay all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within thirty days after service of the statement of costs on him.
4.
Within thirty days of the effective date of this Order, Castle will provide thc
North Carolina State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return
offiles can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files.
5.
Castle shall return client files to clients within five days of receipt of request.
Castle will be deemed to have received any such request three days after the date the request is
sent to him if the request is sent to the address Castle provided the State Bar pursuant to this
Order.
6.
Castle shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §.0124
regarding obligations of suspended attorneys not inconsistent with the terms of this Order.
7.
After serving the period of suspension, Castle shall comply with the general
provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §.O 125(b) before he may be
reinstated to active status.

IS

~igned

ith the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day ofy..LL><.L':-J~fU..-""",-,,=--o 2015.

i3A

Walter E. Brock, Jr.
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel

5

