WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

CONSENT ORDER
STAY OF SUSPENSION

v.
STEVEN M. CHEUVRONT, Attorney,
Defendant.

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
("DHC") composed of Joshua W. Willey, Chair, and members Irvin W. Hankins, III, and Randy
A. Moreau. Plaintiff was represented by G. Patrick Murphy. Defendant, Steven M. Cheuvront
(hereinafter "Cheuvront" or "Defendant"), was represented by Alan M. Schneider. This matter is
before the DHC upon petition by Cheuvront for a stay of the remainder of the suspension
imposed in the Order of Discipline in this case. Based on Cheuvront's petition and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel herehy finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.

Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of Nmih Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNmih Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the NOlih
Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on March 21,
1998. Cheuvront's law license was suspended for two years by the Order of Discipline
entered in this matter, effective April 3, 2014.
3.
The Order of Discipline provided that after serving one year of the active
suspension, Cheuvront could apply to have the remainder of the suspension stayed upon
filing a petition and showing compliance with the conditions stated in the Order of
Discipline.

4.
On April 8, 2015, Cheuvront filed a petition requesting a stay of the
remaining portion of his active suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status
subject to the continuing conditions set f01ih in the Order of Discipline.
5.
In his verified petition, Cheuvront stated that he has satisfied all of the
conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.
6.
After conducting an investigation ofthe requirements set out in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B .0125(b) and the conditions of the Order of Discipline, Counsel for the
North Carolina State Bar did not find any grounds to object to the petition for stay ofthe
remaining part of the suspension.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Cheuvront has satisfied the conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay
of his suspension and reinstatement to active status, subject to the continuing conditions
set forth in the Order of Discipline.

3.
Cheuvront's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon
continued compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order of Discipline.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel enters the following;
ORDER
1. The remainder of the suspension of Cheuvront's law license is stayed and Cheuvront
is reinstated to the active practice of law as of the date of this Order.
2. The stay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions, and
requirements set f01ih in the Order of Discipline, which is attached hereto and hereby
incorporated by reference ..
3. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant
to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB Sec.. 0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.

2

-r

,{-..Signed by ~At' w(~ the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
.£_dayof
. ,;d:;/
~2015

W. Willey, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Attorney for Defendant

3

Attorney for Plaintiff

