WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
STEVENM. CHEUVRONT, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on January 31, 2014 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission ("DHC") composed of Joshua W. Willey, Chair, and
members Harriett Smalls and Randy A. Moreau. Plaintiff was represented by G. Patrick
Murphy.
Defendant, Steven M. Cheuvront ("Cheuvront" or "Defendant"), was
represented by James Maxwell. Based on Plaintiffs complaint, Defendant's answer,
stipulations, exhibits and evidence admitted during the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby
finds, by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on March 21,
1998, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Cheuvront was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Morganton, Burke County, North Carolina.
4.
On or about October 2012, Cheuvront agreed to represent Kristi Ann
Farinella ("Farinella") who was issued citations in Burke County cases State v. Kristi Ann
Farinella, 12 CR 703420 (expired registration, expired inspection) and 12 IF 703847

(improper passing). Farinella was referred to Cheuvront by her mother who had used
Cheuvront's legal services in the past and who had referred other criminal cases to
Cheuvront.
5.
On or about February 6-8, 2013, Farinella called Cheuvront upset that her
cases had not been resolved and complaining that she had gotten a letter from the
Department of Motor Vehicles advising her of the possible revocation of her license due
to her failure to appear in one of her cases.
6.
On or about February 6-8, 2013, Cheuvront requested a deputy clerk in
the Burke County Clerk of Court's Office to make copies ofthe citations in files 12 CR
703420 and 12 IF 703847 ("Farinella files") for him.
7.
On February 8, 2013, Defendant wrote the letters "VD" on the citations in
the Farinella files and forged and falsely wrote the initials of Assistant District Attorney·.
Frank Webster ("Webster") below the letters "VD" on the citations in the Farinella files
to indicate that Webster had taken a voluntary dismissal in each case.
8.
After entering voluntary dismissal notations and forging Webster's initials
on the citations in the Farinella files, Cheuvront delivered them to the clerk's office for
entry in the case record. The citations were left on the desks of two different
assistant/deputy clerks.
9.
At the time Cheuvront placed Webster's initials and voluntary dismissal
notations on the citations in the Farinella files, Cheuvront did not have the authority or
consent of Webster to sign his initials to the entry of voluntary dismissals in the Farinella
files.
10.
At the time Cheuvront placed Webster's initials and voluntary dismissal
notations on the citations in the Farinella files, Cheuvront did not have the authority or
consent of Webster to enter voluntary dismissals in the Farinella files.
11.
By writing voluntary dismissal notations and Webster's initials on the
citations in the Farinella files and delivering the Farinella files to the clerk's office for
entry in the record, Defendant engaged in unlawful criminal conduct in violation ofN.C.
Gen. Stat. §14-119.

12.
By delivering the Farinella files to the clerk's office for entry in the record
knowing they contained the unauthorized dismissal of the charges and the forged initials
of Webster, Cheuvront engaged in unlawful criminal conduct in violation of N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 14-221.2.
13.
By delivering the citations to the clerk's office for entry in the record
knowing that they contained unauthorized dismissals of the charges and the forged
initials of Webster, Cheuvront engaged in obstruction of justice, unlawful criminal
conduct in violation ofNOlth Carolina common law.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following:

-2-

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:

a.

By forging Webster's initials on citations in the Farinella files below the
letters VD to falsely indicate Webster had entered voluntary dismissals in
the Farinella files, and then delivering the same to the clerk's office for
entry in the record, Cheuvront committed one or more criminal acts
(forgery, altering court documents, obstruction of justice) that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other
respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b), engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c),
and engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice
in violation of Rule 8.4(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel enters the following findings of fact regarding discipline based on clear, cogent and
convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
Beginning in June 2012, Cheuvront was involved in a course of medical
treatment which resulted in three tympanoplasty procedures on his ear. The last of these
procedures was scheduled for February 11,2013.
2.
Cheuvront was experiencing stress and anxiety regarding the upcoming
medical procedure at the time of his conduct on February 8, 2013.
3.
During a telephone conversation with Webster on February 12,2013,
Cheuvront admitted his conduct to Webster. In a telephone conversation with Assistant
District Attorney Eric Bellas ("Bellas") on February 13 and again in a face-to-face
meeting with Bellas on February 18,2013, Cheuvront admitted his misconduct.
4.
Burke County court officials reviewed court files of prior cases handled by
Cheuvront and determined Cheuvront's conduct on February 8, 2013 was an isolated
incident.
5.
Cheuvront has practiced law in Burke County since 1998. His good
character and reputation for honesty was attested to by several current Burke County
court officials as well as by clergy, a former elected sheriff, and colleagues in the legal
profession.
6.

Defendant has no history of prior discipline.

-3-

7.
remorse.

At the hearing, Defendant admitted his misconduct and expressed

Based on the above Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .01 14(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable to this case and
warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
b) Circumstances reflecting on defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness,
or integrity;
c) Negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of
justice; and
d) Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. lB § .01 14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes the following factors are present which require consideration of
disbarment: acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and commission
of a felony. While these factors are present and could be a basis for disbarment, that
level of discipline is not required here given the totality of the nature, facts, and
circumstances of the conduct in this case.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes the following factors are applicable in this case:
a) Absence of prior disciplinary offenses in this or any other jurisdiction;
b) The absence of dishonest or selfish motive on the part of the Defendant;
c) Effect of personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;
d) Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;
e) Remorse expressed by Defendant;

-4-

-~

f) The Defendant enjoys a good reputation and would appear to be a person
of good character; and
g) Defendant, who has practiced law since 1998, has substantial experience
in the practice oflaw.
4.
The conduct in which Defendant engaged directly reflects upon his fitness
to engage in the profession of an attorney and counselor at law. His conduct also reflects
negatively upon the legal profession.
5.
The conduct in which Defendant engaged resulted in significant harm or
potential significant harm to his client, the administration of justice and the legal
profession.
.
6.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses potential
significant harm to the administration of justice and the legal profession.
7.
The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline but
concludes that any sanction less than suspension would fail to aclmowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the
public, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and to the public regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar.
8.
The hearing panel further concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by suspension of Defendant's license, with the possibility of a stay for a period
of time with conditions imposed upon Defendant designed to ensure protection of the
public and continued compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
9.
For these reasons, the hearing panel finds that an order imposing discipline
short of a suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline, the hearing panel enters the
following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Steven Cheurvront, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for two years, effective 30 days from service of this Order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this Order upon
Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions of27 N.C.A.C. lB
§ .0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit
with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of
this Order, certifying he has complied with the wind down rule.

-5-

4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of
files can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant shall
promptly return all files to his clients upon request.
5.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs ofthis disciplinary
proceeding within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and costs upon him.
6.
One year after the effective date of this Order, Defendant may seek a stay
of the remaining period of suspension ifhe meets the conditions set out below.
Defendant must be in compliance with these conditions at the time of his motion as well
as at the time of the effective date of any stay of his suspension. If Defendant does apply
to have the remainder of the suspension stayed, he must prove compliance with these
conditions by clear, cogent and convincing evidence which establishes the following:
a) That Defendant has complied with paragraphs 2-5 ofthis section of this
Order of Discipline;
b) That Defendant obtained a mental health evaluation within 60 days of the
effective date of this order by a licensed and qualified psychiatrist or
psychologist ("mental health professional") engaged by Defendant. This
evaluation may be coordinated through the Lawyer Assistance Program.
The mental health professional Defendant engages to perform this
evaluation shall be approved in advance by the North Carolina State Bar
Office of Counsel. Prior to the evaluation, Defendant shall sign an
authorization consenting to the release of all medical records and
information related to Defendant's evaluation to the Office of Counsel,
and Defendant shall not revoke that release. Defendant shall
simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the Office
of Counsel and the mental health professional. Defendant shall direct the
evaluating mental health professional to provide a written report of such
evaluation and recommended treatment, if any, to the Office of Counsel
within thirty (l0) days of the completion of the evaluation. Such
evaluation shall contain an opinion as to whether Defendant is suffering
from a mental or physical conditiollwhich significantly impairs his
professional judgment, performance, or competence as an attorney. All
expenses of such evaluation and report shall be borne by Defendant;
c) That Defendant has complied with all treatment recommendations of the
evaluation described in paragraph (b) above. Defendant shall sign an
authorization consenting to the release of any medical records and
information related to Defendant's treatment to the Office of Counsel, and
Defendant shall not revoke that release. Defendant shall simultaneously
provide a copy of such signed authorization to the Office of Counsel and
his treatment provider. Defendant shall direct his treatment provider to
provide the Office of Counsel with a written report detailing Defendant's
treatment plan. Defendant shall also direct his treatment provider to

-6-

provide the Office of Counsel with quarterly written repOlis concerning
Defendant's condition and compliance with the treatment plan. Such
reports shall be received by the Office of Counsel each January 1, April 1,
July 1 and October 1 for the time covered by this Order of Discipline.
Defendant shall also comply with any and all requests from the Office of
Connsel seeking updates on the status of his ongoing treatment within
fifteen (15) days of receipt of such requests. All expenses of such
treatment and reports shall be borne by Defendant;
d) That within 60 days prior to applying for a stay, the mental health
professional who conducted the evaluation described in paragraph (b)
above certifies, under oath, based on his or her independent and
comprehensive evaluation of Defendant, that in his or her professional
opinion Defendant does not currently have any mental, psychological,
behavioral, cognitive, or emotional condition or disorder that impairs
Defendant's ability to practice law, that impacts Defendant's ability or
willingness to comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct, and/or that
poses a risk of hann to the public if he engages in the practice of law;
e) That Defendant has responded to all letters of notice and requests for
infonnation from the N.C. State Bar by the deadline stated in the
communication;

f) That Defendant has kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of
his current physical home address;
g) That Defendant paid all outstanding membership fees, Client Security
Fnnd assessments and fees or costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar
and complied with and satisfied any outstanding CLE requirements
imposed by the State Bar; and
h) That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or any state.
7.
The procedures of27 N.C.A.C lB § .0125(b) shall govern Defendant's
application for a stay of the remainder of his suspension of his law license.
8.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered, Defendant's
reinstatement during the stayed suspension will be subject to the terms, conditions and
requirements of this Order of Discipline set out in paragraph 6(a) through (h) above, with
Defendant's active status contingent upon his continued compliance with treatment
recommendations under paragraph 6(b) and (c) above and all tenns set out in paragraph
6(a) through (h) above. If during any stayed suspension Defendant fails to comply with
the requirements set out in paragraph 6(a) through (h), or any other applicable condition
set out in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may
be lifted as provided in 27 N.C.A.C IB § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.

-7-

9.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of his law license, or if
some part ofthe suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is lifted, Defendant must
comply with the conditions set out in paragraph 6(a) through (h) above as well as the
requirements of27 N.C.A.C 1B § .012S(b) in order to be reinstated from the suspension
to active status. In the event Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of his law
license, the evaluation and certification required by paragraph 6(d) above must occur
within 60 days of the date of filing for reinstatement.
10.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C 1B § .01 14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
Si&ned~

the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the

Q{Z~aayof r::c,Ahi<Jd,,"+- 2014.

Jos
. Willey, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-8-

