BEFORE THE

STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff

v.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

DAVID SHAWN CLARK, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, Irvin W. Hankins, Ill, and Percy L.
Taylor. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, David Shawn Clark, was represented by David B. Freedman and Dudley A.
Witt.
FINDINGS OF FACT
FACTS ESTABLISHED BY THE SUMMARY JUDGMENT ORDER
Based upon Defendant's admissions in the complaint an Order Granting Partial
Summary Judgment was entered on 26 September 20l3. Therefore, the following
undisputed facts were established by the Order Granting Partial Summary Judgment:

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, David Shawn Clark ("Defendant" or "Clark"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on 23 August 1997 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Clark actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Hickory,
Catawba County, North Carolina.

Page 1 of 13

4.
In or about January 2009, Clark was appointed to represent Tiffany
Turnmire ("Turnmire') in a in a juvenile abuse, neglect and dependency matter. Clark
represented Turnmire in a domestic matter involving her estranged husband, Timothy
Turnmire, in May 2009.

5.

Clark had previously represented Turnmire in 2007 in a child custody

6.
Turnmire.

During the times relevant herein, Turnmire was married to Timothy

matter.

7.
From May 2009 through July 2009 and during his representation of
Turnmire, Clark engaged in sexual relations with Turnmire.
S.
In September 2009, Turnmire's husband learned of her sexual relationship
with Clark.
9.
Turnmire's husband told Clark that he planned to file a civil action for
alienation of affection against Clark.
10. Clark's representation of Turnmire ended in December 2009 after Clark
withdrew from the representation.
11. In early January 2010, Turnmire's husband filed a civil action against Clark
for alienation of affection: Catawba County Superior Court Civil Action no. 10 CVS OS.
12. Turnmire's husband filed an affidavit signed by Tummire and dated 29
December 2009 in support of his lawsuit.
13. In this 29 December 2009 affidavit, Turnmire states that she and Clark had a
sexual relationship.
14. On or about 7 January 2010, Clark and his wife filed a verified complaint to
initiate a lawsuit against Turnmire, Catawba County Superior Court Civil Action no. 10
CVS 2S.

15. The following statements were included among the allegations that Clark
made against Tummire in his civil complaint against her:
a.

"In September or October 2009, upon information and belief,
[Turnmire], angered by Mr. Turnmire's actions with his mistress,
confronted Mr. Turnmire. During that confrontation, out of
jealousy, [Turnmire] falsely stated to Mr. Turnmire that she had a
sexual relationship with Plaintiff David Shawn Clark. By her own
admission, this false, misleading and slanderous statement was
made for the sole purpose to make Mr. Turnmire jealous and
angry."

Page 2 of13

b.

"On or about December 29,2009, [Turnmire] made and published
a false, misleading and defamatory sworn written affidavit in
which she sates she had a sexual relationship with the Plaintiff
David Shawn Clark."

c.

"[Turnmire], upon information and belief, produced or participated
in the production of fabricated e-mails between the Defendant and
Plaintiff David Shawn Clark, which contained false, misleading
and defamatory statements about Plaintiff David Shawn Clark."

d.

"[Turnmire], upon information and belief, has continued to make
and publish false, misleading and defamatory statements that she
had a sexual relationship with Plaintiff David Shawn Clark."

e.

"The Plaintiff David Shawn Clark has never had a sexual
relationship with [Turnmire]."

f.

"The statements of [Turnmire] are false, misleading, defamatory
and libelous."

g.

"On numerous occasions and times, [Turnmire] has repeatedly
stated the false allegations previously described in the false
affidavit and the fabricated emails."

16. The statements referenced in paragraphs 15a. - g. above were false. Clark
knew that these statements were false at the time that he made them.
17. The complaint filed by Clark revealed information concerning Turnmire
acquired by Clark during the attorney-client relationship, to include the following
statements:

18.

a.

"From April 15, 2008 until September 4, 2008, upon information
and belief, [Turnmire] was involuntarily committed due to Major
Depressive Disorder stemming from the constant physical abuse
she received from Mr. Turnmire."

b.

"In late 2008, upon information and belief, [Turnmire] tested
positive for cocaine."

Ultimately, Clark dismissed the lawsuit he filed against Turnmire.

19. On or about 3 March 2010, the State Bar Grievance Committee sent a letter
of notice to Clark requesting infOlmation concerning allegations of attorney misconduct.
20. In his 12 April 2010 response to the letter of notice, Clark adamantly denied
any sexual relationship with Turnmire.

Page 3 of 13

21.

Clark knew that his denial of any sexual relationship with Turnmire was

false.
22. In November 2011, Clark was indicted on criminal charges for his threats to
Turnmire and Edwards, and for his attempt to obtain Turnmire's signature on an affidavit
that contained false information.
23. On 14 September 2012, Clark entered a guilty plea on two misdemeanor
counts of communicating threats and one misdemeanor count of obstruction of justice.
FINDINGS OF FACT MADE AT HEARING
Based upon the stipulations of the parties and the evidence presented at the
hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the
following findings of fact:
24.
signature.
25.

In or about November 2009, Clark prepared an affidavit for Turnmire's

Clark met with Turnmire to obtain her signature on the affidavit.

26. The affidavit Clark prepared for Turnmire included the following false
statements:
a.
"In fact, I never had a sexual relationship with Shawn Clark.
Shawn Clark and I had an attorney-client relationship and a friend
relationship, but we never engaged in sexual relations."
b.
"I decided to not go to Florida and asked Shawn Clark to borrow
money to go to Las Vegas, Nevada. He stated he could not loan me
money. When he was in Nevada, I asked him again, and he agreed to loan
me money for a plane ticket and a hotel room. I agreed to pay him back
but I had little money at that time. He loaned me money for this trip as a
friend and nothing more. My intentions were to find some peace and read
some books."
c.
"I arrived in Las Vegas, Nevada and met with him and his friends.
There was no inappropriate activity between me and Shawn Clark or his
friends whatsoever. 1 had my own hotel room on a separate wing and
floor and 1 was treated in a respectful manner by everyone. 1 certainly did
not engage in sexual activity with anyone as 1 was menstruating at that
time."
d.
"I also believe Mr. Turnmire has fabricated e-mail messages to
fabricate a sexual relationship between me and Shawn Clark."

Page 4 of 13

27. Clark threatened Turnmire, when she indicated that she did not want to lie,
that if she did not do as he was telling her to do he would see to it that she would lose
custody of her children.
28. Clark further threatened Turnmire that if she did not do as he was telling her
to do, that he would provide information that he received as a result of the attorney-client
privilege to see that her children would be taken and kept from her by the Department of
Social Services.

29.
get ugly."

Clark told Turnmire that she "should watch [her] back because things would

30. T. J. Edwards (hereafter "Edwards") was Clark's legal assistant during
Clark's representation of Turnmire.
31.

Edwards knew about Clark's relationship with Turnmire.

32. Clark sought a promise from Edwards that she would never reveal what she
knew about the true nature of the relationship between Clark and his client, Turnmire.
33.
anyone."

Edwards told Clark that "she would not put her hand on the Bible and lie for

34. Upon hearing this statement, Clark became quite agitated towards Edwards
and advised her that she was his only "loose end."
35. Clark advised Edwards that he would not lose his family or law license over
the issues he was facing.

36. Clark threatened Edwards that if she did not do what he requested "then you
know I'm going to have to kill you?"
37. By attempting to get Edwards to deny her knowledge of Clark's sexual
relationship with Turnmire and threatening Edwards when she would not agree to falsely
deny her knowledge of this relationship, Clark attempted to suborn perjury in violation of
North Carolina criminal law.
38. By attempting to have Turnmire sign an affidavit that contained false
statements and threatening Turnmire when she indicated she did not want to lie about the
nature of Clark's relationship with her, Clark attempted to suborn perjUly in violation of
North Carolina criminal law.
39. In a 3 June 2011 response to a supplemental inquiry from the State Bar
Grievance Committee, Clark stated that he had at all times given truthful information to
the State Bar, and stated that he had never asked Turnmire or Edwards to lie for him.
40.

Clark's statements referenced in paragraph 39 above were false.

Page 5 of 13

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW ESTABLISHED BY SUMMARY JUDGMENT ORDER
1.
All parties are before this hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission and the Hearing Panel has jnrisdiction over Defendant and over the subject
matter.
2.
Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C.G.S. § 84-28(b)(I) in that he pled guilty to two counts of misdemeanor
communicating threats and one count of misdemeanor obstruction of justice, criminal
offenses showing professional unfitness.
3.
Defendant's conduct as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline
pnrsuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By having sexual relations with Turnmire dnring his representation of
her, Defendant engaged in a sexual relationship with a cnrrent client in
violation of Rule 1.19(a), and engaged in a conflict of interest by
representing a client when said representation was materially limited
by a personal interest of the lawyer in violation of Rule 1.7(a)(2);
b. By making false statements in the verified complaint he filed in
support of his civil lawsuit against Tnrnmire, Defendant made a false
statement of material fact to the tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a),
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A(c), and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d);
c. By filing a lawsuit against Tnrnmire that was based on false statements
and not based in truth, Defendant brought a frivolous proceeding that
was not based in fact in violation of Rule 3.1;
d. By revealing confidential information he obtained from Tnrnmire
dnring his representation of Tnrnmire in the verified complaint he filed
in support of his lawsuit against her, Defendant revealed information
acquired dnring the professional relationship with the client, without
the client's informed consent in violation of Rule 1.6(a);
e. By making false statements to the State Bar Grievance Committee in
response to the letter of notice, Defendant knowingly made a false
statement of material fact to a disciplinary authority in violation of
Rule 8.1(a), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and

Page 6 of 13

f.

By communicating threats to his former client and employee and
obstructing justice by preparing a false affidavit, Defendant committed
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or
fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b).
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW MADE AT HEARING

Based upon the record, the foregoing Findings of Fact (Facts Established by
Summary Judgment and Findings of Fact Made at Hearing), the Hearing Panel makes the
following conclusions of law:
4.
Defendant's conduct as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By preparing a false affidavit for his client to sign and threatening her
if she would not sign it, and threatening to kill a witness if she failed to
provide false statements in support of his legal defense, Defendant
counseled witnesses to give false testimony in violation of Rule
3.4(b), committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on his
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b),
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in conduct
that is prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4(d); and
b. By making false statements to the State Bar Grievance Committee in
response to a supplemental inquiry from the State Bar, Defendant
knowingly made a false statement of material fact to a disciplinary
authority in violation of Rule 8.1(a), and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the
evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The frivolous lawsuit Defendant filed against Turnmire was pending for
approximately one year before Defendant voluntarily dismissed the lawsuit despite the
fact that Defendant knew at its inception that the lawsuit was not based in fact.
2.
Defendant settled the frivolous lawsuit he filed against Turnmire by
paying Turnmire a sum of money.

Page 7 of13

3.
Lawyers from neighboring counties were appointed to represent Turnmire
and her ex-husband in the abuse and neglect case because no lawyer from Catawba
County would represent Turnmire after Defendant withdrew from his representation of
her.
4.
A special judge had to be brought in from out of county to preside over
Turnmire's abuse and neglect case because the judges from Defendant's judicial district
cited a conflict in presiding because of Defendant's prior involvement in the case, his
candidacy for district attorney and the allegations that Defendant had sexual relations
with Turnmire during his representation of her.

5.
The goal of Defendant's representation of Turnmire in the abuse and
neglect case was for her to maintain custody of her children.

6.
Turnmire had custody of her children when Defendant withdrew from his
representation of her in December 2009. However, after Defendant's withdrawal and
before the appointment of replacement counsel, Turnmire's children were removed from
her custody.
7.
Turnmire has never regained custody of her children. Turnmire's children
now reside with Turnmire's ex-husband.
8.
Turnmire was unable to obtain legal representation from any Catawba
County lawyer in defense of Defendant's frivolous lawsuit against her.
9.
Turnmire was a victim of domestic violence when Defendant represented
her and when he engaged in sexual relations with her. As such, she was more vulnerable
than the average client.

19. Although Defendant could have withdrawn his candidacy for district
attorney to reduce the public atteution his relationship with Turnmire received, Defendant
iustead made false denials of his affair with Turnmire to his campaign advisors and
continued to participate in the district attorney primary race.
11.
Edwards suffered stress as a result of Defendant's requests that she keep
Defendant's sexual relationship with Turnmire a secret and as a result of his threat of
harm if she would not keep his secret.
12.
The allegations of Defendant's misconduct were well known in Catawba
County and in the counties which surround Catawba County.
13.
RepOlts of Defendant's misconduct and criminal guilty plea were also
reported in the news, to include: 6 January 2010 Hickory Daily Record Article: Lawsuit
Filed Against District Attorney Candidate; 7 November 2011 Hickory Daily Record
Article: Former District Attorney Candidate Indicted on Felonies; 8 November 2011
Observer-News-Enterprise Article: Catawba Attorney Indicted; 11 November 2011

Page 8 of 13

News-Topic Article: Former DA Candidate Indicted on Extortion, Obstruction Charges;
14 September 2012 Hickory Daily Record Article: HickO/y Attorney Pleads Guilty in
Superior Court.
14.
Defendant was concerned that if he admitted to his wife that he had a
sexual relationship with Turnmire he would lose custody of his children.
15.
Defendant was sentenced to 90 days imprisonment and 50 hours of
community service for his conviction of misdemeanor communicating threats and
misdemeanor obstruction of justice. The execution of Defendant's imprisonment
sentence was suspended and Defendant was placed on 12 months supervised probation
until such time as Defendant completes the required community service and pays all costs
and fines. Defendant's supervised probation automatically converts to unsupervised
probation upon his completion of the required community service and payment of all
costs and fines.
16.
Defendant has established a reputation with the Superior Court Judges in
his judicial district for good character, veracity and professional fitness.
17.
Defendant has established a reputation among lawyers and judges in his
community for good character and veracity.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(1), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar, and concludes
that the following factors that warrant suspension or disbarment are present:

a. intent of the defendant to cause the resulting harm or potential harm;
b. intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm is foreseeable;
c. circumstances reflecting tne defendant's lack of honesty,
trustworthiness, or integrity;
d. elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of the client;
e. negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's
perception of the profession;
f.

negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of
justice;

Page 9 of 13

g. impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;
h. effect of defendant's conduct on third parties; and
i.

acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(2), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar, and concludes
that the following factors that warrant disbarment are present:
a. acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication;
b. impulsive acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication
without timely remedial efforts; and
c. commission of a felony in that the defendant attempted to suborn
perjury of Ms. Turnmire with the false affidavit.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.CA.C. 1B § .0114(w)(3), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar, and concludes
that the following are applicable in this matter:
a. lack of prior disciplinary history;
b. dishonest or selfish motive;
c. pattern of misconduct;
d. multiple offenses;
e. effect of personal problems, specifically, Defendant's concern for his
family;
f.

submission of false evidence, false statements or other deceptive
practices during the disciplinary process;

g. refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of conduct prior to the day
of the hearing;
h. remorse, expressed during Defendant's testimony before the Hearing
Panel;
i.

good character and reputation in the legal community;

Page 10 of 13

j.

vulnerability of the victims;

k. more than 15 years experience in the practice of law; and
I.

imposition of other sanctions, namely those imposed for the
misdemeanors to which Defendant pled guilty.

4.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the profession by
reinforcing the negative stereotype that lawyers are selfish and out for personal gain.

5.
Attorneys have a duty to communicate honestly with the court, each other
and the State Bar. When attorneys fail to do so, they engender distrust among fellow
lawyers and from the public, thereby harming the profession as a whole.
6.
Defendant caused significant harm to his client, Turnmire, in that she
could not find legal representation to defend herself against the frivolous lawsuit that
Defendant brought against her.

7.
Defendant caused significant harm to Turnmire in that no lawyer in
Catawba County would represent her in the abuse and neglect case.
8.
Defendant caused significant harm to Turnmire in that during the period of
time when she did not have legal representation in the abuse and neglect case she lost
custody of her children.

9.
Defendant caused potential significant harm to the administration of
justice in that Defendant has shown that he is willing to suborn perjury for his own
personal gain and professional advancement.
10.
Defendant caused potential significant harm to the administration of
justice in that he has shown that he is willing to submit a false affidavit for his own
personal gain and professional advancement.

11.
Defendant caused significant harm to the administration of justice in that
anytime a lawyer files a lawsuit based upon intentionally false statements (as Defendant
did against Turnmire) it creates the potential for judicial decision based upon fiction,
which would cause significant harm to the administration of justice.
12.
Defendant caused significant harm to the administration of justice in that
extra court resources had to be devoted to find and pay lawyers outside of Catawba
County to represent Turnmire and her ex-husband in the abuse and neglect case.
13.
Defendant caused significant harm to the administration of justice in that
witnesses who could bring the true facts to light, particularly Edwards, failed to promptly
do so out of fear caused by the threat Defendant made to her.

Page 11 of 13

14.
Defendant caused potential significant harm to the profession in the eyes
of the public in that Defendant engaged in conduct that diminishes the public's
expectation that attorneys conduct themselves professionally, adhere to the Rules of
Professional Conduct, and respect the laws they've sworn to uphold.

15.
Defendant's false statements to the State Bar's Grievance Committee
interfered with the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys and thus undelmined the
privilege of lawyers in this state to remain self-regulating.
16.
Defendant caused significant harm to Edwards by involving her in his web
of deceit and making threats of physical harm if she did not extend her cooperation with
his efforts by lying under oath in support of his frivolous lawsuit.
17.
Defendant caused potential significant hann to the public by his threats to
Turnmire and Edwards in that his conduct diminishes the ability of members of the public
to trust attorneys.
18.
The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including:
suspension, censure, reprimand and admonition and finds that discipline less than
disbarment would fail to adequately protect the public from Defendant's future
misconduct for the following reasons:
a. Defendant's demonstrated failure to respect court process and the law
poses a threat of significant potential harm to the public;
b. Defendant's dishonesty and demonstrated willingness to engage in a
course of criminal conduct and deceit to cover up his professional
misconduct;
c. Defendant's demonstrated willingness to put his personal and political
interests above the interests of his client;
d. entry of an order imposing discipline less than disbarment would fail
to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed
and would send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this state; and
e. the protection of the public and the legal profession requires that
Defendant not be permitted to return to the practice of law until he
demonstrates the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
(i) that he has refonned, (ii) that he possesses the moral qualifications
for admission to practice law in North Carolina taking into account the
misconduct that is the subject of this order, (iii) that he understands the
current Rules of Professional Conduct, and (iv) that reinstatement will
not be detrimental to the public or the integrity and standing of the
legal profession. Disbarment is the only discipline that will require

Page 12 of13

Defendant to make such a showing before returning to the practice of
law.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant, David Shawn Clark, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice

of law.
2.
Defendant shall submit his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following the date this
order is served upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall pay within thirty days of service of the statement of costs
upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar the administrative fees and costs of this
proceeding.
4.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of
the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

n~Signed 9~r_with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
/_ _ day of (;

. ~

,2013.

'iSle n . Michael, ChaIT
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Page 13 of 13

