BEFORE THE
LlNARY HEARING COMMISSION

STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
v.

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

LINDA A. CLARK, Atlomey,
Defendant

This matter was heard on August 24, 2012, before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, William M. Claytor, and Joseph
Barlow Herget. Mary D. Winstead represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, Linda A. Clark, represented herself.
Based upon the pleadings and the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel
makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintift: the NOIih Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Linda A. Clark ("Clark" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on September 12, 1997 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
Attomey at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Clark was actively engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Wilmington, New Hanover
County, NOIih Carolina.
4.
Clark was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set, and the
matter came before the Hearing Panel with due notice to the parties.
5.
During the times relevant herein, Clark had a real estate practice and also
represented clients on tax issues.

6.
During the times relevant herein, Clark's real estate practice and her personal
finances were suffering as a result of the downturn in the economy.
7.
On August 7, 2009, Defendant presented three counterfeit Albertsons
MoneyGran1s, each in the amount of $875.00 to First Federal Bank, Military Cutoff branch,
Wilmington, N.C. for which she received cash in the amount of $2,625.00.
8.
In August 2009, Clark's trust account and operating account were with First
Federal Bank.
9.
On August 10,2009, Defendant presented five counterfeit Albertsons
MoneyGrams, each in the amount of$935.00 to First Bank, Eastwood Road branch, Wilmington,
N.C. for which she received cash in the amount of $4,675.00.
10.
On August 11,2009, Defendant presented seven counterfeit Albertsons
MoneyGrams, each in the amount of $935.00 to First Bank, Eastwood Road branch, Wilmington,
N.C. for which she received cash in the an10unt of $6,545.00.
11.
On August 12,2009, Defendant presented ten counterfeit U.S. Postal Service
Money Orders at the drive-thru at First Federal Bank, Pine Valley branch, Wilmington, N.C. and
attempted to cash the money orders.
12.
The teller at the drive-thru infOlmed Ms. Clark that the bank could not handle the
transaction at the drive-thru and asked Ms. Clark to come into the banlc
13.

Inside the bank, another teller examined the money orders.

14.
The teller consulted with another banlc employee at her window and that
employee suggested that the teller speak with the branch manager about the money orders.
15.
The teller told Ms. Clark that she was going to speak with her manager, left her
teller window, and went into the manager's otnce.
16.
The teller spoke with the branch manager who advised her that the money orders
could not be cashed but could be deposited in Ms. Clark's account at the bank.
17.
The teller returned to her window and informed Ms. Clark that the manager said
that the banlc could not cash the money orders because the bank had so many problems with
fraudulent money orders.
18.
The teller offered Defendant the option of depositing the money orders into her
bank account.
19.
orders.

Defendant declined to deposit the money orders and left the bank with the money

20.
Defendant has consistently maintained throughout the disciplinary process that
the banle employees would not cash the money orders because they did not know her.
21.
The branch manager at the Pine Valley branch had previously worked at the
Military Cutoff branch and did, in fact, recognize Ms. Clark from that branch and knew that she
was an attorney.
22.
At no time did anyone at the bank tell Ms. Clark that the bank could not cash the
money orders because they did not know her.
23.
The Pine Valley Branch was over seven miles from Defendant's office where she
claimed to have received a Fed Ex envelope containing the money orders yet she failed to
definitively explain why she went there rather than to a bank closer to her office.
23.
Later on August 12,2009, Defendant presented the ten counterfeit U.S. Postal
Service Money Orders that First Federal Bank had declined to cash to First Bank, Eastwood
Road branch, Wilmington, N.C., cashed these money orders, and received $9,902.00.
24.
Ms. Clark was aware that the aggregate amount of the money orders she cashed
on August 12, 2009 was just under $10,000 and that a transaction involving over $10,000 in cash
must be reported to the IRS.
25.
On August 13,2009, Defendant presented ten counterfeit Albertsons
MoneyGrams each in the amount of $935.00 to First Federal Bank, Military Cutoff branch,
Wilmington, N. C. and deposited these MoneyGrams into her operating account.
26.
Defendant was charged with Obtaining Property by False Pretenses as a result of
these transactions with the money orders, entered a defelTed prosecution program, and made full
restitution to the banles.
27.
Defendant knew or reasonably should have known that the money orders she
negotiated were counterfeit.
28.
In an interview with the State Bar, Defendant maintained that she had not derived
any financial benefit from the proceeds of the money orders.
29.
In her deposition on July 12,2012, Defendant testified that she had received ten
per cent of the proceeds from each transaction.
30.
In an interview with the State Bar, Defendant asserted that she had received the
money orders at her office via Federal Express from a client who had contacted her bye-mail
after seeing her law filTl1 website.
31.
Defendant further maintained that at the purported client's behest, she had cashed
the money orders and sent the proceeds via Western Union to the client's business partner in
England.

32.
Defendant did not produce to the State Bar or the Hearing Panel any e-mails,
Western Union receipts, telephone records, Federal Express envelopes, or any document
whatsoever to con-oborate her story about how she came into possession of the counterfeit
money orders or that she wired the money to England.
33.
Defendant failed to provide the State Bar or the Hearing Panel with the full name
and contact information for the individual from whom she claimed to have received the
counterfeit money orders or the individual to whom she claimed to have wired the cash from the
money orders.
34.
In June 2008, Defendant was the settlement agent in a real estate transaction in
which H.C. Ledbetter was the seller.
35.
Defendant prepared the deed for the seller and represented both buyer and seller
in the closing.
36.
At the closing, Defendant escrowed for possible repairs $100.00 from the funds
due Mr. Ledbetter.
37.
$100.00.

In August, Mr. Ledbetter began trying to contact Defendant to request the

38.
On or about January 8, 2009, Defendant remitted to Mr. Ledbetter a check for
$40.00 and retained $60.00 as an administrative charge for maintaining the funds in escrow.
39.
With the check was a handwritten notation which stated "$100.00 escrow on June
2008 less acct. fees $10.00 per month or $40.00."
40.
Although Defendant claimed otherwise, she had not told Mr. Ledbetter prior to
the closing that there would be an administrative fee for holding the funds in escrow.
41.
In a letter to the local bar grievance committee, dated March 20, 2009, which was
well after she had disbursed the funds from escrow, Defendant stated that she had contacted the
buyers' real estate agent, but he had not "gotten back" to her.
42.
Defendant did not have approval to disburse the escrowed funds from the buyers
or their real estate agent prior to making the disbursement to Mr. Ledbetter.
43.
Mr. Ledbetter's experience in dealing with Defendant left him with a negative
view of attorneys and the legal profession.
Based on the record and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
All parties are before this Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
and the Hearing Panel has jurisdiction over Defendant and over the subject matter.
I.

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant
to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

Defendant, by presenting for payment and cashing counterfeit money orders,
committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on her honesty, trustworthiness, or
fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b), and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4( c).

(b)

Defendant, by presenting for payment and depositing into her ban1( account
counterfeit MoneyGrams, conmlitted criminal acts that reflect adversely on her
honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of
Rule 8.4(b), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

(c)

Defendant, by charging and collecting an administrative fee of $1 a per month for
escrowing $100, charged and collected a clearly excessive fee in violation of Rule
1.5(a).

(d)

Defendant, by failing to inform Mr. Ledbetter about the administrative fee on
escrowed funds, failed to, before or within a reasonable time after commencing
the representation, inform the client of the expenses for which he would be
responsible, in violation of Rule I.S(b).

(e)

Defendant, by disbursing escrowed funds without the agreement of both buyer
and seller, violated her fiduciary duty as escrow agent in violation of Rule 1.15-2.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the evidence
presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant committed multiple criminal acts of dishonesty.

2.

Defendant violated her fiduciary duty to her client.

3.
process.

Defendant made contradictory and false statements during the disciplinary

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§ .0114(w)(l), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes that the following
factors that warrant disbarment are present:
(A)

Intent of Defendant to cause the resulting or potential harm

(C)

Circumstances reflecting the Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness,
or integrity;

(D)

Elevation of Defendant's own interest above that of the client;

(E)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
of the profession;

(H)

Effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties; and

(I)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

The remaining factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(l) are not applicable.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
I B § .0 I 14(w)(2), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes that that the
following factors indicating that disbarment should be considered, are present:
?

(A)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication: and

(C)

Misappropriation or conversion of assets of any kind to which Defendant
is not entitled.

The remaining factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(2) are not applicable.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .0114(w)(3), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes that the following
factors are applicable in this matter:
(A)

Absence of prior disciplinary offense;

(B)

Dishonest or selfish motive;

(C)

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution to the bank;

(E)

Indifference to making restitution to Mr. Ledbetter;

(F)

A pattern of misconduct;

(0)

Multiple offenses;

(N)

Submission of false statements during the disciplinary process;

(0)

Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct; and

(U)

Imposition of other penalties or sanctions.

The remaining factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .Ol14(w)(3) are not applicable.
4.
Defendant, by committing multiple acts of dishonesty and being untruthful during
the grievance process, has demonstrated that she does not possess the character necessary to
practice law.
5.
Self·regulation of the legal profession depends on its members' honesty and full
disclosure during the disciplinary process. The State Bar's ability to regulate its members is
undermined when attol11eys are untruthful during the process as was this Defendant.
6.
Defendant's conduct in disbursing escrowed funds without the consent ofthe
buyers caused potential significant hann to her clients and potential significant harm to the
public.
7.
Defendant's conduct in charging Mr. Ledbetter an excessive fee, failing to infol111
him of the fee prior to closing, and failing to secure the buyers' consent for the escrowed nmds
to be disbursed caused significant harm to the legal profession by undermining her client's trust
and confidence in lawyers and the legal system.
8.
Defendant's dishonest conduct in negotiating the counterfeit money orders caused
significant ha11n to the legal profession.
9.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser altel11atives and finds that suspension,
censure, reprimand, or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the harm to the
profession and the public caused by Defendant's conduct.
10.
The Hearing Panel finds disbannent is the only appropriate discipline in this case
for the following reasons:
a) The factors under Rule .OI14(w) that are established by the evidence in this case are
of a nature that supports imposition of disbannent as the appropriate discipline.
b) Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than disbannent would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Clark, would not
adequately protect the public, and would send the wrong message to attol11eys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the North Carolina State Bar;

c) A primary purpose of discipline is to protect the public. Throughout the disciplinary
process, Clark has attempted to shift blame to the bank rather than acknowledge her
own misdeeds. Her failure to acknowledge her own wrongful conduct significantly
contributes to the conclusion tlmt only disbamlent will adequately protect the public;
and
d) The protection of the public and the legal profession require that Clark not be
pennitted to resume the practice oflaw until she demonstrates tile following: that she
understands her obligations to her clients, the public, and the legal profession, and
that permitting her to practice law will not be detrimental to the public or the integrity
and standing of the legal profession. Disbarment is the only discipline available that
makes such a showing a prerequisite to reinstatement.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel
hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Linda A. Clark, is hereby DISBARRED effective thirty (30) days
from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon her.
2.
Defendant shall submit her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0 I 24(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State
Bar within 10 days of tile effective date ofthis order, certifying she has complied with the wind
down rule.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and the costs of this action. As
allowed by statute, these costs include the depositions costs, which are found to be reasonable
and necessary expenses in this case. Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs within
thirty days of service of the statement of administrative fees and costs upon her.
Signed by the Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other Hearing Panel
members, this the tI P- day of. ~efltember, 2012.

@etcher

~

11}

~ tJ 1"-1~\/

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

