BEFORE THE
HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
,.,,~iiG-u CAROLINA STATE BAR

STATE OF NORTH LAKULI
WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER

THOMAS H. CLEMENTS, Attorney,
Defendant
Defendant, Thomas H. Clements ("Clements" or "Defendant"), was ordered to
appear and show cause why the stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of
Discipline entered in this case on 21 November 20 II should not be lifted and the
suspension activated. This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Joshua W. Willey, Jr., and
Patti Head pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 18 ยง .0114(x). Plaintiff, the North Carolina
State Bar ("State Bar" or "Plaintifr') was represented by Brian P.D. Oten. Defendant
was represented by Bryce D. Neier. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter
and both parties stipulate and consent to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this order and to the disposition imposed. By consenting to the entry of this
order, Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way
the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the pleadings and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
finds by the greater weight of the evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. On 6 February 2013, an Order of Discipline (hereinafter "the Order") was
entered in this matter. The Order was served on Defendant on the same day.

2. At the time the Order was entered, Defendant was administratively
suspended from the practice of law in North Carolina. Defendant was reinstated to active
status with the North Carolina State Bar on 6 February 2013.
3. The Order imposed a two-year suspension, stayed for two years, on
Defendant's license to practice law in this State. The stay ofthe suspension was
conditioned upon Defendant'S compliance with the conditions stated in the Order.

4. The Order, at paragraph I(a) on page 5, required Defendant to contact and
infonn all clients whose matters were pending or unresolved at the time Clements was
administratively suspended of the reason for his abandonment of his practice and required
Defendant to take all steps necessary to resume and diligently pursue the representations
within 45 days of being reinstated to active status with the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant failed to comply with this condition by failing to contact all clients as required
by the Order, and by failing to take all steps necessary to promptly and diligently pursue
all pending representations as required by the Order.
5. The Order, at paragraph l(k), required Defendant to participate fully and
timely in the fee dispute program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed
fees. Defendant failed to comply with this condition by failing to respond to the
following fee disputes:
a. Defendant was served with a Notice of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution
in fee dispute file no. 12FD0598 on 30 January 2013. Upon Defendant's
request, Defendant's deadline to respond to the fee dispute was extended
to 15 March 2013. Defendant did not respond to the notice offee dispute
in 12FD0598 as required;
b. Defendant was served with a Notice of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution
in fee dispute file no. 12FD0604 on 30 January 2013. Upon Defendant's
request, Defendant's deadline to respond to the fee dispute was extended
to IS March 2013. Defendant did not respond to the notice offee dispute
in 12FD0604 as required;
c. Defendant was served with a Notice of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution
in fee dispute file no. 12FD0607 on 30 January 2013. Upon Defendant's
request, Defendant's deadline to respond to the fee dispute was extended
to 15 March 2013. Defendant did not respond to the notice of fee dispute
in 12FD0607 as required;
d. Defendant was served with a Notice of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution
in fee dispute file no. 13FD0053 on 12 February 2013. Defendant did not
respond to the notice of fee dispute in 13FD0053 as required; and
e. Defendant was served with a Notice of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution
in fee dispute file no. 13FD0067 on 26 February 2013. Defendant did not
respond to the notice of fee dispute in 13FD0067 as required.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Thomas H. Clements, and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.

2

2.
Clements failed to comply with the following conditions of the stay of his
suspension contained in the Order of Discipline:
a. That within forty-five (45) days of being reinstated to active status with
the North Carolina State Bar, Defendant contact and inform all clients
whose legal matters were pending or unresolved at the time Clements was
administratively suspended of the reason for his abandonment of his
pmctice and take all steps necessary to resume and diligently pursue the
representations as required by paragraph 1(a) of the Order of Discipline;
and
b. That Defendant fully and timely participate in the fee dispute program
when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees as required
by paragraph I(k) of the Order of Discipline.
3.
Such violations warrant activation of the suspension imposed by the Order
of Discipline and warrant imposition of conditions upon Clements' reinstatement at the
end of the period of active suspension is over.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER
I.
The stay of Defendant's two-year suspension is lifted and the suspension
is activated. Pursuant to Rule .0124(c) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules, this order and the two-year suspension imposed herein are effective 30
days after service of this order upon Defendant.

2.
All costs and administrative fees of this action are taxed to Defendant.
Defendant must pay the costs of this action within 120 days of service upon him of the
statement of costs by the Secretary.
3.
Clements shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the date that this Order is
served upon him. Clements shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB ยง .0124.
4.
At the end of the two-year active period of suspension, Clements may
apply for reinstatement by filing a petition with the DHC in accordance with the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and by showing by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that she has complied with the following conditions for
reinstatement:
(a)

That he has complied with the general provisions for reinstatement listed
in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B ยง .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules;
3

(b)

That he refunded all paid legal fees to any client who is entitled to a
refund of paid legal fees - in part or in whole as the representation
warranted - within 120 days of the effective date of this order.
Defendant must also show that he delivered his client file(s) to all clients
who request their file within 30 days of the effective date of this order;

(c)

That, within 90 days prior to filing his petition for reinstatement, he has
been evaluated by a licensed and qualified psychiatrist or psychologist
who certifies under oath, based on his or her independent and
comprehensive evaluation of Defendant, that in his or her professional
opinion Defendant does not currently have any mental, psychological,
behavioral, cognitive, or emotional condition or disorder that impairs
Defendant's ability to practice law, that impacts Defendant's ability or
willingness to comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct, andlor
that poses a risk of harm to the public if he engages in the practice of
law. Such psychiatrist/psychologist shall be approved in advance by the
North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel. Defendant shall sign an
authorization fonn consenting to the release of all medical records and
information related to Defendant's evaluation to the Office of Counsel,
and Defendant will not revoke that release.
Defendant shall
simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the Office
of Counsel and the psychiatrist/psychologist. Defendant shall direct the
evaluating psychiatrist/psychologist described herein to provide a
written report of such evaluation and recommended treatment, if any, to
the Office of Counsel within thirty (30) days of the evaluatipn taking
place. All eKpenses of such evaluation and report shall be borne by
Defendant;

(d)

That he has complied with all treatment recommendations of the
evaluating psychiatrist/psychologist described in paragraph (c) above.
Defendant shall sign an authorization form consenting to the release of
any medical records and information related to Defendant's treatment to
the Office of Counsel, and Defendant will not revoke that release, and
Defendant shall simultaneously provide a copy of such signed
authorization to the Office of Counsel and his treatment provider.
Defendant shall direct his treatment provider to provide the Office of
Counsel with a written report detailing Defendant's treatment plan and
Defendant's compliance or lack of compliance with such plan. All
eKpenses of such treatment and reports shall be borne by Defendant;

(e)

That he has paid all outstanding membership dues and Client Security
Fund assessments and that there is no deficit in his fulfillment of any
obligation of membership;

(I)

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical home and business addresses and
telephone numbers, and that he has accepted all certified mail from the
4

North Carolina State Bar and responded to all letters of notice and
requests for information from the North Carolina State Bar by the
deadlines stated in the communication or within fifteen (IS) days of
receipt of such communication, whichever is later;
(g)

That he has not violated any state or federal laws or any provisions of
the Rules of Professional Conduct; and

(h)

That he has paid all costs and administrative fees associated with this
case as assessed by the Secretary.

,,:;,.J Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

~ day

of August, 2013.

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

Brian P.D. Oten
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Thomas H. Clements
Defendant

~ t)'~1
BI;ICCJiie(

Counsel for Defendant

5

'
"'l~ 11 '" }.i)I 5

