BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0760878

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Benjamin F. Clifton,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

1
1
1
1
1

CENSURE

On Jailuaiy 14, 201 0, the Grievance Committee of the Noi-tll Caroliila State Bar met and
coilsidered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to sectioil .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Caroliila State
Bar, tlze Grievailce Coininittee coilducted a preliininary llearing. After coilsideri~lgthe informati011
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolii~aState Bar is guilty of misconduct justifyiilg discipliilaiy action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee inay
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplina~yHearing Coinmissioil are
not required a i d the Grievance Committee inay issue various levels of discipline depe~ldingupon the
inisconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or ~nitigatingfactors. The
Grievance Coininittee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A cellsure is a written form of disciplii~einore serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attomey has violated one or inore provisions of the Rules of Professional Coilduct and has caused
sigilificailt harin or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attoriley's license.
The Grievance Coininittee believes that a Ilearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Coininissioil
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairinail of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
For inany years, you frequently co~lductedreal estate closings for Cai-tus Fi~lailcialCorporation
("Cai-t~s"),a relocatioil coinpany which acquires properties froin employees of certain coinpallies and the11
resells them. Your representation of buyers and lenders in transactions where Cartus was the seller inay
have been materially liinited by your respo~lsibilitiesto Cai-tus and by your personal interest in Cai-tus's
co~ltiiluedbusiness. Althougl~this type of conflict inay be consented to after fill1 disclosure, your practice
was to disclose your relationsl~ipwith Cai-tus to the other pai-ties on the day of closing, which did not
provide buyers and leilders a meaningful opportunity to decide wl~etherthey wished to coilsent to the
conflict. By failing to tiinely explain this coilflict of interest to tlle affected clieilts, you violated Rule
1.7(a).

You closed several types of transactions for Cai-tus, iilcluding "one deed" and "two deed"
closings. In a "one deed closing," Castus acted merely as a brolter, in that only one deed (from the
original seller to the ultiinate buyer) was prepared and filed. In at least some of the "one deed closings"
you conducted for Cai-tus, you allowed Mississippi attorney Fred Ross, who is employed by a Cai-tus
subsidiaiy, to prepare the deed between two private pa-ties in a Noi-th Carolii~atransaction. I11 so doing,
you assisted in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(d)
A "two deed closing" was esseiltially ail A-B-C trailsaction in which the original owner was
"A," Cartus was "B"-the middlemail, and the ultimate buyer was "C." You routiilely performed a
"one owner" title exainination for Ca-tus in connection with the A-B transactioi~in wllicl~it acq~lired
the property. When Cai-tus sold the property (the B-C transaction), you received a $250 title fee from
Cai-tus for the "one owner" search you perforined on Cai-tus's behalf in coilllection with the A-B
transaction. Your earlier title work was not directly related to the B-C transaction, and the settle~nent
agent for the B-C transactioii received a separate fee for perforiniilg the title work ilecessary to that
transaction. RESPA regulatioils prohibit fees for services that were not rendered in connection with the
trailsaction at issue.
In closiilgs you coizducted for Cai-tus, you coinpleted the HUD-1 Settleinent Statement ("HUD1") and disbursed funds in accordailce with ii~structioilsprovided to you by Cai?us. Cai-t~ls's
instructions provided that a variety of "fees" to Cai-tus and its various subsidiaries had to be itemized on
t l ~ eHUD-1. The instructions also provided that all of these identified "fees" had to be disbursed to
another Cai-tus subsidiary wl~icllwas not identified on the HUD-1. It was misleading to combine
multiple disburseinents showll on the HUD-1 and direct tllein to a11 entity that was not identified on the
HUD-1. By followiilg Cai-tus's instructions on I-IUD-1 completion and disburseinent regardless of
whether the resulting HUD-1 was accurate or coinpliailt with RESPA, you allowed a third party to
direct your professional judginent in violation of Rule 5.4(d).
In some or all of the trailsactioils involving Cai-tus, you represented the inoi-tgage lenders. The
lenders relied oil you for accurate inforination. By coinpletiilg HUD-1s per Cartus's instructions, rather
than as a completely accurate reflection of receipts and disbursements, you laclted diligence in
representiilg the lenders, in violation of Rule 1.3. By preparing HUD-1 s that did not accurately reflect the
disbursement of some filnds froin t l ~ etransaction, you engaged in conduct involving inisrepreseiitation in
violatioil of Rule 8.4(c).
Finally, although Cai-tus and its realtors recoininended you as closing attorney, in some illstances
the buyer hired his or her ow11 attorney. In those trai~sactions,you received $150.00 for "s~~pervising
the
closing," which included providing deeds to the closing lawyer and "malting sure the closing lawyer
follow[ed] Cai-tus's ii~structions"regarding preparation of the HUD- 1 and disbursements. By requestiilg
that closing lawyers hired by buyers disburse closing h l d s consistent with Cai-tus's instructioils but
iilconsisteilt with some of the recipients listed on the I-IUD- 1, you induced or attempted to induce other
lawyers to violate the Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 8.4(a).
You are hereby censured by the Nost11 Caroliila State Bar for your violatioil of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Coinmittee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
induceinei~tfor you to weigh carefu~llyin the f~ttureyour respoilsibility to the public, your clients, you~r
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you deineail yourself as a respected ineinber of the legal
professioil whose coilduct inay be relied ~lponwitl~outquestion.

In accordailce with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the Nol-th Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the adillinistrative and investigative costs to ally attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Coinmittee, the costs of this action in the ainount of $100.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this 7"' day of

Jallluary , 2 0 11.
I

i

-

if

'<:--A

,
%

u -C..J,

,

C6

I

4

,,/--

w / &-hi-I

Ronald G. Balter, Sr., Chair
Grievance Comlllittee
The North Carolina State Bar

