" "?>
" v

,""to,"

; ')'

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

~

It 5 6 1,
6'
t11

~,!)

i?

~

'41' ;J

_.->,

<:olCl ~~' BEFORE THE
A'ts~lScipL RY HEARING COMMISSION
',~
UHf;}~.
OF THE
,r~
NOIttiVCAROLINA STATE BAR
~~y 12 DHC 22R

ftJ
1'8

f'V

IN THE MATIER OF

)
)

Petition for Reinstatement of
TRACEY E. CLINE, Attorney

)
ORDER DENYING
) MOTION TO REINSTATE LICENSE
)

THIS MATIER came on to be heard on April 6, 2018 before a Hearing Panel
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, David W. Long and Randy A. Moreau on
Petitioner's Motion to Reinstate License filed on December 20, 2017. Margaret Cloutier
represented the North Carolina State Bar. Petitioner Tracey E. Cline appeared pro se.
Based on the record and on the events at the hearing, the Hearing Panel makes the
following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. In an Order of Discipline filed June 22,2015, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission suspended Cline from the practice oflaw for five years effective
thirty days from the date of service of the Order upon her. Cline was served with the
Order on July 20,2015 and the effective date of the Order is August 19,2015.
2. The Order provides that Cline may apply for a stay of any remaining period of
suspension after serving two years of the active suspension and upon compliance with
conditions set forth in the Order.
3. Cline bears the burden of proving satisfaction ofatl conditions for a stay by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence.
4. On December 20,2017, Cline filed a Motion to Reinstate License requesting that
her license to practice law be reinstated.
5. At the outset of the hearing, the State Bar moved for dismissal, asserting that the
Motion to Reinstate License does not identify each condition for stay and state how Cline
has met each condition nor does it have attached supporting documentation
demonstrating compliance with 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0118(c) and §.0129(b) [formerly Rule
.0125(b)] and paragraph 8 of the Order of Discipline. The Panel reserved ruling on the
Slate Bar's motion until after the presentation of evidence.

6. Paragraph 8 of the June 2015 Order of Discipline provides that Cline must file a
verified petition to apply for a stay of her suspension. Cline's December 20,2017 motion
was not verified and provided no supporting documentation.
7. Paragraph 5 of the June 2015 Order of Discipline provides that Cline must
provide the State Bar with correct street and mailing addresses within fifteen days of the
date of the Order. Paragraph 8(b) provides that Cline must keep the State Bar advised of
her current home street address and notify the Bar of any change in address within ten
days of such change. Although she notified the Clerk of her current address on
September 6,2017 after the Clerk's inquiry and presented at the hearing a copy of her
driver's license to demonstrate her current address, Cline did not timely provide the State
Bar with correct street and mailing addresses.
8. Paragraph 8(c) of the June 2015 Order of Discipline provides that Cline must
accept all certified mail sent to her by the State Bar. The Clerk of the DHC attempted to
send certified mail to Cline but on at least two occasions the certified mail was returned
to the Clerk as unclaimed or undeliverable. While Cline testified that the mailing address
used by the Clerk was correct at the time of the mailings, she had been staying
periodically in another location and did not receive notice of the certified mailings. Cline
made no efforts to notify the State Bar of where she could be reached during these times
or to check for mail at her mailing address.
9. Paragraph 8(e) of the June 2015 Order of Discipline provides that Cline must
properly wind down her law practice and comply with the requirements of Rule .0124
(now Rule .0128) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar
to the extent applicable. Paragraph 4 of the Order specifies that Cline shall file an
affidavit as required by Rule .0128. While Cline had no practice to wind down at the
time of her suspension, she did not comply with the provisions of Paragraph 4 of the
order and of Rule .0128 to file an affidavit showing that she fully complied with the
provisions of the order and other jurisdictions to which she is admitted, and to set forth
the residence or other address to which communication may thereafter be directed.
10. Paragraphs 6 and 8(t) of the June 2015 Order of Discipline provide that Cline
shall pay the costs and administrative fees ofthe prior proceeding within sixty days ofthe
statement of costs being served on her. Cline failed to sign for the certified mail the
Clerk initially sent to her in March 2016, but received the statement of costs in an email
sent by the Clerk in May 2016. Cline did not pay the costs until the day of this hearing.
11. Rule .01 29(b)(3)(I) of the Discipline and Disability Rules provides that Cline
must complete 15 hours of CLE, of which three hours must be for professional
responsibility, in the year before being reinstated. Cline presented evidence to show that
she took seven hours ofCLE in October 2017 and six hours of on-line CLE in February
2018. Only two of those hours appear to satisfy the professional responsibility
requirement. The CLE hours as presented by Cline total t 3 -- two hours short of the 15hour requirement.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following

2

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Hearing Panel has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Tracey E. Cline, and over
the subject matter.
2. Cline has not presented clear, cogent and convincing evidence that she has
timely complied with the requirements of the June 2015 Order of Discipline and 27
N.C.A.C. ]B §.0129(b) [fonnerly Rule .0125(b»).
3. Cline is not entitled to a stay of the suspension at this time.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel enters the following
ORDER
I. The State Bar's motion to dismiss is denied.
2. Cline's Motion to Reinstate License is hereby DENIED.
3. Cline is taxed with costs and administrative fees for this hearing. Cline shall
pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding within sixty days of service of the
statement of costs upon her.
..,. Signed by the Chair with the knowledge and consent of the Panel members, this
day of May, 2018.

11

~
Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

3

