\s

~ \017 IBIS,

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

0'~

i;)

~~ A
m.

~

lO

IN THE MATTER OF

,~,> BEFORE THE
~j::1fL~luy HEARING COMMISSION
20;." '~.j'

OF THE
NOfi'TH
ROLINA STATE BAR
O..yOI7~ 8 and 12DHC22
"'.

~

C~-

'.!.F~~f
)

Petition for Reinstatement of
TRACEY E. CLINE, Attorney

)
ORDER DENYING
) MOTION TO REINSTATE LICENSE
)

THIS MATIER came on to be heard before a Hearing Panel composed of Fred
M. Morelock, Chair, David W. Long and Randy A. Moreau on Defendant's Motion to
Reinstate License filed on August 31,2017. Margaret Cloutier represented the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant Tracey E. Cline filed the motion pro se but did not appear
at the hearing. The hearing was scheduled to begin at 9:00 a.m. this day. The Chair
waited until 9:35 a.m. to convene the hearing.
Based on the record and on the events at the hearing, the Hearing Panel makes the
following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. In an Order of Discipline filed June 22, 2015, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission suspended Cline from the practice oflaw for five years effective
thirty days from entry of the Order. Cline was served with the Order on July 20, 2015
and the effective date of the Order was August 19,2015.
2. The Order provides that Cline may apply for a stay of any remaining period of
suspension after serving two years of the active suspension and upon compliance with
conditions set forth in the Order.
3. Cline bears the burden of proving satisfaction of all conditions for a stay by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence.
4. On August 31, 2017, Cline filed a Motion to Reinstate License requesting that her
license to practice law be reinstated.
5. The Motion to Reinstate License does not contain clear, cogent and convincing
evidence that Cline has satisfied all conditions for a stay required by 27 N.C.A.C. IB
ยง.0118(c) and ยง.0129(b) [formerly Rule .0125(b)] and paragraph 8 ofthe Order of
Discipline.

6. The Clerk provided notice of this hearing date by U. S. Mail addressed to Cline at
the address on record with the State Bar, which was returned marked "Attempted - Not
Known." The Clerk subsequently emailed notice of this hearing to Cline, who
acknowledged receipt of the email.
7. Cline did not notify the Disciplinary Hearing Commission that she could not or
would not attend the hearing.
8. Cline did not attend the hearing and presented no evidence in support of her
Motion to Reinstate License.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. The Hearing Panel has jurisdiction over Defendant, Tracey E. Cline, and over
the subject matter.
2. Cline has not presented clear, cogent and convincing evidence that she is
entitled to a stay of the suspension as required by 27 N.C.A.C. IB ยง.0118(c) and
ยง.0129(b) [fonnerly Rule .01 25(b)] and by paragraph 8 of the Order ofDiscipline.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel enters the following
.
ORDER
1. Cline's Motion to Reinstate License is hereby DENIED.

2. Cline is taxed with costs and administrative fees for this hearing. Cline shall
pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding within sixty days of service ofthe
statement of costs upon her.

~

~igned

by the Chair with the knowledge and consent of the Panel members, this
day of December, 2017.
.

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

2

