EFORETHE
HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
='''!<ll'-.OLINA STATE BAR
12 DHC 22

WAKE COUNTY

ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

Plaintiff
v.

TRACEY E. CLINE. Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was heard by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission duly
appointed and composed of the Chair, Steven D. Michael, and panel members Ronald R. Davis
and Karen B. Ray. Katherine E. Jean and Margaret Cloutier represented Plaintiff. Defendant
appeared pro se. On February 17. 2015, the Hearing Panel granted partial summary judgment in
favor of the State Bar concluding as a matter of law that Defendant violated Rules 3.1, 3.3(a)(1),
8A( e), 8.4(d) and Rule 8.2(a) of the Rules of Professional Conduct as alleged in paragraphs 3, 4
and 5 on pages 9 and 10 of the State Bar's Complaint. Based on the Hearing Panel's summary
judgment order, the sole issues remaining for determination are whether Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as alleged in paragraphs 1 and 2 on page 9 ofthe complaint and
what, if any, discipline is appropriate. Those matters came on for hearing on June 4 and 5, 2015.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before the Hearing Panel with
due notice to all parties.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Based upon the pleadings and the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FACTS ESTABLISHED AT THE HEARING
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Tracey E. Cline, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 18
August 1989, and is, and was at all times refelTed to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, and the Rules of Professional Conduct.

1

3.
During all times relevant to tllis complaint, Cline was actively engaged in the
practice oflaw in the State ofNOlth Carolina and was District Attorney for the 14th
Prosecutorial District in Durham County, North Carolina.
4.
In or around 16 September 2011, D.P. Brown, an investigator employed by the
Durham Police Department and assigned to the District Attorney's Office for the 14th
Prosecutorial District, acting under the direction and supervision of Cline, sought to obtain
prison visitation records from prison authorities for inmates David Yearwood, Angel Richardson
and Keith Kidwell.
5.
Brown submitted to prison authorities written requests for each inmate's prison
visitation records.

6.

Brown's written requests contained the following representations:
(a) "l'm investigating a post conviction Motion for Appropriate [Relief] in
that the defendant ... is seeking to attack the jury verdict and the
sentence entered by the trial court judge."
(b) "This [sic] visitation lists are needed to make sure he's in compliauce
with the pre-approved visitors."
(c) "Please note that this infonnation is confidential and part of an on-going
investigation." (emphasis omitted)
.

7.

Cline authorized or instructed Brown to make these representations.

8.
At the time Brown made these representations, Cline knew, or should have
known, that none of the inmates identified by Brown had a pending motion for appropriate relief.
9.
At the time Brown made these representations, Cline knew, or should have
known, that compliance or noncompliance by Yearwood, Richardson and Kidwell with any
visitation policy was not relevant to any current or anticipated legal issues relating to any of
these inmates' cases.
.

10.
On 6 October 2011, Cline filed in the Superior Court of Durham County three
documents, each entitled "Motion for Production of Visitation Records," in the cases ·of State v.
David Yearwood, Durham County file no. 99 CRS 065460; State v. Keith Kidwell, Durham
County file no. 05 CRS 44342 and State v. Angel Richardson, Durham County file no. 06 CRS
59344.
II.
In the motions Cline represented to the court that each imnate "is seeking to attack
the jury verdict and the sentence entered by the trial court judge" and that the information sought
"is pertinent to the investigation of the Motion for Appropriate Relief the above-named
defendant has filed."

2

12.

As of 6 October 2011, only Yearwood had pending a motion for appropriate

relief.
13.
Inmate visitation records were not relevant to the issues raised in Yearwood's
motion for appropriate relief.
14.
As of 6 October 2011, Kidwell's and Richardson's criminal convictions were on
appeal to the Court of Appeals and, therefore, the Superior Court had no jurisdiction to enter
orders in those inmates' cases.
15.
Cline's representations to the court regarding Kidwell and Richardson that the
inmates were "seeking to attack the jury verdict and the sentence entered by the trial court judge"
were misleading.
16.
At the time she represented to the court that Kidwell and Richardson were
"seeking to attack the jury verdict and the sentence entered by the trial court judge," Cline knew
that the representations were misleading.
17.
Cline's representations to the court that the visitation records were peJiinent to
investigations of motions for appropriate relief were false and misleading.
18. . At the time she represented to the court that the visitation records were pertinent
to investigations of motions for appropriate relief, Cline knew that the representations were false
and misleading.
19.
In each inmate's case, Cline requested her staff to prepare and included with the
motions to the court a proposed order granting the relief sought.
20.
The Honorable James Hardin, Superior Court Judge, signed Cline's proposed
orders on 7 October 2011.
21.
Cline did not provide copies of the motions or orders to Yearwood, Kidwell,
Richardson or their lawyers, and did not give them notice.
22.
Cline's communications to the court in the motions and in obtaining the judge's
signature on the orders regarding the three inmates were improper ex parte communications with
the court.
23.
By filing the Motions for Production of Visitation Records and by obtaining from
the court orders allowing those motions regarding the three imnates, Cline attempted to use her
position as District Attorney to obtain confidential information to which she was not entitled and
which she intended to use for an improper purpose.
The Hearing Panel's Order of Partial Summary Judgment entered February 17, 2015
established the following:

3

FACTS ESTABLISHED BY SUMMARY JUDGMENT
24.
During 2010 and 2011, Cline became concerned about rulings and actions of
Senior Resident Superior Court Judge Orlando F. Hudson, Jr.
Cline filed a complaint against Judge Orlando F. Hudson, Jr: with the North
25.
Carolina Judicial Standards Commission.
26.
Instead of waiting for any investigation and action by the Judicial Standards
Commission, Cline made repeated statements about the honesty, integrity and fairness of Judge
Hudson.
27.
On 17 November 2011, in State v. Dorman, Durham County file no. 10 CRS
7851, Cline filed in the Durham County Superior Court a document entitled "Conflict of Interest
Between the State alld This Honorable Court" that contained the following statements about
Judge Hudson:
The District Attorney alleges, based on personal knowledge that this Honorable
Court's misconduct involves more than an error of judgment or a mere lack of
diligence; this Court's actions encompasses [sic] conduct involving moral
turpitude, dishonesty and corruption.
Cline's statement that Judge Hudson is conupt is false. Cline made this statement
28.
knowing it was false or with reckless disregard as to whether the statement was true or false.
29.
Cline's 17 November 2011 document entitled "Conflict of Interest Between the
State and This Honorable Court" also contained the following statements about Judge Hudson:
(a) To·design a distorted decision necessary to judicially ordain a pretext of
prosecutorial misconduct, which manufactures the intended media
mayhem; resolute in attempts to ruin reputations, and incidentally creating
court casualties of truth, integrity, and justice.
(b) [T]his malicious misconduct still continues and will not cease; in that this
Honorable Court sacrifices the justice owed to the citizens of Durham
County in order to punish the prosecutor ....
(c) [T]his continued constant failure to follow the law for personal privilege
to punish the prosecutor is not simple misconduct; this is an appalling
action that sacrifices all of the principles of the climinal court system;
truth, law, impartiality, and integrity.
(d) [T]he State's right to be heard has been striped [sic] away under Orders of
this Honorable Court, the victims' rights are lost by this Court's calculated
schemes, the chief medical examiner's opinion is clouded by a "court

4

created conspiracy" unsupported by any facts or law; families of murder
victims' faith is forfeited by fictitious findings of this Court, and victims
of decade old crimes are being emotionally and relentlessly repeatedly
raped by this Court's rulings, based only on retaliation disregarding what
is right, and the criminal justice system's credibility is a causality [sic] of
this Court's callous misconduct.
(e) The District Attorney may personally accept the planned purposeful
personal attacks of this Court, but there are some sacrifices that are too
great for the District Attorney to accept,. kidnapping the rights of victims
and their families, holding these rights for hostage until the prosecutor
plays the game would bankrupt the credibility of our court system and
Justice will not play that Game.
30.
On 17 November 2011, in State v. Yearwood, Durham County file nos. 99 CRS
65452, 65460, and 65461-62, Cline filed in the Durham County Superior Court a document
entitled "Respectfully The State's Request This Honorable Court to DisqualifY Himself' that
contained the following statements about Judge Hudson:
(a) [T]hat such conduct will rot the justice system at its core in that the court is not
governed by law, the law is replaced by the whims of the Judge and the
associations of the Contt; this is a total and radical lack of respect for the rule of
law which does not promote public confidence in the court, but fertilizes the
"favorite son syndrome" of bias and prejudices that the democratic society has for
so long tried. to alleviate.

(b) [T]his Honorable Court's authority and power are no longer controlled by
constitutional limits, morality or conscience.
(c) [T]he intentional malicious misconduct of this Court is covered by the robe, and
rationally relied on by reporters and the public. Then media mayhem - another
prosecutor withheld evidence; this shameful disgraceful conduct is unimaginable,
but true with this Honorable Court. This is gross judicial misconduct.
(d) [T]bis Honorable Court as Senior Resident Superior Court Judge for the
Fourteenth Judicial District has not remained faithful to the law and the principles
of justice for all, his almost daily degradation of the constitutional rights of
victims and the State retards any and all professional confidence in the application
ofthe law by this Court.
(e) [T]he clandestine claims of misconduct, invented in spite oftlUth and contrary to
the application of the law, which are cowardly conceived by deeds in the dark
afraid of the bright light of truth are clearly inconsistent with truth and justice and
this Honorable COUlt knows that this is' not consistent with the Administration of
Justice. This Honorable Court must acknowledge this. Justice is not ashamed of
the light of truth and the right of confrontation. Hiding behind hidden emails,

5

clandestine communications, and staying stone silent are not the testaments of
truth and are legally illegitimate to an impartial and fair Court.
31.
On 23 November 2011 in State v. Peterson, Durham County file no. 01 CRS
24821, Cline filed in the Durham County Superior Court a document entitled "Respectfully The
State's Request This Honorable Court to Disqualify Himself' that contained the following
statements about Judge Hudson:
(a) Such abuse of power, without legal consciousness of right and wrong, having a
total and reckless disregard of the law, and a reprobate mind of a monarch, aims
to destroy and will destroy, the heart of our justice system ifleft unchecked.
(b) (T]hat in these cases this Honorable Court's agenda is to impede the
Administration of Justice, attack the calendaring authority of the District
Attorney, and appease friends or associates who share his common agenda of
falsifying prosecutorial misconduct to make and mold a media mania of
unsupported and unwarranted allegations of prosecutorial misconduct, and
generally whatever actions in this Court's power whether ethical or not to
clandestinely hinder the operation of the District Attorney's Office and to draw a
media light to the mayhem this Court personally manufactured.
(c) (T]he willful misconduct of this Honorable Court is Judicial Power fueled by
vengeance and unrestrained.power, without responsibility or the regard of the
rights of others, or even thehasic sense of right and wrong.
(d) (T]he District Attorney confidently without hesitation indicates based on
Personal Knowledge that this Honorable Court is no longer fair and impartial and
. can not [sic] and will not perform the duties required-of him, in an impartial
manner. Moreover, this Honorable Court's blatant intentional misconduct
destroys the dignity of his office, but worst of all j\lstice becomes a joke in that
tlus unrestrained power is without principles.
(e) [T]his Honorable Court totally disregards the interests of the State to be heard in
these matters and the District Attorney cannot foresee any possibility ofthis
conduct changing anytime in the ncar or distant future.
(f) [S]uch abuse of discretion and misuse of authority in total disregard ofthe facts,
the applicable law, by trading reason and common sense for irrational revenge
refusing to rely on what is right to seek selfish satisfaction is a cancer in this
justice system.

(g) The true facts and the application of the law are irrelevant to the insolence of this
Court.
(h) [T]his Honorable Court is in total and complete violation of the North Carolina
Code of Judicial Conduct and ... will continue to violate the North Carolina Code
6

of Judicial Conduct with no regard to the rights of others, no regard of the
constitutional protections of the victims of crime, and no regard to the simple
difference between right and wrong.
(i) Orders full of false findings are relayed to and relied upon by the press to agitate
or ignite even more distrust in the prosecutors, law enforcement and the entire
criminal justice system and for the root of this unjustified contempt to be
conceived in the womb of justice, ajudge, sworn to be fair and impattial, destroys
the dignity of the office of this Honorable COUIt and faT those who use this Comt
for special situations outside the lines of right and wrong; don't hide your dirty
hands; and to those who have seen, and know, yet tum a blind eye, acknowledge
your hands are covered with the blood of justice. And be ashamed.
32.
On 14 December 2011, Judge Hardin issued the following admonition to Cline
regarding the Motions for Production of Visitation Records she had previously filed:
And I know that you are certainly aware that a lawyer shall not knowingly make a
false statement of a material fact to the tribunal .... And, in essence, I think that
rule is designed for a lot of reasons, but in particular it relates to ensuring the' .
integrity of the Court, as a practical matter. As professionals, we have to rely
upon each other's integrity and character and reputation for truthfulness, and if
thaI's lost it's very difficult, if not impossible, to regain: So with respect to
motions that appear before this Court and any other Court of North Carolina, .
please ensure that they are factual, that they contain no material misstatements of
fact, and you will consider this a warning and a public admonition as it relates to
that.
33.
Subsequent to that 14 December 2011 warning and pnblic admonition, Cline
continued to make inflammatory and false statements about Judge Hudson that were unsupported
by facts.
34.
On 9 January 2012 in Stale v. Pollard, Durham County file no. 09 CRS 53103,
Cline filed in the Durham County Superior Court a document entitled "Amended State's Request
for Judge Orlando F. Hudson, JI'. to Recuse Himself' that contained the following statements
about Judge Hudson:
[T]his Honorable Court uses his power to retaliate against the District
Attorney in total disregard of the facts and law; the legal rights of victims
and/or victim's (sic] families, and even the horrific impact these actions
have on the integrity of the justice system.
35.
Cline's statements about Judge Hudson set forth in the preceding paragraphs are
not supported by facts and have brought the offIce of the Durham County District Attorney into
disrepute.

7

36.
Cline's statements about Judge Hudson set forth in the preceding paragraphs are
not supported by the evidence, are not truthful, and were made by Cline with reckless disregard
for the truth.
37.
On 18 January 2012, Attorney Kerstin Walker Sutton filed in the Durham County
Superior Court an Affidavit seeking Cline's removal as the elected District Attorney for Durham
County pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat. §7A-66, in Durham County Supelior Court file no. 12 CYS
1614.
38.
Beginning on 20 February 2012, the Honorable Robert H. Hobgood, Superior
Court Judge, held a hearing in file no. 12 CYS 1614.
39.
Judge Hobgood entered an order in 12 CYS 1614 removing Cline from office and
making findings offact and conclusions oflaw consistent with paragraphs 25, 26, 28, 33, 35 and
36 above. The standard of proof was clear, cogent and convincing evidence.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and on the facts established by the Order of
Partial Summary Judgment entered February 17, 2015, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are.properly before the Heating Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Tracey.E. Cline, and over the subject matter..
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b )(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By authorizing or instructing Brown to make false representations in the
memoranda he sent regarding the prison visitation records of Kidwell and
Richat'dson, Defendant knowingly made false statements of mate11al fact or law to
third persons in violation of Rule 4.1, violated the Rules of Professional Conduct
through the acts of another in violation of Rule 8.4(a), engaged in condnct
involving misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rulc 8.4(d).
(b) By filing the Motions for Production of Visitation Records of Kidwell and
Richardson that contained false and misleading statements regarding the
pendency of motions for appropriate relief in those inmates' cases, Defendant
brought a proceeding or asserted an issu.e for which there was no basis in law or
fact in violation of Rule 3.1.
(c) By filing the Motions for Production of Visitation Records of Yearwood, Kidwell
and Richardson that contained false and misleading statements that the motions
were pertinent to the investigation of motions for appropriate relief, Defendant
knowingly made false statements of material fact or law to a tribunal in violation
of Rule 3.3(a)(I), engaged in conduct involving misrepresentation in violation of
8

Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d).
(d) By failing to provide copies of the motions or the proposed and signed orders in
the Yearwood, Kidwell and Richardson cases to opposing counsel, Defendant
engaged in improper ex parte communications with the court in violation of Rule
3.5(a)(3).
(e) By filing the document entitled "Respectfully The State's Request This Honorable
Court to Disqualify Himself' in State v. Yearwood, the document entitled
"Conflict of Interest Between the State and This Honorable Court" in State v.
Dorman, the document entitled "Respectfully the State's Request This Honorable
Court to Disqualify Himself' in State v. Peterson, and the document entitled
"Amended State's Request for Judge Orlando F. Hudson, Jr. to Recuse Himself'
in State v. Pollard, all of which contained false statements, Defendant asserted
frivolous issues for which there was no basis in law or fact in violation of Rule
3.1 and knowingly made false statements of material fact or law to a tribunal in
violation of Rule 3.3(a)(!),
(f) By filing the document entitled "Respectfully The State's Request This Honorable
Court to Disqualify Himself' in State v. Yearwood, the document entitled
. "Conflict ofInterest Between the State and This Honorable Court" in State v.
Dorman, the document entitled "Respectfully the State's Request This Honorable
Court to Disqualify Himself' in State v. Peterson, and the document entitled
"Amended State's Request for Judge Orlando F. Hudson, Jr. to Recuse Himself"
in State v. Pollard, all of which contained false statements, Defendant engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4(d).
(g) By filing the document entitled "Respectfully The State's Request This Honorable
Court to Disqualify Himself' in State v. Yearwood, tile document entitled
"Conflict of Interest Between the State and the Honorable Court" in State v.
Dorman, the document entitled "Respectfully the State's Request This Honorable
Court to Disqualify Himself' in State v. Peterson, and the document entitled
"Amended State's Request for Judge Orlando F. Hudson, Jr. to Recuse Himself'
in State v. Pollard, all of which contained false statements about Judge Hudson,
Defendant made statements knowing they were false or with reckless disregard
for their huth or falsity concerning the qualifications or integrity of ajudge in
violation of Rule 8.2(a).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing Panel
makes the following:

9

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

Defendant has no prior professional discipline.

2.

Defendant has cooperated fully in this proceeding.

3.

Defendant has a reputation for good character in her home community.

4.
The Orders for Production of Visitation Records Cline proposed for each inmate's
case and which Judge Hardin signed provided that the visitation records were to be seni directly
to the Superior Court judges' chambers and Ms. Cline did not actually receive the records
pursuant to the orders.
5.
Cline's statements about Judge Hudson contained inappropriate language, were
intemperate, were inflammatory, and tended to lessen public confidence in our legal system.
6.
There has been significant media coverage of Cline's conduct, incinding excerpts
from the motions being reproduced and public broadcast of the hearing on the petition to remove
her from office.
7.
Because of the nature of Defendant's misconduct and the fact that the misconduct
was committed by Defendant publicly while she was the elected district attorney, the misconduct
had a strongly negative impact.upon the public's perceptionofthe.legal system and upon the.
ability of the public to repose confidence in the criminal justice system.
8.
As a result ofthe hearing in Dnrham County Superior Court file no. 12 CVS
1614, Defendant was removed fi'om office as Durham County's District Attorney in March 2012.
9.
In the months before Defendant prepared and filed the motions to recuse Judge
Hudson which are the subject of this disciplinary case, Judge Hudson made several rulings
unfavorable to the State in those criminal cases. In addition, during that time, the local
newspaper ran a series of articles critical of Defendant's handling of those criminal cases.
Defendant felt strongly that Judge Hudson's rulings and the points made in the media articles
were somehow connected and were personal attacks on her. Defendant believed these
circumstances demonstrated the judge's improper bias in favor ofthe defendants in those cases
and that it was necessary to seek recusal of the judge. However, by filing the recusal motions -however sincere her beliefs were that the situation needed to be addressed - Defendant publicly
demonstrated a profound disrespect for the court, the judicial process and the ideals of the
judicial system she was sworn to uphold as a public office holder and officer of the court.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

10

1.
The Hearing Panel has considered admonition, reprimaod, and censure as
potential discipline but concludes that admonition, reprimaod, or censure would not be sufficient
discipliue because of the gravity ofhann to the public and to the administration of justice in the
present case. Furthermore, the Hearing Panel concludes that any sanction less thao suspension
would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not
adequately protect the public and would send the wrong message to attomeys and the public
regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B § .0 I I 4 (w) (1 ) and concludes that the following factors, indicating
that suspension or disbannent should be considered, are present:
(a) intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential hann is
foreseeable;
(b) circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
(c) negative impact of defendant's actions on the public's perception of the
profession;
(d) negative impact of the defendant's actions on tlW administration of justice; and
(e) acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.
The remaining factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B §
.0114(w)(l) are not applicable.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter I, Subchapter B § .01l4(w)(2) and determines that although at least one factor is
present the circumstances of this case do not warraot disbarment in order to protect the public.
4.
The Hearing Paoel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter I, Subchapter B § .0114(w)(3) and finds that the following factors are present and
relevant to the imposition of professional discipline in this case:
(a) absence of prior disciplinary offenses in this state or any other jurisdiction;
(b) absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) a pattern of misconduct;
(d) multiple offenses;
(e) full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attitude toward the
proceedings;

11

(1) acknowledgment of the wrongful nature of her conduct;
(g) remorse;
(h) evidence of good character or reputation; and

(i) imposition of other penalties or sanctions.
The remaining factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B §
.01 14(w)(3) are not applicable.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact Regarding
Discipline, and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The law license of Defendant, Tracey Cline, is hereby suspended for five years
effective thirty days from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon her.
2.
Defendant'shall submit her law license and membership card to the Secretary of
the State Bar no later than thirty days fol1owing.the date that this Order is.served upon her.

3.

Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B § .0124, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
4.
Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the State Bar within ten
days oflhe effective date ofthis Order of Discipline certifying that she has complied with Rule
.0124.
5.
Within fifteen days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant will provide the
State Bar with a street address (not P.O. box or drawer address) and mailing address at which
clients seeking retum of their files and records in Defendant's possession or control may obtain
such files and records and at which the State Bar may serve any notices or other matters upon
her.
6.
All costs of this action and administrative fees are taxed to Defendant. Defendant
shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding within sixty days of service of the
statement of costs upon her by the Secretary of the State Bar.
7.
Defendant shall receive credittoward service of the five year suspension for all
time that Defendant has not practiced law since entry of the order removing Defendant from
office as District Attorney on March 2, 2012.

12

8.
After serving two years ofthe active suspension of her license, Defendant may
apply for a stay ofthe remaining period of suspension upon filing a verified petition with the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence that, in addition to complying with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules, she has complied with the foliowing conditions. In calculating
the date upon which Defendant may apply for a stay of the remaining period of suspension,
Defendant shall receive credit for all time that Defendant has not practiced law since entry of the
order removing Defendant from office as District Attorney on March 2, 2012.
(a) Defendant has certified as to the cumulative time she has not engaged in the
practice oflaw between March 2, 2012 and the date ofthe petition.
(b) Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised
of her current home street address and notified the Bar of any change in address
within ten days of such change.
(c) Defendant accepted all certified mail sent to her by the State Bar and responded to
all communications from the North Carolina State Bar, including communications
from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days of receipt or by
the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner, and participated
timely and in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any
petition about which she was notified.
(d) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or any state or local government during the suspension.
(e) Defendant properly wound down her law practice and complied with the
requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, §.0124, the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, to the extent applicable.
(f) Defendant paid the costs and administrative fees ofthis proceeding within sixty

days of service upon her of the statement of costs and administrative fees by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
(g) Defendant is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including
all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar
is authorized to collect from her, and including all judicial district dues, fees and
assessments, and that there is no deficit in Defendant's completion of mandatory
Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in reporting of such hours, or in
payment of allY fees associatedwith attendance at CLE programs.
9.
If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay, the suspension of Defendant's law
license shall be stayed only so long as Defendant complies and continues to comply with the
conditions set forth below:

13

(a) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during the stayed suspension;
(b) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of her current business and home addresses and shall notify the Bar of
any change in address within ten days of such change;
(c) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which she receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;
(d) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State Bar;
and
(e) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements.
10.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed snspension
provided in paragraph 9( a) - (e) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in §
.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
<

~

.

11.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of tlle suspension of her law license or if some
part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must comply with
the conditions set out in paragraphs 8 (a) - (g) above and the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125 before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law,
and must provide in her petition for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
showing her compliance therewith.
12.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar throughout the period of any stay of the suspension.
Signed by J4e C~ith the 1ul1 knowledge and consent of the other Hearing Panel
members, this th~2 4ia:yOfJune,2015.

~j)d~
~iChael,
Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

14

