/~{~lY2-"-~~

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

J?~

__

BEFORE THE
S('.,oqJSC
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
<<I~
OF THE
'NO-=. H CAROLINA STATE BAR
I"::; ,
12 DHC 22 R2

i2f

r-8

~

\f;..,

Ii='

"-

!-'~.>

_____ t

IN THE MATTER OF
Petition for Reinstatement of
TRACEY E. CLINE, Attorney

&--~

~",c:;:..

fJ2fil ~Ll:_~\Y
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF
REINSTATEMENT

-------------THIS MATTER was heard on August 27,2018 by a Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission upon Petitioner Tracey E. Cline's June 1,2018 Petition for Reinstatement filed
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0129 and the tenns of the Order of Discipline in 12 DRC 22.
Petitioner appeared pro se. The North Carolina State Bar was represented by Margaret T. Cloutier.
The Panel consisted of Chair Donald C. Prentiss and members David W. Long and Michael S.
Edwards. Based upon the record and the evidence presented, the Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
In an Order of Discipline filed June 22, 2015, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission suspended Cline from the practice oflaw for five years effective thirty days
from entry of the Order. Cline was served with the Order on July 20,2015 and the effective date
of the Order was August 19,2015.
2.
The Order of Discipline provides that in order to be reinstated Cline must comply
with the conditions set out in paragraphs 8(a) - (g) of the Order and the provisions of27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .0125 [now Rule .0129] before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law, and must
provide in her petition for reinstatement clear, cogent and convincing evidence showing her
compliance therewith.
3.
In calculating the date upon which Cline may apply for reinstatement, the Order
provides that Cline shall receive credit for all time she did not practice law since entry of the Order
removing her from Office as District Attorney on March 2, 2012.
4.
Cline certified that she did not engage in the practice oflaw between March 2, 2012
and the date of the petition. More than five years have elapsed since Cline last practiced law.
5.
Cline filed a Petition for Reinstatement on June 1,2018. The North Carolina State
Bar filed an Objection to Petition for Reinstatement on June 26, 2018. A hearing before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission (DHC) was scheduled pursuant to the provisions of27
N.C.A.C. IB §.0129(b)(7).

6.
To be eligible for reinstatement, Cline has the burden of establishing by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence that she complied with the following conditions set forth in the
Order of Discipline:
(a) That Cline certify as to the cumulative time she has not engaged in the practice oflaw
between March 2,2012 and the date of the petition.
(b) That Cline keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of her
current home street address and notify the Bar of any change in address within ten days of
such change.
(c) That Cline accept all certified mail sent to her by the State Bar and respond to all
communications from the North Carolina State Bar, including communications from the
Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated
in the communication, whichever is sooner, and participate timely and in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition about which she was notified.
(d) That Cline properly wind down her law practice and complied with the requirements of27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §.0124 [now Rule .0128], the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, to the extent applicable.
(e) That Cline not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the United States or
any state or local government during the suspension.

(f) That Cline pay the costs and administrative fees within sixty days of service upon her of
the statement of costs and administrative fees by the Secretary of the North Carolina State
Bar.
(g) That Cline is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all
Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is
authorized to collect from her, and including all judicial district dues, fees and
assessments, and that there is no deficit in Defendant's completion of mandatory
Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in reporting of such hours, or in payment of any
fees associated with attendance at CLE programs.
7.
Cline did not timely advise the State Bar of her correct street and mailing
addresses. However, in her petition Cline advised the State Bar Membership Department of her
current home street address.
8.
On at least two occasions in 2015 and 2016, certified mail sent to Cline was
returned to the Clerk as Wlclaimed or undeliverable. However, no issues regarding certified mail
have arisen since that time.
9.
At the time of her suspension, Cline was not engaged in the private practice of law
and therefore, was not subject to the wind down provisions that required notification and
withdrawal from cases. Cline did not timely file an affidavit as required by Rule §.0128, but did
file the affidavit contemporaneously with her petition. Cline cannot locate her State Bar license or
membership card.

2

10.
Cline has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the United
States or any state or local government during the suspension.
11.
Cline paid the assessed costs and administrative fees on April 6, 2018, which was
not within sixty days of the date of service of the notice of costs on her.
12.
Cline is current in all membership fees and costs and there is no deficit in her
completion of mandatory CLE hours, reporting thereof, or in payment of attendance at CLE
programs.

13.
Cline has substantially complied with the conditions 6(a) through (g) as set out
above and in the Order of Discipline.
14.
The deficiencies in Cline's compliance with the conditions of the order relate to
timeliness and are thus incurable. These deficiencies should not prevent the reinstatement of
Cline's law license.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Tracey E. Cline, and the subject
matter of this proceeding.
2.

Cline is eligible for reinstatement of her law license.

3.
The deficiencies in Cline's compliance are of a nature that cannot be rectified or
cured and should not be a bar to reinstatement of her license.
4.
Cline has substantially satisfied the requirements for reinstatement set out in the
Order of Discipline and should be allowed to resume the practice of law.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
ORDER
Tracey E. Cline's Petition for Reinstatement is ALLOWED, and she shall be permitted to
resume practicing law effective immediately upon entry of this Order.

Signed by the undersigned ~ledge and consent of ille other members of
the Hearing Panel, this

£

day of

~c.~
Donald C. PrentiSs, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

3

