BEFORE TIlE!
•IPLINARY HIlARlNG COMMISSION

NORTH CAROLINA

OFTIIEl

WAKE COUNTY

NORTIl CAROLlNA STATE BAR
11 Dne 15
~--~:~"'>

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

FJNDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS
OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

CLAY A. COLLIER, Attorney,

This matter WlI8 considered by II Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock; Chair, and members Stephanie M. Davis and Tyler B. Morris
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code § lB.01l4 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar. Jennifer A. Porter represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Clay
A. Collier, Was represented by Alan M Schneider. Both parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the pames, the
Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, Clay A. Collier ("Collier"), was adrultted to the North Carolina State
Barin 1986, and is, and was at ail times referred to herein; an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
Collier was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set, and the
matter came before the Hearing Panel with' due notice to all parties.
4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Collier was engaged
in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Wihnington,
New Hanover County, North Carolina.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent ,Order of Discipline

Page 1 oflO

5.
Collier Wllawfully and willfully failed to file his slate individual income tax
returns for calendar years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2013 and 2014 when suah tax return was due, as
required under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105·152 (recodified in 2014 as § 105·153.8) and § 105-155.
6,
Willful failure to file and pay NOlth Carolina income tax within the time required
by law is a violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236(a)(9).

7.
On February 22, 2017, Collier pled guilty to willful failure to file his state
individual income tax returns for years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2013 and 2014.
8.
Willful fuiluIe to file a tax fetum ill a criminal
unfitness as defined by 27 N.C. Admin. Code § 1B.0! 03 (17).

offen.~e

showing pro.ressional
'

9.
As of April 30, 2012, cedain client ledgers, including for two clients attributed to
Collier, had negative blilances, showing that more funds were disbursed from the trust account
for those clients than those clients had in the trust account.

to.

The firm's bookkeeper discovered the negative balances while preparing for a
May 31, 2012 random audit by the North Carolina State Bar. The negative balances were'found
to have resulted from bookkeeping aiul mathematical errors.
11.

Several of the overdisbul'sements had occurred over a year or more prior to May

2012.
12.
On 0\' about May 30, 2012, the fum made deposits into the trust account to
remedy the overdisbursements, which were credited to the trust account in June 20 12.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings cif Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Hearing Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Clay A. Collier, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline as follows:
B.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84.28(b)(1), for conviction for failure to file
a state individnal income tax return for the years 2009, 2010, 2011,2013 and 2014 when
such return was due, a criminal offense showing professional unfitoess; and

b.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen,. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), for engaging in conduct in
violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his actions as
follows:

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent Order of Djscipline

Page 2 of 10

I

(1)

By unlawfully and willfully failing to timely file a state income tax return
for the years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2013 and 2014, Defendant committed a
criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty. trustworthiness, 01'
fitness in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduet
involving dishonesty, frand, deceit or misrepl'esentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c); and

(2)

By failing to ensure that only funds in the fum's trust account for a
specific client were disbursed on behalf of that specific client, including
for clients attributed to him, Defendant failed to properly maintain·
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and allowed entrusted funds
to be disbursed in a manner not authorized by or for the benefit of the
client in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m)l.

Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the He.axing Panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

2.
Defendant was sentenced in February 2017 to unsnpervised probation and
community service for his failure to timely file state individual income tax reti.u:ns.
3.
Willful failure to file a tax return is expressly identified in the State Bar's
definition of criminal offenses showing professional unfitness. This offense inherently involves
a representation to taxing authorities that one did not earn sufficient income to meet the threshold
required to file a tax return, which was not accurate in Defendant's case.
4.
When lawyers violate the law in their business and person8J. affairs, it brings
disrepute upon the legal profession and undermines publio confidence in lawyers.
5.
Defendant, who was admitted to the N(lrth Carolina State
substantial experience in the practice of law.

Bar in

1986, has

6.
Defendant has been cooperative in this discip1inary process. He has timely and
:fully responded to inquities of the State Bar. Defendant has acknowledged the wrongful nature
of his condllct, stipulated to the violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct, and consented to
this imposition of discipline.
7.
Defendant and his law partners experienced profound personal and professional
difficulties during the time petiod at issue in this disciplinary matter.

1 Rule

US-2(ro) was recodified as Rule l.lS-2(n) effectivo September 30, 2016.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 3 of!O

8.
Defendant enjoys an excellent reputation in the legal community and the
community at large.
9.
Defendant was forthright with the agents of the North Carolina Department of
Revenue when they approached him ahout his failure to :file individual income lax reruns. .

10.
Defendant focused on curing delinquent fum tax ohligations :from about 2012 to
2016. Defendant had planned to address bis individual income tax filings aftel:wa:rds. Defendant
did not attempt to file state individual income tax returns using estimated income options in the
interim.
11.
When contacted by an agent of the North Carolina Department of Revenue in
September 2016 to present himself for arrest the following day for his failure to file his
individual income tax returns, Defendant worked with his accountant to get all overdue
individual income tax returns completed and filed before he arrived to present himself for arrest.

Defendant paid his outstanding state individual incol11e tax obligation prior to
pleading guilty.
12.

The negative client balances discovered by the :firm in preparation for its May
2012 random audit were few in number, were small in amount, were fully disclosed to the
auditor and were remedied in May 2012. The fum provided its reconciliation records through
December 2016 to the State Bar pursuant tp the State Bar's request, and there were no additional
negative client balances from June 2012 through December 2016.
13.

14.
There is no evidence that any specific client suffered harm from the inadveJtent
overdisbursements that resulted in the negative balances found in May 2012.
15.
Allowing dient funds to be improperly dishursed, even if inadvertently, howevel~
places ent1llsted funds at risk and erodes the confidence clients place in attorneys who handle
their affairs.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Concll;lsions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline. and the oonsent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
j.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure and suspension.

2.
In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code § IB.0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolin!! State
Bar and detennines the following factors are !!pplicable:
R.

Subsection (A), the absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Subsection (C), the absence of any selfish motive;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 4 oflO

c.

Subsection (0), timely good faith effOits to rectify consequences of
misconduct;

d.

Subsection (G), multiple offenses;

e.

Subsection (H), effect of personal or emotional problems on the conduct in
question;

f.

Subsection (1), interim rehabilitation;

g.

Subsection (K), full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and a
cooperative (lttitude toward the proceedings;

h.

Subsection (Q), character and reputation;

i.

Subsection (S), Defendant's experience in the practice of law; and

j.

Subsection (U), imposition of other penalties or sanctions.

The Hearing Pauel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code § IB.Ol14(w)(2) and concludes no factors are present ilia! would warrant
disbannent.
3.

4.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the metors enmnerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code § IB.01l4(w)(1) of ilie Rules aod Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and determines the following fuctors warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
a.

Subsection (B), intent to commit acts where the hann or potential hann is
foreseeable;
.

b.

Subsection (E), Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on
the public's perception of the legal profession.

S.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser altematives aod tinds that a censure,
reprimand or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the significantpotentiai
harm to the legal profession caused by Defendant's conduct.
6.
Although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to warrant more than a censure it
does not warrant an active suspension of his license.

7.
A stayed suspension of Defundant's Jaw license is wananted because entry of an
order imposing less severe discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
misconduct and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.
8.
FurthermOl'e, it is the determination ofilie Hearing Panel that a stayed suspension
is warranted for the protection of the publio, the profession, and Defendant's clients, to monitor

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent Order of Discipline

Page50fiO

Defendant's. compliance with tax obligations and continued proper maintenance of entrusted
funds.
Based upon thl;l foregoing F.indings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of ilia parties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
The license of Defendant, Clay A. Collier, is hereby suspended for two years.
The suspension under this ol'del' shall be stayed for two years as long as Defendant complies and
continues to comply with the following conditions:
a.

Defundant shall comply with the tenns of all agreements he enters or has entered
into with ilia Internal Revenue Service andlor the North Carolina Depm1tnent of
Revenue;

b.

Defendant shall provide the State Bar with documentation from the Internal
Revenue Service (1R1) andlor the North Carolina Department of Revenue, as
applicable, showing compliance with the terms of any agreements between
Defendant and either entity in effect during this stayed suspension;

c.

Defendant shall execute any written waivers and releases necessary to authorize
the Office of Counsel to confer with the lntemal Revenue Service andlor the
North Carolina Department of Revenue for the pU1pose .of determining whether
Defundant has cooperated and complied with all requirements of this Order,
Defendantwill not revoke these waivers and releases at any time. during the
period of stay or while this Order is in effect;

d.

Defendant shall timely file his federal and state individual income tax returns
along with any associated schedules and attachments thereto;

e.

Defendant shall provide tlm State Bar with oopies of all state and federal
individual income tax returns filed during the stay and pI'Oof of payment of
inoome taxes. Such returns andlor any requests for extensions or other documents
related to the filing andlor payment of Defendant's state or federal individnal
income tax shall be provided to tlm State Bar within ten (10) days of the filing of
such docwnent(s) with the Internal Revenue Service or the North Carolina
Department of Revenue;

f.

Defendant shall timely pay all state and federal tax liabilities, fines, and penalties
owed by him;

g'

Defendant shall ensure that his law firm timely complies with all employer and
corporate/entity tax obligations, including but not limited to: issuing Schedule K-

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 6 oflO

1 forms; withholding required funds from employee paychecks; prqperly holding
and delivering to the IRS withheld funds; properly and timely reporting withheld
taxes on applicable employel'retums;
h.

Each quarter Defundant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State Bar with
an accurate three-way qualterly reconciliation compliant with Rule 1.15-3(d)(l)
for all tm8t accounts maintained by Defundant.
For each trust account,
Defendant shall provide the three-way,reconciliation l't1port, a list of clients with
respective balances and a total of all client balances for all.clients with funds in
the trust .account, a general trust account ledger, and the bank statements and
cancelled checks for the quarterly reconciliation. The quarterly reconciliations
are due no later than 30 days after the end of the <1natter - for example, the
reconciliation for the first quarter of the calendar year (JaUURl'y, Febl1l8l'Y. and
March) is due on April 30;

i.

Defeudant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current contact information, including his current business and
home addresses (not a P.O. Box) as well as his current telephone number(s), and
shall notify the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within 10 days
of such change;

j.

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina Stste Bar,
including commuuications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
15 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the commuuication. whichever is
sooner, and shall pmticipate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process f9l' any petition of which he receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;

k.

Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail sent to him by the
State Bar;

1.

Defendant shaH respond to ail communications from the Internal Revenue Service
and the North Carolina Department of Revenue;

m.

Defendant shall not violate any laws of the Stale of North CaroIiua, of any s!me
witbin the United States, 01' of the United States;

11.

Defendant shalll10t violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct;

0,

Defendant shall timely pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding
taxed to him as set out below; and

p.

Defendant shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and comply with all Contiuuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 7 oflO

2.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary, which Defendant shall pay within thirty days of service of the notice of costs
upon Defendant.
3.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this order are modified by further order of
the DRC, Defendant's obligations under this order end two years from the date the suspension
under tIiis order goes into effect, provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant
to § .0114(x) ofthe North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DRC retains jurisdiction
untll all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause
proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the 8Uspension is
pending when the period of the stay. of the suspension would otherwise have. terminated, the
DRC retains the judsdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the two
year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not be!lli
met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the
stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
4.
If during the stay of the two year suspension DefendllIlt fuils to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph I(a) through 1(P) above, then the stay of the
suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .01l4(x) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the 8Uspension is activated for any
reason, Defendant must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he complied with
each of the following conditions before seeking reinstatement:
a.

Defendant submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the entry of the order lifting the
stay andlor activating the suspension of his Jaw license;

b.

Defendant complied with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code § IB.0124 ofthe
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following' thl? order lifting the stay
andlor activating the suspension of his law license;

c.

Defendant is CU11'Cnt and in compliance with the terms of any and all payment
agreements he entered into with the Internal Revenue Service andlor the North
Carolina Departiuent of Revenue;

d.

Defendant provided the State Bar with docwnentatlon from the Internal Revenue
Service andlor the North Carolina Department of Revenue, as applicable, showing
compliance with the terms of any payment agreements he entered into with either
of those entities;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent Order of Discipline

Page80flO

e.

Defendant is cuttent with his tax retum filing obligations and timely filed and
paid any state or federal taxes owed by him, along With any fines, penalties,
and/or interest;

f.

Defendant provided the State Bar with copies of all taxretulns he filed from the
date of entLy of this order through the date of his petition for reinstatement, and
provided the State Bar with proof that he timely paid any state or federal taxes
owed by him, along with any fines, penalties, and/or interest;

g.

If the suspension was activated fol' Defendant's failure to timely file a return for

andlor pay any state and/or federal tax, Defendant rectified the deficiency by
filing the return for and/or paying as appropriate the tax(e.~) at iSBne, along with
any fines, penalties, and interest owed, and provided proof of such to the State
Bar;
h.

Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of
his cUltent bUlliness and home addresses, as well as his current telephone number,
and notified the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within 10 days
of such change;

i.

Defendant responded to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the AttOluey Client Assistance Program, within
15 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and has participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;

j.

:oefendant promptly accepted all certified mail sent to him by the State Bar;

k.

That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment
of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect
fl'Om him, and including all judicial district dues, fees Ilnd assessments;
.

1.

That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no delicit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in reporting
of such hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;

m.

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States. or of any state or local government during his suspension, including
Defendant's timely filing and payment offederal and state tax obligations;

u.

Defendant has paid the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the Secretary of the State
Bar; and
.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent Order of Discipline

Page90flO

o.

Defendant has complied with any other conditions deemed necessary for
reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panet pursuant to the order lifting the stay
of the suspension of Defund ant's law license.

The Disciplinary Heating Commission will :retain jurlsdiction of thls matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the North Carolioo
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed snspension.
6.

--1jl"-Signed by the ¥ e consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
.--> 2017.

-----L- day of

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplillllry Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY;

Jen;!!.iftJ~rter, Deputy Counsel
...-Arfforney for Plaintiff

.. ~<~-jL-Defendant

Alan M. Schneider
Attorney fOl' Defendant

The North Carolina State Bar v. Clay A. Collier
Consent Order of Discipline

Page tOoflO

