NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12G0967

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Ronald E. Cooley,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

)

On January 23,2014, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. D.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injUly caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You represented JD in a foreclosure action. You failed to attend a deposition in violation of
Rule 1.3. You failed to communicate with your client about the opposing patty's discovery requests in
violation of Rule 104. You failed to make a diligent effort to comply with discovery requests by simply
claiming your client was blind rather than attempting to accommodate his supposed disability in
violation of Rule 3 A(d)(2).
After having your client serve an opposing palty, you failed to ensure service was properly
completed and failed to keep track of the matter until it was dismissed for improper service. This lack
of attention to the matter and lack of diligence violated both Rules 1.1 and 1.3.

You made a false statement to your client when you wrote that Rules of Professional Conduct
"do not allow [you] to remain as [your client's] attorney with (sic) there is an unpaid bill." This
statement is a violation of Rule 8.4(c).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
enol' that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this ).,t+k. day of FQ,?-ttA--~

f\~o..

JO~el~in,

,2014.

~

Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

