'

WAKECOUNTY

BEFORETHE

.~BM...
h

NORTH CAROLIN
.

"V

EL

rlLE~

s

"

5
1

OF THE

H CAROLINA STATE BAR
050HC46

A+

)
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR )
)

PLAINTIFF

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1

v.

)

MILTON E. MOORE and REGINA A.
MOORE, Attorneys
DEFENDANTS

1
)
)
)

This matter was considered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of M. Ann Reed, Chair, Stephen E. Culbreth
and Rebecca Brownlee. Margaret Cloutier represented Plaintiff. Defendant
Regina A. Moore attended the hearing, appearing pro se. Defendant Milton E.
Moore did not attend the hearing and was not represented. Defendants were
properly served with the Complaint and Summons in this matter and notified of
the hearing date.

The Chair of this Committee, based on the pleadings filed herein. upon
motion of Plaintiff and pursuant to Rule 12(c) of the Rules of Civil Procedure and
3.0114 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, entered Judgment on the
Pleadings setting forth Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. The Judgment
was signed by the Chair on January 18, 2006 and filed with the Clerk of the DHC
on January 20,2006. The Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law co
that Judgment are repeated below 'and incorporated herein.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State BarJl-h-ereinafter "State Bat'), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2. Defendant Milton E. Moore was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar on August 14, 1970 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

-

3. Defendant Regina A. Moore was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar on August 19, 1973 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

4. During the times relevant herein, Defendants actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and together maintained a law
office in Williamston, Martin County, North Carolina.
5. Defendants unlawfully and willfully failed to file federal individual
income tax returns and/or pay federal individual income taxes for tax years 1998,
1999,2000 and 2001 as required by 26 U.S.C. §§6012,6072 and 6151.
6. On April 6, 2005, before the Honorable Henry C. Morgan, Jr., U.S.

District Court Judge presiding over the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of North Carolina, Defendant Milton E. Moore entered a plea of
guilty to, and was found guilty of, two counts of Willful Failure to File a Federal
Income Tax Return, a misdemeanor under 26 U.S.C. g7203.
7. On April 6, 2005, before the Honorable Henry C. Morgan, Jr., U.S.
District Court Judge presiding over the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of North Carolina, Defendant Regina A. Moore entered a plea of
guilty to, atld was found guilty of, one count of Willful Failure to File a Federal
Income Tax Return, a misdemeanor under 26 U.S.C. 37203.

8. Defendants unlawfully and willfully failed to file state individual income
tax returns and/or pay state individual income taxes for tax years 1998, 1999,
2000,2001,2002 and 2003 as required by N.C.G.S. 105-d52 and 105-157.
9. Willful failure to file a state income tax return or pay state inccki@-taxes
when due is a misdemeanor under N.C.G.S. 105-236(9).

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact,.ihe Committee enters the
following

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over Defendants and the subject matter of this
proceeding.

2. Defendants' foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C.G.S. $84-28(b)(2) in that Defendants violated one or more of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as
follows:
(a) by unlawfully and willfully failing to file and/or pay federal income
taxes when those taxes were due, Defendants committed criminal acts that
reflect adversely on their honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in
violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and
(b) by unlawfully and willfully failing to file and/or pay state income taxes
when those taxes were due, Defendants committed criminal acts that reflect
adversely on their honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in
violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).
3. In addition, Defendants' convictions in federal court of Willful Failure to
File Federal income Tax Returns constitute misconduct and grounds for
discipline in that such convictions are criminal offenses showing professional
unfitness pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28 (b)(l) and N.C.A.C. I B 5-0115.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and
based on the clear, cogent and convincing evidence presented at the hearing
regarding discipline in this matter, the Committee makes the following
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE - MILTON E. MOORE
1. In addition to failing to file federal income tax returns for tax years
1998 through 2001 as indicated in the Findings of Fact above, Defenda
file federal income tax returns for the tax years 1993, 1995, 1996 and I
evidencing a long-standing pattern of violating federal laws.
2. Defendant Milton E. Moore received an attorney's fee in the amount of
$300,000.00 on November 4,1998 in connectionwith a personal injury
settlement he negotiated for a client. Defendant Milton E. Moore did not claim or
report the $300,000.00 as income to the internal Revenue Service as required,
but instead undertook a series of actions designed to evade his tax obligations,
conceal his income, and avoid detection of the income by the appropriate taxing
authorities. In addition, because Defendant Milton E. Moore deposited large

sums into the accounts of his children who would have incurred tax obligations of
their own on the funds, Defendant involved innocent parties in his attempts to
evade his tax obligations.

3. Plaintiff twice attempted to take the deposition of Defendant Milton E.
Moore. However, after proper notice of each deposition was given to him,
Defendant Milton E. Moore failed to appear. The expenses incurred by Plaintiff
for those attempted depositions were reasonable and necessary in the litigation
of this case.

4. Defendant Milton E. Moore failed to attend a properly noticed
deposition and failed to voluntarily comply with discovery requests of Plaintiff.
Despite this Committee's subsequent orders to comply with Plaintiffs discovery
requests and to attend the deposition, Defendant Milton E. Moore did not comply
or attend. His obstruction of these disciplinary proceedings warrants more
severe discipline than had he demonstrated a cooperative attitude toward these
proceedings.
5. Defendant Milton E. Moore's misconduct is aggravated by the following
factors:
(a) selfish and dishonest motives;
(b) a pattern of misconduct in that Defendant failed to file tax
returns over multiple years;
(c) multiple offenses;

(d) bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary process by intentionally
failing to comply with the rules of civil procedure and obey orders of the
Disciplinary Hearing Committee;

(e) substantial experience in the practice of law;
(f) indifference to making restitution;

(g) refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of his conducg%im
(h) prior disciplinary offenses, in that Defendant Milton E. Moore
received the following discipline:
- --

(i) September 3, 1980, Public Censure for failing to properly
retain and maintain trust account records;
(ii) August 16, 1995, Admonition for failing to cdmmunicate
with his client and failing to diligently pursue the client's matter;

(iii) November 19, 1999, Admonition for failing to promptly
respond to a lawful inquiry of the State Bar;
(iv) September 22, 2005, four-year suspension with
opportunity to apply for stay after two years for failing to returned unauthorized
fees contrary to the order of an administrative law judge in two Social Security
Administration matters;

(v) June 5, 2006, Admonition for failure to respond to a
disciplinary inquiry of the State Bar.
6. The Committee found no mitigating factors.

7. Defendant's failure to file taxes on a timely basis and subsequent
criminal conviction have the potential to cause significant harm to the standing of
the legal profession in the eyes of the public because it shows disdain for his
obligations as a citizen and officer of the court to obey the law Such erosion of
public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters
disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal profession is
a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
8. Defendant Milton E. Moore has demonstrated, through his efforts to
avoid payment of taxes o n a substantial amount of income and through the
conduct that resulted in his current suspension, that his misconduct is not an
aberration, and it appears that he is not committed to reforming his conduct and
not interested in taking whatever steps necessary to correct the situation.
9. The Hearing Committee has carefully considered all of the different
forms of discipline available to it for Defendant Milton E. Moore and finds as
follows:

(a) The Committee finds that any of the sanctions less than disbarment
would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public
regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar. In addition, D e n d a n t
Milton E. Moore's complete disregard for this process could impair the 9tatC
Bar's ability to be self-regulating;

(b) Defendant Milton E. Moore has been the subject of five prior orders of
discipline involving lesser sanctions. Although hehas been given several
chances to demonstrate that he will abide by the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct. Defendant Milton E. Moore has continued to violate those Rules and
has failed to demonstrate that he has taken steps to reform. Specifically, the
conduct leading to the current order of suspension of his license, along with the
conduct enumerated above, demonstrate that Defendant Milton E. Moore

refuses to recognize the authority of the tribunals before which he practices or to
abide by the authority of state and federal governments whose laws he has
sworn to uphold; and

-

(c) The protection of the public requires that Defendant Milton E. Moore
not be permitted to resume the practice of law unless and until he demonstrates
that he has reformed, that he understands his obligations as an attorney, officer
of the court and as a citizen of this state and country. Disbarred attorneys must
show reformation, among other things, before they may resume the practice of
law, whereas no such showing of reformation is required of attorneys whose
licenses are suspended for a term certain.

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE - REGINA A. MOORE
10. In addition to failing to file federal income tax returns for tax years
1998 through 2001 as indicated in the Findings of Fact above, Defendant did not
file federal income tax returns for the tax years 1993, 1995, 1996 and 1997,
evidencing a long-standing pattern of violating federal laws.
11. A deposition of Defendant Regina A. Moore was taken by Plaintiff
and the expenses incurred by Plaintiff for that deposition were reasonable and
necessary in the litigation of this case.
12. Defendant Regina A. Moore's misconduct is aggravated by the
following factors:

(a) selfish or dishonest motive;

(b) a pattern of misconduct in that Defendant failed to file tax
returns over multiple years;
(c) multiple offenses;
(d) substantial experience in the practice of law; and
$%--

(e) prior disciplinary offenses, in that Defendant Regina A. woore
received the following discipline:
(i) February 23, 1995, Censure for neglecting criminal
appeal and failing to refund unearned fee; and(ii) February 12, 2001, Admonition for failure to turn over
client's file and failure to timely respond to State Bar.

13. Defendant Regina A. Moore's misconduct is mitigated by the
following factors:

(a) imposition of other penalties or sanctions in that Defendant was
sentenced in federal criminal court, which sentence included a three-month
active term of incarceration;

(b) personal or emotional problems;
(c) timely good faith efforts to make restflution or to rectify
consequences of her misconduct;
(d) free and full disclosure to the Hearing Committee or
cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

(e) interim rehabilitation; and
(f) remorse.
14. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

15. Defendant's failure to file taxes on a timely basis and subsequent
criminal conviction have the potential to cause significant harm to the standing of
the legal profession in the eyes of the public because it shows disdain for her
obligations as a citizen and officer of the court to obey the law Such erosion of
public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters
disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal profession is
a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
16. An Order of Interim Suspension of Defendant Regina A. Moore's
license was entered on May 24, 2006. Although the Order provided that
Defendant Regina A. Moore's license was suspended on an interim basis until
August 18, 2006, the Hearing Committee finds that Defendant Regina A. Moore
did not resume the practice of law after that date and has not practiced law since
at least May 24,2006.

.iE-.---

17. The Hearing Committee has carefully considered all of the different
forms of discipline available to it for Defendant Regina A. Moore and finds as
follows:
(a) The Committee finds that any sanction-iess-than suspension would
fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses, which included a crime of
moral turpitude, committed by Defendant and would send the wrong message to
attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar;

(b) Any sanction less than suspension would not allow conditions to be
imposed upon Defendant Regina A. Moore that would help ensure that on an
ongoing basis she adheres to the ethical rules of the profession and the laws of
the state and federal government; and

(c) Defendant Regina A. Moore's participation in this disciplinary process
indicates a willingness to comply and conform her conduct to the professional
standards required of her and makes disbarment unnecessary.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
Findings Regarding Discipline, all found by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence, the Hearing Committee enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE AS TO MILTON E. MOORE

1. Defendant Milton E. Moore is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of
law.
2. Defendant Milton E. Moore shall surrender his law license and
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than
thirty-daysfrom service of this order upon him if he has not already done so in
connection with his prior order of discipline.

3. Defendant Milton E. Moore need not comply with the provisions of 27
N.C.A.C. 1B s.0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules as he is under obligation to have complied with same pursuant to the
September 22,2005 Order suspending his license in case number 05 DHC 14 .

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE AS TO REGINA A. MOORE
4. The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of Defendant
Regjna A. Moore is hereby suspended for three years effective as of the date the
Interim Order of Suspension was entered in this matter, which was MayL4,
2006. The first six months of the suspension shall be an active suspensioii;c
Because the effective date of this suspension was May 24, 2006 the a ~ t i v e
portion of this suspension has been served. The remaining period of
suspension is stayed as long as Defendant Regina A. Moore complies and
continues to comply with the conditions noted below.
5. During the period of stay, Defendant Regina A. Moore shall
comply with the foflowing conditions:

(a) Within sixty days of the date of service of this Order upon her,
Defendant Regina A. Moore shall file any delinquent tax returns with the
lnternal Revenue Service and/or North Carolina Department of Revenue,
as appropriate, for the tax years preceding the 2006 tax year. Within 30
days of filing such returns, Defendant shall provide to the Office of
Counsel evidence that the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of
Revenue have received such returns;
-

(b) By January 15, 2007, Defendant Regina A. Moore shall enter
into a payment agreement with the lnternal Revenue Service andlor the
North Carolina Department of Revenue regarding payment of all unpaid
taxes, penalties and interest for the tax years preceding the 2006 tax year.
Defendant shall provide to the Office of Counsel proof of such
agreements by January 30,2007. Defendant shall be excused from
entering into such an agreement with the lnternal Revenue Service to the
extent and during the time Defendant makes restitution payments as
required by the terms of probation in her federal criminal case. Defendant
shall comply with such repayment plans or probationary payments and
shall provi'de to the Office of Counsel proof of compliance therewith within
ten days of each payment date;
(c) Defendant Regina A. Moore shall file state and federal tax
returns for 2006 and all future tax years on a timely basis and shall timely
pay all amounts owed to the taxing authorities. Defendant shall provide
written proof of filing and payment to the Office of Counsel within ten days
of filing each return or request for extension and within ten days of each
payment;

(d) Defendant Regina A. Moore will execute any written waivers
and releases necessary to authorize the Office of Counsel to confer with
the lnternal Revenue Service or the North Carolina Department of
Revenue for the purpose of determining if Defendant has cooperated and
complied with all iequirernents of this Order. Defendant will not revoke
the waivers and releases at any time during the period of stay;
( e ) Defendant Regina A. Moore shall provide to the Office of
L-_
Counsel copies of all correspondence sent to or received by her from any
taxing authority about her tax obligations within ten days of receipt;
(f) Defendant Regina A. Moore shall not violate any state or
federal laws or any provisions of the Revised F W s of Professional
Conduct during the period of the stayed suspension;

( g ) Defendant Regina A. Moore shall respond to all State Bar
requests for information by the earlier of the deadline stated in the .*

communication or within thirty days of the date of the communication, as
required by Rule 8.1 (b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct;
(h) Defendant Regina A. Moore shall timely comply with all State
Bar membership and Continuing Legal Education requirements; and

( i ) Defendant Regina A. Moore shall keep the North Carolina State
Bar membership department advised of her current home and business
street (not P.O. Box) addresses and telephone numbers.
6. If the stay granted herein to Defendant Regina A. Moore is revoked or
the suspension of Defendant Regina A. Moore's license is activated for any
reason, before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law, Defendant
Regina A. Moore must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that she
has comptied with each of the following conditions:

(a) Submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order suspending
her law license;
(b) Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B 5 ,0124 of the State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules on a timely basis following the order
suspending her law license; and

(c) Complied with the conditions in Paragraph 5 (a) through (i) above.
7. Defendants are taxed with the costs of this action, including the costs
of the deposition of Regina A. Moore taken on January 24,2006. The costs of
the depositions attempted to be taken of Milton E. Moore on July 13, 2006 and
August 30.2006 shall be assessed against Milton E. Moore only. The costs shall
be paid within thirty days of service of the notice of costs upon the Defendants
by the Secretary.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the fu
the other members of the Hearing Committee, this

m.
'2Od7

DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMITTEE
.

