WAKE COUNTY

INRE:
Lorie Cramer

BEFORE THE
V ANCE COMMITTEE CHAIR
OF THE
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G0469
CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118(b). Susannah Cox represented
the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"). Lorie Cramer represented herself. Based upon the
information presented and with the consent of the member and of the Office of Counsel, the
undersigned makes the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
The North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar") is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
1.

2.
Lorie Cramer was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 19 August 1988
and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Cramer was engaged in the practice of law in
the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Raleigh, Wake County, North
Carolina.
4.
Cramer cUlTently suffers from physical health conditions which significantly
impair her professional performance as an attorney.
5.

Cramer voluntarily consents to being transfelTed to disability inactive status.

6.

The State Bar consents to Cramer's transfer to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
There is clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Cramer is disabled within the
meaning of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0103(19).
2.

Cramer should be transfelTed to disability inactive status with the State Bar.

3.
Cramer and the State Bar voluntarily consent to Cramer's transfer to disability
inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118(b).
4.
Any pending or future grievances against Cramer should be stayed during the
period of disability.
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
1.
upon filing.

Lorie Cramer is transferred to disability inactive status. This order is effective

2.
Cramer shall not practice law in North Carolina until she is no longer disabled and
has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to the
procedures set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .OI25(c).
3.
Any pending or future grievances against Cramer are hereby stayed during the
period of disability until such time as Cramer returns to active status. The State Bar may
continue to investigate allegations of misconduct and preserve evidence as necessary pursuant to
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .OlI8(e).

CONSENTED TO:

.

~~id~~'~~~~~4~-=~----------­
jJ

Susannah Cox
Deputy Counsel

one Cramer

2

