STATE OF NORTH

BEFORE THE
HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
CAROLlNA STATE BAR
16DHC9

...,/"\."-VJwlJml!!l

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
MICHAEL PAUL CROWE, Attorney,

THIS MATTER was heard on 16 June 2016 by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, R. Lee Farmer and Christopher R.
Bruffey pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar. Carmen Hoyme Bannon represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, Michael Paul Crowe, was represented by Kenneth B. Daliy.
Based upon the pleadings, stipulations, and evidence presented at the hearing, the
Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the NOlill Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper paliy to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of tlie General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Michael Paul Crowe, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
March 20 11, and is an Attomey at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of NOlih
Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Crowe was actively engaged in the
practice of law in Winston Salem, Forsyth County, Nolih Carolina.
4.

Crowe was properly served with the summons and complaint in this matter.

5.
Crowe represented Charles Fackrell on multiple charges of obtaining propeliy by
false pretenses in Yadkin County Superior Court. In early 2015, Fackrell was incarcerated at
the Yadkin County Detention Facility (YCDF) awaiting trial.

1

6.
On 21 January 2015, Crowe visited Fackrell at YCDF. During the visit, Crowe
presented Fackrell with a Durable Fiduciary Power of Attomey (hereafter "Power of Attorney")
appointing Crowe as Fackrell's attorney in fact. Fackrell signed the Power of Attorney.
7.
The Power of Attomey, which Crowe prepared, provided Crowe with authority
"to do and perfonn for [Fackrell] anything of any character which [Fackrell] might do or
perfOlID for [him]self personally," including controlling real and personal property and bank
accounts, and borrowing money in Fackrell's name.
8.
Crowe did not obtain Fackrell's ·infonned consent, confirmed in writing, to the
potential conflict of interest created by Crowe's personal interest in being granted the authority
described in the Power of Attorney.
9.
After his 21 January 2015 visit with Fackrell, Crowe took the Power of Attorney
to a notary public and asked her to notarize Fackrell's signature on the Power of Attorney. The
notary had not been present when Fackrell signed the document, and Fackrell did not appear
before the notary to acknowledge his signature on the document.
10.
At Crowe's request and direction, the notary falsely certified that Fackrell had
personally appeared before her and had acknowledged executing the Power of Attorney.
11.
It is a criminal offense for a notary to take an acknowledgment without the signer
appearing in person before the notary.
12.
Crowe is a licensed notary in the State of North Carolina. In order to become a
North Carolina notary, he was required to swear or affinn under penalty of perjury that he
understood the duties and responsibilities of a notary public, as described in the General
Statutes. See N.C. Oen. Stat. § 10B-12. Accordingly, Crowe could not have in good faith
believed that the course of conduct described in paragraphs 9 through 11 was permissible under
law.
13.
Crowe filed the Power of Attorney bearing the false notarization with the Yadkin
County Register of Deeds.
14.
Just after 5:00 pm on 17 FeblUary 2015, Crowe went to YCDF with Fackrell's
wife. When they arrived, Crowe spoke with a Detention Officer via intercom, stating that he
and his "assistant" were there to visit Fackrell.
15.
This representation was false, as Mrs. Fackrell was not-and has never beeneither an employee or an independent contractor of Crowe or his law practice.
16.
Crowe was attempting to mislead the Detention Officer regarding Mrs. Fackrell's
role so that she could participate in an after-hours meeting with Fackrell in the attorney
visitation area. Visitation with inmates in this area and after-hours was limited by YCDF policy
to lawyers and their staff.
17.
The Detention Officer posed several additional questions in an effort to get the
name of the person Crowe had identified as his "assistant." When Crowe eventually provided
2

Mrs. Fackrell's full name, the Assistatit Administrator of YCDF informed them that Mrs.
Fackrell was not permitted to visit her husband outside of regular visiting hours or in the attorney
visitation area.
18.
Under North Carolina law and rules of procedure, the only mechanism for a
defendant in a criminal case to conduct a deposition is set forth in N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8-74
("Depositions for defendant in criminal actions"). That statute permits a defendant, under
limited circumstances, to request that the Clerk of Court appoint "some responsible person" to
conduct the deposition of a witness whose attendance at the trial cannot be procured. If a
defendant avails himself of this process, the District Attorney must have ten days notice of the
deposition and an opportunity to cross-examine the witness's deposition testimony.

19.
Crowe represented William Flowers in Forsyth County Supelior Court on charges
of sexual abuse of a minor. S.C. was the alleged victim in the case, and A.F. was an eyewitness.
20.
On 24 August 2014, while the charges against Flowers were pending, Crowe
issued a subpoena to S.C. The subpoena bore the case caption and file numbers of the charges
against Flowers, and it commanded S.C. to appear and be deposed at Crowe's office on 12
September 2014.

21.
Crowe did not comply with the requirements of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8-74, provide
the Forsyth County Distlict Attorney's Office with a copy of the subpoena prior to 12 September
2014, or otherwise notify the State that he was attempting to depose S.C.
22.

Crowe had S.C. served with the subpoena by the Stokes County Sheliff's

Department.
23.
On 12 September 2014, S.C. appeared at Crowe's office and answered questions
under oath before a court rep011er without representation and without representatives of the
Forsyth County District Attorney's Office in attendance.
24.
On 25 September 2014, while the charges against Flowers were still pending,
Crowe issued a subpoena to A.F. The subpoena bore the case caption and file numbers of the
charges against Flowers, and it commanded A.F. to appear and be deposed at Crowe's office on
8 October 2014.
25.
Crowe did not comply with the requirements ofN.C. Gen. Stat. § 8-74, provide
the Forsyth County District Attomey's Office with a copy of the subpoena prior to 8 October
2014, or othelwise notify the State that he was attempting to depose A.F.
26.
Department.

Crowe had A.F. served with the subpoena by the Stokes County Sheriff's

27.
On 8 October 2014, A.F. appeared at Crowe's office and answered questions
under oath before a court reporter without representation and without representatives of the
Forsyth County Disbict Attorney's Office in attendance.

3

28.
Crowe represented Darrell Lee Powell in Yadkin County Superior Court on
charges of felonious assault by strangulation, misdemeanor assault on a female, felonious assault
with a deadly weapon on a govermnent official, misdemeanor assault with a dangerous weapon
while a minor was present, and felonious kidnapping.
29.

S.N. was the prosecuting witness in the charges against Powell.

30.
On 31 December 2014, while the charges against Powell were pending, Crowe
issued a subpoena to S.N. The subpoena bore the case caption and file numbers of the charges
against Powell, and it commanded S.N. to appear and be deposed at Crowe's office on 19
January 2015.
31.
Crowe did not comply with the requirements of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8-74, provide·
the Yadkin County District Attorney's Office with a copy of the subpoena priorto 19 January
2015, or otherwise notify the State that he was attempting to depose S.N.
32.

Crowe had S.N. served with the subpoena by the Yadkin County Sheriff's Office.

33.
S.N. notified Crowe that she would not comply with his subpoena, and did not
appear at his office at the date and time indicated in the subpoena.
34.
On 23 January 2015, Crowe filed a motion in State v. Powell captioned "Motion
for Contempt; Motion to Compel; and Motion for Sanctions andlor Attorney's Fees," which
requested that S.N. be compelled to appear and be deposed andlor held in contempt for
noncompliance with his deposition subpoena. Crowe served the motion on S.N., but did not
serve it on the State. Crowe did not calendar the motion for hearing.
35.
Thereafter, Crowe issued another subpoena commanding S.N. to appear and be
deposed on 23 February 2015. Again, the subpoena bore the case caption and file numbers of
the charges against Powell.
36.
Crowe did not comply with the requirements of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8-74, provide
the Yadkin County District Attorney's Office with a copy of the second subpoena to S.N. or
otherwise notify the State that he was attempting to depose S.N prior to 23 February 2015.
37.
S.N. did not comply with the second subpoena. Crowe did not seek to compel
S.N. to appear and be deposed or seek to have her held in contempt for noncompliance with the
second subpoena.
38.
In connection with his efforts to depose witnesses'in criminal cases as described
above, Crowe did not inform the witnesses that they were not legally obligated to submit to
deposition, nor did he explain that the subpoenas he had caused to be served upon them were
unenforceable.
S.C., AF., and/or their parents believed that they were legally obligated to submit
39.
to deposition because thcy had been served with what appeared to be valid snbpoenas issued by
Crowe.

4

40.
Crowe offered no legal authority or other credible explanation that would tend to
support his contention that he believed his efforts to depose these witnesses was legally
pennissible. The Panel concludes that he did not in good faith believe that his actions in this
regard were in compliance with the law.
41.
Crowe's testimony in this hearing raised questions about his credibility. To the
extent his testimony conflicted with that of other witnesses and documents introduced into
evidence, the Hearing Panel finds his testimony on those points was not credible.
Based on the record and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following;
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and this tribunal has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Michael Paul Crowe, and the subj ect matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Crowe violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his conduct as follows;
(a) By representiog Fackrell in comlection with the execution of the Power of Attomey
that gave Crowe vittually unlimited control over Fackrell's finances and other affairs,
Defendant engaged in a representation that could be materially limited by his personal
iuterests in violation of Rule 1.7(a);
(b) By requesting that the notary falsely notarize the Power of Attorney, Defendant failed
to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the conduct of a non-lawyer assistant was
compatible with his professional obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(b), ordered
and/or ratified conduct by a non-lawyer assistant that would be a violation of the
Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 5.3(c), and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
(c) By knowingly filing a document in the Register of Deeds that bore a false notary,
Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c), and conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d);
Cd) By falsely stating to YCDF personnel that Mrs. Fackrell was his assistant, Defendant
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c);
(e) By secking to depose State's witnesses in criminal cases using a procedure not
authorized by lawaI' rule and without providing the State with notice or an
opportunity to cross-examine, Defendant made an asseltion in a legal proceeding for
which there was no basis in law in violation of Rule 3.1, knowingly disobeyed an
obligation under the rules of a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.4(c), intentionally
violated establish rules of procedure in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(C), and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d); and

5

(f) By issuing what appeared to be valid and enforceable subpoenas and causing them to
be served on State's witnesses by the sheriff, thereby creating the false impression
that the witnesses were leg~lly obligated to appear at his office and be deposed,
Defendant used methods of obtaining evidence that violated the rights of third
persons in violation of Rule 4.4(a), engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit,
or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to
the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the additional
evidence regarding discipline presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 through 41 above are reincorporated as if
fully set forth herein.
2.

Crowe has no prior disciplinary offenses in this state or any other jurisdiction.

3.
At the time Crowe conducted the depositions described in paragraphs 19 through
27 above, both S.C. and A.F. were minors, and S.c. was the victim of a sexual offense. These
factors made them particularly vulnerable.
4.
Crowe took advantage of the fact that S.C., A.F., and their families lacked
knowledge about criminal procedure. Their ignorance of the law made them vulnerable to being
misled regarding the depositions.
5.
Due to the experience she had with Crowe, S.C. 's mother is less likely to trust
lawyers in the future.
6.
Crowe intentionally caused a notary public to engage in a criminal act, and
intentionally filed in the public record a document that bore a false jurat, thereby undennining
the integrity of official judicial records. He also intentionally caused harm andlor potential hann
to the individuals who he sought to depose by leading them to believe they were legally required
to submit to deposition.
7.
Up through and during this disciplinary proceeding, Defendant expressed his
continuing belief that the actions described above were proper, defensible, and in compliance
with the law. This reflects that--if permitted to continue practicing-Defendant poses a risk of
significant halm to the public, the profession, and the administration of justice.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
of Fact Regarding Discipline, and upon consideration of the factors set forth in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(w), the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following
additional
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE

6

1.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors en]lmerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §
.0114(w) of the Discipline and Disciplinary Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.

2.
The Hearing Panel concludes that the following factors from § .01l4(w)(J),
which are to be considered in imposing suspension 01' disbarment, are present in this case:
(a) intent ofthe defendant to cause the resulting harm Or potential harm;
(b) circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or integrity;
(c) negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession;
(d) effect of defendant's conduct on third parties; and
(e) acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication.
3.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in Rule
.0114(w)(2) and concludes that although Defendant engaged in acts of dishonesty,
misrepresentation, and deceit, disbarment is not necessary in this case.
4. .
TIle Hearing Panel concludes that the following factors from § .OJ 14(w)(3),
which are to be considered in all cases, are present in this case:
(a) absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) a pattern of misconduct;
(c) multiple offenses;
(d) vulnerability of victim; and
(e) inexperience in the practice oflaw.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered admonition, reprimand, and censure as
potential discipline but finds that admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be sufficient
discipline because of the gravity of the harm to the administration of justice and the potential
hann to the public and the profession in the present case.
6.
Suspension of Defendant's law license is warranted due to Defendant's pattern of
dishonesty and failure to recognize-even in hindsight-the impropriety of his conduct.
Furthenllore, the Panel finds that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge
the setiousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the public,
and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members ofthe Bar in this State.
7.
The Panel considered disbarment but detennined, in light of all relevant facts and
circumstances, that disbamlent is not necessary to protect the public. The Hearing Panel fmds
and concludes that the public will be adequately protected by a three-year suspension of

7

Defendant's license to practice law, with an opportunity to have a portion of the suspension
stayed upon compliance with conditions.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is hereby
I.
suspended for three years, beginning 30 days from the date of service of this order upon
Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
NOlih Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 ("Obligations of Disbarred or Suspended
Attorneys"). As provided in § .0124(d), Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying he has
complied with the wind down rule.
4.
The administrative fees and costs of this action, including deposition costs, are
taxed to Defendant. Defendant must pay the costs of this action within 30 days of service upon
him of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
5.
Within 30 days after service ofthis Order, Defendant shall provide the State Bar's
Otnce of Counsel with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking their files can
communicate with Defendant. Defendant shall promptly return all files to his clients upon
request.
6.
After serving no less than eighteen months of the suspension, Defendant may
apply for a stay of the remaining period of suspension imposed by tins Order by filing a verified
petition with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. In addition to complying with the
general provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125 ("Reinstatement"),
to be eligible for a stay of the remaining period of suspension, Defendant must demonstrate
compliance with the following conditions by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
(a) Defendant shall timely comply with paragraphs 2-5 of this section of the Order of
Discipline;
(h) During the period of active suspension, Defendant shall attend twelve hours of
accredited Continuing Legal Education (CLE) courses annually, as if he were a
member in good standing.' No more than six of the twelve annual CLE hours may be
completed via online courses. Two of the twelve annual CLE hours must be in the
I The CLE Department does not send notices to lawyers who are actively suspended, so it is incumbent upon
Defendant to attend the required courses and maintain records of his compliance with the CLE requirements sel
forth in this Order.

8

areas of ethics and professionalism. These requirements shall apply to each calendar
year during which Defendant is actively suspended as of December 31. For example,
if Defendant applies for a stay 18 months after the effective date of this order, he
must demonstrate that he completed the annual CLE requirements for 2016 and 2017;
( c) In addition to satisfying the annual CLE requirements described above, prior to
petitioning for reinstatement or a stay, Defendant shall complete six additional hours
of CLE courses in the areas of ethics and professionalism which have been approved
in advance by the Office of Counsel. No more than two of these six hours may be
completed via online courses;
(d) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department advised of
his current physical home and business addresses, telephone numbers, and email
address, and shall notify the membership department within 10 days of any change to
his contact infonnation;
(e) Defendant shall accept a11 certified mail from the Notih Carolina State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests tor infonnation from the North Carolina
State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
(f) Defendant shall timely comply with State Bar membership and continuing legal
education requirements, and pay all fees and costs assessed by the State Bar and the
Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline;
(g) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees; and
(h) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or federal
laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of active suspension.
7.
Defendant may file a petition seeking a slay ofthe remainder of the suspension up
to 30 days prior to completing 18 months of active suspension, but shall not be reinstated prior to
the end of at least an 18 month suspension period.
8.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license
pursuant to this Order, the stay will continuc in force only as long as Defendant complies with
the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department advised of
his current physical home and business addresses, telephone numbers, and email
address, and shall notify the membership department within 10 days of any change to
his contact infonnation;
(b) Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information ii'om the North Carolina
State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;

9

(c)

Defendant shall timely comply wiih his State Bar membership and continuing legal
education requirements, and pay all fees and costs assessed by the State Bar and the
Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline;

(d) Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees; and
(e) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or federal
laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of stayed suspension.
9.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or morc of the conditions stated in
Paragraph 8 above, then the stay ofthe suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x) ("Stayed Suspensions").
10.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension, or if some patt of the
suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must provide in his application
for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of the following:
(a) Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code lB § .0125 ("Reinstatement"); and
(b) Compliance with the conditions set out in paragraph 6, above.
11.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct discovered
or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct addressed in ihis Order.
12.
The Disciplinary Heating Commission will retain jurisdiction of ihis matter
pursUatlt to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .oJ 14(x) of the NOlth Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disahility Rules throughout the suspension, and any stay thereof; and until all of the conditions
in paragraph 6 above are satisfIed.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this
June,2016.
.

Disciplinary Hearing Panel

10

t

th~~f

