STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

.Ci'le'--~HE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
t l ..... ~U SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION

lHIS t~AR 2b ? 4:Fd~ENO.:

18M _ _ __

TE~JR:R.~~.··l."t"

IN THE MATTER OF THE
SURRENDER OF THE LAW LI<r:ENS.lL-'-;'.-l-_·''--'.......,-_
OF

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

JUNIUS A. CRUMPLER, ill, Attorney

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of
Wake County upon the tender of surrender of his law license by Junius A. Crumpler, ill.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, Junius A. Crumpler, III (hereinafter "Crumpler"), the Court makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Crumpler was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in September 2006
and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law either actively or
inactively licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.

2.
Crumpler was administratively suspended by the North Carolina State Bar
on September 30, 2016 for failure to comply with Continuing Legal Education
:. requirements.
3.
Prior to his suspension, Crumpler was engaged in the practice of law in the
State of North Carolina and practiced law in Raleigh, North Carolina.
4.
Crumpler engaged in the practice of law without an active license to
practice law, failed to act with diligence in representing a client, failed to take steps to
protect his client's interests, failed to communicate with his client, failed to refund an
unearned fee, knowingly and intentionally made false statements and misrepresentations
to his client and a tribunal, failed to properly maintain entrusted funds, obtained property'
by false pretenses, engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice, and
knowingly and intentionally made a material misrepresentation to the State Bar in a
disciplinary matter.
5.
' Crumpler desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in North Carolina.

6.
Crumpler's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the
result of coercion or duress. Crumpler is fully aware of the implication of submitting his
resignation.
7.
Crumpler acknowledges that the material facts upon which the
investigation is predicated are true.
8.
Crumpler has submitted his resignation because he knows that if
disciplinary charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could
not successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
Crumpler's conduct, as set out in the Affidavit of Surrender of Law
License and detailed above, constitutes violations of the following Rules of Professional
,Conduct:
a. By practicing law without an active license, Crumpler failed to act with
diligence and engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of
Rule 1.3 and Rule 5.5(a);
b. By failing to tell his client that he was administratively suspended,
Crumpler failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to
permit the client to make informed decisions regarding the representation
in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
c. By taking a client's payment knowing that he could not legally provide the
services for which he was being paid, Crumpler obtained property by false
pretenses and thereby committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in violation of Rule
8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
d. By failing to refund the client's fee and failing to maintain the client's
funds in the trust account, Crumpler failed to properly maintain and
disburse entrusted funds and improperly disbursed entrusted funds for his
own benefit in violation of Rules l.15-2(a), G), and (m);
e. By failing to take steps to protect his client's interests and by representing
a client while not actively licensed, Crumpler represented a client where
the representation would result in a violation of the Rules of Professional
conduct in violation of Rules 1. 16(d) and 1.16(a), respectively;
f. By holding out to court personnel and others that he was licensed to
practice law, Crumpler knowingly made a false statement to a tribunal in
violation of Rule 3.3, knowingly made a false statement to a third person
in violation of Rule 4.1, and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);
g. By holding out to others as able to practice law despite not being actively
licensed in this state, Crumpler made a misleading statement regarding the

services he could provide in violation of Rule 7.I(a) and engaged in
conduct involving a misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A( c);
h. By practicing law in North Carolina when he was not licensed to do so, in
violation ofN.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-4 and, pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-8,
Crumpler committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on his fitness as
a lawyer in violation of 8A(b);
i. By falsely claiming to the State Bar during the grievance process that he
did not charge and accept a legal fee from the client and that he had made
it clear to others that he was not licensed, Crumpler knowingly made false
statements in a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.1(a) and engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8A(c); and
J. By practicing law in cases currently pending before a District Court in
North Carolina without an active license, Defendant engaged in conduct '
prejudicial to the administration of justice in viblation of Ru~e SA(d). ~
-.

~

...

2.
Crumpler's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1) and (2).
3.
The Courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary
action against attorneys practicing therein.
4.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person of Junius A. Crumpler, III and
of the subject matter of this proceeding.
5.

Crumpler has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.

Junius A. Crumpler, III is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North

Carolina.
2.
Crumpler shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0128 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0128.
Crumpler shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the entry of this order to complete
the requirements of § .0128.
3.
Crumpler shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
expiration of at least five (5) years from the date of this order.
4.
Crumpler's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Heating Commission and the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,

Subchapter B, Section .0129 and with any Continuing Legal Education or other
administrative requirements.
5.

The costs of this action are taxed against Crumpler.
t.----

Done and Ordered this

?&,

day of _~--=--"-"-""""-."""'~'-"-_ _ _ _ _ _, 2018.

~Jl~Superior Court Judge Presiding

CONSENTED TO BY:

Ju~-----~Ul~~~.2g~-::::=--_____
Alan M. Schneider
Counsel for Junius A. Crumpler, III

STATE OF NORTH CAROLlNA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO.: IBM

WAKE COUNTY
IN THE MATIER OF THE TEI~ffli)jB'.OO~)lt b
SURRENDER OF THE LAW LICENSE F

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF
LAW LICENSE

JUNIS A. CRUMPLER, ill, Attorpey
I, Junius A. Crumpler, III, being first duly sworn, say as follows:

1.

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2.

My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3.

I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations that
I, among other violations, engaged in the practice of law without an active license to
practice law, failed to act with diligence in representing a client, failed to take steps to
protect his client's interests, failed to communicate with his client, failed to refund an
unearned fee, knowingly and intentionally made false statements and
misrepresentations to his client and a tribunal, failed to properly maintain entrusted
funds, obtained property by false pretenses, engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice, and knowingly and intentionally made a material
misrepresentation to the State Bar in a disciplinary matter.

4.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.

5.

I am submitting my resignation because I know that if charges were predicated upon
the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them.

Respectfully submitted, this the

14

~A

day of.

2018.

C\l\~ -€r. D.e.Ty\,pKY~~.r (\ , Notary Public of the County of W Ol \Z. £
, State of North
Carolin , certify that Junius . Crumpler, III personally appeared before me thIS day, was sworn, attested that the
foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.
I,

This the (l~ day of V\f\Qt

0Ih~

vr-I!\

M!lAA)

Notary fubYk
(print name) CIA-ej'(("\V\-e...
My commission expires:

,"'"''''''''

, 2018.

,
VV\-e-rV'l~aY\

--"6.\.L-fI-\-lq-'--t!.Llq./----

!

' \II\€.RRIG ""
,,"......~~
•• -•••••.. ~.;z, '#,
~

....

.. h; / '

.., ):! •

: w : __~
,0

: -r:
-

... .
J- •

~0~

eo

III

"'p

'"
'"

r4:· :

'\..v :0 :

N'

. .•

. .
•

e.

IA . .

" 'I,vV4KE cO

......

.0

•• __,
••••••• ~~

"'oou .. '"

Affidavit of Surrender, Junius A. Crumpler, III

~

•
•

?\)~
:<::
.v~...

#I.

.....

....

c'{
:\\'~

\\'..'

....

..'

...

Page 1 of 1

