STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

JEFFREY G. DALRYMPLE, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Beverly T. Beal, Chair, N. Hunter Wyche, Jr., and Randy Moreau. Joshua T. Walthall
represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Jeffrey G. Dalrymple, was
represented by Douglas J. Brocker and Crystal S. Carlisle. Defendant waives a formal hearing in
the above referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions
of law recited in this consent order. The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order.
By consenting to this order, Defendant knowingly, freely, and voluntarily waives his right to
appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the patiies, the Hearing Panel hereby makes
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Jeffrey G. Dalrymple ("Dalrymple"), was admitted to the NOlih
Carolina State Bar in 1989, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law
licensed to practice in N0l1h Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules
and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was engaged
in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Matthews,
North Carolina.
4.
In 2014, Defendant became a "partner" with Upright Law ("Upright Law") of
Chicago, Illinois.

5.

Upright Law is registered as an interstate law firm with the North Carolina State

Bar.
6.
Upright Law maintains a website, advertising that it can provide legal
representation for consumers filing for bankruptcy or in financial distress across the nation.
7.
Defendant agreed to provide legal services in North Carolina to North Carolina
residents in association with Upright Law.
8.
If a NOlih Carolina consumer responded to Upright Law's advertising through the
website or contacts Upright Law on its toll-free telephone line, the consumer first discussed his or
her matter with non-attorneys in a call center in Chicago.
9.
Defendant assumed responsibility for supervising the non-attorney assistants in the
call center in Chicago insofar as those assistants were providing services to his Upright Law
clients.
10.
Defendant rarely spoke with the non-attorney assistants in the call center in Chicago
and was not privy to those conversations with his Upright Law clients.
11.
After speaking with the non-attorney assistants in the call center in Chicago, the
North Carolina consumers spoke to an attorney physically located in the Chicago office who is
licensed to practice law in NOlih Carolina.
12.
The North Carolina attorney physically located in the Chicago office did not
represent or assume responsibility for the provision oflegal services to Defendant's North Carolina
clients.
After speaking with the North Carolina attorney physically located in the Chicago
13.
office, the clients began to pay funds to Upright Law for future legal services to be provided by
Defendant.
14.
Once the NOlih Carolina clients had paid sufficient funds to Upright Law, Upright
Law put the North Carolina clients in touch with Defendant.
15.
The funds Defendant's North Carolina clients pay to Upright Law for future legal
services and for filing fees were entrusted funds.
16.
Defendant drafted and determined when to file the bankruptcy pleadings on behalf
of his Upright Law clients.
17.
Defendant utilized the filing fees paid by his Upright Law clients to Upright Law
to pay the Bankruptcy Court filing fees when he filed the clients' bankruptcy pleadings.
18.
The entrusted funds paid by Defendant's Upright Law clients were not maintained
by Defendant or anyone under his supervision, nor were they maintained by the North Carolina
attorney physically located in the Chicago office.

Page 2 of13

19.
Prior to January 2016, the entrusted funds ofNOlih Carolina clients were deposited
and disbursed by non-attorney employees of Upright Law into and from an interest-earning
account at a bank that was not an "eligible bank" pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code ID.1316(b).
20.
The account into which entrusted funds of North Carolina clients were deposited
was not reconciled on a monthly basis in accordance with the North Carolina Rules of Professional
Conduct.
21.
The account into which entrusted funds of North Carolina clients were deposited
was not reconciled on a quarterly basis in accordance with the North Carolina Rules of Professional
Conduct.
22.
Defendant did not conduct reconciliations of the Upright Law trust account
containing his clients' entrusted funds and had no knowledge of or supervision over any such
reconciliations.
23.
No other North Carolina attorneys at Upright Law assumed responsibility for the
legal representation of Defendant's Upright Law clients.
24.
Defendant and Upright Law claimed to Upright Law's North Carolina clients that
North Carolina attorneys were perfonning all of the legal work provided by the law firm.
25.
Defendant did not provide all of the legal services to the North Carolina clients of
Upright Law.
26.
In some instances, Defendant did not negotiate with the creditors of his Upright
Law clients, even when the debts of those clients were the subjects of litigation.
27.
In some instances, non-attorneys at Upright Law, and not Defendant, negotiated
with the creditors of some of Defendant's Upright Law clients, even when the debts of his clients
were the subjects of litigation.
28.

Defendant did not supervise or control these negotiations.

29.
In some instances, non-attorneys at Upright Law, and not Defendant, determined
when to enter into a settlement with a creditor.
30.
Some of Defendant's Upright Law clients paid Upright Law for legal services but
never received those services and were not provided with a refund.
In addition to and separate from his work with Upright Law, Defendant has, since
31.
1991, maintained his own law practice in Matthews, North Carolina, focusing on bankruptcy law.
32.
In his own law practice, Defendant maintained a trust account at Bank of America,
account number ending in digits 5562, since 2006.
33.
From at least January 2014 to June 2017, Defendant consistently failed to conduct
monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust account.
Page 3 of 13

34.
Defendant commingled attomey and client funds by failing to remove eamed fees
or reimburse costs promptly and by failing to promptly disburse entrusted funds from his trust
account for at least 300 clients between January 2014 and August 2017.
35.
From at least January 2014 to June 2017, Defendant consistently failed to provide
annual accountings of the receipts and disbursements of all trust funds to clients for whom he
retained entrusted funds for over one year.
36.
From at least October 1, 2016 to June 2017, Defendant consistently failed to
provide accountings of the receipts and disbursements of all trust funds to clients upon the
complete disbursement of the trust funds.
37.
From at least October 1,2016 to June 2017, Defendant consistently failed to escheat
unidentified/abandoned funds.
38.
From at least January 2014 to June 2017, Defendant consistently failed to identify
the clients from whose balance in the bust account funds were being disbursed on checks drawn
from his bust account.
39.
From at least January 2014 to June 2017, Defendant consistently failed to review
his bank statements and cancelled checks on a monthly basis.
40.
From at least June 2016 to June 2017, Defendant consistently failed to conduct
transaction reviews quarterly or sign the same.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel
enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has jurisdiction over
Defendant, Jeffrey G. Dalrymple, and over the subject matter.
2.
Dalrymple's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By failing to supervise non-attomey employees of Upright Law while they were
answering questions from his North Carolina clients and negotiating the resolution
of his clients' debts that were subject to litigation, Defendant failed to take
reasonable effOlis to ensure that his non-attomey assistants acted in accordance
with the professional obligations ofthe profession in violation of Rule 5.3(a);
(b) By not supervising the handling of entrusted funds paid by his North Carolina
clients to Upright Law, Defendant failed to adequately supervise his assistants employees of Upright Law - and ensure proper maintenance of entrusted funds in
violation of Rule 5.3(b) and l.15-2(a);
Page 4 of13

(c) By failing to ensure the Upright Law trust account in which his clients' entrusted
funds were maintained was reconciled on a monthly and quarterly basis, Defendant
failed to ensure the required reconciliations were accomplished in violation of Rule
1.lS-3(d);
(d) By permitting Upright Law to hold the interest-earning entrusted funds of his
clients at a bank that was not an "eligible bank" pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code
ID.1316(b), Defendant violated Rule l.IS-2(b);
(e) By failing to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust account,
Defendant violated Rule 1.IS-3(d);
(1) By commingling attorney and client funds by failing to remove earned fees or
reimburse costs promptly, Defendant failed to maintain entrusted funds separate
from his property in violation of Rule I .IS-2(a), as well as in violation of Rule 1.IS2(f) as amended effective September 30,2016;

(g) By failing to provide annual accountings of the receipts and disbursements of all
trust funds to clients for whom he retained entrusted funds for over one year,
Defendant violated Rule 1.1S-3(e);
(h) By failing to provide accountings ofthe receipts and disbursements of all trust funds
to clients upon the complete disbursement of the trust funds, Defendant violated
Rule l.IS-3(e);
(i) By failing to promptly disburse entrusted funds, Defendant violated Rule 1.lS-2(n)
(designated as Rule 1.1S-2(m) prior to the amendments effective September 30,
2016);
(j) By failing to escheat unidentified or abandoned funds, Defendant violated Rule _
I.IS-2(r) (designated as Rule l.lS-2(q) prior to the amendments effective
September 30, 2016);

(k) By failing to identify the clients from whose balance in the trust account funds were
being disbursed on checks drawn from his trust account, Defendant failed to
disburse funds only in accordance with Rule 1. I S in violation of Rule I .lS-2( a) and
failed to maintain required records in violation of Rule 1. I S-3(b)(2);
(I) By failing to review his bank statements and cancelled checks on a monthly basis,

Defendant violated Rule 1.1S-3(i)(1); and
(m)By failing to conduct transaction reviews quarterly or sign the same, Defendant
violated Rule 1.1S-3(1)(2).

Page 5 of 13

Based upon the consent of the pmiies, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant has no prior discipline in twenty-eight years of practice.

2.
Defendant has ceased taking any additional clients through Upright Law, will
continue representing all his current Upright Law clients to prevent undue prejudice to the clients,
and will completely disassociate from Upright Law once all those current clients' matters have
concluded.
3.
Defendant has made significant changes to the management and supervision of the
Dalrymple trust account to ensure that entl1lsted funds are properly safeguarded going forward and
to ensure his compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct, including hiring an accountant
who specializes in attorney trust accounts.
4.
Defendant has made significant efforts to identify funds to be escheated to the State
of North Carolina, including by sending numerous letters to clients.
5.
Dalrymple's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted funds in
the Dalrymple trust account and ensure the Upright Law trust account was handled pursuant to the
North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct betrays a vital tl1lst that clients and the public place
in attorneys and the legal profession. Clients are entitled to have their funds handled with the
utmost care.
6.
Dalrymple's failure to properly maintain a trust account placed entrusted client
funds at risk and has the potential to cause significant harm to the standing of the profession in the
eyes of the public because it shows his disregard for certain of his duties as an attorney. This tends
to erode the public's confidence in attorneys. Confidence in the legal profession is a building
block for public trust in the entire legal system.
7.
By working with an out-of-state law firm and permitting non attorneys to charge
and collect legal fees from his clients, answer questions of his clients, and negotiate with his
clients' creditors, all without his supervision, Defendant engaged in activity that exposed his
clients to significant potential harm.
8.
Defendant's association with Upright Law continued even after he received notice
that Upright had received a Letter of Caution from the North Carolina State Bar Authorized
Practice Committee.
9.
Despite failing to supervise his nonattorney assistants while they were advising his
clients and handling his clients' entrusted funds, Defendant continued to work for Upright Law for
his own financial gain.

Page 6 of 13

10.
Some of Defendant's Upright Law clients paid Upright Law for legal services but
never received those services and were not provided with a refund; thus, Defendant's association
with Upright Law impaired those clients' goals of the representation.
11.

Defendant has a good reputation in the legal community.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.0116(f)(I) and concludes that the following factors that wan-ant suspension or disbarment
are present:

(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the ham1 or potential harm
foreseeable;

IS

(b) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession;
(c) Elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of the client; and
(d) Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.O 116(f)(2) and concludes that no factors that warrant disbarment are present.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0116(f)(3) and concludes that the following are applicable in this matter:
(a) Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Multiple offenses; and
(c) Good character and reputation.
4.
Defendant caused potential harm to his clients by failing to properly manage their
entrusted funds.
5.
Defendant's conduct placed entrusted funds at risk and has the potential to cause
significant harm to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows his
disregard for certain of his duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys
tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence
in the legal profession is a building block for public hust in the entire legal system.

Page 7 of13

6.
The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including: censure,
reprimand, and admonition, and finds that discipline less than a stayed suspension would not
adequately protect the public from Defendant's future misconduct because (i) of the gravity of
potential significant harm to clients, and (ii) a period of reporting pursuant to a stayed suspension
is necessary to ensure the protection of Defendant's clients.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and on the consent of
the patties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Jeffrey G. Dalrymple, is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw for
three years effective 30 days from service ofthis order upon Dalrymple. This suspension is stayed
inunediately as set fOlth herein and subject to the terms of paragraph 5 below.

2.
Defendant shall pay, within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and costs
upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding.
3.
Defendant shall not work for, participate in, or associate in any way with any
business entity or law firm engaged in providing legal services in more than one state without: (1)
providing written notice of such to the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel, (2) receiving
written pennission from the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel to work for, participate
in, or associate with said business or law firm, and (3) thereafter providing the Office of Counsel
with any documents the Office of Counsel requests pursuant to that association. This paragraph
does not prohibit the Defendant from completing unfinished client matters on which he is currently
working as of the date of this Order.
4.
Defendant shall inform the Bankruptcy Court of this discipline and accept and abide
by any and all sanctions or requirements established by the Banhuptcy Comt concerning (a) his
handling of the entrusted funds of his Bankruptcy clients, (b) his association with Upright Law,
and (c) his representation of any clients he served in association with Upright Law.
5.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period ofthree years as long as Defendant
complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant pays the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary of the State Bar within thirty days of service of the statement of fees
and costs upon him;
(b) Each year of the stay, Defendant completes ten additional hours of Continuing
Legal Education ("CLE"), four of which must be in the area of trust account
management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. This CLE
requirement is in addition to the CLE requirements set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code
1D.1518. These courses must be completed within the applicable time period for

Page 8 of 13

completing the CLE hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1D.1518 each year
of the stay and must be reported on the annual CLE report forms;
(c) Defendant timely complies with all State Bar continuing legal education
requirements and pays all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;
(d) Defendant pays all membership dues, fees, costs and assessments, including all
Client Security Fund assessments, and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is
authorized to collect from him, including all judicial district dues and assessments,
all membership, Client Security Fund, and any other related dues, fees, costs and/or
assessments by the applicable deadline;
(e) Defendant does not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the stay;
(f) Defendant does not violate any laws of the United States, or the laws of any state
or local government, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the
stay;

(g) Defendant informs the Bankruptcy Court of this discipline and accepts and abides
by any and all sanctions or requirements established by the Bankruptcy Court
concerning his handling of the entrusted funds of his Bankruptcy clients, including
but not limited to any clients he served in association with Upright Law;
(h) Defendant does not participate or associate with any business entity or law finn
engaged in providing legal services in more than one state without: (1) providing
written notice of such to the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel, (2)
receiving written permission from the NOlih Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel
to work for, participate in, or associate with said business or law firn1, and (3)
thereafter providing the Office of Counsel with any documents the Office of
Counsel requests pursuant to that association. This paragraph does not prohibit the
Defendant from completing unfinished, currently pending client matters;
(i) Each month of the stay, Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's Trust
Account Handbook, using the Trust Account Reconciliation sheet available on the
State Bar's website, for all trust accounts he maintains. Defendant shall provide (i)
the three-way reconciliation report, (ii) client ledgers for all clients with funds in
the tmst account(s) during that month as may be requested by the Office of Counsel,
(iii) ledger for any personal funds maintained in the tmst account(s) for bank or
credit card fees, (iv) tmst account general ledger, (v) multiple balance ledger report
(report listing balance of funds maintained in tmst for each client during reporting
period), (vi) the bank statements, (vii) cancelled checks, and (viii) as may be
requested by the Office of Counsel, deposit slips for each month. These documents
are due on the 15 th day of the following month
for example, the three-way
reconciliation for the month of January is due on February 15;
Page 9 of 13

CD

Each quarter of the stay, Defendant shall have a CPA, or other accounting
professional approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar, audit all trust
accounts maintained by Defendant. This audit shall assess whether Defendant has
in his trust account the client funds he is required to maintain for his clients at that
time, as well as Defendant's compliance with all requirements of Rule 1.15-2 and
Rule 1.15-3. The audit shall include addressing the items on the CPA Report
Template which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendant. The quarterly
audit reports from the Accountant are due no later than 30 days after the end of the
quarter - for example, the audit for the first quarter of the calendar year (January,
February, and March) is due on or before April 30. It is Defendant's sole
responsibility to ensure that the Accountant completes and submits the reports
required herein. Defendant shall bear the cost of preparation and submission of
these reports;

(k)

If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit reveals any
deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or Rule 1.15-3,
Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the date of the three-way
reconciliation report or the Accountant audit and shall provide documentation
showing the remedial action to the State Bar within 2 days of the date of the
remedial action;

(1)

Defendant shall provide any other records requested by the Office of Counsel
within ten days of the request;

(m) By the deadline stated in the request, Defendant complies with any requests from
the Office of Counsel to provide any information regarding his trust account(s) or
to sign and provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to
obtain information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a hust
account;
(n)

Defendant keeps the State Bar Membership Department advised of his CUlTent
business address, office telephone number, and office e-mail address. Defendant
shall notify the State Bar of any change of address within ten (10) days of such
change. His current business address must be a street address, not a post office box
or drawer;

(0)

Defendant accepts all celiified mail from the State Bar sent to the address on record
with the Membership Department of the State Bar;

(P)

If there are funds in Defendant's trust account for which the beneficial owner(s)
cannot be identified, Defendant shall identify, maintain, and account for those
unidentified funds until the beneficial owners are determined or until the funds are
required by law to be escheated, at which point Defendant shall escheat the funds;

Page 10 of13

(q)

Defendant responds to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty (30)
days of receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner; and

(1')

Defendant participates in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process
for any petition that is pending at the time of entry of this order or of which he
receives notice after the effective date of this order.

If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out above
6.
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted in accordance with 27
N.C. Admin. Code lB.0118.
7.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason,
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order imposing such conditions as it deems
proper for the reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension. Additionally,
Defendant must establish the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence prior to being
reinstated to the practice of law after any period of active suspension:
(a)

Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary of the
State Bar within thitiy (30) days of the date of the order lifting the stay andlor
activating the suspension of his law license;

(b)

Defendant complied with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128
following entry of the order lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension of
his law license;

(c)

Defendant complied with Order of Discipline paragraph 3, supra;

(d)

Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against him in
this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the
Secretary of the State Bar;

(e)

That within fifteen (15) days of the effective date of the order activating the
suspension Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and telephone
number at which clients seeking return of files could communicate with
Defendant and obtain such files;

(f)

That Defendant provided within ten days client files to all clients who made a
request for return of their files;

(g)

Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his cun"ent
business street address (not post office box or drawer addresses) and notified the
State Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

Page 11

of 13

(h)

Defendant responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attomey Client Assistance Program, within thirty (30)
days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner;

(i)

Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address on
record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State Bar
throughout the period of the suspension;

(j)

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment of
all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments, and other assessments, charges or surcharges the State Bar is
authorized to collect from him, including all judicial district dues and
assessments;

(k)

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory CLE hours in repOliing of such hours or in payment of
any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

(1)

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant has complied with all of
the continuing legal education (CLE) requirements established by this Order;

(m)

If there were funds in Defendant's trust account for which the beneficial owner(s)
could not be identified, Defendant identified, maintained, and accounted for
those unidentified funds until the beneficial owners were determined or until the
funds were required by law to be escheated, at which point Defendant esc heated
the funds;

(n)

Defendant did not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States, or the laws of any state or local govemment during his suspension;
and

(0)

Defendant pmticipated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition that was pending at the time of entry of this order or of
which he received notice after the effective date of this order.

8.
If the stay of suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason, and
if Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.0128 and the Comi appoints a
trustee to wind down any pOltion of Defendant's practice, Defendant shall reimburse the State Bar
for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding down Defendant's practice. Such expenses
may include, but are not limited to, storage facility fees, rent payments, moving expenses, charges
for secure disposal of client files, postage or other mailing expenses, and compensation paid to the
trustee and/or the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated with the trusteeship. After the
Court has discharged the trustee, the State Bar shall send an invoice of wind-down expenses to
Defendant at Defendant's last known address of record with the North Carolina State

Page

12 of 13

Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he has reimbursed the State Bar for all
wind-down expenses incurred.
9.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0118 until all conditions of the stay of suspension are
satisfied.
10.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no pending motions or show cause proceedings alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code
IB.O 118, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been
met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the
stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would othenvise
have tenninated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and
activate the three year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the
stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the
conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or. show cause
proceeding.

F

Signed by the Disciplinary Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other hearing
panel members, this the to tL day of
,2018.

~~

Beverly T. Beal, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Jeffre,y(tY)alrymp1e/ " //{ .
Defendant
{//

Page 13 of 13

