NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
lOG 1211

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Camilla J. Davis,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

CENSURE

On April 21, 2011, the Grievance Committee of the North Ca.rolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by thc North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a prelimina.ry hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide thal after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Commillee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before Itte Disciplinary Hearing Commission arc
not required and the Griev,mce COlllinillee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, ',)r a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious Than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attomey's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You represented J.M.e. in a domestic case in which you filed a motion to modifY custody, a
motion for contempt, and a motion for emergency relief. In November 2009, the court entered an
order dismissing all three of those motions. You timely filed a notice of appeal and a request for
transcript, but thereafter failed to perfect your client's appeal. You did not advise J.M.C. of this error
and instead misled him into believing that the appeal was progressing appropriately for the ensuing
eight months.
You failed to respond to some of J.M.e.'s appeal-specific inquiries and when you did respond,
you tried to dissuade him 1rom pursuing the appeal. Your failure to pursue your client's appeal
constitutes a lack of diligence in violation of Rule 1.3. Your failure to keep J.M.C. reasonably

informed about the status of the matter, failure to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
infonnation, and failure to explain a matter to the extent necessary to permit your client to make an
infol111ed decision about the representation was in violation of Rule 1.4(a) and (b).
By attempting to dissuade your client from pursuing the appeal and lying to him about the
status ofthe appeal, you engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c). Your misconduct caused actual harm to your client in that his right to appeal
was compromised. Nonetheless, the Committee found significant mitigating circumstances, including
the fact that this was an isolated incident, your lack of prior discipline, and your sincere expression of
remorse.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
eITor that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart trom adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attol11eys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
bv the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
~

.

Done and ordered, this

,;2... day of~l .....-'

/

2011.

/

/~;

/- ~~C2.:6/~. ---

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

