NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
11 G0528 and 1100722

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Kenneth R. Davis,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 24, 2013, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by lB. and J.O.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding ofprobable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinmy Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hmm or potential harm to a client,the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman ofthe Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
lB. and J.O. retained you to handle their respective traffic ticket matters. They paid you a
fee to handle the tickets. Although you had the matters continued, you were not able to complete
either matter. lB. and J.O. therefore asked you to refund the fees. Because you did not respond,
J.B. and J.O. filed fee dispute petitions. You did not respond to the fee disputes and therefore
two grievances were opened against you. In response to the grievances, you agreed to refund part

of the fees. Deputy Counsel sent you an email on May 18,2012 regarding the refunds. You did
not respond. On June 4, 2012, Deputy Counsel sent a second email. You did not respond. On
June 20, 2012, Deputy Counsel left you a voice mail message seeking a response to the two prior
emails. You did not respond. Your failure to respond to Deputy Counsel is a violation of Rule
8.1 (b). The committee concluded that your failure to complete the services for which you were
retained and your failure to respond to the fee disputes did not warrant discipline.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of$350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
.
Done and ordered, this the

18f./v

day of

E~

Grievance Committee

MMH/npm

,2013.

