BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG0085

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

)

Todd W. Davis,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 22, 20 I0, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by J. H.
Pursuant to section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rilles of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probabk
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Healing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
all attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significmt harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case md issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievmce Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You prepared a last will md testament for JLS, which you took to JLS's home in April 2008. JLS
signed the will but no witnesses signed the will in his presence. You later directed two of your office
employees to sign the will as witnesses. The employees were not present when JLS signed the will nor had
JLS acknowledged his signature to them. Because your employees did not sign the "'ill in JLS's presence,
their swom declarations (stating that they signed in JLS's presence) were false. By directing yoW' staff to
falsely attest that they witnessed the signing of JLS's will, you lmowingly induced others to violate the
Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 8.4(a) md ratified conduct by a subordinate that violated
the Rules, in violation of Rule 5.3(c). You notarized the signamres on JLS's will. By notarizing witness
attestations on a will that was not signed by witnesses, you committed a criminal act (e.g., violation of
N.C.G.S. § IOB-60) in violation of Rule 8.4(b) alld engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of

justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d). Because JLS's will was not executed in compliance with NCGS § 313.3, it was eventually nullified.
In response to the State Bar's inquiry about this matter, you stated that your employees had,
unbeknownst to you, taken it upon themselves to sign JLS' s will. You specifically asserted that you "never
directed any employees who were not present to sign the will." This statement was false, and therefore
violated Rule 8.I(a) (false statement in disciplinary matter) and Rule 8.4(c) (dishonest conduct).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of$100.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

.;2?

day of

4.~¢:::'/~':'::!'=-J.'2010.

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

