STATE OF NORTH CAROL
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ORDER OF
DISBARMENT

v.
ALVARO DE LA CALLE, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter came before the undersigned Chair of The Disciplinary Hearing Commission
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0121(d) upon an affidavit of surrender of Jicense executed
by Alvaro De La Calle on 18 September 2018 and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State
Bar on 24 September 2018.
Based upon the pleadings and the record, the undersigned makes the fo))owing:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Alvaro De La Calle, was licensed to practice law in North Carolina in
2012, and during all relevant periods herein he was an Attorney at Law subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of
the State of North Carolina.
3.
On 4 June 2018, the North Carolina State Bar filed a formal complaint against
Defendant alleging that he committed violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct, including
failing to communicate with clients, failing to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing clients, failing to make reasonable efforts to expedite litigation consistent with the
interests of his clients, failing to keep clients informed about their case, failing to reasonably
consult with clients about the means by which the client's objectives would be accomplished,

failing to promptly comply with reasonable request for information, failing to properly maintain
and disburse entrusted funds and improperly disbursing entrusted funds for his own benefit,
failing to provide a required accounting to a client, failing to explain a matter to the extent
reasonably necessary to permit clients to make informed decisions regarding representation, by
collecting a fee for services not provided and failing to participate in good faith in the fee dispute
resolution process once he became aware of the client's disputation of the fee, by splitting fees
with attorney Leah Shellberg, who is an attorney in a different firm without the client's knowledge
or consent, engaging in conduct involving dishonesty and misrepresentation, by revealing to
attorney Leah Shellberg confidential information obtained in the attorney-client relationship
without the client's informed consent, by terminating representation of the client without giving
notice to the client or returning their file, not returning unearned fees, making misrepresentations
to his clients, and engaging in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice. This conduct
constitutes grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), in that Calle engaged in
conduct in violation of Rule 1.3, Rule 1.4(a), Rule 1.4(b), Rule 1.5(a), Rule 1.5(e), Rule 1.6(a),
Rule 3.2, Rule 1.15-2(a), Rule 1.15-2 (j), Rule 1.15-2 (m), Rule 1.15-3(e), Rule 1.16(d), Rule
7.1 (a), Rule 8.4(c), and Rule 8.4(d) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct.
4.
Defendant has indicated his consent to disbarment by filing an affidavit of surrender
with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. The affidavit meets all requirements set forth in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB.0121(a)(1), (2), (3), (4) and (d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact. the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
27 N.C. Admin. Code 18.01 08(a) provides that the Chair of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission has the power and duty to enter orders disbarring members by consent.

2.
Defendant's affidavit meets all requirements set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code
1B.0121(a)(1), (2), (3), (4) and (d) and the facts upon which the affidavit is predicated warrant
Defendant's disbarment.
3.
Defendant has admitted that the material facts upon which the State Bar's complaint
is predicated are true and the misconduct alleged in the complaint has been established. The State
Bar's complaint is incorporated by reference herein.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the undersigned Chair
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following
ORDER
1.

The surrender of the license of Alvaro De La Calle is hereby accepted.

2.
Alvaro De La Calle is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina
effective upon the entry of this order with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.

3,
Alvaro Dc La Calle shall comply with the provisions 27 N.c' Admin. Code
18.0128 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules,
4.

The costs ofthis action arc taxed against Defendant.

This lh.

l-'\.~ay Of~ 2018.
Fred M. Morelock. Chuir

Disciplinary Hearing Commission

-~),<,:-.~

')~1.\ <2 tJ ?4?S J

.~I;

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

~"

:;;
WAKE COUNTY

<O'J).

<~::)
BEFORE THE
Sfp 20WSct~, INARY HEARING COMMISSION
t:~=:
OF THE
L~~~
N".:§1RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
c'\;;r
18 DHC 29

g-( l<\

"'t ;;/

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, ~
Plaintiff
v.
ALVARO DE LA CALLE, Attorney,

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF
LAW LICENSE

Defendant
,

In accordance with the requirements to surrender my law license and consent to my
disbarment, found within 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.OI21(d), and in accordance with the
requirements that must be established to obtain an order of disbarment, found within 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB .OI21(a)(1) - (4), Alvaro De La Calle, being first duly sworn, deposes and says:
1.
I desire to resign from the North Carolina State Bar. To that end, I hereby
surrender my license to practice law in North Carolina, and I hereby consent to my disbarment.
2.
In accordance with the requirements of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .OI21(a)(1), I
hereby state that my resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion
or duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.
3.
In accordance with the requirements of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .OI21(a)(2), I
hereby state that I am aware that there presently is a pending disciplinary matter against me
before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, 18DHC29, regarding allegations that I have been
guilty of misconduct by committing violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct, the nature
of which are specifically set forth herein in accordance with the Complaint filed by deputy
counsel Joshua T. Walthall, and include: failing to communicate with clients, failing to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing clients, failing to make reasonable efforts to
expedite litigation consistent with the interests of my clients, failing to keep clients informed
about their case, failing to reasonably consult with clients about the means by which the client's
objectives would be accomplished, failing to promptly comply with reasonable request for
information, failing to properly maintain and disburse entrusted funds and improperly disbursing
entrusted funds for my own benefit, failing to provide a required accounting to a client, failing to
explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit clients to make informed decisions
regarding representation, by collecting a fee for services not provided and failing to participate in
good faith in the fee dispute resolution process once I became ware of the client's disputation of
the fee, by splitting fees with attorney Leah Shellberg, who is an attorney in a different firm
without the client's knowledge or consent, engaging in conduct involving dishonesty and
misrepresentation, by revealing to attorney Leah Shellberg confidential information obtained in

the attorney-client relationship without the client's informed consent, by terminating
representation of the client without giving notice to the client or returning their file, not
returning unearned fees, making misrepresentations to my clients, and engaging in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice.
4.
In accordance with the requirements of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0121(a)(3), I
hereby acknowledge that the material facts upon which the disciplinary matter, 18DHC29, is
predicated are true.
5.
In accordance with the requirements of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0121(a)(4), I
hereby voluntarily submit my resignation because I know that I cannot successfully defend
against the disciplinary charges brought against me in 18DHC29 .
.\-......

This ~ day of September, 2018.
Alvaro De La Calle

SWO~.:r0 AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE ME,
THIS UL~AY OF SEPTEMBER, 2018.

BD-401A~
d&~O.
Notary Public
Printed Name:tiAg..(ON ::s .:0~LfAv£RO.
My Commission Expires: 0

'8 { IS /::;;{ 0 a.O .

Marion J. DelFavero
Notary Public

Forsyth County, NC

