STATEOFNORTHCAROLIN

~
f{J

!ZJ
WAKE COUNTY

\1:f45 ffA
...

/6~

BEFORE THE
fEB 20\1 D'lii IPLINARY HEARING
:::: COMMISSION
c'D r.\-\C
OF THE
f\\.\;. .\,JNOR '-' CAROLINA STATE BAR
16 DHC 1::--.9_ _ _ __

tf'

~.pO 5~
Plaintiff

v.
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
ALVARO DE LA CALLE, Attorney,
Defendant
THIS MATTER WaS heard on January 13, 2017 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of R. Lee Fanner,Chair, and members
David W. Long and Tyler B. Morris. Joshua T. Walthall represented Plainttft: the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Alvaro De La Calle, was present and appeared pro se.
Based llPon the pleadings, the stipulated facts, and the evidence admitted at the
hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff: the North Carolina Stale Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authoritygral1tedit in Chapter 84 of the Gener.al Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 ofthe North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Alvaro Ruben De La Calle ("Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on August 24, 2012, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in N0I1h Carolina, subject to the laws of the
State of NOlih Catalina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, Sild
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of NOIth Carolina and maintained a law otJice
in Guilford County, North Carolina.
4.
Defendant practices imilligration law in Guilford County, NOith Carolina
at a law firm he slatted and manages called "Calle Law."
5.
Defendant employs a number of paralegals at his law firm, including
Claudia Dagnesses ("Dagnesses"), his sister.

6.
In addition to working as a paralegal lit the finn, Dagnesses also serves as
the "Office Manager" of Calle Law.
7.
Defendant indicates on his law firm's website that Dagnesses "is often
times the first contact [his] clients have with [his] law finn. She oversees many of the
every day [sic] tasks that II busy, and rapidly growing, law tirm presents. She also works
as a case manager for many innnigration law casesI.J"

8.
In 2013, Mirtila Jannett Ortiz Sanchez ("Sanchez") was in the United
States legally and residing in North Carolina under Temporary Protected Status.
9,
Sanchez met all of the cl'iteria for pelmanent residency and only needed an
adult relative to file an 1-130 Petition tor Alien Relative on her behalf in order for her to
become a permanent, legal residellt of the United States.

10.
In 20 13, Sanchez's. oldest son, Joshua Soberanis (,'Soberanis"), became 21
years old and was eligible tonlethe 1·130 Petition on Sanchez's behalf

JL
In September 2014, after Soberanisattempted to tile the 1-130 Petition all
Sanchez's behalf, Sanchez received a checklist from the National Visa Center requesting
additional documentation in cOJUlection with the 1-130 Petition.

12.
In September 2014, Sanchez's husband, Wilson Edgardo Soriano Galeas
("Galeas"), contacted Calle Law to obtain assistance in re.-filing the 1-130 Petition and the
related documentatiollrequested by the National Visa Center.
)3.

Whcll Galeas contacted Calle Law, he spoke with Dagnesses.

14.
):lased on the actions and representations of Defendant's firm, Sanchez and
her family believed that Dagnesses was able to provide them with lel,ral services 01\ hehalf
of the tirmhecause Dagnesses was the only person with whom they spoke at Calle Law
and the only pel'son who provided them with legal services <lnd advice 011 behalf of the
firm.
15.
Dagnesses assured Guleas that Calle Law could assist his family in
completing and filing the I·l30 Petition.
16.

Sanchez and Galaes both became clients of Calle Law.

17.
On September 24, 2014, Sanchez paid $150.00 to Defendant's law firm
with check #1347, paid to the order of "Calle Law, I'LLC," This payment was made as a
partial paylllent tor professional legal services to be rendered by Calle Law.
18,
]n September 2014, Sanchez and her son Soberanis met with Dagnesses in
person in order to make an addit.ional payment of $350.00 to Calle Law and provide
Dagnesses with the documentation that she indicated was necessary in order to complete
the 1-130 Petition.

2

19.
Dagnesses assisted Sanchez in filling Ollt the required immigration
paperwork, including Form 1-864, At1idavit of Support Under Section 213A of the
Immigtatioll and Nationality Act.
20.
Oh June 10, 2015, Dagnesses sent an email from her Calle Law email
address. - claudia@calleclaw.e0111 - and with her Calle Law signature block to Oaleas
regarding the cOst of the services Calle Law was providing to Sanchez.
21.
On June II, 2015, Dagnesses sent an email to GlIleas from her Calle Law
email address with unattached questionnaire that Dagnesses iildicated she needed
Sanchez to complete in order to finalize Sanchez's 1-130 Petition applicatillll process. In
this e-mail, Dagnesses advised Oaleas that, if he had any questions he CQuid call "us" at
the phone number 336-610-5000.
22.
The phone number 336-610-5000 is the pholle number for the Calle Law
fim) and is featured on the firm's letterhead, website, and emails.
23,
In June 2015, Sanchez went to Defendl!nt's law office during normal
business hours to finaJizepaperwork and discuss filing the 1-130 Petition and any related
and required documentation.
24.
Upon entering Defendant's law finll at 109Muirs Chapel Road, Suite 213,
Greensboro, NC, 27410, Sanchez was directed to Dagnesses's oftlee within the law firm.
25.
Dagnesses gave erroneoUs legal advice to Sanchez while acting (j1l behalf
of and under the employ ofDefendanfs law timl.
26.
Dagnesses advised Sanchez that Sanchez needed to apply for residency
frolll within the borders of her native country ofH{)nduras.
27.
Sanchez in tact did not need to apply for residenci from Honduras; she
could have applied for residency while physiCally in the United States.
28.
Dagnes$es also advised Satlehez tlw Sanchez did not need to ask fot
permission from immigration aQthoritiesto travel to Honduras to apply for residency.
29.
Sanchez, in fact, did need to ask for permission from immigration
authorities prior to any travel outside of the United States.
30.
On June 15,2015, Sanchez paid $500.00 to Defendant's law firm with
check # I 033, paid to the order of "Calle Law, PLLC" for "migracion" services.
31.

Sanchez's check #1033 was endorsed by Calle Law, PLLC,and the funds
.

from that check were deposited into Calle Law's operating account.

32.
On JUlle 22, 2015, Sanchez traveled to TegUCigalpa, Honduras ill
compliance with the advice and illslrnctionsfrom Dagnesses.
33.
After traveling to Hondnras and applying fOf residency, Sanchez
discovered that she would be denied residency and prohibited tor at least ten years trom

3

returning to the United States where her home .and family are because shelell the country
without seeking pen'rlission from U.S. immigration authorities.
34.
On January 27, 2016, the Authorized Practice Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar issued Dagnesses a Letter of Caution tor engaging in the uliauthorized
practice of law when she gave Sanchez legal advice and assisted or attempted to assist
her in comp1eting.and filinglegalimmillratioll fonns.
35.
On December 6,2015, Defendant submitted a response to the State Bar's
Letter of Notice and Substance of Grievance, denying that Sanchez was ever a client at
Calle Law.
36.
Defendant's statement to the State Bat that Sanchez was never a client of
Calle Law waS false.
37.
Defendant knew that his statement to the State Bar that Sanchez was never
a client of Calle Law was false.
38.
Sanchez WaS sil'3ndedin Honduras andsep!lrated fi'ol11 her family with no
means of support tor eleven months as areault of Defendant's misconduct.
Based on the foregoing Filldings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
1.
All of the patties are propel'lybefore the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Alvaro De La Calle, 81ld the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set f011h in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
gl'ounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules ofProfessionul Conduct as.tollows:
Ij) By accepting a tee for legal serviees not provided by an attorney,

Defendant collected an illegal feein violatiollof Rule 1.5(a);
b) By allowing his nonattorney paralegal to engage ill the unauthorized
practice of law, Defendant failed to tllke reasonable meaSllres to ellsure
that a nonlawyer assistant acted in accordance with the professional
obligations ofthe profession in violation of Rule 5.3(b);
c) By allowing his nOl1attorney assistant to be held out to Sanchez and Galeas
as able to provide them with legal services on behalf of the firm,
Defendant made false or misleading communkations about his firm's
services in violation of Rule 7.1 (a);
d) By fidsely claiming to the State Bar durh\g the grievance process that
Sanchez was never a client of his finn, Defendant knowingly made a false
statement in a disciplinary matter in violation of 8.1(a) and engaged in

4

conduct involving dishonesty or misrepresentation in violation of Rnle
8.4(c); and

e) By alJowinghis paralegal to providGlegal services to a North Carolina
resident, Defendant assisted another in the unauthorized practice of law in
violation ofRule 5.5(f).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Pm1el hctcby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following additional

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant, for his own financial benefit, pelnlitted his nonattorney
paralegal to meet with clients and charge and collect tees fi'om clients 011 behalf of the
firm withoutproperiy supervising hel\

2.
Defendant continued, llt various points, to employ his sisteJ at his law finn
after she engaged in the unauthorized practice oflaw.
3.
Defendant presented no evidence showing that he implemented procedures
at his law finh to properly supervise his .llonattornc:y assistants.

4.

Defendant has made no efforts to assist Sanchez and GllIeas.

5.

Defendant elevated his infel'ests above those of his clients.

6.
Sanchez and Gilleas, members of the immil,\rallt population in the United
States, were particularly vulnerable and in needQf correct, professional legal advice to
assist them in a delicate dtizenship matter.
7.
The immigrant population has a tendency to be intimidated by and
tIlltnlsting toward the AmericaIl legal profession, a profession with which they are
unfamiliar. Detendant's misconduct only serves to damage thatpopuJation's alteady
tenuous relationship with the legal profession.
8.
Defendant's actions negatively impacted the perception Sanchez and
Galeas had of the legal profession.
9.
Due to Defendant's actions, the victims in this case filed applications that
they should not have mod, and then had to hire anotherattomey to file addilional
pleadings and motions that were necessary onlyhe¢4Use oft])eerroneous legal advice
provided by Defendant's law fil'm and the harm caused therel:ly, th,IS creating
unnecessary work for the court systcmand immigration authorities.
10.
By hiring Defendant and paying him for legal services, Sanchez was
seekillg to become a permanent resident oftheUnited States; Defendant's misconduclnot
only separated her fmm her t(l1nify tbr eleven months, it has put her long-term status in
5

this country in serious jeopardy. Thus, Defendunt's misconduct substantially impaired
her ability to achieve the goals of the representation.

11.
Sanchez and Oaleas incurred at least $7,555.00 in eXpenses due to
Defendant's violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct; these expenses it;clude, but
are not limited to; fees paid to Detimdant's law firm for the legal services that led to the
filing of the Complaint in this matter; the costs of transportation incurred by Sanchez
traveling to and iii Honduras pursuant to the eJ'l'oneous legal advice Sanchez received
iI'om Detendant's firm; the mailing, notary, and 1iling fees Sanchez and Oaleas had to
pay in the course offollowing the erroneous legal advice they received trom DeJcndant's
finn; the fees Sanchez and Galeas have subso(juently paid to another North Carolina
attol1ley .in illl attempt to remedy the damage caused to them by the erroneous legal
advice they received/i'om Defendant's firm; and the admil1istrative fees Sanchez and
Oaleas had to pay upon Sanchez'sTetum to the country.

12. The expenses described herein are a small portion of the financial harm
Sanchez and Oaloas sum:l'edas a result of Del'1endant' s misconduct; the costs in terms of
lost wages, additional childcare expenses due to Sanchez's absence fitll1l this. couiltry fot
eleven months, and future legal fees are substantially higher Ih311 those calculated herein.
13.

Sanchez and Oalaes and their children suffered severe clllotionaltrauma
due to their family being tOl1l apart and separated tor eleven months as a result of
Defendant's misconduct.

14.

Defendant has made no efforts to ease the suffering of Sanchez and Oaleas
or their family; specifically, Detendanthas not refunded any of the fees Sanchez and
Oaleaspaid to his firm or made any eff(lrts to reimburse them for the financial hardship
his misconduct caused them.
15.
Defendant has consistentlyrefused to apologizeio Sanchez and Galeas 01'
their family or display any remorse,

16.

Defendant has consistently refused to acknowledge the wfOl1g:IUll1ature of

his conduct.

17.
Defendant'sa.ctions deprived three children of their illother and a hospital
of their ten-year employee for eleven months.

18.
At the heating in this Inutter, Defelldailt repeatedly exhibited a lack of
concern or appreciation forhi5 license to practice law in NOlth Carolina; he stated
numerous times that he did not care about his license and, in fact, .surrellder~>d his North
C.arolina State Bar lawyer identification can:! to the Hearing Panel prior to the Panel's
deliberation regal'ding.discipline.
19.
Defendant sent numerous incohetentand emotional emails to the State Bar
prior to the hearing in this matter wherein he (i) alleged that various patties, including the
State Bar, were conspiring against him; (ii) made vatious demands for the personal
information of State Bar employees; and (iii) issued "ultimatums" te Plaintiffs counsel,
6

threatening to "go to the media" and surrender his license prior to triill if Plaintiff's
counsel failed to take certain actiolls.
20.
During the hearing in this mllUel', Defendant used unprofessional and
coarse language while on the stand and on more than one occasion spoke oulM turn or
shouted inteljecti<lns to the Panel apart from making any substantive objection.
21.
During the hearing in this matter, Defendant made numerous statements
while testifying under oath that were directly contrary to his deposition testilllollY.
22.
Defendrult's communications with the State Bar and his behavior duri1lg
the hearing in this matter demonstrate lhat he is emotionally labile and that his behavior
is en-atic. This raises COI1<:0111S about whether his protesSiQnldcompetence, pertormance,
or judgment may be impaired.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional
Findings Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Pal1clenters the followil1g
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

The Heal'ingPanel considered all of the. factors enumerated in 27
N.c'A.C. m§ .0114(w)(I), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe State Bar,
and concludes that the following factors are applicable:
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI14(w)(I)
a. Factor (B), Intent of Deflmdantto commit acts where the harm or
potential hann is foreseeable;
b. Factor (C), Circumstances tefleetihg Detendant's lack of honesty,
trustworthiness,ot· integrity;
c. Factor (D), Elevation .of Defendant's 0\\11 interest above that of the
client;
d. Factor (E), Negative impact of Defendanl's actions on client's .or
public's perception of the profession;
e. Factor (F), Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the
administration of justice;
f.

Factor (0), ]mpail111CI1t of the client's ability to achieve the, goals of
the representation;

g. Factor (H), Effect of Defendallt's conduct onthitd parties;
h. Factor (I), Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, orfabticatjon;
7

27N.e.A.e. IB § .0114(w)(2)

a. Factor (A), Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or
fabrication; and
b. Factor (Il), Impulsive aetsof dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or
fabriclltionwithout timely remedial efforts
27 N,e.A.e. IB § .01 t4(w)(3)
a. Factor (e), Dishonest or selfish motive;
b. f'actor (El, Indifference to making restit.utiol);
c. Factor (0), Multiple offenses;
d. Factor (N), Submission of false evidence, false statements, oj' other
deceptive practices during the disciplinary process;
e. Factor (0), Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct; and

£. Factor (R), Vulnerability of victim.
2.
Although the Hearing Panel detennined two of the factors under 27
N.e.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(2) to be present, the Hearing Panel concluded that disbannent
was notwarranteti in light of all ofthe circumstances of the case.
3.
The HearlngPaneJ considered all of the disciplinary options available to it
and detennined that imposition of a suspension is appropriate.
4.
The Hearing Panel considered all lesser sanctions and concluded that
discipline short of an active suspension would 1l0tadeqQately protect the pUblic,
Itnposition ofa lesser discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
offenses Defendant comtnitted and would send the wrong message to members of the Bar
and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.
5.
Given Defendant's attitude, his demonstrated lack of appreciation [01' his
license to practice law, his refusal to apologize, his refusal to acknowledge the wrongful
nature of his conduct, at\d his refusl11 to take any remedial steps to help the victitns Mhis
l\lisconduct, it is evident to the Panel that Defendant is a danger to the public and that, if
he is permitted to continue to practice law unabated, it is likely that the public will be
hanned.
6.
To protect the public, if Defendant ever does practice law again, he needs
supervision, accountability, and mOllitorill~ regarding the methods and means through
which he provides Jegal services to his clients and the manner in which he supervises his
nonlawyer assistants.

8

7.
To protect the public, Defendant should be required to establisn--prior to
retuming to the practice of law~that his pr.ofessionulperf.ormance, judgment, and
competence are n.ot impaired by any physical .or mental c.ondition.
8.
Defendant sh.ould be required to reimburse Sanchez and Galeas a small
pO!1i.on .of the expeilses his misconduct caused them.
9.
T.o pr.otect the public, Defendant sh.ould be required t.o attain additional
pr.ofessi.onal kn.owledge and guidance in h.ow to practice law, specifically concerning
immigl'atiM law and the management of ilonlawyer assistants.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusi.ons of kaw, 3ndadditi.onal
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of l,aw Regarding Discipline, the He;ll'ing Panel hereby
enters the following
ORDER OF OlSC1PUNE
I.
Defendant, Alvaro De LaCallc; is hereby SUSPENDED from the practice
oflaw tor five years, effective 30 days fr.om service ofthis Order upon Defendant.

2.
Defendant is taxed with tlle COStS and administrative iees of this action,
including the costs .of the depositiolls,as assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be
served with a statement of costs and fees. Defendat)! shall pay the costs within 30 days of
service.of the statement of costs upon him.

3.

Defendant shall surrender his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of tlle NOtth Carolina State Bar no .later than 30 days following service of this
Order up.on him.
4.

Defelldant shall comply with the wind down provisi.ons of27 N.C.A.C.l B

§ .0124 of the State Bar Rules.

Within 15 days oftheeffective date ofthis Order, Defendant shall provide
the State Bar's OfHce of C.ounsel with an address3nd telephone number at which-clients
seeking return of files cancotllmUllicate with Defendant and .obtain such files, and
Defendant shaH promptly provide client files tv .all clients who req~Jest ret\tl1l of their
tiles.
5.

6.
Defendant shilll l'etum client files to cliet'lts within five days of receipt of
request. DefendantwiJI be deetll()d to have received any such request three days after the
date the request is sent to him if the request is sellt to. the address Defet)ctalltprovided the
State Bar pursuant to this Order.
7.
After selying the period of suspension, Defendatit Illay apply tor
reinstatement of his license tv practice. law by filing a verified petition with the Executive
Director of the Slate Bar demonstrating by dear, cogent, and convincing evidence that
Defendant has met all requirements f.or reinstatement set out in· 27 N.C.A.C. IB §
.OJ 25(b), and has complied with each ofthefbllowing:
9

a. Defendant paid all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within 30 days after service of the statement of
costs on him;
b. Detendant maintained, each year during the period of his suspension, all
of the annual Continuing Legal Education ("CLE") requiremelitsas
required by the State Bar ofactively licensed attorneys. Defendant shall
have the burden of establishing by clear and convincing evidence, at the
time he seeks reinstatement, thll! he completed these courses each year of
his suspension;
c. Defendaut completed, during the pedodof hiS suspension, six .additional
hours of CLEcourscs each year of his suspension: thl'ee· hours on the
topic of law practice management and three hours on the topil) of
immigration law. Defendant shall have the burden of establishing by
clearund cOllvinoing eVidence, at the time he seeks reinstatement, that he
completed these courses oach year of his suspension. These courses are in
addition to the nonnal CLE requirements as set fOlih iu 27 N.C.A.C. 1D
§ ,1518 and required of Defendant by paragrllph(b);
d. Within 30 days of theeffel)tive .date of this Order, Defendant paid
$7,555,00 to Wilson Galea$ atld MirtilaS,l11cbez as paltial restitution tor
the expenses theyincurredas a result ofDefendallt's miscol)dllCt;
e. Within two months prior to filing any petition for reinstatement,
Defendant was evaluated, at his own exp¢nse, by a bollrdcertified
psychiatl'ist or psychologist approved by the North Carolina State Bar for
the purpose of determining whether Defendant has any mental or
psychological impairment, addiction, personality disorder; or other
condition. 01' illness. The evaluating clinician must not be and must no!
have ever beel) a provider from whom Defendant receives or received
treatment;
t: Defendant obtained a written report from the evaluating dinician
described in paragraph (e) setting forth: (i) the findings of the
exaniination; (ii) the clinician's opinion as to whether Defendant has any
physical or mental impaitment, addiction, personality disorder, or other
condition 01' illness that could advers.ely affect his abilityto pral)tice law;
and (iii) the clinician's recommendations, if any, regarding ongoing
trel'(tment;

g. Prior to or at the time of filing his petition, Defendant provided a copy of
the clinician's report described in paragraph (f) to the Office of' Counsel
of the State Bar, and executed a written release authorizing the examining
clinician to provide medicall'ecords to, and communicate with, fhe Office
of Counsel regarding the substance of the evaluation and report;

10

h. Defendant shall have the burden of establishing by clear and convincing
evidence (hat, at the time he seeks reinstatement, he does not have any
physical or mental impajnnent, addlction, pel'sonalitydisorder,ol' other
condition or illness that signific3ntlyimpairs his professional
performance, judgment, or competence; and
i. Defendant shall have arranged for and entered into a binding cOlltl'act
with an active member oHbe NOlth Carolina State Bar who isiu good
standing who practices law in the county in which Detendant will
primal'ily practice and who was approved by the North Carolina State Bar
in advance to serVe as his practice monitor tot two years, statting
immediately upon Defendant'sreinStatemellt. The selectedmonitol' shall
have agreed to serve in this capacity and to illeet wjth Defendant twice
monthly to review Defendant's cases. The contractshall require thaI, two
times each month, the monitor lIlust go over each of Defendant's cases in
detail, with discussion including but not Iiillited to identification of
applicable statutory and regulatory authorities,ldentiflcation of potential
legal issues, plan of representation, and the appropriate roles of
Defendant's nonlawyer assistants in each case, The contract shnllrequire
that Defendailt shall come prepared tWice each month to discuss these
topi<:;s in his cases with his pr!lCtice monitor. The contract shall require
that the monitor submit written qtlaltedy l'eportgof these meetings and
discussions to the Office of Counsel, such reports due 011 the *ollowing
dates as they occur during the two years orlhe 1Il0nitoring: October 15,
January ]5, April 15, and July 15. The contract shall require that this
monitoring occur continuously for two years. The contract shall require
that Defendant pay all costs,iflmy, charged by the monitor. Prior to
filing his petitioll for reinstatement, Defendant must have (1) made the
alTangemellts for this monitoring attorney, (Ii) entered into a binding
contract with the same, and (iii) supplied the Office of Counsel with a
letter from the monitoring attomey cOIlItmling his or heragl'cemcntto
perform the duties Iistcdabove as well as a copy of the excquted contract
between Defendant and the monitoring attorney.
Signed by the Chair with the IX)IIsent of the other Heaiing Panel members, this.
the_Z .. J..dayof J'J~
2017;

!rL':a~;:--

Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel

1]

