'l~t~,[~76?l;[y~
.A
q,
....
tf-?

~~
'i;r

~,

,."
STATE OF NORTH CAROL

'fJ.

FEB 2Ql{f

FILED nuf'!

'0.

71/l!
-II!

WAKE COUNTY

t.f·_~

::.
N

BEFORE THE
lA,RYHEARING COMMISSION
(.I;
OF THE
n \J;
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0[6 u
13 DHC27
m~~l;

0.1.

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
ALLAN C. DE LAINE, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATIER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Connnission composed of Barbara B. Weyher, Chair, Renny W. Deese and Percy L.
Taylor pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114 ofthe Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by
Barry S. McNeill, Deputy Counsel. Defendant, Allan C. De Laine, was represented by
Carolin Bakewell, Bakewell & Belo, PLLC. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this
matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the entry of this Order and to the
discipline imposed. Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent Order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency ofthe findings.
Based upon the consent of the patties, the hearing panel hereby makes, by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 ofthe North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Allan C. De Laine ("De Laine"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on April II, 1997, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in NOlth Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
NOlth Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, De Laine was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office

in Clayton, Johnston County, North Carolina, doing business as the Allan C. De Laine
Law Office, P.A.

FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF
4.
On or about April 16, 2008, Marilyn A. Fisher ("Ms. Fisher") was injured
while she was a guest in the home of an acquaintance's daughter ("G. Jackson") located
in Gladys, Campbell County, Virginia.
5.
In August 2008, Ms. Fisher retained De Laine to represent her in a
personal injury action for the injuries she sustained.
6.
Ms. Fisher and De Laine agreed that De Laine would receive a 33\1,%
contingency fee of any proceeds awarded to Ms. Fisher.

7.

De Laine did not reduce his contingency fee agreement with Ms. Fisher to

writing.
8.
After being retained by Ms. Fisher, De Laine did not respond to Ms.
Fisher's telephone and e-mail requests for updates on the status of her case.
9.
De Laine neglected Ms. Fisher's case and did not adequately pursue
settlement negotiations with G. Jackson's insurance company.
10.
Although De Laine communicated with Ms. Fisher on some occasions, he
did not keep Ms. Fisher informed about the status of her case.
11.
De Laine failed to explain to Ms. Fisher the steps he was taking on her
behalf, or obtain Ms. Fisher's informed consent for his actions in the case.
12.
De Laine should have known that Virginia has a two-year statute of
limitations for personal injury actions.
De Laine did not know or research the legal issue referenced in Paragraph
13.
12 above, and thereby failed to exercise competence and reasonable diligence in
representing Ms. Fisher.
14.
The Virginia statute of limitations for Ms. Fisher's action against G.
Jackson expired on April 8, 2010.
15.
De Laine did not file, or cause to be filed through a licensed Virginia
attorney, the personal injury action on behalf of Ms. Fisher against G. Jackson in
Campbell County, Virginia, or in any other Virginia venue.
De Laine mistakenly believed North Carolina's three-year statute of
16.
limitations for personal injury actions was applicable to Ms. Fisher's claim against G.
Jackson.

2

17.
On April 15,2011, the day before the expiration of North Carolina's threeyear statute of limitations, De Laine filed a complaint on behalf of Ms. Fisher against G.
Jackson in Johnston County District Court.
18.
De Laine filed the complaint referenced in Paragraph 17 above with the
intent to take a voluntary dismissal and thereby obtain an additional year to pursue
settlement negotiations in Ms. Fisher's case.
19.
The complaint referenced in Paragraph 17 above contained a notarized
verification that purpOlied to be signed by Ms. Fisher on April 15, 2011.
20.
Ms. Fisher did not sign the verification referenced in Paragraph 19 above,
and did not authorize anyone, including De Laine, to sign her name to the verification.
21.
Without Ms. Fisher's knowledge or authorization, De Laine signed Ms.
Fisher's name to the verification referenced in Paragraph 19 above.
22.
After signing Ms. Fisher's name to the verification referenced in
Paragraphs 19 and 21 above, De Laine presented the falsified verification to a notary
public ("R. Wooten"), and requested that she notarize Ms. Fisher's purported signature
on the verification.
23.
At De Laine's request, R. Wooten notarized the purpOlied signature of Ms.
Fisher on the verification referenced in Paragraph 19 above even though Ms. Fisher had
not signed the verification in her presence.
24.
By presenting Ms. Fisher's false signature to R. Wooten for notarization,
De Laine exposed R. Wooten to the risk of being charged with a violation of N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 1OB-60(c).
On May 23,2011, without notice to Ms. Fisher or her consent, De Laine
25.
filed a notice of dismissal ofthe complaint referenced in Paragraph 17 above.
26.
De Laine did not inform Ms. Fisher about the dismissal referenced in
Paragraph 25 above.
27.
De Laine fuiled to re-file the complaint against G. Jackson within one year
of the May 23, 2011 dismissal referenced in Paragraph 25 above.
28.
De Laine ceased representing Ms. Fisher without informing her that he
was no longer acting as her attorney and without obtaining permission of the cOUli to
withdraw fi'om her case.
SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF
On August 13,2005, Delphine D. Wilder ("Ms. Wilder") was injured in
29.
Cary, NOIth Carolina, when her vehicle was rear-ended by another vehicle driven by G.
Sholar ("G. Sholar").
3

30.
In January 2008, Ms. Wilder retained De Laine to represent her in a
personal injury action against G. Sholar.
31.
Ms. Wilder and De Laine agreed that De Laine would receive a
contingency fee of any proceeds awarded to Ms. Wilder.
32.
to writing.

De Laine failed to reduce his contingency fee agreement with Ms. Wilder

33.
After conferring with Ms. Wilder, on or about July 1,2008 De Laine
notified G. Sholar's insurance company that Ms. Wilder rejected their settlement offer.
On August 13, 2008, the day of the expiration of the statute of limitations,
34.
De Laine filed a complaint on behalf of Ms. Wilder against G. Sholar in Johnston County
District Court.
35.
The Sheriffs Department was unable to serve G. Sholar with Ms.
Wilder's summons and complaint, and returned notice to De Laine of lack of service on
or about October 10,2008.
36.
De Laine took no action on Ms. Wilder's case after the return of service
referenced in Paragraph 35 above.
37.
De Laine did not inform Ms. Wilder about the inability to obtain service
upon G. Sholar ofthe summons and complaint referenced in Paragraphs 34 and 35 above.
38.
De Laine did not inform Ms. Wilder of her options if the Sheriffs
Department was unable to obtain service upon G. Sholar of the summons and complaint
referenced in Paragraphs 34 and 35 above.
39.
De Laine failed to keep alive the summons referenced in Paragraph 35
above in order to prevent Ms. Wilder's lawsuit against G. Sholar from becoming timebarred under the statute of limitations.
40.
Because of De Laine's inaction referenced in Paragraph 39 above, Ms.
Wilder's cause of action against G. Scholar is now time-barred.
41.
After failing to obtain service of the summons and complaint upon G.
Sholar as referenced in Paragraphs 34 and 35 above, De Laine failed to respond to Ms.
Wilder's telephone calls and messages inquiring about the status of her case.
42.
De Laine ceased representing Ms. Wilder without informing her that he
was no longer acting as her attomey and without obtaining permission of the court to
withdraw from her case.

:-.;;1

4

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Allan C. De Laine, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
De Laine's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b )(2) as follows:
a) By failing to reduce his contingency fee agreements with Ms. Fisher and
Ms. Wilder to writing, Defendant violated Rule 1.5(c) requiring that a
contingent fee agreement be in writing signed by the client and that the
agreement state the method by which the fee is to be determined;
b) By neglecting Ms. Fisher's case, failing to pursue settlement negotiations
with G. Jackson's insurance company, failing to research applicable
Virginia law, and failing to timely file or cause to be filed Ms. Fisher's
complaint against G. Jackson, Defendant failed to competently represent
Ms. Fisher in violation of Rule 1.1, Defendant failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing Ms. Fisher in
violation of Rule 1.3, and Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
c) By failing to respond to Ms. Fisher's requests for status updates, failing to
consult with Ms. Fisher, and failing to explain the effect of the dismissal
of her complaint to Ms. Fisher, Defendant failed to reasonably consult
with Ms. Fisher about the means by which her objectives were to be
accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2), failed to keep Ms. Fisher
reasonably informed about the status of her case in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with Ms. Fisher's reasonable requests
for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to explain the
matter to the extent necessary to permit Ms. Fisher to make informed
decisions about her case in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
d) By knowingly forging Ms. Fisher's signature on the complaint
verification, causing the notary public to notarize the falsified signature,
and filing the complaint containing the notarized falsified signature,
Defendant made false statements of material fact to a tribunal in violation
of Rule 3.3(a)(1), falsified evidence in violation of Rule 3.4(b), engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
e) By filing the dismissal of the complaint without Ms. Fisher's knowledge
or consent, Defendant failed to consult with Ms. Fisher as to the means by
which the objectives of her representation were to be pursued in violation
of Rule 1.2(a);
5

f) By failing to obtain the permission of the court to withdraw from Ms.

Fisher's and Ms. Wilder's cases, Defendant failed to comply with
applicable law requiring notice to or permission of a tribunal when
terminating a representation in violation of Rule 1.16(c), and by not
informing Ms. Fisher and Ms. Wilder that he would no longer be
representing them, Defendant failed to protect his clients' interest by
giving reasonable notice of his termination ofthier representation in
violation of Rule 1.16(d);
g) By neglecting Ms. Wilder's case and failing to keep alive the summons to
prevent Ms. Wilder's lawsuit against G. Sholar from becoming timebarred under the statute of limitations, Defendant failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing Ms. Wilder in
violation of Rule 1.3, and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule S.4(d); and,
h) By failing to consult with Ms. Wilder about the inability to obtain service
upon G. Sholar and failing to respond to Ms. Wilder's telephone calls and
messages inquiring about the status of her case, Defendant failed to
reasonably consult with Ms. Wilder about the means by which her
objectives were to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2), failed to
keep Ms. Wilder reasonably informed about the status of her case in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with Ms. Wilder's
reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and
failed to explain the matter to Ms. Wilder to the extent necessary to permit
Ms. Wilder to make informed decisions about her case in violation of Rule
1.4(b).
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel also finds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.
Defendant's failures to properly research the applicable law and timely file
and serve his clients' complaints prior to the expiration of the statute of limitations
caused significant harm to his clients and had the potential to cause significant harm to
the public's perception of the legal profession.
3.
Defendant's forgery of Ms. Fisher's signature on the complaint
verification, and causing the notary public to notarize the falsified signature, had the
potential to cause significant harm to the notary public and caused significant harm to the
public's perception ofthe legal profession.
4.
Defendant has been cooperative during the State Bar's investigation of
these matters.
6

5.
Defendant understands the significance of his misconduct and is
remorseful for the harm and potential harm that his conduct caused his clients, the notary
public, and the public's perception of the legal profession.
6.
Defendant enjoys a reputation of good character in his professional and
personal life.
7.
Defendant has not previously been disciplined for violating the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code I B § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of
the NOlth Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
b. Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
c. Defendant is remorseful for his conduct;
d. The vulnerability ofthe victims;
e. Defendant's reputation for good character; and
f.

Defendant's substantial experience in the practice of law.

2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all ofthe factors enumerated in
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .OII4(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors warrant suspension of Defendant's
license:
a. Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
b. Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on his clients' and the
public's perception of the legal profession;
c. Defendant's conduct had a negative impact on the administration of
justice;
d. Defendant's conduct impaired each client's ability to achieve the goals of
the representation;

7

e. Defendant's conduct had a potential adverse affect on a third party; and,
f.

Defendant's conduct included acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation,
deceit, or fabrication.

3.
The hearing panel has also carefully considered all ofthe factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of
the N011h Carolina State Bar and concludes that although acts of dishonesty or
misrepresentation are present in this case, disbarment is not necessary in order to protect
the public.
4.
The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline available
and concludes that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the
public, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar.
5.
The hearing panel finds and concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by imposing a period of active suspension which is subject to being stayed in
part upon Defendant's compliance with conditions designed to ensure protection of the
public and to ensure Defendant's compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I.
The license of Defendant, Allan C. De Laine, is hereby suspended for two
years. This Order will be effective 30 days after service of the Order upon Defendant.
2. .
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the N011h Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the effective date of this
Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and fees.
Defendant shall pay the amount assessed within thirty days of service of the statement of
costs and fees upon him.
5.
One year from the effective date of this Order, Defendant may file a
verified petition for a stay ofthe remaining period of his suspension demonstrating by
clear, cogent and convincing evidence that, in addition to complying with the general
provisions for reinstatement contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 ofthe Rules

8

and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, Defendant has complied during his
suspension with the following conditions:
a. Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of
the NOlth Carolina State Bar;
b. Defendant kept the Membership Depattment of the State Bar informed of
his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his
suspension;
c. Defendant accepted all certified mail fi'om the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of the suspension;
d. Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his suspension;
e. Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding continuing
education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of his
petition for reinstatement;
f.

Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;

g. Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period ofthe suspension; and
h. Defendant paid all costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within thilty days of service of the statement of costs and fees
upon him.
6.
Defendant may file a petition seeking a stay of the remaining period of his
suspension and demonstrating compliance with the conditions stated in Paragraph 5
above up to 30 days prior to the end of the first year of the two year suspension, but the
stay shall not be lifted and Defendant shall not be reinstated until the end of that first year
of the two year suspension.
7.
If Defendant seeks and obtains a stay of any active period of his two year
suspension, Defendant shall arrange for an active member of the NOlth Carolina State
Bar to serve as his law practice monitor. Defendant's practice monitor shall be an
attorney in good standing who practices law in Defendant's judicial district and who has
been approved by the Office of Counsel. The monitor will supervise all client matters
9

and will ensure that Defendant handles all client matters in a timely fashion, including,
but not limited to, promptly responding to his clients and diligent pursuit of his clients'
matters. Defendant shall meet once a month with his monitoring attorney, report the
status of all current client matters to the monitor, cooperate with the monitoring attorney,
and provide any information the monitoring attorney deems reasonably necessary to
ensure that Defendant is properly and timely handling all client matters. The monitor
will submit written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel, such
reports due on the following dates as they occur during the stay ofthis suspension:
January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. Defendant bears the responsibility of
ensuring the monitoring attorney sends a written report each quarter to the Office of
Counsel as described above. This monitoring will occur for the duration of any stay of
this suspension. Defendant will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this
supervision. Defendant must make the arrangements for this monitoring attorney and
supply the Office of Counsel with a letter from the monitoring attorney confirming his or
her agreement to perform the duties listed above.
8.
Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make
appropriate arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed during any stay
of this suspension.

9.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission ("DHC"), Defendant's obligations under
this Order end two years from the effective date of the Order provided there are no
motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance with the
conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0114(x)
ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, the DHC retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion
or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of
the suspension is pending when the period of the stay ofthe suspension would otherwise
have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the one year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of
the conditions ofthe stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
10.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated in Paragraphs 5, 7 and 8 above, then the stay of the
suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §
.OII4(x) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.
11.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing an application for reinstatement demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:

10

a. Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0125 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar; and
b. Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraphs 5 (a) - (h), 7 and 8
above.
12.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of any active period of his two year
suspension, Defendant must provide in his application for reinstatement clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence of the following:
a. Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0125 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar; and
b. Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraphs 5 (a) - (h) above.
13.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct
discovered or repOlted which occurred during the same time period as the conduct
addressed in this Order.

;z.

Signed bYJh~ Chair. with the consent of the ~earing panel
--,-~'S,-L day of ::&Y,,"""':1=
' 20 14.
/

u

./

,I

Carolin Bakewell
Attorney for Defendant

11

embers, this the

