NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
RALPH EDWARD McLAURIN, Jr., Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING
DEFENDANT TO
DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

This matter was presented to the hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair; Hamet T. Smalls; and Michael J. Houser
that was assigned to hear this matter; with A. Root Edmonson representing the North Carolina
State Bar and Thomas H. Stark representing the defendant; and based upon the consent of the
parties, the record in this matter and the medical infonnation provided, the hearing committee
enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 oftbe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The defendant, Ralph Edward McLaurin, Jr. ("McLaurin"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 24, 1975 and is, and was at all times referred to in the Complaint
filed here~ an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the roles,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of
the State of North Carolina.
3. During the times relevant to the Complaint, McLaurin actively engaged in the private
practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and was a partner or shareholder in the firm of
Holmes & McLaurin in the city of Pittsboro, Chatham County, North Carolina.
4. The complaint was filed in this matter on August 30, 2005. Service of that complaint
was accepted on October 20, 2005. An amended complaint was filed and served upon the
defendant on January 3,2006.

5. On February 3,2006, the plaintiff filed and served Requests for Admissions and also
served Plaintiff's Interrogatories to Defendant and Requests for Production of Documents on the
defendant (collectively referred to hereafter as "discovery requests).
6. By consent order entered on March 23,2006, the defendant was given time to seek
counseling prior to filing an answer to the amended complaint and responses to the discovery
served upon him by the State Bar. In that order, the defendant agreed not to practice law until
after conclusion of this proceeding.
7. The time for the defendant to file his answer and responses to the discovery requests
was extended on one or more occasions prior to an order being entered on August 7, 2008
requiring the defendant to file a responsive pleading to the amended complaint by August 18,
2008, a date that was extended by agreement of counsel for the North Carolina State Bar to
September 2, 2008. Counsel also agreed to extend the time for the defendant's responses to the
discovery requests to September 2,2008.
8. By letter dated August 27,2008, James H. Hilkey, Ph. D., a licensed practicing
psychologist, diagnosed the defendant as suffering from a Major Depressive Disorder that
impairs his ability to exercise professional judgment and competence which significantly impairs
his perfonnance as an attorney.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. All parties are-properly before the hearing committee, and the committee has
jurisdiction over the defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. The defendant is disabled within the meaning of27 N.C.A.C. IB, § .0103(19), and the
defendant should be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. lB,
§ .01l8(c).
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following:
ORDER TRANSFERRlNG THE DEFENDANT TO DISABILI1Y INACTIVE STATUS

1. The defendant, Ralph Edward McLaurin, Jr., is hereby transferred to disability inactive
status.
2. The defendant shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina until reinstated to
active status pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB, § .OI25(c).
3. All pending claims for relief against the defendant, as well as any grievances, are
hereby stayed until such time as the defendant returns to active status.

4. The defendant will have thirty (30) days from the date that an order transferring the
defendant to active status is filed to file an answer to the amended complaint in this matter and to
respond to the discovery requests.

5.	 Thomas H. Stark, counsel for the defendant, is granted leave to withdraw upon
execution of this order. Defendant shall provide his address to Mr. Edmonson.

6.	 The defendant is taxed with the costs of this action.
Signed by the Chair with the consent members of the other hearing committee this the

~ day of

oc\JD..e;

.2008.

1(1·5(_­

Sharon B. Alexander, Chair
Hearing Committee

WE CONSENT:

A. R ot Edmonson
Deputy Counsel

omas H. Stark
Counsel for the Defendant

