.;) ~
~ (-0>h
f'£"e

f':l

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

C"'!

'~

BEF81i~ THE'
JI..I2D
:::;

/:'11

lf4.$TI:(~
• (';'C','

'- ())>
, \~;.
";~ ~,9;! ~2 V2~1~

WAKE COUNTY

~'--"-~"':

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

RIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
ROLINA STATE BAR
1500956

,

ORDER OF
RECIPROCAL DISCIPLINE

v.
JOANNE M. DENISON, Attomey,
Defendant

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chair of the Grievance Committee of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §§ .0105(a)(12) and .01l6(b) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, and based upon the record in this matter, the
undersigned finds as follQws:
1.
Respondent, JoAnne M. Denison, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on
8 August 1997 and is, and was at all times refene~ to herein, an attomey at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
By order dated 21 September 2015, the Supreme Court of Illinois suspended
2.
JoAnne M. Denison from the practice of law in Illinois for a period of three years and until
fUlther order of the Court. As a basis for its suspension order, the Court determined by clear and
convincing evidence that DenIson had engaged in professional misconduct wananting
suspension. The Court concluded that:
(a) Denison posted statements to a public blog in which she accused the
judges and attomeys involved in a probate matter of being COlTUpt and
accepting bribes;
(b) Denison failed to provide an objective factual basis for her statements;
(c) Denison's statements were false and made without a reasonable basis of
belief; and
(d) Denison's statements led to undue complications and significant delays in
resolving the real issues of the probate case.
3.
On 3 December 2015, the NOlth Carolina State Bar served Denison with a Notice of
Reciprocal Discipline. The Notice advised Denison that the State Bar was considering imposing
identical discipline based upon the Illinois Supreme Court's order of suspension.

1

4. . Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0116(b)(1), Respondent was required to
file a response within 30 days of service of the Notice of Reciprocal Discipline if she desired to
object to the imposition of identical discipline.
5.

Denison failed to respond within 30 days of service ofthe Notice.

6.
On 14 January 2016, the State Bar received Denison's response to the Notice of
Reciprocal Discipline, wherein she objected to the imposition of reciprocal discipline. Denison
indicated she deposited the response with the U.S. Postal Service on 8 January 2016. Despite the
untimely nature of Denison's response, the Grievance Committee took Denison's response into
consideration when reviewing this matter.
7.
The Grievance Committee concludes that none of the elements set forth in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0116(b)(3) exist in this case, and therefore that there are no grounds to
conclude that the imposition of identical discipline in North Carolina would be unwarranted.
The Grievance Committee further concludes that the identical three-year period of suspension on
Denison's license to practice law in NOlih Carolina should b~ effective thitiy days after service
of the Order of Reciprocal Discipline and that her reinstatement to the practice of law in NOlih
Carolina should be predicated upon her reinstatement to the practice of law in Illinois.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS the Chair of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1.
The NOlih Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of the
proceeding and over the person of the Respondent, JoAnne M. Denison.
2.
The Grievance Committee has complied with the procedure for imposition of
reciprocal discipline set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0116(b) of the N.C. State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0116(b)(5), the 21 September 2015
Supreme Court of Illinois Order of Suspension against Denison establishes that Denison engaged
in conduct constituting violations of the following North Carolina State Bar Rules of
Professional Conduct: Rule 8.2 (a) and Rules 8.4(c) & (d). These Rule violations justify the
imposition of reciprocal discipline in this State.
4.
The suspension imposed by the Supreme Court of Illinois is the equivalent of a
suspension as described and set out in N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(c)(2). Denison's right to practice
law in the State of North Carolina shall be suspended for three years effective thiIiy days after
service of the Order of Reciprocal Discipline. Furthermore, Denison should be allowed to
petition for reinstatement of her NOlih Carolina law license only after her license to practice law
in Illinois is reinstated.
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1.
The license of Respondent, JoAnne M. Denison, is hereby SUSPENDED from the
practice of law for three years effective thitiy days from the date this Order of Reciprocal
Discipline is served on her.
2

2.
Denison shall submit her license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the date she is served with this Order.
Denison shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0124 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124.
3.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued discipline by the Grievance Committee, and in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .0105(a)(15), an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to
Denison.
4.
Denison may not petition for reinstatement to the practice of law in North Carolina
until her license to practice law in Illinois is reinstated. Additionally, in petitioning for
reinstatement of her N Olih Carolina law license after being reinstated to the practice of law in
Illinois, Denison must submit proof of her reinstatement to the practice of law in Illinois and
must comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125.

This the 8th day of February, 2016.

Michael L. Robinson, Chairperson
Grievance Committee

3

