" '1026[·~t \.\ ~
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner

v.

ORDER OF
RECIPROCAL DISCIPLINE

J. RONALD DENMAN, Attorney,
Respondent

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chairperson of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Rules .0105(a)(12)
and .0120(b)(3) (formerly codified at .0116(b)(3)) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules, and based upon the record in this matter, the undersigned finds as follows:
1.
On 10 November 2016, the Supreme Court of Florida issued an Order in Florida
Bar v. Joseph Ronald Denman, No. SC16-774, suspending J. Ronald Denman (hereinafter
"Denman") for 30 days for his conduct in violation of the Rules Regulating the Florida Bar.
2.

Denman was licensed in North Carolina via examination in 2008.

3.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Rule .0120(b)
(formerly codified at .0116(b)) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, on
28 August 2017, Denman was served with the North Carolina State Bar's Notice of Reciprocal
Discipline Proceeding ("Notice"). The State Bar's Notice cited the Order of suspension in
Denman.
4.
The Order issued by the Supreme Court of Florida in Denman was predicated on
the following facts:
a. In June 2011, in In re: Former Marriage of Joseph Ronald Denman and
Hayley Lynn Denman, Case No. 04-19625-FC-29-PJ in the Circuit Court of
the Eleventh Judicial District of Miami-Dade County, Denman engaged in a
conflict of interest and actions inconsistent with orderly judicial proceedings.
Denman represented his prior employer/client in a deposition. The prior
employer/client sought to invoke trade secret privilege to keep certain
information from disclosure, and Denman asserted objections at the deposition
on the employer's behalf. As a patiy, Denman faced a potential conflict of
interest between his own interest in the family law proceeding and the former
employer/client's business interests.

b. In January 2011, while serving in his role as vice president/in-house counsel
for his employer/client, who was also the president and sole owner of the
company, Denman obtained a loan from the employer/client without obtaining
a written waiver of conflict from the employer/client and also otherwise failed
to fully and properly document the transactions. Although the employer/client
was a sophisticated businessman and the transaction appeared to be fair,
Denman's failure to properly document the transaction caused the family law
proceeding (referenced supra) to be more lengthy and involved.
5.
The Supreme Court of Florida found that Denman's conduct violated the
following Rules Regulating the Florida Bar: Rule 4-1.7 (conflict of interest) and Rule 4-1.8
(business transaction with client).
6.
The State Bar's Notice directed Denman to inform the Grievance Committee
within 30 days of service of any reason why imposition of the identical discipline by the State
Bar would be unwananted. The Notice further advised that if no response was received within 30
days, the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee would sign an order imposing reciprocal
discipline.
7.
By letter dated 17 September 2017, Denman indicated his consent to the
imposition of reciprocal discipline and requested that the reciprocal discipline be deemed to have
run from 18 November to 19 December 2016, conculTently with the suspension of his license in
Florida.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS, the Chairperson of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1.
The North Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this
proceeding and over the person of J. Ronald Denman.
2.
The State Bar has complied with the procedure for imposition of reciprocal
discipline pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Rule .0120 (fOlmerly
codified at .0116) of the NOlih Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
3.
The conduct found by the Supreme COUli of Florida constitutes conduct in
violation of Rules 1.7 and 1.8(a) of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct and
justifies the imposition of reciprocal discipline in this state.
4.
The equivalent discipline imposed by the Supreme Court of Florida should be
imposed on Denman's record in the State of North Carolina. The equivalent discipline in North
Carolina to that imposed by the Supreme COUli of Florida is suspension for 30 days.
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1.
J. Ronald Denman is hereby suspended for 30 days from the practice of law in
NOlih Carolina.

2

2.
The suspension of Denman's license in North Carolina is deemed to have run
concurrently with the suspension of his license in Florida, from 18 November to 19 December
2016.
3.
In accordance with the policy adopted 23 July 2010 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attomey issued discipline by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$350.00 is hereby taxed to Denman.
This the

tz day of February, 2018.

3

