.::,' ,·,,:if ~ ,yO..

'J~~'!,.ll,\\} It ) 2

?r.•

(!,;..~

A~;itQ

1/"0'

A,

'VOir

Iii""'"

STATE OF NORTH

_,

v .:I
'" ...f'
~ ,'"

v

CAROLIN~ ~~. <?0'~EF~ E THE GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
~~

'8,

~a

e~,

WAKE COUNTY

<><'$'O

co

OF THE
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12Gl097

Plaintiff
ORDER OF
RECIPROCAL DISCIPLINE

v,

JAMES H, DICKEY, Attorney,
Defendant

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar by 27 N,C, Admin, Code IB §§ ,0105(a)(l2) and ,0116(b) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, and based upon the record in this matter, the
undersigned finds as follows:
I,
Respondent, James I-I, Dickey, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on II
September 1987 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Cmolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina,
2,
By order dated 21 November 2011, the Supreme COUJi of South Carolina suspended
James H, Dickey from the practice oflaw in South Carolina for a period of two years, As a basis
for its suspension order, the COUJi determined by clem and convincing evidence that Dickey had
engaged in professional misconduct wananting suspension, The COUJi concluded that Dickey:
(a) Failed to diligently prosecute his client's case;
(b) Failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of a matter;
(c) Failed to participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process;
(d) Falsified evidence provided to an opposing party;
(e) Engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation; and
(f) Engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice,

On 10 August 2013, the North Carolina State Bm served Dickey with a Notice of
3,
Reciprocal Discipline, The Notice advised Dickey that the State Bar was considering imposing
identical discipline based upon the South Carolina Supreme Court's order of suspension,

4.
On 12 September 2013, Dickey responded to the State Bar's Notice of Reciprocal
Discipline and objected to the imposition of reciprocal discipline.
S.
The Grievance Committee concludes that none of the elements set forth in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0 116(b)(3) exist in this case, and therefore that there are no grounds to
conclude that the imposition of identical discipline in North Carolina would be unwarranted.
The Grievance Committee further concludes that the identical two-year period of suspension on
Dickey's license to practice law in North Carolina should be effective thirty days after service of
the Order of Reciprocal Discipline and that his reinstatement to the practice of law in North
Carolina should be predicated upon his reinstatement to the practice of law in South Carolina.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS the Chair of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
I.
The NOlih Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of the
proceeding and over the person of the Respondent, James H. Dickey.
2.
The Grievance Committee has complied with the procedure for imposition of
reciprocal discipline set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0116(b) of the N.C. State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0116(b)(S), the Supreme Court of South
Carolina's 21 Novembe l' 2011 Order of Suspension against Dickey establishes that Dickey
engaged in conduct constituting violations of the following North Carolina State Bar Rules of
Professional Conduct: Rule 1.3, Rule 1.4(a)(3), Rule I.S(t), Rule 3.4(b), and Rules 8.4(c) & (d).
These Rule violations justify the imposition of reciprocal discipline in this State.
4.
The suspension imposed by the Supreme Court of South Carolina is the equivalent
of a suspension as described and set out in N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(c)(2). Dickey's right to
practice law in the State of NOlih Carolina shall be suspended for two years effective thirty days
after service of the Order of Reciprocal Discipline. Furthermore, Dickey should be allowed to
petition for reinstatement of his North Carolina law license only after his license to practice law
in South Carolina is reinstated.
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
I.
The license of Respondent, James H. Dickey, is hereby SUSPENDED from the
practice of law for two (2) years effective thhiy days from the date this Order of Reciprocal
Discipline is served on him.
2.
Dickey shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the date he is served with this Order. Dickey
shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124.
3.
Dickey shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within 30 days of service of the statement of costs and administrative fees upon
him.
2

4.
Dickey may not petition for reinstatement to the practice of law in North Carolina
until his license to practice law in South Carolina is reinstated. Additionally, in petitioning for
reinstatement of his North Carolina law license after being reinstated to the practice of law in
South Carolina, Dickey must submit proof of his reinstatement to the practice of law in South
Carolina and must comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125.
This the

4th

day of November, 2013.

Grievance Committee

3

