BEFORE THE
SCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
Co
OF THE
.:::::.~
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
10 DHC OJ

NORTH CAROLINA

-...J

~

WAKE COUNTY

t.
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

CONSENT ORDER

v.

DIEDRA LYNN WHITTED, Attorney,
Defendant

Defendant, Diedra Lynn Whitted ("Whitted" or "Defendant") was ordered to appear and
show cause why the stay of the suspension imposed by the Consent Order of Discipline entered
and filed in this case on June 23, 2010 should not be lifted and the suspension activated. This
matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of
M.B. Hood Ellis, Chair, and members Steven D. Michael and Percy 1. Taylor pursuant to North
Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x). Plaintiff was
represented by G. Patrick Murphy. Defendant was represented by Irving Joyner. Based upon the
pleadings and the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by the greater weight of
the evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
On June 23, 2010, a Consent Order of Discipline (hereinafter "the Order") was
entered in this matter. The Order was served on Defendant on June 30, 2010.
2.
The Order imposed a three year suspension stayed for three years. The stay of the
suspension was conditioned upon compliance with the conditions stated in the Order.
3.
The order, at paragraph 2(b) on page 6, required Defendant to meet the following
condition throughout the stay of the suspension:
Defendant shall arrange for a member of the North Carolina State Bar to serve as her law
practice monitor. The selected monitor must be an active member of the North Carolina
State Bar in good standing who practices law in the judicial district in which Defendant
maintains her primary office of her practice and who has been approved by the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar. The selected monitor cannot be her legal
counsel in this proceeding. The selected monitor must agree to so serve and agree to
meet with Defendant at least monthly to review Defendant's cases. The monitor will
supervise all client matters and will ensure Defendant is, among other duties, handling all
client matters in a timely fashion, responding promptly to her clients, and maintaining her

trust account records as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct. The monitor will
submit written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar; such reports shall be due on the following dates as they occur during the stayed
suspension: January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. This monitoring will occur
for the duration of any stay of this suspension. Defendant will pay the cost, if any,
charged by the monitor for this supervision. Defendant must make the arrangements for
this monitoring attorney and supply the Office of Counsel of the State Bar with a letter
from the monitoring attorney confirming their agreement to perform the duties listed
above within ninety (90) days from service of this Order on Defendant.
4.
Defendant failed to timely comply with the condition in paragraph 3 above.
Defendant did not finalize arrangements for a practice monitor until June 21,2012. A
contributing factor in defendant's failure to comply with the Order was a series of
miscommunications and misunderstandings which occurred between her attorney, the attorney
who had agreed to serve as the monitoring attorney and defendant regarding details of the
monitoring responsibilities. The parties had met in a timely manner, but execution of the
specifics was delayed due to these misunderstandings.
5.
The Order, at paragraphs 2(c) and 2(d) on page 7, required Defendant to meet at
least once a month with her monitoring attorney, to whom she would report the status of all
current client matters, cooperate with the monitoring attorney and provide any information the
monitoring attorney deemed reasonably necessary to ensure Defendant was, among other duties,
handling all client matters in a timely fashion, responding promptly to her clients, and
maintaining her trust account records as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Defendant was required to ensure that the monitoring attorney sent a written report each quarter
to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar as described above.
6.
Defendant failed to timely comply with the conditions contained in paragraphs
2(c) and 2 (d) on page 7 of the Order. Defendant did not begin meeting with her practice
monitor until June 21, 2012.
7.
On March 14, 2012, Bruno DeMolli, an auditor for the North Carolina State Bar,
performed a random audit on Defendant's trust account. DeMolli's audit found that Defendant
1) was not maintaining client ledgers for each person or entity from whom or for whom trust
money had been received as required by Rule 1.15-3(b)(5); 2) was not performing monthly
reconciliations of her trust account as required by Rule 1.15-3(d)(2); 3) was not performing
quarterly reconciliations of her trust account as required by Rule 1.15-3(d) (1 ); and 4) was not
retaining deposit slips prior to February 2012 as required by Rule 1.l5-3(b)(I).
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over the Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant failed to comply with the following conditions of the stay of her
suspension contained in the Order:
2

a.

b.

That she make appropriated arrangements for a monitoring attorney and supply
the Office of Counsel of the State Bar with a letter from the monitoring attorney
confirming their agreement to perform the duties listed in paragraph 2(b) on page
6 of the Order within ninety (90) days from service of the Order on Defendant;
and
That Defendant meet at least once a month with her monitoring attorney, to whom
she would report the status of all current client matters, cooperate with the
monitoring attorney and provide any information the monitoring attorney deemed
reasonably necessary to ensure Defendant was, among other duties, handling all
client matters in a timely fashion, responding promptly to her clients, and
maintaining her trust account records as required by the Rules of Professional
Conduct as required by paragraphs 2 (c) and 2(d) on page 7 of the Order.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law the Hearing Panel
enters the following:
ORDER
1.
The stay entered in the Order filed in this matter on June 23, 2010 is lifted. The
license of the Defendant, Diedra Lynn Whitted, is hereby suspended for three (3) years, effective
upon the filing of this order with the Clerk.
2.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years commencing on the
date this order is filed as long as Whitted complies, and continues to comply during the period of
the stay, with the following conditions:
a.

That she complies with conditions 2(b), (c), (d), (e), (1), (g) and (h) contained in
the ORDER OF DISCIPLINE section, on pages 6 and 7, of the Order filed in this
matter on June 23,2010. Those conditions are incorporated in this order by
reference.

b.

Within ninety (90) days of the filing of this order, the Defendant will employ a
celtified public account, at her expense, to examine her trust account and identify
the beneficial owners of all funds held in her trust account. On or before March
31,2013, Defendant shall provide the report of the CPA to the Office of Counsel
of the North Carolina State Bar. Once the beneficial owners have been identified,
Defendant shall disburse entrusted funds as required by law and the Rules of
Professional Conduct of The North Carolina State Bar within 30 days of
Defendant's receipt of the CPA's report.

c.

During the period of stayed suspension, Defendant will provide the Office of
Counsel copies of monthly and quarterly reconciliations of her trust account. The
copies shall be provided to the Office of Counsel by the 15 th of the month
following the date the reconciliation was required to be completed pursuant to
Rule 1.15-3(d).

3

d.

e.

Defendant shall complete six (6) hours of continuing legal education within the
first year of the period of stayed suspension focused on the proper management of
a lawyer's trust account. These six (6) hours are in addition to the continuing
legal education requirements contained in 27 N.C.A.C. 1D § .1518. Defendant
shall forward to the Office of Counsel documentation showing compliance with
this condition on or before January 6, 2014.
Defendant shall continue to participate in the PALS Program and follow the
recommendations ofthe health care providers associated therewith.

If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in
3.
Paragraph 2 above, then the stay of the suspension of her law license may be lifted as provided in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. If
the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is activated for any
reason, before a subsequent stay of the suspension can be entered Defendant must show by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence that she has complied or has arranged to comply with each of
the conditions referenced in Paragraph 2.
4.
All costs of this action are taxed to Defendant. Defendant must pay the costs of
this action within 30 days of service upon her of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
5.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Panel with the consent of
the other Hearing Panel members.
"oft--..

This the _

day of

./I A

_ ••

J ..

2012

VllTl/""""\f'V)

M.H. Hood Ellis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

G. Patrick Murphy
Deputy Counsel
Attorney for Plaintiff

~.

?~

Irving Joyner
Attorney for Defendant

Di((ra L n Whitted
Defendant

4

