BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G0597

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
SEAN T. DILLENBECK,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 19, 2018 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by C. K. and K. L., Jr.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
While you were of member of Karrenstein, Love & Dillenbeck, PLLC ("firm") you were
counsel for a home owners association ("HOA") in a district court civil case in Mecklenburg
County. Counsel for Defendant in that case on March 30, 2017 sent you an email stating that you
were late in submitting prehearing disclosures for an arbitration in HOA's case. Counsel for
Defendant also reminded you that the arbitration was scheduled to take place on April 6, 2017.

Notwithstanding the reminder of the arbitration hearing date, on April 4, 2017 you took a trip to
New York without advising your law partners that you were doing so. When you were contacted
by your law partners on April 4, 2017 as you were traveling to New York, you misrepresented to
both patiners that you were working from home. You also admitted to one of them that you had
misrepresented your schedule to a client in order to push the client off while you worked on the
legal matter of another client. Your misrepresentations violated Rule 8.4(c).
You failed to appear at the arbitration on April 6, 2017, you did not notify the
representatives of HOA of the arbitration date, and you had not entered HOA's arbitration on the
firm's calendar so your partners did not know it was scheduled. Accordingly, no legal
representative of HOA or any of the client's representatives appeared at the arbitration. While
waiting for anyone on behalf of HOA to show up at the arbitration, opposing counsel sent you an
email asking whether you were going to appear but you did not respond. Your lack of diligence
regarding your obligation to attend the arbitration violated Rule 1.3, and your failure to attend
was prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d). Your failure to
communicate the hearing date to your client violated Rule 1.4(a)(4).
The arbitration resulted in a judgment against HOA in excess of $7,000. Though you
were notified of your fmmer law partners' efforts to set aside the award, you took no part in
attempts to remediate the judgment against HOA essentially abandoning HOA in violation of
Rule 1.16(d). In response to the State Bar's investigation of your conduct, you stated that you
had notified HOA of the arbitration date which was not true and violated Rule 8.1 (a) and 8.4(c).
You are hereby reprimanded by the Nmih Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

DM/lb

11~

day Of ---Lb
..J:...L.-)
t ")L--_ _ _ _ _ , 2018.

