'l1>.'t~('O 27 2Blg'p'

STATE OF NORTH CA

~ ~~,

:\!

INA 1 ( ; , ' /

BEFORE TIIE
IPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
-r-- •
OF THE
"". NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

'()<Of?;' ~

I'll/2:'t)
.

WAKE COUNTY

'D!{~
....

0)

17DHC 22

~R

THE NORTH CAROLINA S~"ctl"~~~
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

ROBERT M. DONLON, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, N. Hunter Wyche, Jr., and Christopher
R. Bruffey pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State
Bar, was represented by Maria J. Brown. Defendant, Robert M. Donlon, was represented by
F. Lane Williamson. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties
stipulate and consent to the entty of this order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant
waives any right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the
findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted
it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Robert M. Donlon, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
March 1997, and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.

Defendant was properly served with the summons and complaint in this matter.

4.
During the relevant period refened to herein, Defendant was actively engaged
in the practice oflaw in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Robert M Donlon
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 1 of8

5.
In 2014, Dr. Phillip Greene ("Greene") pursued a professional malpractice
claim against Defendant and Donlon Law, PLLC.
6.

Greene was represented by Moore and Van Allen, PLLC ("MVA").

7.
In January 2015, Greene voluntarily dismissed the action against Defendant
without prejudice.
8.
Following the dismissal of the lawsuit, Defendant sent several emails to MVA
seeking reimbursement for his legal fees in defending the Greene lawsuit.
9.
In May 2015, the MVA attomey of record in the Greene lawsuit, Josh Lanning,
informed Defendant that Greene would not pay Defendant's legal fees.
10.
In June 2015, Defendant requested a meeting with MYA's managing member,
Emie Reigel ("Reigel"), to discuss Greene's lawsuit and the costs thereofto Defendant.
11.

Reigel declined to meet with Defendant.

12.
On 3 December 2015, Defendant emailed Reigel and another MVA attomey,
Tom Myrick, again requesting a meeting to discuss Greene's lawsuit.
13.
Def~ndant indicated his intent to file a lawsuit against MV A and against Reigel
personally for intentional infliction of emotional distress and malicious prosecution unless
Reigel agreed to meet with Defendant.
14.
Defendant further indicated that the lawsuit he filed against MYA and Reigel
"would be accompanied by a social media campaign explaining everything going on with the
lawsuit including explanations of my sarcastic emails to Josh-interesting stuff about
[attomey name omitted], [attomey name omitted], and the Czar."
15.

The attomeys whose names are omitted are former MVA members.

16.

"The Czar" is a reference to a current MYA equity member.

17.
None of these individuals had any connection to the lawsuit Greene filed
against Defendant.
18.

Later on 3 December 2015, Defendant emailed Reigel again.

19.
Defendant stated he would expose the fact that an MYA attomey "forgave his
wife for sleeping with a lawyer at his firm as long as the lawyer left the firm" and ensure that
the MVA attomey's children leamed "how forgiving their father is."
20.

Defendant stated that the action he was threatening was "just for starters."

21.
The MYA attomey whom Defendant threatened with personal embarrassment,
as described in paragraph 19 above, had no connection to the lawsuit Greene filed against
Defendant.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Robert M Donlon
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 2 of8

22.
At 10:27 a.m. on 4 December 2015, Defendant emailed Reigel and continued
to threaten to expose alleged wrongdoing of various MYA actors.
23.
Defendant stated that his social media campaign against MVA would be
operated tlu'ough the URL "mmm.mvalawless" and that he would mention the firm name at
least four times in the disclaimer on his site to ensure his website would appear on the first
page of intemet searches for Moore & VanAllen.
24.
At 10:38 a.m. on 4 December 2015, Defendant indicated in an email to Reigel
that he would copy the string of emails he had sent to Reigel and send it to every lawyer at
MYA if Reigel did not contact mm by 5 p.m.
25.
At 11:13 a.m. on 4 December 2015, Defendant sent Reigel a message stating,
"Actually, that's way too much work. I'll just send it to 5 associates and they will do the rest."
26.
At 5:04 p.m. on 4 December 2015, Defendant forwarded all of ms previous
emails to five attorneys and members of the staff at MVA with the comment "Please read the
email string below and realize how great a lawyer one of your partners is."
27.
At 5:14 p.m. on 4 December 2015, Defendant sent Reigel an email stating,
"5:01 email sent to first 5 in alphabetical order. The first amendment is a wonderful thing.
And as you scurry to figure out what to do, remember that (1) truth is an absolute defense, and
(2) I haven't asked you for a dime. Now what?"
28.
During the time Defendant was sending these emails, he also had several
telephone conversations with attomeys at MVA where he indicated he was seeking
reimbursement of the legal fees he incurred in defending Greene's lawsuit.
29.
Defendant intended ms threats and harassment to intimidate MVA into
reimbursing mm for the legal fees he incurred in defending Greene's lawsuit.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel malces the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission has jurisdiction over Defendant, Robert M. Donlon, and over the subject matter
of this proceeding.

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his actions as follows: By threatening to
expose embarrassing or incriminating infOlmation about MVA attorneys in order to intimidate
them, Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of
Rule 8.4(d).

The North Carolina State Bar v. Robert M Donlon
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 3 of8

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the consent
of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant has a history of alcoholism.

2.
Defendant was under the influence of alcohol at the time he engaged in the
conduct described above.
3.

Defendant sought and is still in treatment for his alcohol abuse.

4.

Defendant no longer drinks alcohol and is committed to continued sobriety.

5.
Defendant has fully cooperated with the State Bar's investigation and
reaching a resolution in these proceedings.

III

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings Regarding
Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following
ADDITIONAL CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOlms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in Rule .0114(w) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the State Bar, 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0114(w).
2.
The Hearing Panel concludes the following factors from Rule .0114(w)(I)
walTant consideration of suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of justice; and
(b) effect of defendant's conduct on third parties.
3.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
Rule .0 114(w)(2) and concludes that none of the factors requiring consideration of disbarment
are present in this case.
4.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
Rule .0114(w)(3) and determines that the following factors are applicable:
(a) Lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Selfish motive;
(c) A pattern of misconduct;
(d) Effect of physical or mental impairment on the conduct in question;
The North Carolina State Bar v. Robert M Donlon
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 4 of8

(e) Interim rehabilitation; and
(f) Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings.

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered admonition, reprimand and censure as
potential discipline but finds that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge
the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant.
6.
In light of the significant harm and potential harm resulting from Defendant's
misconduct, the Hearing Panel concludes that a suspension of Defendant's license, stayed
upon compliance with conditions, is the only discipline that:
(a) will adequately protect the public;
(b) acknowledges the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed; and
(c) sends a proper message to attomeys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
1.
Defendant, Robert M. Donlon, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for one year, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.

2.
The one year suspension is stayed for a period of two years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following
conditions:
(a) Defendant shall abstain from the consumption of any alcohol during the period
of stay;
(b) Defendant shall abstain from the consumption of any controlled substance
other than medications as prescribed by his treating physician;
(c) Defendant shall successfully comply with the monitoring requirements of
FirstSource Solutions Professional Health Monitoring Program or other service
agreed to by the parties, at Defendant's expense. Such monitoring will include
twelve alcohol screens per year. The monitoring agreement will require the
monitoring service to report to the North Carolina State Bar any failure of
Defendant to take or pay for the test and any positive test result. Defendant will
enter into a monitoring program within thirty days of the date of this order.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Robert M Donlon
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 5 of8

Defendant will sign all releases or documents to allow such reporting and shall
not revoke such releasees) during the period of stay;
(d) Within 30 days of the date of this order, Defendant shall be evaluated by a
clinician approved by the Office of Counsel who specializes in treatment of
substance abuse and addiction. The evaluating clinician shall not be a provider
from whom Defendant has received or will receive ongoing treatment. Within
30 days of the evaluation, the evaluating clinician shall submit to the Office of
Counsel a written report of the results of the evaluation, to include treatment
recommendations. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or documents to
authorize the evaluating clinician to release the report, and to otherwise
respond to requests for information from the Office of Counsel about the
evaluation. The costs associated with compliance with this paragraph shall be
at Defendant's sole expense;
(e) Defendant shall comply with all treatment recommendations of the evaluating
clinician. The provider(s) from whom Defendant receives the recommended
treatment shall provide to the Office of Counsel quarterly repOlts indicating the
nature of the ongoing treatment and Defendant's compliance with treatment.
The reports will be due by January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15
during the period of the stay. It is Defendant's obligation to ensure that the
repOlts are timely submitted. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or
documents to authorize the treating clinician(s) to make these reports, and to
otherwise respond to requests for information from the Office of Counsel about
Defendant's condition and treatment. The costs associated with compliance
with this paragraph shall be at Defendant's sole expense;
(f) Within twelve months after the effective date of this order, Defendant shall
attend at least 3 hours of Continuing Legal Education (CLE) on the topic of
substance abuse. This requirement shall be in addition to Defendant's standard
CLE obligations;

(g) Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel with his current street address
(not at P.O. Box) and phone number and will advise the State Bar in writing of
any changes in his contact information within 10 days of such change(s);
(h) Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for infOlwation
from the State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
(i) Defendant shall timely pay all State Bar membership dues and Client Security
Fund assessments;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Robert M. Donlon
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 6 of8

(j) Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar CLE requirements and will
pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;

(k) Defendant shall not violate any federal or state laws, other than minor traffic
violations;
(1) Defendant shall not violate any provision of the NOlth Carolina Rules of
Professional Conduct; and

(m)Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service of
the statement of costs upon him by the Secretary ofthe State Bar.
3.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretaty, which shall be paid within 30 days of service of the notice of costs
upon Defendant.
4.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted at any time and the suspension of
Defendant's law license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his
license to practice law, Defendant must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that
he has complied with each of the following conditions:
(a) Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the State Bar
within 30 days after the effective date of the order suspending his law license;
(b) Complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section
.0124 ofthe State Bat· Discipline & Disability Rules on a timely basis;
(c) Demonstrated that at the time of his application for reinstatement he is not
suffering from any addiction, disability, or condition that would impair his
cunent ability to competently engage in the practice of law;
(d) Demonstrated that he has abstained from all alcohol and illicit drug use or
consumption and has not taken any prescription drugs or controlled substances
other than as authorized by his treating physician for at least one year
preceding the filing of his petition for reinstatement. This requirement will
apply regardless of when the stay is lifted and regardless of whether
enforcement of this provision extends the period of suspension of Donlon's
law license beyond the two year stay period set out herein;
(e) Provided the Office of Counsel with releases authorizing and instructing his
medical, psychological, and mental health care providers to provide to the
Office of Counsel all medical records relating to his evaluation, prognosis, care
or treatment, including substance abuse and mental health evaluations, and
authorizing and instructing such providers to respond to requests for
information by the Office of Counsel; and

The North Carolina State Bar v. Robert M Donlon
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 7 of8

..

(f) Paid all outstanding membership fees, Client Security Fund assessments and

costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar and complied with all continuing
legal education requirements imposed by the State Bar.
5.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jnrisdiction of this matter
pnrsuant to 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .OII4(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspension.

" ... ~igned by~with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
~,2017.
.

_ ...
:......--'I day of

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

~wn

Attorney for Plaintiff

Defendant

F"~h
Attorney for Defendant

The North Carolina Stale Bar •. Robert M. Donlon
Consent Order ofDisciplino

Pegesots

