'/ .t9'i7i!(';,) ,

(~

"j

,
WAKECOUNlY

__ J~

Sf:>-.
-J'
""'J
-'
P'fo __ VIlJ ~\

BEFORE THE
- '~~SCIP
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
....
i:;,;;'
OF THE
"
.
, "~
N
CAROLINA STATE BAR
. I'.
~.'I:.'\i).:
160HC 26

. '(cOtS

~t1.~

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
SCOTT C. DORMAN, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

The matter was heard on August 24,2017 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, David W.
Long, and Christopher R. Bruffey. Deputy Counsel Mary D. Winstead represented
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Scott C. Dorman, was represented by
Kenneth Robert Davis. Defendant was properly served with process and the hearing was
held with due notice to all parties.
On August 23, 2017, the Hearing Panel in this matter entered an order of
summary judgment, determining that there was no genuine issue of material fact as to any
of the factual allegations in the Amended Complaint and concluding as a matter oflaw
that the established facts were sufficient to support the violations of the Ru1es of
Professional Conduct alleged in the Amended Complaint. The Hearing Panel reserved
for hearing the issue of what discipline was appropriate.
Based on the record and the evidence presented in support of the State Bar's
motion for summary judgment, the Hearing Panel concludes that there is no genuine issue
of material fact with respect to the following:
FACTS

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body du1y
orgauized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 ofthe North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Scott C. Dorman, was admitted to the State Bar in August
1991 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice

NCSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DHC 26
Order of Discipline
Page 1 of II

in North Carolina, subject to the laws ofthe State of North Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules ofP~ofessional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Whiteville, Columbus County, North Carolina.
4.
On or around March 20,2014, Buffy C. Sanders ("Sanders") retained
Defendant to represent him on a speeding citation, Columbus County file number
14IF701219.

Sanders paid Defendant $438.00 by personal money order which included
Defendant's fee, any fine, and court costs.
5.

6.
Defendant maintained a trust account for his law practice with BB&T
ending in digits 6572.
7.
account.

Defendant did not deposit the $438.00 received from Sanders into his trost

8.
Defendant informed Sanders that he would take care of the matter and that
Sanders did not need to lippear in court.
9.
Sanders' case was initially scheduled for April 22, 2014 in Columbus
County District Court.
10.
Neither Sanders nor Defendant appeared in court on April 22, 2014 and
Sanders was caned and failed.

11.
On or about May 19, 2014, Sanders received notice from the North
Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles ("DMV") that his license would be suspended
for failure to appear in court ifhe did not comply with the citation prior to July 18, 2014.
12.
On or about May 23,2014, Sanders wrote a letter to Defendant informing
him that he had received the notice fi'om DMV and asking him how to rectify the
situation.

13.

Sanders travelled to Columbus County and met with Defendant.

14.
Defendant informed Sanders that he missed Sanders' April 22, 2014 court
date because he was out of town.
15.

Defendant told Sanders that he would get another court date scheduled.

16.
On or about June 9, 2014, Defendant submitted to the court a motion to
strike the called and failed and set aside the bond forfeiture, and the court allowed the
motion.

NCSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DHC 26
Order of Discipline
Page 2 of 11

17.

Sanders' case was rescheduled for August 5, 2014.

18.
Sanders attended court with Defendant on August 5, 2014 and admitted
responsibility to an improper equipment charge. Sanders was ordered to pay the costs.
19.
Defendant informed Sanders on August 5, 2014 that everything was taken
care of concerning the citation.
20.

Defendant did not pay Sanders' court costs.

21.

Defendant misappropriated Sanders' entrusted funds.

On or about January 6,2015, Sanders received another notice from DMV
22.
informing him that his license would be suspended for failure to comply ifhe did not
comply with the citation prior to March 7, 2015.
23.
Sanders returned to the Columbus County Courthouse and was informed
that his court costs for the citation had not been paid and that $308.00 was due by March
7,2015.
24.
Sanders was provided a phone number for Defendant, who had relocated
to Las Vegas, Nevada, and tried to reach Defendant by phone.
25.

Sanders left a message for Defendant, but Defendant did not return the

call.
26.
On February 29,2015, Sanders paid the Columbus County Clerk of Court
$308.00 which included a $50.00 fee for failure to comply.
27.
On or about February 9,2015, Sanders filed a petition for fee dispute with
the State Bar's Fee Dispute Resolution Program.
On 01' about February 9, 2015, the State Bar sent Defendant a Notice of
28.
Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution in file number 15FD0062 by certified mail to 11908
Red Camellia Ave, Las Vegas, Nevada, 89138, which was the address listed for
Defendant in the State Bar Membership database.
29.
On or about February 12, 2015, Defendant informed·the Director of the
Fee Dispute Resolution Program that he was not disputing the fee and that he would issue
a refund to Sanders.
30.

Defendant did not refund any monies to Sanders.

31.
On or about February 18, 2015, the State Bar opened a grievance file in
connection with Defendant's representation of Sanders, grievance file number 1500148.

NCSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DHC 26
Order of Discipline
Page 3 of 11

32.
The State Bar mailed a Letter of Notice to Defendant by certified mail to
11908 Red Camellia Ave, Las Vegas, Nevada, 89138, which was the address listed fur
Defendant in the State Bar Membership database.
33.
An individual with the last name "Dorman" at Defendant's address of
record signed for the letter on June 5, 2015.
34.
Defendant was required to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen
days of service of the Letter of Notice.
35.

Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice.

36.
On or about July 1, 2015, State Bar Deputy Counsel sent Defendant.a
follow up letter requesting that he respond to the Letter of Notice no later than July 10,
2015.
37.

Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice.

38.
In March 2007, Defendant filed a complaint for divorce on behalf of Larry
Abel ("Abel") as plaintiff and uaming Abel's wife as the defendant, Columbus County
file number 07CV00371.
39.

Defendant also had a sununons issued for Abel's wife.

40.
The complaint and summons were delivered to the sheriff's dep81tment for
service and were returned unserved.
41.
Thereafter, in April 2007, Abel's wife went to Defendant's office and
signed a document prepared by Defendant which was an acceptance of service of the
complaint and waiver of the time limitations within which to answer the complaint.
42.
Defendant also prepared a motion for summary judgment and an
acceptance of service and waiver.
43.
Abel's wife signed the acceptance of service and waiver which stated that
she was served with the motion for summary judgment, waived notice requirements, and
joined the plaintiff in asking the court to grant sunnnary judgment for the plaintiff.
44.
Abel's wife was not represented by counsel when she signed the
documents described in paragraphs 41 through 43 above.
45.

Defendant did not take any further court action regarding Abel's divorce.

46.

Defendant did not file a motion to withdraw as counsel for Abel.

47.

In 2015, Abel discovered that he was not divorced.

NCSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DRC 26
Order of Discipline
Page40fll

48.
Abel contacted the State Bar's Attorney-Client Assistance Program
("ACAP") about this matter in 2015.
49.
An ACAP staff member left a phone message for Defendant on May 27,
2015, but Defendant did not return the call.
50.
The State Bar opened a grievance file in connection with Abel's complaint
against Defendant, grievance file number 15G1162.
51.
The State Bar mailed a Letter of Notice to Defendant by certified mail to
11908 Red Camellia Ave, Las Vegas, Nevada, 89138, which was the address listed for
Defendant in the State Bar Membership database.

An individual with the last name ."Dorman" at Defendant's address of
52.
record signed for the letter on June 5,2015.
53.
Defendant was required to respond to the Letter of Nolice within fifteen
days of service of the Letter of Notice.
54.

Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice.

As set forth in the August 23, 2017 order of summary judgment, the Hearing
Panel made the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Scott C. Dorman, and over the subject matter.
2. Defendant's conduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing to appear in court on Sanders' first scheduled court date, Defendant
failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing a client in violation of
Rule 1.3;
(b) By informing Sanders on August 5, 2014 that everything conceruing his
citation was taken care of when DefendE)llt had not paid Sanders' court costs,
and by informing the Director of the Fee Dispute Program that he would issue
a refund to Sanders when he did not do so, Defendant engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
(c) By failing to pay Sanders' costs to the Clerk of Court, Defendant failed to
promptly payor deliver to the client, or to third persons as directed by the
client, entrusted property belonging to the client in violation of Rule 1.152(m), used entrusted property for personal benefit or for a person other than
the legal or beneficial owner of the propelty in violation of Rule 1.15-20);
NCSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DHC 26
Order of Discipline
Page 5 of 11

engaged in a criminal act (embezzlement) that reflects adversely on
Defendant's honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in violation of
Rule 8.4(b), engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in conduct that was
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
(d) By failing to respond to the Letter of Notice in this matter, Defendant
knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for infonnation from:a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1(b);
(e) By failing to respond to Sanders' call regarding his case, Defendant failed to
keep his client reasonably infonned about the status of the matter in violation
of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly comply with a reasonable request for
infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

(f) By failing to deposit the funds received from Sanders into his trust accOunt,
Defendant failed to safeguard entrusted funds in violation of Rules 1.15-2(a)
& (b) and failed to deposit mixed funds intact in violation of Rule I.1S-2(g);
(g) By failing to complete Abel's divorce case, Defendant failed to act with
reasonable diligence in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

(h) By preparing documents for the unrepresented opposing party's signature in
which the opposing party waived the time within which to answer and
consented to summary judgment, Defendant gave legal advice to an
unrepresented person in violation of Rule 4.3; and
(i) By failing to respond to the Letter of Notice, Defendant knowingly failed to
respond to a lawful demand for infonnation from a disciplinary authority in
violation of Rule 8.1(b).
Based upon the foregoing and the additional evidence regarding discipline
presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Donnan did not respond to Sanders' May 23, 2014 letter referred to in
paragraph 12.
2.
After Donnan failed to respond to his letter and approximately four other
times, Sanders travelled from Fayetteville, NC to Whiteville, NC, which was about an
hour away, looking for Donnan in connection with his speeding case.
On August 5, 2014, Sanders spent all day in court waiting to see that his
3.
case was resolved.

NCSB v. Scolt C. Dorman, 16 DHC 26
Order of Discipline
Page 6 of 11

4.
After Dorman failed to refund Sanders' funds in response to the fee
dispute claim, Sanders filed a claim with the State Bar's Client Security Fund.

5.
Sanders travelled to the State Bar's quarterly meeting in Blowing Rock in
July 2016 to attend the meeting of the Client Security Fund Board.

6.

The Client Security Fund Board awarded Sanders $238.00.

7.
When Sanders received the second notification from DMV that rus license
was in danger of being suspended, he complied with the requirements by paying the court
costs, including the failure to comply costs, before the stated deadline. As a result of
Sanders' attention to the notification and his effort to resolve the matter, his license was
not actually suspended.

8.
Sanders' negative experience with Dalman has affected how he will deal
with attorneys in the future.
9.
Abel has known Dorman since Dorman was a child and trusted him to
handle his divorce from Tammy Abel.
10.

Abel, believing that Dorman had completed his divorce case, remarried in

2007.
11.
In 2015, Abel, a Vietnam Veteran, contacted the Veterans Administration
regarding his benefits and learned that he was not divorced from Tannny Abel.
12.
Abel contacted Dorman in 2015 and Dorman assured him that he would
take care of the matter.

13.

Dorman did not do anything to rectify Abel's situation.

As a result of Dorman's failure to complete Abel's divorce, Abel's
14.
financial sitnation is significantly impacted.
15.
Dorman's misconduct has also impacted Tammy Abel and the woman
Abel married in 2007.
16.
On February 7,2017, the Chair ofthe Hearing Panel entered an Order
Granting Plaintiff's Motion to Compel Discovery and ordered that Dorman comply by
February 21,2017.

17.
Dorman's failure to respond to inquiries from the State Bar demonstrates U'
refusal to participate in the self-regulation process. Such conduct interferes willi the State
Bar~s ability to regulate its members and undermines the profession's privilege to remain
self-regulating.

NCSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DHC 26
Order of Discipline
Page 7 of 11

18.
Dorman failed to comply with the Order Granting Plaintiff's Motion to
Compel, further demonstrating his disregard towards the self-regulation process.
On May 3,2017, the State Bar served an Amended Complaint in this
19.
matter on Dorman.
20.
Dorman did not file an Answer to the Amended Complaint, further
demonstrating his disregard towards the self-regulation process.
21.
Dorman attended the DRC hearing, but did not testify or offer any
evidence explaining his misconduct.
In March 2005, Defendant received prior discipline in the form of an
22.
Admonition for creating an unjustified expectation about resnlts in a solicitation letter in
violation of Rule 7.1 (a)(2).
23.
Dorman's neglect, failure to communicate, failure to resolve the matter for
which he was retained, and misappropriation of entrusted client funds caused harm and
had the potential to significantly harm his client, Sanders.
24.
Dorman's neglec(of and failure to resolve Sanders' speeding case caused
additional judicial resources to be expended thus causing harm to the administration of
justice.
25.
Dorman's fallure to complete Abel's divorce case caused significant harm
to Abel and his financial situation.
26.
Donnan's neglect of his clients' matters and misappropriation of funds has
the potential to cause significant harm to the standing of the legal profession in the eyes
of the public because it shows his disregard for his duties as an attorney.
27.
Dorman's embezzlement of Sanders' funds reflects adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer and caused significant potential harm to
the profession in that criminal conduct by attorneys tends to bring the legal profession
into disrepute. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to damage the
reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the
legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
28.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOlTIlS of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbannent,in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the established facts and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:

NeSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DRC 26

Order of Discipline
Page 8 of 11

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
ennrnerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0116(f)(1)! of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and conclndes that the following factors are present:
(B)

Intent of the defendant to co)1lfllit acts where the harm or potential hann is
foreseeable;

(C)

Circnrnstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness,
or integrity;

CD)

Elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of the client;

(E)

Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
ofthe profession;

(F)

Negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of
justice;

(G)

Impainnent of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;

(H)

Effect of defendant's conduct on third parties;

(I)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and

(J)

Multiple instances of failure to participate in the legal profession's selfregulation process.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors ennrnerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .oJ 16(f)(2) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State
Bar and concludes that the following factors are present:

(A)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;

(C)

Misappropliation or conversion of assets of any kind to which the
defendant or recipient is not entitled, whether from a client or any other
source; and

(0)

Commission of a felony.

127 N.C.A.C. 1B § .01l4(w) was renumbered as 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0!16(f). This amendment was
published in the Supreme Court Reports on August 21, 2017.

NCSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DHC 26
Order of Discipline
Page 9 of 11

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0116(t)(3) of the Rules and Regnlations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are present: .
(A)

Prior discipline in the form of an Admonition issued in 2005;

(B)

Remoteness of prior offense;

(C)

Dishonest or selfish motive,

(D)

Indifference to making restitntion;

(E)

A pattern of misconduct;

(F)

Multiple offenses;

(R)

Vulnerability of victim; and

(S)

Degree of experience in the practice oflaw;

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a
censure, reprimand, admonition or suspension would not be sufficient discipline because
of the gravity of the actnal significant hann Defendant's conduct caused to his clients, the
'public, the administration ofjustice, and the legal profession.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions and finds that
discipline short of disbannent would not adequately protect the public, the profession and
.
the administration of justice for the following reasons:
(a)

The factors under Rule .0116(t)(2) that are established in this case are of a
natnre that support imposition of disbarment as the appropriate discipline;

(b)

Defendant committed a criminal act, embezzlement, that reflects adversely
on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects;

( c)

Defendant committed misdeeds involving moral tnrpitnde and violations
of his clients' trust. Violations involving misappropriation and dishonesty
are among the most serious that an attorney can commit. Such offenses
demonstrate that the offending attorney is not trustworthy. Clients are
entitled to have trustworthy attorneys;

(d)

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and
would send the wrong message to attorneys and to the public regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar of this state; and

NCSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DHC 26
Order of Discipline
Page 10 ofll

(e)

The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that
Defendant not be permitted to resume the practice oflaw until he
demonstrates the following: that he has reformed; that he understands his
obligations to his clients, the public, and the legal profession; and that
permitting him to practice law will not be detrimental to the public or the
integtity and standing of the legal profession or the administration of
justice. Disbarred lawyers are required to make such a showing before
they may resume practicing law.

Based upon the foregoing facts, findings and conclusions, the Heming Panel
hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant, Scott C. DOlman, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of

law.
2.
Defendant shall surrender his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this
order upon Defendant.
.
3.
Defendant shall pay the fees and the costs of this proceeding as assessed
'by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant must pay the fees and costs
within 30 days of service upon .him of the statement of fees and costs by the Secretary.
4.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code § 1B
.0128 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

R"'"

Signed by the puqr with the consent of the other Healing Panel members, this the
day of ~~~
,2017.

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

NCSB v. Scott C. Dorman, 16 DHC 26
Order of Discipline
Page 11 of11

