STATE OF NORTH CAROL!
WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

MARSHALL F. DOTSON, III, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair,and members Harriett Smalls and
Patti Head, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .OI14(h). Plaintiff was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant
Marshall F. Dotson, III ("Dotson") was represented by T. Keith Black. Both Plaintiff and
Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this
consent order and to the discipline imposed. Dotson has freely and voluntarily stipulated
to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and entry of the
order of discipline. Dotson knowingly, freely, and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline or to challenge in any way the
sufficiency of the findings by consenting to this order.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the propel' party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administl'ative Code).
2.
Derendant, Marshall F. Dotson, III ("Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in 1989 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.

3.
During all or pali of the relevant periods referred to herein, Dotson was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina and a law office in Asheboro, Randolph
County, North Carolina.
4.
In August 2009, Defendant began his representation of Ms. Melissa White
in divorce, child custody, child support, and equitable distribution matters.
5.
On September 16, 2009, in09 CVD 11746, Defendant filed a complaint
for divorce, equitable distribution, child sUPPOli, child custody, post separation sUPPOli,
alimony, and attomey's fees against Ms. White's husband, Jerry Damell White.
6.
Altomey Afi S. JohnsoncParris represented Mr. White in this matter and
filed an answer on his behalf.
7.
On or about December 10,2009, Ms. Johnson-Parris sent a notice to
Defendant that a child custody mediation ol'ientationsession which the parties were
required to attend was scheduled for January 14, 2010.
8.

Defendant failed to notify his client, Ms. White, of this orientation session.

9.
In February 2010, Ms. White leamed that she had missed two custody
mediation orientation sessions in January and that if she failed to attend the next session
she could be subject to being held in contempt of court.
10.
Defendant had not notified Ms. White of either of the scheduled
orientation sessions.
11.
Previously, on November 16, 2009, the patiies and counsel met for a foul'
way conference.
12.
At the conference, the paliies and their counsel agreed that Ms. JohnsonParris would provide Defendant with a property description of the patties' home and that
Defendant would prepare a quitclaim deed transferring Ms. White's interest in the
property to her husband.
13.
On November 17,2009, Ms. Johnson-Parris faxed to Defendant a copy of
the deed of trust containing the property description.
14.
In April 2010, Ms. Johnson-Parris sent Defendant a fax asking that he
forward the quitclaim deed to her so that her client could proceed with selling the home.
15.
In a letter dated June 16,2010, Ms. Johnson-Parris wrote Defendant
asking again that he forward the quitclaim deed to her and stating that if she did not
receive the quitclaim deed by June 23, 2010, she would have to file a breach of contract
action against Ms. White.

- 2-

16.
Defendant did not notify Ms. White of the June 16,2010 letter from
opposing counsel.
17.
On or about June 29, 2010, Ms. Johnson-Panis sent Defendant another fax
asking that he provide the quitclaim deed at once and again attaching the deed of trust
withthe propel1y description.
18.
On or about June 29, 2010, Ms. White learned from Jerry White that
opposing counsel was going to file an action against her ifshe did not execute the
quitclaim deed.
On or about June 30,201 0, Ms. White e-mailed Defendant and expressed
19.
her concern that the failure to provide the quitclaim deed to opposing counsel made it
appeal' as though Ms. White had not been cooperative when in fact she had not known of
opposing counsel's requests for the quitclaim deed.
20.
Over the next few weeks, Ms. White repeatedly communicated to
Defendant and his office her Willingness to sign the quitclaim deed but Defendant did not
provide Ms. White with a quitclaim deed for her to sign.
On July 22, 2010, Ms. Johnson-Panis amended the answer adding a
21.
brcach of contract claim against Ms. White for her failure to execute the quitclaim deed.
On July 29, 201 0, Defendant presented Ms. White with the quitclaim deed
22.
for her signature.
23.
On or about August 3, 2010, Ms. Johnson-Parris dismissed the breach of
contract claim.
24.
The pal1ies consented to the entry of a Qualified Domestic Relations
Order (hereinafter "QDRO") which provided that Ms. White would receive funds from
her husband's 401 (k) retirement plan.
25.

The QDRO was entered by the court on March 2, 2011.

26.
Defendant informed Ms. White on March 2, 2011 that the funds should be
transferred sh0\1ly.
27.
In April and May 2011, Ms. White e-mailed Defendant and his office staff
and called Defendant's office numerous times regarding the status of the QDRO.
28.
On or about May 5, 2011, Defendant stated in an e-mail that he would
check with the Plan Administrator about the delay with the QDRO.
29.
Defendant did not communicate to Ms. White the results of any follow up
with the Plan Administrator on the status of the QDRO.

-3-

30.
Under the telms of the QDRO, it was Defendant's responsibility to
transmit the QDRO to the Plan Administrator.
31.
On or aboutJune 15, 2011, Ms. White contacted the Plan Administrator
and learned that the Plan Administrator did not have a copy of the QDRO.
32.
After Ms. White informed Defendant's office that the Plan Administrator
did not have the QDRO, Defendant's staff transmitted the QDRO to the Plan
Administrator on or about June 17,2011.
33.
Previously, on June 23, 2010, Ms. White had sent Defendant an e-mail
regarding the need for child support/alimony.
34.
Defendant e-mailed Ms. White on June 23, 2010 stating that he would
calendar the child support mattcr as soon as possible,
35,
Defendant did not submit a calendar request for the child suppOli matter as
he represented he would.
36,
On November 1, 20 II, the Office of Counsel for the State Bar wrote
Defendant asking that he respond by November 14,2011 to follow-up questions
regarding a grievance filed by Ms. White concerning Defendant's representation in this
matter.
37.
deadline.

Defendant failed to respond to the follow-up questions by the stated

38.
On November 29,2011, deputy counsel for the State Bar called Defendant
to discuss his fail me to respond.
39.
Defendant stated that he was on his way to his office where he would have
access to the file and would call deputy counsel when he got there.
40,

Defendant did not call deputy counsel back as he had said he would do.

41.
Defendant did not otherwisc address the follow-up questions or his failure
to respond to the folJow-up questions until he was required to appear at the State Bar
pmsuant to subpoena.
42.
In February 2011, Mr. William Redding retained Defendant to handle
legal matters regarding celiain real propeliy,
43.
Prior to the death ofMr, Redding's mother, he and his sister had each been
deeded one-half interest in certain real property in which their mother had a life estate.
44.
After his mother's death, Mr. Redding paid Defendant $750 to perform
legal work concerning his interest in this property, In March 2011, Mr. Redding tried

-4-

repeatedly to contact Defendant and left messages for Defendant to call him, but
Defendant did not return the calls.
45.
When his calls were not returned, Mr. Redding went to Defendant's office
to attempt to speak with him.
46.
Defendant's office staff made an appointment for Mr. Redding to meet
with Defendant on March 24, 2011.
47.

On March 24, 2011, Mr. Redding met with Defendant.

48.
At the March 24, 201 I meeting, Mr. Redding expressed his frustration
with Defendant's failure to return his phone calls,
49,
At the March 24, 2011 meeting, Defendant told Mr. Redding he would
call him at a designated time to discuss the progress in this matter,
50.
Defendant did not call Mr. Redding at the designated time as he had
represented he would do.
51.
On or about March 31, 2011, Mr, Redding called Defendant's office,
explained that Defendant had not called him the night before, and left a message for
Defendant to call him.
52,
On or about April 4, 2011, Ml'. Redding called Defendant and Defendant
told him he could not talk at thattime butwould call him back in forty-five minutes.
53.
Defendant did not call Mr, Redding on April 4, 2011 as he had represented
he would do.
54.
Mr. Redding called Defendant's office and left several messages for
Defendant to call him but his calls were not returned.
On April 19, 2011, Mr. Redding reached Defendant by phone and inquired
55.
whether he had made any progress in his legal matter.
56,
Defendant informed Mr. Redding that he had made progress and asked
that Mr, Redding call him back in a few minutes so he could have the information in front
of him.
57,
When Mr. Redding called back as Defendant had asked him to do,
Defendant stated that he still was not ready to discuss the matter and stated that he would
call Mr. Redding back,
58,

Defendant did not call Mr. Redding back as he had said he would do,

On March 31, 2011, Mr. Redding called Defendant's office and asked for
59.
Defendant to call him,

-5-

60.

Defendant did not call Mr. Redding back.

61.
On or about April 26, 2011, Mr. Redding sent Defendant a celiified letter
asking for a status repmi on his matter.
62.
On or about May 16, 20 II, Mr. Redding sent Defendant a celiified letter
asking for a showing of reasonable progress 01' a refund and his file.
63.

Defendant did not respond to either letter.

64.

Defendant's office staff signed for both celiitJed letters.

65.

Defendant did not provide Mr. Redding with a refund

66.
State Bar.

01'

his client file.

Mr. Redding filed a grievance against Defendant with the North Carolina

67.

The State Bar opened a grievance file, 11G0796.

68.

Defendant responded to the Letter of Notice.

69.
On November 29, 2011, deputy counsel for the State Bar called Defendant
to discuss this grievance.
70.
Defendant stated that he was on his way to his office where he would have
access to the file and would call deputy counsel when hearrivcd at his office.
71.

Defendant did not call deputy counsel back as he had said he would do.

72.
On November 30,2011 the State Bar Office of Counsel wrote Defendant
asking that he respond by December 8, 2011, to follow-up questions regarding 11 G0796.
73.
deadline.

Defendant failed to respond to the follow-up questions by the stated

74.
Defendant did not otherwise address the follow-up questions or his failure
to respond to the follow-up questions until January 3, 2012 when he was required to
appear at the State Bar pursuant to subpoena.
75.
During the time he represented Mr. Redding, Defendant failed to complete
the legal work Mr. Redding had paid him to perform.
76.
In 2008, Defendant began representing Dr. Venezela Thomas SladeHatiman in a child custody and child support matter, Venezela Ethel Bessie ThomasSlade v. Calvin Earl Slade, Guilford County file number 07 CVD 746.
77.
On February 11, 2011, Guilford County Child Support Enforcement filed
a complaint on behalf of Calvin Earl Slade against Dr. Slade-Hartman seeking an order
for child support, Guilford County file number 11 CVD 206.

-6-

78.
The complaint and summons were served on Dr. Slade-Hartman on
February 15, 2011 and she transmitted the documents to Defendant that same day.
79.
to answer,

On March 11,2011, Defendant filed an application for extension of time

80,
On March 17, 2011, an order was entered allowing Dr. Slade-Hartman
until April 16, 2011 to serve her answer or otherwise plead,
81.

Defendant failed to serve an answer or otherwise plead by April 16, 2011.

82.
As a result of De fenda nt's failure to timely answer, Guilford County Child
SUppOit Enforcement filed a Motion for Entry of Default on April 29, 2011.
83,

Defendant filed an answer on Dr. Slade-HaI1man's behalf on April 29,

84.

During the time that Defendant represented Dr. Siade-Haltman, he:

a,

failed to return phone messages fi'om Dr. Slade"Hartman;

b,

told Dr. Slade-Hartman that he would call her at specific times and then
failed to do so; and

c,

failed to attend scheduled meetings at his office with Dr, Slade-Hartman.

2011.

85.
As a result of Defendant's failure to timely file the answer in 11 CVD 206
and the communication problems with Defendant, Dr, Slade-Haltman retained new
counsel to represent her in 11 CVD 206 and 07 CVD 746.
86,
Dr. Slade-HaI1man's new attomey was able to resolve the matters in II
CVD 206 and an order for child support was entered on or about August 16,2011,
87,
Between May 2011 and April 2012, Dr, Slade-Hartman made numerous
requests of Defendant for her client file, but Defendant failed to provide her with her file.
88.
Dr, Slade-Hartman's new counsel also made several requests of Defendant
for the client file, but Defendant failed to provide the client file to Dr, Slade-Hm1man's
attorney.
On April 12,2012, Dr, Slade-Hartman's new counsel sent Defendant a fax
89.
emphasizing the need for Defendant to provide the client file to Dr. Slade-Hartman.
90,
On April 19, 2012, a consent order resolving the issues of custody and
support was entered in 07 CVD 746,
91.
At the time the consent order was entered, Defendant had still not
provided Dr. Slade-Hm1man with her file,

92.
Defendant did not comply with the repeated requests for the client file
until August 2012, when he. provided Dr. Slade-Hartman with pmi ofthe file.

93.
Defendant neverprovided Dr. Slade-Hartman with her complete file
which included original pay stubs and receipts she had delivered to Defendant.
94,
Mr. Redding's, Dr. Slade-Hmiman's and Ms. White's opinions of, and
tmst in, attorneys and the legal profession have been damaged.
95.

Defendant's conduct created a great deal of unnecessary stress for his

clients.
Based upon the consent of the paliies and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OFLA W

I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuantto N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to ensure that theQDRO was transmitted to the Plan
Administrator, failing to follow up on Ms, White's inquiries about the
status of the QDRO with the Plan Administrator, failing to request
calendaring of the child support matter, and failing to have Ms, White
execute the quitclaim deed until a breach of contract claim was filed,
Defendant failed to handle Ms. White's case with reasonable diligence and
promptness in violation of Rule 1.3;

(b)

By failing to notify Ms. White of the mediation orientation sessions and
by failing to timely respond to Ms. White's telephone calls and e-mails
and failing to keep Ms: White informed about the status of the QDRO,
Defendant failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of
the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), and failed to promptly comply
with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

(c)

By failing to respond in a timely manner to the State Bar's request for
additional information, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a lawful
demand for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule
8.1 (b);

(d)

By failing to return Mr. Redding's calls, failing to call Mr. Redding at
times Defendant said he would, ancl failing to respond (0 Mr. Redding's
letters, Defendant failed to keep the client reasonably informed about the
status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly

-8-

comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(4);
(e)

By failing to comply with Mr. Redding's request for his file, Defendant
failed to take steps to the extent reasonably necessary to protect a client's
interests, such as sUlTendering papers and property to which the client is
entitled in violation of Rule 1.l6(d);

(f)

By failing to respond in a timely manner to the State Bar's request for
additional information, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a lawful
demand for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule
8.I(b);

(g)

By failing to do the legal work Mr. Redding had paid him to perform,
Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

(h)

By failing to timely file the answer on behalf of Dr. Slade-Hartman,
Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing his client in violation of Rule 1.3;

(i)

By failing to respond to Dr. Slade"Hartman's telephone calls, failing to
call her at appointed times, and failing to attend scheduled meetings,
Defendant failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of
the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly comply
with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
and

U)

By failing, upon termination of representation, to comply with Dr. SiadeHartman's requests for her file, Defendant failed to take steps to the extent
reasonably necessary to protect a client's interests, such as surrendering
papers and property to which the client was entitled in violation of Rule
1.16(d).

Upon the consent of the paliies, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
In 05 DHe 51, Defendant entered into a consent order of discipline and
was given a 1 year suspension that was stayed for 2 years, for similar misconduct.
2.
Individuals who retain attorneys trust that their attorneys will
communicate with them about their legal matters in a timely and professional manner.
3.
Defendant has, at times, failed to recognize the stress his failure to
communicate in a timely manner has caused his clients.

- 9-

4.
Defendant demonstrated a lack of communication and lack of attention to
matters with the State Bal'.
5.
counseling.

During the pendency of this' action, Defendant has sought psychological

6.
Defendant has been diagnosed with Major Depressive Disorder, severe,
with anxious distress.
7.
Attorneys in the areas where Defendant practices regard him as a very
knowledgeable and committed advocate for his clients.
8.
As a result of these grievances, Defendant has closed his Greensboro
office and is no longer taking cases in Greensboro.
9.
Defendant has acknowledged that he did not respond in an appropriate
manner to many of his clients' complaints and has admitted many of the allegations in the
complaint.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
(a)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where harm
foreseeable;

(b)

Elevation of Defendant's own interest above that of his clients;

(c)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
of the profession;

(d)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice;

(c)

Impairment of the clients' ability to timely achieve the goals of the
representation; and

(f)

Negative effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties.

01'

potential ham1

IS

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors cnumeratcd in
27 N,C.A.C, IB § ,OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State

- 10-

Bar and concludes that none of the factors mandating that disbarment should be
considered is present.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. lB § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOIth Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Prior disciplinary offenses;

(b)

A pattern of misconduct;

(c)

Multiple offenses;

(d)

Effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question During the first half of 20 II, Defendant was under tremendous personal
and emotional stress;

(e)

Effect of any physical or mental disability onthe conduct in questionDefendant has recently been diagnosed with major depressive disordersevere with anxious distress and other health problems;

(f)

Substantial experience in the practice of law; and

(g)

No letter of warning issued to Defendant within the three years
immediately preceding the filing of this complaint.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the harm and potential harm to the clients. The Panel fUlther concludes
that such discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed
by Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser altematives and concludes that
suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions to avoid
significant harm or the potential for significant harm to clients.
6.
For these reasons, the Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short ofa suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:

- 11 -

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of Defendant
Marshall Dotson is hereby suspended for five years effective thi1~y days from the date
this Order of Discipline is served upon him.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card (0 the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following service of this order on
Defendant.
3.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and the costs of this action.
These costs include deposition costs as allowed by statute, which are found to be
reasonable and necessary expenses in this case. Defendant shall pay the costs within
sixty days of servi ce of the statement of costs upon him.
4.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C.A.C. IB §.0124. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar within ten days of the effective date of this Order of Discipline
certifying he has complied with the wind down rule.
5.
Within fifteen days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant will
provide the State Bar with a street address and a mailing address at which clients seeking
return of their files and records in Defendant's possession or control may obtain such
files and records and at which the State Bar may serve any notices or other documents
upon him.
6.
After the completion of one year of active suspension of his license,
Defendant may petition for a stay of the balance of the suspension upon filing a verified
petition with the Secretary of the NOIth Carolina State Bar at least thirty days before any
proposed effective date of the stay as provided in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0125. The
remaining term of Defendant's suspension may be stayed only if Defendant establishes
by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
(a)

That Defendant has been continuously in treatment with a psychologist
and psychiatrist approved in advance by the NOIth Carolina State Bar
Office of Counsel and that he has complied with all treatment
recommendations of his treating psychologist and psychiatrist, including
but not limited to the recommendations made by Dr. Monica Dew in her
written recommendations dated July 10, 2013 and the recommendations
made by Dr. Kim D. Dansie in her July 9, 2011 letter;

(b)

That Defendant has provided the State Bar with a quarterly report due by
January I, April I, July 1, and October 1 each year of the suspension from
the treating psychologist and the treating psychiatrist which addresses any
change(s) and the reasons for the change(s) ft'om the recommended
treatment in the previous qumter;

- 12 -

(c)

Both the psychologist and psychiatrist have certified under oath, that in
their professional opinion, Defendant is no longer symptomatically
depressed and does not suffer from any mental or physical condition
which significantly impairs his professional judgment, performance, or
competence;

(d)

That Defendant has attached to his reinstatement petition the sworn
statements referred to in paragraph 6(c) from the two mental health
professionals along with releases sighed by Defendant authorizing and
instructing the mental health professionals t() discuss their evaluations of
Defendant with, and to release their medical records relating to Defendant
to, a representative of the Office of Counsel;

(e)

That Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home addresses and
notified the Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

(1)

That Defendant has responded to all communications ftom the North
Carolina State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in
the communication, whichever is sooner, and has participated in good
faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition
pending or received after the effective date of this Order;

(g)

That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or any state or local government during his
suspension;

(h)

That Defendant has, within 10 days of the date ofthis order, reimbursed
William Redding in the amount of $750;

(i)

That Defendant has submitted an affidavit to the State Bar within ten days
of service of this order certifying that he will not seek to collect any
additional monies from Dr. Venezela Slade-Hmtman or Melissa White for
representation on the matters that are the subject of the complaint in this
matter;

G)

That if Defendant proposes to practice law as a sole practitioner if the stay
is granted, he has made arrangements fora member in good standing with
the State Bar who practices law in the county where he proposes to
practice and who has been approved by the State Bar, to serve as a
practice monitor; and that the selected monitor has agreed to so serve and
has agreed to submit monthly reports to the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar;

(k)

That Defendant has developed a written policies and procedures manual
for his office staff which has been approved by the practice monitor and

- 13-

which includes procedures to ensure compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct; and

(I)

That Defendant has otherwise complied with the requirements of 27
N.CAC. 1B, §.OI2S(b).

7.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long ashe complies with the following
conditions:
(a)

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his CUlTent business and home addresses;

(b)

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the NOlth Carolina
State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and participate in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition pending or
received during the stay;

(c)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or any state or local government;

(d)

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
continuing legal education requirements and shall pay all fees and costs
assessed by the applicable deadline;

(e)

In the event that the stay is granted and Defendant does not actively
engage in the practice of law in any manner, whether in private practice,
public service, as corporate counsel, or in any other form, Defendant shall
notify the State Bar by the first day of the next calendar quarter (January
I, April 1, July 1, and October 1) and thereafter by January 1, April I,July
I, and October I each year of the stayed suspension by written
communication under oath, that Defendant has not so engaged in the
practice of law during the preceding three months;

(1)

In the event that, during the stay, Defendantdoes actively engage in the
practice of law in any manner, whether in priVate practice, public service,
as corporate counsel, or in any other form, Defendant shall notify the State
Bar prior to engaging in such practice, by written communication under
oath, that Defendant intends to become so engaged, and state when,
where, and under what circumstances Defendant intends to practice;

(g)

Defendant must limit his practice to one law office and the practice of law
to only one county;

- 14·

which includes procedures to ensure compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conducts; and

(I)

That Defendant has otherwise complied with the requirements of27
N.C.A.C. IB, §.0125(b).

7.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as he complies with the following
conditions:
(a)

Defendant shall keep the N0l1h Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home addresses;

(b)

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina
State Bar within thh1y days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and participate in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition pending or
received during the stay;

(c)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or any state orlocal government;

(d)

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
continuing legal education requirements and shall pay all fees and costs
assessed by the applicable deadline;

(e)

In the event that the stay is granted and Defendant does not actively
engage in the practice of law in any manner, whether in private practice,
public service, as corporate counsel, orin any other form, Defendant shall
notify the State Bar by the first day ofthe next calendar quarter (January
1, April 1, July 1, and October 1) and thereafter by January 1, April 1, July
1,and October 1 each year of the stayed suspension by written
communication under oath, that Defendant has not so engaged in the
practice of law during the preceding three months;

(f)

In the event that, during the stay, Defendant does actively engage in the
practice of law in any manner, whether in private practice, public service,
as corporate counsel, or in any other form, Defendant shall notify the State
Bar prior to engaging in such practice, by written communication under
oath, that Defendant intends to become so engaged,and state when,
where, and under what circumstances Defendant intends to practice;

(g)

Defendant must limit his practice to one law office and the practice of law
to only one county:

- 14 -

(h)

In the event Defendant moves to another county or accepts employment in
a county other than the county in which he is currently practicing, he must
notifY the State Bar in advance of this occurrence, wind down his practice
in the county in which he is currently practicing, and continue to limit his
practice to only one county;

(1)

Defendant must enter into a written fee agreement with every client
(except in criminal cases) and the fee ag\'eement must state with
specificity the legal work Defendant is undertaking to perform;

Q)

Unless Defendant is on secure leave pursuant to Rule 26 of the General
Rules of Practice for the Superior and District Courts, Defendant must
personally respond to communications from his clients within twenty:four
hours or direct a member of his staff to provide clients a time when
Defendant will respond and in that case, Defendant shall respond within
forty-eight hours and in no event shall Defendant fail to personally
respond within fOl1y-eight hours;

(k)

In the event Defendant is on secure leave, he must leave messages on all
of his voice mail boxes and e-mail accounts informing the
caller/correspondent when he will return from secure leave and must
return all calls within forty-eight hours of that time;

(I)

Upon request of any client, Defendant must, in accordance with Rule
1.16(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct, provide the client with
his/her file within fOJ1y-eight hours of the request;

(m)

Defendant must remain in treatment with his psychologist and psychiatrist
and comply with any recommendations of these mental health
professionals;

(n)

Defendant must provide the State Bar with a qual1erly report due by
January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 each year from the treating
psychologist and the treating psychiatrist which addresses whether
Defendant is in compliance with the treatment recommendations, whether
there is any change(s) in the recommendations and if so, the reasons for
the change(s) from the recommended treatment in the previous quarter;

(0)

Defendant must limit his hours working as recommended by his mental
health professionals;

(p)

If Defendant does actively engage in the practice of law, Detlmdant must
meet monthly with his practice monitor to whom he shall report the status
of all current client matters, and provide any information the monitor
deems reasonably necessary to ensure that Defendant is diligently
handling all client matters, Bcginning the first day of the next calendar
quarter (January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1) following the effective

- 15 -

date of the stay and thereafter on every January I, April I, July I, and
October 1 dUring the stayed suspension, Defendant will deliver to the
Office of Counsel written reports signed by the monitor confirming that
the meetings are occurring, that Defendant is reporting on the status of
Defendant's client matters to the monitor, and that the practice monitor is
satisfied with the status of such client matters. Defendant must pay aU
costs associated with the monitor arrangement; and
(q)

Defendant must limit his caseload in accordance with the advice of his
practice monitor and may not undertake to represent clients in domestic
relations cases withouUheexpress approval ofthe practice monitor.

8.

[fDefendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension or
if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant
must demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he has complied with
the conditions set out in paragraphs 6(a) through (I) above before his license to practice
law will be reinstated.
Signed by the undersigned
hearing panel members, this the

crk,. with the

7 .

day

of-.!!.4l>N'¢J~~'fl~

Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed and consented to, by:

~ed'"tAJ~ eo_0
Attorney for Plainu·J.l'--

Attorney for Defendant

~~Lt;so~~~~~~
Defendant

- 16 -

