NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Petition for Stay of Suspension of
MARSHALL F. DOTSON, III,
Attorney

)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER ALLOWING
PETITION FOR STAY

THIS MATTER was heard on October 30, 2015 by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing COlmnission composed of Walter E. Bl'Ock, Jr., Chair, and members Shirley Fulton and
Patti Head, pursuant to Marshall F. Dotson, III's August 24, 2015 Petition for Stay. The NOlth
Carolina State Bar was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Petitioner Marshall F. Dotson, III
("Dotson'.') was represented by T. Keith Black. Based upon the record, the patties' filings, and.
the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following;
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On August 7,2013, a Heat'ing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
entered a Consent Order of Discipline ("Order") suspending Dotson from the practice oflaw for
five years effective thirty days fl'Om the date the Order was served on Dotso11
2.
Dotson was served with the Order on Angust 9,2013, and the effective date of the
Order was September 8, 2013.
3.
The Order provided that Dotson could apply for a stay of atly remaining period of
suspension after serving one year of the active suspension alld upon compliance with the
conditions stated in the Order.
4.
On August 24, 2015, Dotson filed a verified Petition for Stay requesting that the
remainder of his suspension be stayed.
5.
In the petition, Dotson asserted that he had "substantially and materially complied
with all conditions for a stay."
6.
On September 22,2015, the State Bar filed its Objection to the Petition for Stay
on the basis that Dotson had not provided quarterly reports from his psychologist and
psychiatrist.

1

7,
The Order provided that to be eligible for a stay of the remaining period of
suspension, Dotson had the burden of establishing by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
compliance with the following conditions:
(a)

That Defendant had been continuously in treatment with a psychologist and
psychiah'istapproved in advance by the North Carolina State Bar Office of
Counsel and that he had complied with all treahnent recommendations of his
treating psychologist and psychiatrist, including but not limited to the
recommendations made by Dr, Monica Dew in her letter to the State Bar and the
recommendations made by Dr, Kim D, Dansie in her July 9, 2011 letter;

(b)

That Defendant had provided the State Bar with a quarterly repmi due by January
I, April I, July I, and October I eacb year of the suspension from the h'eating
psychologist and the treating psychiatrist which addresses any change(s) and the
reasons for the change(s) from the recommended h'ea\ment in the previous
quarter;

(c)

Both the psychologist and psychiah'ist certified under oath, that in their
professional opinion, Defendant is no longer symptomatically depressed and does
not suffer fi'om any mental 01' physical condition which significantly impairs his
professional judgment, performance, or competence;

(d)

That Defendant attached to his reinstatement petition theswol'l1 statements
referred to in paragraph 6(c) [of the Order] from the two mental health
professionals along with releases signed by Defendant authorizing and instructing
the mental health professionals to discuss their evaluations of Defendant with, and
to release their medical records relating to Defendant to, a representative of the
Office of Counsel;

(e)

That Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Depattment
advised of his current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any
change in address within ten days of such change;

(f)

That Defendant responded to all communications from the North Carolina State
Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner, and pmiicipated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition pending or received after the effective date of
this Order;

(g)

That Defendant had not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct 01' the laws of
the United States 01' any state or local govel'l1ment during his suspension;

(h)

That Defendant had, within 10 days ofthe date of this order, reimbursed William
Redding in the amount of $750;

(i)

That Defendant had submitted an affidavit to the State Bar within ten days of
service of this order certifYing that he will not seek to collect any additional
2

monies fi'om Dr. Venezela Slade-Hartman or Melissa White for representation on
the matters that are the sllbject of the complaint in this matter;

G)

That if Defendant proposes to practice law as a sale practitioner if the stay is
granted, he made arrangements for a member in good standing with the State Bar
who practices law in the county where he proposes to practice and who has been
approved by the State Bar, to serve as a practice monitor; and that the selected
monitor agreed to so serve and agreed to submit monthly repOlts to the Office of
Counsel of the State Bar;

(k)

That Defendant developed a written policies and procedures manual for his office
staff which has been approved by the practice monitor and which includes
procedures to ensure compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct; and

(I)

That Defendant otherwise complied with the requirements of27 N.C.A.C. lB,
§.0125(b).

8.
According to the Order, Dotson was required to provide quarterly reports from his
psychologist and psychiatrist if there was any change in treatment. The evidence established that
there was no change in treatment during the period of active suspension until just before Dotson
filed his petition when his psychiatrist determined he did not need to continue with the
antidepressant medication.
9.
Dotson consented under oath to limit to forty (40) the number of domestic cases
he handles at any given time.
10.
Although Dotson intends to practice law in The Wright Law Firm and not as a
solo practitioner, Dotson consented under oath to having two attorneys, Holly Wright and Robert
Gray, III,monitor his practice during the period of the stay.
II.

Dotson intends to practice law in Randolph County, North Carolina.

12.

Dotson has complied with all conditions of the Order.

13.
It is appropriate for the remainder of Dotson's snspension to be stayed as long as
he complies with the conditions set forth below.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Connnission and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Marshall F. Dotson, III, and
the subject matter of the proceediog.
2.
Discipline.

Dotson has satisfied the eligibility requirements for a stay set out in the Order of

3

3.
In its discretion, the Hearing Panel has determined that the remainder of the
suspension imposed in the Order of Discipline should be stayed, subject to conditions designed
to protect the public.
ORDER
Based on the foregoing, it is ORDERED that Dotson's Petition for Stay is
ALLOWED, the balance of the suspension of his law license is stayed, and he shall be permitteq
to resume practicing law subject to the following conditions set forth in paragraph 2 below.

1.

2.
The balance of Dotson's suspension is stayed so long as Dotson complies with the
following conditions:
(a)

Dotson shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised
of his CU11'ent business and home addresses;

(b)

Dotson shall respond to all communications fi'om the North Carolina State Bar
within thirty days of receipt 01' by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner, and pmticipate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition pending or received during the stay;

(c)

Dotson shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct 01' the laws of the
United States or any state 01' local government;

(d)

Dotson shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and continuing legal
education requirements and shall pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;

(e)

Should Dotson cease practicing law with The Wright Law Firm for any reason, he
shall notify the State Bar within thhty days of leaving the firm that he has left the
firm and the address of any law firm with whom he becomes associated;

(£)

Defendant must limit his practice to one law office and the practice of law to only
one county, which he has identified as Randolph County, North Carolina;

(g)

In the event Dotson moves to another county or accepts employment in a county
other than the county in which he is cill'rently practicing, he must notify the State
Bar in advance of this occurrence, wind down his practice in the county in which
he is currently practicing, and continue to limit his practice to only one county;

(h)

Dotson must enter into a written fee agreement with every client (except in
criminal cases) and the fee agreement must state with specificity the legal work
Defendant is undertaldng to perform;

(i)

Unless Dotson is on secure leave pursuant to Rule 26 of the General Rules of
Practice for the Superior and District Courts, Defendant must personally respond
to communications'fi'om his clients within twenty-four hours 01' direct a member
of his statIto provide clients a time when Defendmlt will respond and in that case;

4

. I

Defendant shall respond within fmiy-eight hours and in no event shall Defendant
fail to personally respond within forty-eight hours;
(j)

In the event Dotson is on secure leave, he must leave messages on all of his voice
mail boxes and e-mail accounts informing the caller/col1'espondent when he will
return fi'om secure leave and must return all calls and email messages within
forty-eight hours oftbat time;

(k)

Upon request of any client, Dotson must, in accordance with Rule 1,16(c) of the
Rulcs of Professional Conduct, provide the client with his/hcr file within fortyeight hours of the request;

(I)

Dotson must remain in treatment with bis psychologist and with his psychiatrist as
recommended by his psychologist and comply with any recommendations of his
mental health professional;

(m)

Dotson must provide the State Bar with a qumie1'ly repmi due by Janum'y 1, April
1, July 1, and October 1 each year from the treating psychologist which addresses
whether Dotson is in compliance with thc treatment recommendations, whcther
there is any change(s) in the recommendations and ifso, the reasons for the
change(s) from the recommended treatment in the previous quarter;

(n)

Dotson must limit his work hours as recommended by his mental health
professionals;

(0)

Dotson must meet monthly with his two practice monitors to whom he shall
. repOli the status of all current client matters, and provide any information the
monitors deem reasonably necessary to ensure that Dotson is diligently handling
all client matters and complying with the terms of this order, Beginning the first
day of the next calendar qumier following the effective date of the stay and
thereafter on every January 1, April 1, Jnly 1, and October'l during the stayed
suspension, Dotson will deliver to the Office of Counsel written rep01is signed by
the monitors confirming that the meetings are OCCUlTing, that Dotson is reporting
on the status of Defendant's client matters to the monitors, and that the practice
monitors are satisfied with the status of such client matters and Dotson's
compliance with this order, Dotson must pay all costs associated with the monitor
mmngement;

(P)

Dotson must limit his caseload in accordance with the advice of his practice
monitors, may not lmdertake to represent clients in domestic relations cases
without the express approval ofthe practice monitors, and shall limit the number
of pending domestic cases he is handling to forty; and

(q)

In the event that in the future, during the suspension period, Dotson decides not to
be actively engaged in the practice oflaw in any manner, whether in private
practice, public service, as corporate counsel, or in any otber form, Defendant
shall notify the State Bar by the first day ofthc next calendar quatter (January 1,
April 1, July 1, and October 1) by written communication under oath, that
5

Defendant has not so engaged in the practice of law during the preceding three
months.
3.
If Dotson fails to comply with one or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph 2
above, then the stay of suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. If the stay granted
herein is lifted or the' suspension of Dotson's license is activated fol' any reason, before a
subsequent stay of the suspension can be entered, Petitioner must show by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that he has complied with the conditions referenced in Paragraph 6 of the
August 7,2013 Order of Discipline.
4.
Unless Dotson's obligations under this Order are modified by fmiher order of the
DI-IC, Dotson's obligations under this Order end five years £i'om the effective date of the August
7, 2013 Order provided there are no motions or proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance
with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
5.
Pursuant to § .0114(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the
DHC retains jurisdiction mltil all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a
motion or proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the
suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have
terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and
activate the suspension in whole 01' in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have
not been met. The stay of the suspension and Dotson's obligation to comply with the conditions
for the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or proceeding.
6.
Dotson is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding, which
Petitioner shall pay within 30 days of the date of this Order.
7.

This Order is effective immediately upon entry ..

Signed by the undersigned clJJJiJ with th,\f~ lmowle e and consent of the other
Hearing Panel members, this the
of_V~Lfl1l~~&",t..-~::., 2015.

fJ-">-ctay

Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

6

