NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14G0146

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

Holly E. Dowd,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April16, 2015, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar. The grievance was assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results ofthe State Bar staffs investigation of this
matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member ofthe North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels or
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman ofthe Grievance Committee of the N01ih
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this Ieprimand.
On or about December 1, 2010, you entered into a contract with Weisberg and Meyers,
PLLC ("W&M"), a law firm located in the State of Arizona, to provide legal services in W&M' s
cases in the State of North Carolina. At that time, W&M was not registered as an interstate law

firm with the North Carolina State Bar. Your contract with W&M provided that you would be
listed as a W&M attorney on W&M's letterhead and marketing materials. W&M was registered
as an interstate law firm on August 15, 2011 based on the application you took pati in filing with
the State Bar. However, prior to August 15, 2011, you signed the pleadings in W&M cases filed
in North Carolina. Your association with W&M allowed W&M to establish a systematic and
continuous presence in North Carolina prior to registering as an interstate law firm, and assisted
W&M in the unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5( d).
In or about August 2011, you became associated with Drew Alia ("Alia"), a Pennsylvania
attorney who is not licensed to practice law in North Carolina. Alia operated as The Foreclosure
Law Center, P.C. ("The Center"), The Alia Law Center, P.C., and Alia Law Group all of which
were not registered as interstate law firms with the North Carolina State Bar. Your contract with
Alia Law Group provided, in pati, that you would be "providing mortgage modification and
bankruptcy representation to [Alia's] clients who are in need of such services." Your name
appeared on letterhead of Alia's firms, and you communicated with North Carolina residents on
behalf of Alia's firms. Your association with Alia allowed Alia to establish a systematic and
continuous presence in Nmih Carolina and assisted Alia in the unauthorized practice of law in
violation ofRule 5.5(d).
You were initially served by the State Bar with a letter of notice concerning your
association with Alia. In your response, you stated that you were not "aware of the interstate
registration requirement for Mr. Alia's firm." As noted above, however, in July/August 2011
you were actively involved in W&M's application for registration as an interstate law firm.
Thus, the Committee found your statement about not being aware of Alia's registration
requirement constituted a knowingly false statement of material fact made in connection with a
disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.1.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depati from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ~ day of _

___L_,4AN____:__,_y_ _ _ _ _ ,

2015.

~~L~
Jo M. Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

