BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG01l8

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

Barbara B. DuRant,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 22, 20 10, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by T. G.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including Y0ll!" response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a heming before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission arc
not rcquired and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimm1d, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Cm'olina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
On 13 January 2010, the plaintiff in Granville County file no. 10 CVD 27 filed a complaint and
obtained an ex parte emergency custody order granting the plaintiff temporary custody of the child. The
ex pane order was signed by Judge Carolyn Yancey. At that time no other cases governing custody of the
child were pending and the defendant, SP, was unrepresented. SP hired you to represent him, and on 21
January 20 I 0, you submitted to Judge Daniel Finch a motion for an ex parte order rescinding Judge
Yancey's custody order. You made only minimal efforts notify plaintiffs counsel prior to
communicating ex parte with Judge Finch. Your motion falsely asserted that "the minor child was
plaGed in the custody of [SP] ... by the Forsyth County Department of Social Services." Although you
learned that this statement was false, m1d DSS had merely initiated an investigation, you did not correct

this material false statement to the tribunal until you were directly confronted by the judge, thereby
violating Rule 3.3(a)(l).
Your "motion to rescind" did not cite any rule of procedure or statute authorizing such a motion,
nor did it contain an allegation that any of the immediate threats identified in ยง 50-13.2(d)(3) justified an
ex parle order changing the child's living arrangements. In fact, your motion focused exclusively on
what you deemed to be "dishonesty" by the plaintiff. You even went so far as to say the original ex
parle order was "fraudulently obtained." You had no reasonable basis in fact for this allegation, nor was
there any basis in law for a "motion to rescind." Accordingly, you violated Rule 3.1, which prohibits
frivolous claims. Your application for ex parle relief was also in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(3), which
narrowly limits ethically permissible ex parle communication. Finally, your frivolous application for ex
parle relief created an umlecessary burden on the opposing party, counsel, and the court. As such, it was
prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievilllce Conunittee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievilllce Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

,J?? G=cIay of

A

~. 20 I O.

~.(!04/2cZ

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
TIle North Carolina State Bill'

