NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
1 1G0683 & 1 1G0790

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
David E Duke,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 26, 2012, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by A. L and E. B.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a prelimimuy hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complairit and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
signiticant harm or potential signiticant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinmy Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
A. L. hired you in May 2010 to get an expunction of her criminal record. You charged her
$200.00 to perform that service. After A. L. did not get her criminal record expunged, she filed a fee
dispute petition with the North Carolina State Bar in April 2011. You were notified orthe fee dispute
by certified mail and told to respond in writing within 15 days of receipt orthe fee dispute petition.
When the State Bar did not receive a response to the fee dispute petition, you were contacted and given
an opportunity to submit a response bye-mail. You did not respond to the fee dispute petition by email. Your failure to participate in the fee dispute resolution process violated Rule 1.5(f)(2).
A.L.'s fee dispute was turned over to the Grievance Committee for investigation after you did
not respond to her fee dispute petition. You were served with a letter of notice in the grievance, but

failed to respond to it. You were subpoenaed to the Grievance Committee meeting in October 20 II,
and were given an opportunity to respond to the grievance in writing. Your failure to respond to AL.'s
grievance after being served with the letter of notice violated Rule 8.I(b) and Rule 8.4(d).
You told the Grievance Committee in response to this grievance that you had attempted to
refund $100.00 of the attorney's fee that A. L. paid you. You stated that you sent the $100.00 again
after you learned that A.L. had not received the refund. The State Bar's deputy counsel wrote you on
November 14,2011 and advised you that AL. had not received the $100.00 refund, and gave you
AL.'s address. You were advised to infoml the deputy counsel when you sent the refund to A.L. As of
the date that this censure is issued, A.L. has not received a reftmd from you. The Grievance
Committee found that your failure to refund the $100.00 to AL. violated Rule 1.16(d).
In 2009, E.B. retained you to represent her in a slip and fall case. You obtained from E.B.
various records and documents relating to her case. E.B. spoke with you twice about her case. She
tried to speak with you by telephone on several occasions after her second conversation with you, but
she was unsuccessful. E.B. went to see you at your office, but discovered that you had moved. It
appears that you took no substantive action in E.B.'s case. E.B. indicated that she wanted the records
and documents returned to her, but she has not received them. The Grievance Committee found that
you neglected E.B.'s case, in violation of Rule 1.3; failed to keep E.B. informed about the status of her
case and failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for infornlation, in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3)(4); failed to properly withdraw from representation in violation of Rule 1.16(b)(1); and failed
to return E.B.'s file to her in violation of Rule 1.16(d).
E.B.'s grievance was investigated by the 10 th Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee. On
two occasions, you agreed to send the information in E. B.'s file to the investigator, as well as copies of
the correspondence that you mailed to E. B. and other clients when you changed your practice. The
investigator never received any documentation irom you and she received no response from you when
she called a third time to ask for the documentation. Your failure to cooperate with the local grievance
committee in investigating this grievance violates Rules 8.1 (b) and 8.4( d) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error tlmt you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attomeys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 20 10 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this ;,J.,IJ ci- day of

F~2012.

Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

