.\~\~\S·in87n...

,:", '

A
"'i!'"

/':y'

STATE OF NORTH

CAROLIN%\~

m
D

WAKE COUNTY

\.",-

<f;'"

I,)'

MAY 2allJ

c;A.

~),"

BEFO,RE,,T,HE

DIS~pNARYHEARING COMMISSION

FllEFtI">IlJ'II"
,,-,~,
OF THE
.
dJ.IIiYnnl\!ll~' RTHCAROLINAS,TATEBAR
~

",)

'/,$

16 DHC 8

. . ,<.Q:

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE B~JLll (.'iii
Plaintiff
v.

CONSENT ORDER
CONTINUING DEFENDANT'S
DISABILITY 1NACTIVESTATUS AND
STAYING DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDING

LISA M. DUKELOW, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Beverly T. Beal, Chair, David W. Long, and Cindy L. Martelli. MmyD. Winstead
represented the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Lisa M. Dukelow, represented herself:
Both parties stipulate and al,>Tee to the findings offaet and conclusions of law recited in this
consent order and to Defendant continuing on disability inactive status. Defendantfieely and
vohmtarily waives any right to appeal the entry of this. consent order continuing her disability
inactive status.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North. Carolina State Bar ("State Bar") isa body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina aM is the proper party to brillg this pl'Oceeding tmder the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and therule~ and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Lisa M. Dukelow ("Dukelow" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Cm'olina State Bar on August 18, J 995, and was an attomey at law IicellSed to practice in
North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules ofProfessiollal Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

3.
Prior to February 14, 2017, Dukelow was engaged in the practice of law in the
State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Durham, Durhatu County, NQrth
Carolina.
4.

The cotuplainl in this action was medon January 19, 2016.

5.

The complaint and summons were served on DefendantonFebruary 17,2016.

6.

Defendantfiled 3n answer to the complaint on March 21, 2016.

7.

An amended complaint was filed 011 November 1, 2016.

Page 1 of If

8.
On November 14, 2016, a 1ettersigned by Defendant and requesting a stay of the
disciplinary proceeding was delivered to the State Bar. In the letter, Defendant stated that she
was admitting herself for l,sycruatric care at Ridgeview Institilte in Smyrna, Georgia.
9.
On November 28, 2016, the undersigned Chair of the Hearing Panel appointed to
hear this action entered an Order Staying the. Scheduling of This Matter for Heating until and
induding January 12,2017,
I O.Pursuant to the order, Defendant was .allowedtwenty days from tile termination of
the stay in which to file and serve an answer to the amended complaint.
II.
On January 31, 2017, Defendant filed an answer tp the amendedcomplaJnt. In her
answer, Defendant admitted paragraphs 1-3 of the amended complaint. With regard to the
remaining allegations in the amended complaint,])efendantdidnot answer Of otherwise r.;lspond,
Rather, Defendant contended that she is disabled as provided in 27 N.CAC. 113.0103(19) which
deftnes "disabled or disabillty"as "a mental or physical condition which significantly impairs the
professional judgment, perfonnance, or competence ofan attomey." Defendant further
~ontended that she "cunendy is disabled by mental and physical conditions that impair her
professional judgment, perfonnance, orCOll1petence"and that she is unable "tt>move forward
with a hearing."
12.
On February 14, 2017, the lUldersigned Chair ofthe hearingpaneJ entered an
order transferring Defendant to disability inactive membership status and staying the discipJinaty
hearing pending a hearing on whether Defendant is disabled.

13.

Defend~nt was discharged. from RidgevieW Institute on December 9, 2016,

14.
Defendaniprovidedthe State Bar With a discnarge.su!U!llutyfrom Ridgeview
Institute in Which the discharge diagnosis of attendillgphysician Dr. Gary Weichbrodt,a board
certified pSychiatrist, was Major Depression, Single episode.
15.
Subsequeutly, Dr. Weichbrodt submitted a correction from that diagnosis to
Major Depressive Disorder, Recurrent.
16.
On or about February 7, 2017, Erica Rapport, Ph. D., ofDu.rham, N.C.,
Dukelow's psychotherapist, submitted a letter to the Sfate Bar concerning Dukelow'smental
health issues. She reported that she has been seeing Dukelow intermittently since 2002 and on a
weekly basIs since Dukelow's discharge from Ridgeview. In tile letter, Dr. RappO\1 expressed
her professional opinion that the depression and anxiety that Dukelow "has dealt with, and is
continuing to deal with significantly impairs [sic1her profess~onal judginentand competency to
work as an attorney at the present time."
17.
According to Dr. Rapport, DUkelow's mental health issues manifest in several
ways, including loss of interest in activities, sleeplessness, diffiCUlty remembering,concentrating
and making decisions.

NCSJ) v. Dllkelow, 16 DReg
Consent Order Transferring Member to DisabflityTnactiveSt;Ittls
Page Z of4

18.
Dr. RappOit has reaffirmed to the State Bar as recently as Apri124, 2017 that the
anxiety and depression that led to her opinion on February 7, 2017 that Dukelow's professional
judgment and competence as an attorney were significantly impaired continue to el(lst and
opined that Dukelow should not be practicing law.
19.

Dr. Rapport's current c;liagnosis is Major Depressiw Disorder in partial remission,

20.

Dukelow requests and consents to remaining-on disability inactiw status.

21.

The State Bar consents to Dukelow continuing on disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makt)s the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are propedybefore the DHC and the DHC has jurisdictionovet
Defend_ant and oyer the subject matter of this proceeding.

2.
Dukelow is disabled within the meaning of27N.C. Adnlln. Code 19§ .010:3(19)
and should continue on disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.e. Admin. Code IB§ .01 lSi
and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g).
3,
Any proceeding pending before the Grievance Committee or before the DHG,
including this matter, should be stayed as long <is Dukelow remain$ in disability iua:ctive status
pursuantt027 N.C. Admin, Code 19 § .01l8(e). If Dukelow is returned toaGtiye status qy the
DHC,this disciplinary' procee&ng will be reschedukd by the Chair of the DHC.
.

ORDER
1.
Lisa M. Dukelow is hereby continued on disability inactive status in accordance
with N.C, Gen, Stat. § 84-28(g) and 27 N.C. Admin. Code Hl § ,0118(d)(5).
2.
Dukelow shaH not practice law in North Carolina until she is no longer disabled
and has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to
the procedures set outin27 N,C. Admin. Code IB § .012S(c)ii.
3.
All proceedings pending before the Disciplinary Hearing Coiumissionagainst
Duke10ware stayed lilltU.such time as Dukelow is reinstated to active status.
4,
Duke.1ow is taxed with the administrative fees and coSts.ofthis action as assessed
by the Secretary. Dukelow shaH pay the .costs and administrative fees of this action as assessed
by the Secretary within 30 days of service of the statement of costs upon her.

5.
PurSuantto27 N.C. Admin, Code IB § .01 18(e)(2), Plaintiffispermittedto
continue investigating allegations of misconduct and preserve evidence of any alleged
professional misconduct by DukeJow, including taking depositions whenpermhted to do so by
order of the Chair of the DHC.

NCSJ1 v.Dukelow, 16DHC 8
Consent Order TransferringMember to-Disabilitylnactive Status
Page 3 of4

6.
This order shall be effective immediately upon entry pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .0118(d)(5)(A).

Signed by the Chair with the consent ofthe other Heariri.gPanel members, this the
day or

~.

.,2017.

. .• .

..

....

17 'tlG
.

~.~

Bevel'ly T. Beal, Chatr
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO:

Lisa M. Dukelow
Defendant

Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

27 N.C.A.C. III § .OJ 18 is in the process of being renumbered as 27 N.C.A.C. IB § ,0122. Thechangehasbeen
adopted by the Slate Bat Council, approved by the Supreme Court, artd is pending publicalion in the N.C Supreme
CourtReports.

i

;; 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0125 is in theptocess of being renumbered as 27 N.CAC. 1B §.OI29. The change has been
adopted by the State Bat Council; approved by the Supreme Court,and is pending publication in the N.C. Supreme
Court Reports.

NCSB v.l)ukelow,16 DHC 8
Consent Order Transferring Menther to Disability Il)actlye Stiltus
Page 4 of4

