THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
v.
)
)
MICHAEL F. EASLEY, Attorney,
)
Defendant )

CONSENT ORDER OF
INTERIM SUSPENSION

THIS CAUSE carne on for consideration before the undersigned Chair of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission pursuant to 27 N.CAC. 1B §.0115(d).
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is represented by Margaret Cloutier and
Defendant, Michael F. Easley, is represented by Alan M. Schneider. Based upon
the pleadings, review of certified copies of documents, and upon consent of the
parties, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Defendant was licensed to practice law in North Carolina in 1976.
2. Defendant's address of record with the North Carolina State Bar is
2442 E. Lake Drive, Raleigh, NC 27609.
3. On November 23, 2010 Defendant tendered a plea of guilty
pursuant to State v. Alford in Wake County Superior Court of North Carolina
to one count of certifying a false campaign finance report, a felony.
Defendant's plea was accepted by the court and Defendant was ordered to
pay a $1,000.00 fine and court costs.
4. The North Carolina State Bar will file a formal complaint against
Defendant alleging he has violated the Rules of Professional Conduct based
upon his felony conviction and the conduct on which the conviction was
based.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact the undersigned makes the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

5. The crime of which Defendant was convicted is a criminal offense
showing professional unfitness as defined in 27 N.CAC. 1B, §.0103 (17).
6. 27 N.CAC. 1B §.0115 provides that the Chair may enter an order
suspending the member from practicing law pending disposition of
disciplinary proceedings before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission based
on the conviction of such crime.

7. It is unknown at this time whether professional discipline will
ultimately be imposed in this case. Possible disciplines the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission is empowered to impose in any case include
suspension and disbarment. If the DHC ultimately should impose any period
of suspension or should impose disbarment in this case, Defendant will
receive credit equal to the amount of time he has been suspended under this
interim suspension toward service of any period of disciplinary suspension or
disbarment that might be imposed.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law,
the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the
following
ORDER
The license to practice law in North Carolina of Michael F. Easley is
hereby SUSPENDED until the conclusion of all disciplinary proceedings
before the North Carolina State Bar relating to Defendant's felony conviction
in Wake County Superior Court of North Carolina and the conduct underlying
such conviction.
(1

-t:J--

(\, _

r~ ,

This the _.1J..lL-_ day of 1.Jt'['€1"Itft'I ,2010.

Sharon B. Alexander, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Commission

. E;t:y,

De~uL---

Alan M. Schneider, Attorney for Defendant

-2-

