STATE OF NORTH

WAKE COUNTY

\w

k.@/
*

+

L

'

OF THE
.,y@k~~
CAROLINA S~A'I'EBAK
./
~ f
05 DHC 52

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

CONSENT ORDER
v.

DAVID CRAFT, Attorney,
Defendant
Defendant, David Craft ("Crafi" or "Defendant") was ordered to appear and show
cause why the stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline entered in this
case on February 28,2004 should not be lifted and the suspension activated. This matter
was considered by a Hearing Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of F. Lane Williamson, Chair, and members John M. May and Rebecca
Brownlee pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, $ .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Robert A. Crabill. Defendant
represented himself. Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidenc,ethe
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
On March 27,2006, a Consent Order of Discipline was entered in this
matter. The Order was served on Defendant on April 12,2006.
1.

2.
The Consent Order of Discipline imposed a one year suspension stayed for
three years. The stay of the suspension was conditioned upon compliance with the
conditions stated in the order.
3.
follows:

The condition listed in paragraph l(g) of the Order of Discipline states as

Craft will comply with all prescribed medical treatments as determined by
his psychiatrist or other mental health professional for his substance abuse
and any other mental health problems that have been diagnosed by such
medical care providers at Craft's sole expense. Craft may elect to have his
treatment program supervised by the North Carolina State Bar Lawyer
Assistance Program. If he does so elect, he will cooperate fully with the
Lawyer Assistance Program to develop an appropriate treatment program
under the supervision of the Lawyer Assistance Program, and will comply
with the requirements of such treatment program. If he does not elect to

have his treatment program supervised by the Lawyer Assistance Program,
Craft, at his expense. will direct his psychiatrist or mental health provider
to directly proviile quarterly reports to the Ofticc of Counscl describing in
detail his current treatment regimen, co~npliance,and prognosis or
treatment plan for the next quarter within 15 days of the end of each
calendar quarter (i.e, by January 15, April 15, July IS and October 15).
Crafi will execute written waivers and releases authorizing the Office of
Counsel to c o n k with the Lawyer Assistance Program andlor with Craft's
psychiatrist or other medical care providers for the purpose of determining
if Craft has cooperated with the.Lawyer Assistance Program and complied
with dl requirements of the program and treatment prescribed. Craft will
not revoke the waivers and releases.
4.

Craft has not cooperated h i l y with the Lawyers Assistance Program

5.

Craft has not complied with the requirements of the treatment program.

6.
Craft has revoked the waivers and releases authorizing the Office of
Counsel to confer with the Lawyer Assistance Program.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing committee and the committee
has jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.

By failing to cooperate with the Lawyers Assistance Program, by failing to
comply with the requirements of the treatment program and by revoking the waivers and
releases authorizing the Office of Counsel to confer with the Lawyers Assistance
Program regarding his compliance, Defendant has vioIated the conditions of the stay of
suspension as set out in paragraph t(g) of the Order of Discipline previously entered in
this matter.
Based upon the stipulations and the documents of record in this file, the Hearing
Committee hereby enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I.
Defendant was convicted of three impaired driving charges. Defendant
was found in contempt of court for appearing in court while intoxicated. Defendant
violated his probation by failing to remain alcohol free. Defendant's substance abuse
problems require treatment and monitoring in order to protect the public from harm if
Defendant were practicing law.
2.
Defendant's failure to cooperate firlly with the Lawyers Assistance
Program creates a risk of substantial harm to the public in that his treatment program
cannot be adequately monitored to ensure he is continuing treatment, is not abusing
alcohol and is physically and mentally capable of representing clients. Defendant's
failure to coopcratc prcvents the State Bar f r ~ mfulfilling its duty to regulate the practice
of law and to protect the public.

Defendant's tkilure to comply with the treatment program creates a
3.
substantial risk of substantia! hann to current and future clients in that his substance
abuse issues have in the past adversely affected defendant's ability to adequately
represent his clients and without treatment and monitoring i t is likely that his substance
abuse issues would continue to have such an adverse effect. Defendant's substance abuse
issues require ongoing treatment and monitoring.
4.
Defendant's revocation of the waivers and releases allowing the Office of
Counsel to confer with the Lawyer Assistance Program is a violation of the consent
order. This violation makes it impossible for the State Bar to monitor Defendant's
compliance with treatment for substance abuse and mental health issues.

5.
Defend'mt should not be in an active membership status and able to
practice law in North Carolina for period of twelve months.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the
conclusion regarding discipline, the Hearing Committee enters the following:

ORDER
I.
The stay of the one year suspension of Defendant's license imposed in the
Consent Order of Discipline previously entered in this case is hereby lifted. This
activation of the suspension is effective thirty days from the date this consent order is
served upon Defendant.

2.
Defendant's reinstatement at the conclusion of the suspension is
conditioned upon Defendant showing by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he
has complied with the conditions set forth in the Consent Order of Discipline and the
general conditions required for reinstatement following a suspension set forth'in the Bar

Rules.
Signed by the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Committee with the

Disciplinary Rearing Committee

