\\ Wi\920?1;,?

;$>~

NORTH CAROLINA

'"
WAKE COUNTY

;;
-;::.

a

BEFORE THE
111-41'
i;}> DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
J::::/'1 .?ODo 'Q?,
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
~,':b.
99 DHC 28

() tt..."'D !!:".. .",

6"

THE NORTH

1\ ~

(('!:.~.,l·

CAROLI~~
Plaintiff,

v.
W. KELLY ELDER, JR., Attomey,
Defendant

)
)

)
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
)
) AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)
)

This matter was heard on the II th day of February, 2000, before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Richard T. Gammon, Chair; Kenneth M. Smith, and
Anthony E. Foriest, Hearing Committee Members. The defendant, W. Kelly Elder, lr. was
represented by Doug Kingsbery. The plaintiff was represented by Larissa Erkman. Based upon the
pleadings and stipulations of fact contained in the Stipulations on Prehearing Conference filed by the
parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina Slale Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant W. Kelly Elder, 1r. (hereinafter, "DefendanC), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 21, 1977 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice law in North Carolina, snbject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the periods referred to herein, Defendant was engaged in the practice ofJaw in
North Carolina and maintained a primary law office in the City of Burlington, Alamance County,
North Carolina.
4.
The Defendant willfully failed to timely file federal individnal income tax retums
with the Internal Revenue Service for the calendar years 1991 through 1994.
5.
During the calendar years 1991 through 1994, the Defendant received annual income
higher than the minimum statutory amount requiring a taxpayer to file an individual tax return.
6.
On or around February 27, 1996, the Defendant filed delinquent returns for each of
the four calendar years, 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994, after a criminal investigation had been initiated
by the Criminal Investigation Division of the Internal Revenue Service.

7.
On August 4, 1998, the Defendant was charged in the United States Court for the
Middle District of North Carolina with four counts of willful failure to timely file federal income tax
returns for the calendar years 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994 in violation of26 U.S.C. § 7203.
8.
A certified copy of the Summons in a Criminal Case and the criminal information
issued against the Defendant on August 5, 1998 in the United States District Court for the Middle
District of North Carolina, case number 1:98CR215-1 is attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit A.
9.
On December 9,1998, the Defendant pled guilty to one count of misdemeanor failure
to timely file a federal income tax return for the calendar year 1991. The United States District
Court for the Middle District of North Carolina entered ajudgment of guilty and placed the
Defendant on probation for three years subject to standard and special conditions of supervision,
including the payment of criminal monetary penalties in the total anlolmt of $2,525.00.
10.
The United States Court for the Middle District of Nmih Carolina dismissed the
remaining three counts of the information charging the Defendant with willful failure to timely file
tax returns for the calendar years 1992, 1993 and 1994.
11.
Defendant voluntarily reported the misconduct at issue herein to the Nmih Carolina
State Bar on August 4, 1998, prior to the issuance of a criminal summons and information.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the stipulations contained in the
Stipulations on Prehearing Conference filed by the parties, the Hearing Committee enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All pmiies are properly before the Hearing Committee and the Committee has
jurisdiction over the defendmlt, W. Kelly Elder, Jr., and the subject maller.
?
The Defendmlt has been convicted of a criminal offense showing professional
unfitness in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(I); mld

3.
By willfully failing to timely file federal individual income tax returns for the
calendar yem's 1991 through 1994, the Defendant committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on
his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects, in violation of Rule 1.2(b) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the evidence
mld arguments of the pmiies concerning the appropriate discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby
makes additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Defendmlt's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
Defendant's conduct involved multiple offenses

2

2. The Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
Absence of any prior disciplinary record
Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify consequences of
misconduct
Full and free disclosure to the Grievance Committee and the DHC and a
cooperative attitude toward the proceedings
Good character or reputation
Physical or mental disability or impainnent
Interim rehabilitation
Imposition of other penalties or sanctions
Remorse
3. The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.
Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the arguments of the
parties, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license ofthe defendant, W. Kelly Elder, .Tr., is hereby suspended for a period of two
years, and the two-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years on the following conditions:
a. The Defendant shall not violate any local, state or federal laws during the period of
stayed suspension.
b. The Defendant shall not violate any provisions of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct during the period of stayed suspension.
c. The Defendant shall comply with all standard and special conditions of his federal
probation imposed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of North
Carolina, case number 1:98CR215-1.
d. The Defendant shall report to the Office of the Secretary of the North Carolina State
Bar any finding by a federal district court judge or magistrate judge ofa violation of his
probation, regardless of the punishment imposed by that judge.
e. Throughout the period of the stayed suspension, the Defendant shall timely pay the
legally required estimated income taxes, if any, due and payable to the North Carolina
Department of Revenue and the Internal Revenue Service on April 15, .Tune 15, September
15 and .Tanuary 15 of each tax year (or at such other intervals or times required by law) so as
to remain current with his obligations to pay state and federal income taxes, and if Defendant
is not legally required to pay estimated income taxes, he shall pay annual income taxes due
and payable of each tax year during the period of the stayed suspension.
f. During the stayed suspension, the Defendant shall file all state and federal tax returns
in a timely mamler.

g. The Defendant shall provide to the Office of the Secretary of the North Carolina State
Bar written verification that he has filed all required tax returns with the North Carolina
3

Department of Revenue and the Internal Revenue Service during the stayed suspension. This
written verification shall be sent on or before April 15 th each year of the stayed suspension
period. If an extension for filing income tax returns is sought, then written verification shall
be provided to the Office of the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within one week of
the filing date of that return.
h. The Defendant shall pay all costs incurred in this proceeding and taxed against the
Defendant within ninety (90) days of service of this order upon the Defendant.
2. If during the stay of the two-year suspension, the Defendant fails to comply with anyone or
more conditions stated in paragraphs 1 (a) - (h), then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be
lifted as provided in §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
3. If any stay of the suspension of the Defendant's law license is lifted, as provided in the
foregoing paragraph, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order providing for such
conditions as it deems necessary for obtaining a stay of the remaining period of suspension or for
reinstatement of the Defendant's license at the end of the two-year suspension.
4. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
& Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Committee chair with the consent of the other Hearing
Committee members.

T. Gammon, Chairman
I-Iearing Committee

4

