r;;

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

o

o~

,t·'~"

.9 S; +.

n

OF THE

\~&RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

f
y W~h/

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE

L.wARY HEARING COMMISSION

--J

IX DHC 4

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, I
Plaintiff

I
I

v.

I

Jeffrey W. Ellingworth, Attorney,
Defendant

I

---

ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

J

--<

This matter came on for consideration before the Hearing Panel composed of
Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, Richard V. Bennett and Cindy Marrelli upon the State Bar's
Motion for Default Order hnposing Discipline pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB
.011S(g). Katherine E. Jean represented plaintiff: the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, Jeffrey W. Ellingworth, has not participated in this matter and no counsel of
record appeared on his behalf. On June 26, 2018, the Hearing Panel entered a Default
Order Making Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, determining the facts and the
violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct. The only issue remaining for
determination is the appropriate discipline to be imposed for established violations of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
ESTABLISHED FACTS
1. Defendant, Jeffrey Warren Ellingworth (hereafter "Defendant"), was admitted
to the State Bar on 26 November 2010 and is an attorney at law subject to the
rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
2. During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a
law office in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
3. On 27 January 2016, an Order of Administrative Suspension was issued to
Defendant which resulted in Defendant's license to practice law being
suspended effective 26 February 2016.
4. After the effective date of his suspension, Defendant was not an active
member of the State Bar and thus was not permitted to hold himself out as
competent or qualified to give legal advice, counselor furnish the services of
a lawyer to another, or collect a legal fee.
5. In or around early 2014, Defendant established an attorney-client relationship
with N. Terzakis (hereafter "Terzakis") and undertook to represent Terzakis
with respect to his claims against Bank of America and an individual for
fraud, theft, elder abuse and other potential claims.
Page 1 of 14

6. At that time, Defendant collected a $2,000 payment from Terzakis to apply to
legal fees.
7. Terzakis entrusted Defendant with original documents related to his claims.
8. Thereafter, Defendant did not respond to numerous calls and voicemail
messages from Terzakis.
9. On or about 20 January 2016, Terzakis sent Defendant a letter by certified
mail and email inquiring about the status of his legal matter and requesting a
refund of the $2000 payment and return of his original documents within one
week, if Defendant did not intend to follow through with representation.
10. Defendant did not respond to the letter or email sent by Terzakis to Defendant
on or about 20 January 2016.
11. On or about 29 February 2016, the certified letter was returned to Terzakis
marked "unclaimed."
12. Defendant failed to perform any meaningfhl work on Terzakis's behalf.
13. Defendant failed to keep Terzakis infonned about the status of his case.
14. Defendant had not completed his representation of Terzakis when he was
suspended from the practice oflaw.
15. During the wind-down period between 27 January 2016 and 26 February
2016, Defendant failed to notify Terzakis of his suspension, the reason for his
suspension, and his consequent inability to act as an attorney after the
effective date of his suspension.
16. Defendant failed to withdraw from his representation of Terzakis before the
effective date of his suspension.
17. Defendant did not eam the $2,000 payment he collected from Terzakis.
18. Defendant did not refund the unearned fee.
19. Defendant did not return Terzakis's original documents to him.
20. Defendant failed to advise Terzakis to seek legal advice elsewhere.
21. On or about 12 April 2016, the State Bar opened a fee dispute resolution file
number 16FD0151 against Defendant based on infonnation provided by
Terzakis.
NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4
Order Imposing Discipline
Page 2 of14

22. On 12 April 2016, the State Bar sent a Notification of Mandatory Fee Dispute
Resolution to Defendant by certified mail to his address of record with the
State Bar.
23. The Notification of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution was served on
Defendant on 14 April 2016 infonning Defendant that he had a duty to
respond in writing to the fee dispute petition within 15 days of receipt.
24. Defendant did not respond to the fee dispute petition.
25. On 18 and 19 May 2016, the State Bar fee dispute facilitator left voicemail
messages for Defendant.
26. Defendant did not respond to the voicemail messages left by the State Bar fee
dispute facilitator on 18 and 19 May 2016.
27. On or about 23 May 2016, the State Bar opened a grievance file against
Defendant concerning his conduct in the Terzakis matter, assigned file
number 16G0572.
28. On 29 June 2016, the State Bar sent a Letter of Notice in file number
1600572 by certified mail to the address that had been provided to the State
Bar by Defendant on 22 June 2016.
29. The Letter of Notice was served on Defendant on 5 July 2016 informing
Defendant that he had Ii duty to respond in writing to the grievance within 15
days of receipt of the Letter of Notice.
30. Defendant did not submit a written response to the grievance.
31. On or about 19 October 2016, Defendant responded to an email from State
Bar deputy counsel, stating that he was unaware of the grievance and that he
was no longer practicing law.
32. At Defendant's request, deputy counsel emailed the Substance of Grievance to
Defendant on 19 October 2016.
33. Defendant failed to provide any response to the grievance in file number
16G0572.
34. In or around July 2015, A. Gorton (hereafter "Gorton") retained Defendantto
defend him against two criminal charges.
35. On or about 15 July 2015, Defendant collected $3,000 from Gorton as
payment of his legal fee to provide this representation.
36. Defendant failed to perform any meaningful work on Gorton's behalf.
NCSB v. EJlingworth, 18 DRC 4
Order Imposing Discipline
Page 3 of14

37. Defendant failed to keep Gorton informed about the status of the criminal
charges.
38. On or about 24 November 2015, Gorton emailed Defendant to terminate
representation on one of the criminal charges and to request at least a partial
refund of the advance fee payment.
39. Defendant did not return any portion of the advance fee payment to Gorton.
40. Defendant had not completed his representation of Gorton on the remaining
criminal charge when he was suspended from the practice of law.
41. During the wind-down period between 27 January 2016 and 26 February
2016, Defendant failed to notify Gorton of his suspension, the reason for his
suspension, and his consequent inability to act as an attorney after the
effective date of his suspension
42. Defendant failed to withdraw from his representation of Gorton before the
effective date of his suspension.
43. Defendant did not earn the entire amount of the $3,000 fee he collected from
Gorton.
44. Defendant failed to refund the unearned portion of the fee.
45. Defendant failed to advise Gorton to seek leg!:!l advice elsewhere.
46. On or about 11 April 2016, after the effective date of Defendant's suspension,
Defendant responded to an email from Gorton, stating "I will schedule the
necessary court appearances as soon as possible."
47. Defendant communicated with Gorton using the following email address:
jeffrcY@ellingw0l1hlaw.com.
48. Defendant's response to Gorton on or about 11 April 2016 and use of the
email address ;effrey@ellingworthlaw.com gave the false appearance that
Defendant was authorized to practice law.
49. Defendant's communication with Gorton in the email used the signature line
"Jeffrey W. Ellingworth, Esq."
50. By using the signature line "Jeffi:ey W. Ellingworth, Esq." Defendant gave the
false appearance that Defendant was authorized to practice law.

51. Defendant otherwise failed to respond to numerous telephone calls and emails
from Gorton.
NeSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4
Order hnposing Discipline

Page 4 of14

52. By letter dated 18 July 2016 sent to Defendant, Gorton tenninated his
representation by Defendant in the other criminal charge and sought a refund
of unearned fees.
53. Defendant did not respond to Gorton's 18 July 2016 letter.
54. On or about 24 October 2016, the State Bar opened a fee dispute resolution
file number 16FD0482 against Defendant based on infonnation provided by
Gorton.
55. On 24 October 2016, the State Bar sent a Notification of Mandatory Fee
Dispute Resolution to Defendant by certified mail to his address of record
with the State Bar.
56. On 14 November 2016, the State Bar fee dispute facilitator sent Defendant an
email alerting him further of the efforts of the State Bar to reach him.
57. Defendant did not respond to the 14 November 2016 email to him from the
State Bar fee dispute facilitator.
58. On or about 17 November 2016, the certified mailing of the Notification of
Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution in file number 16FD0482 was returned to
the State Bar marked "unclaimed."
59. On or about 22 November 2016, the State Bar opened a grievance file against
Defendant concerning his conduct in the Gorton matter, assign.ed file number
16G1281.
60. On 22 March 2017, the State Bar sent a Letter of Notice in file number
1601281 by certified mail to Defendant's address of record with the State
Bar.
61. On or about 24 April 2017, the certified mailing of the Letter of Notice in file
number 16G1281 was returned to the State Bar marked "unclaimed."
62. In June 2017, a State Bar investigator spoke with Defendant's mother.
63. Defendant thereafter left a voicemail message for the investigator.
64. All further attempts by the State Bar to communicate with Defendant
regarding the Gorton matter were unsuccessful.
65. On or about 26 January 2017, the State Bar opened a fee dispute resolution
file number 17FD0042 against Defendant based on infonnation provided by J.
Howerton (hereafter "Howerton").

NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4

Order Imposing Discipline
Page 5 o£14

66. On 26 January 2017, the State Bar sent a Notification of Mandatory Fee
Dispute Resolution to Defendant by certified mail to his address of record
with the State Bar.
67. The Notification of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution was served on
Defendant on 31 January 2017 informing Defendant that he had a duty to
respond in writing to the fee dispute petition within 15 days of receipt.
68. Defendant did not respond to the fee dispute petition.
69. On or about 8 March 2017, the State Bar opened a grievance file against
Defendant concerning his conduct in the Howerton matter, assigned file
number 17G0235.
70. On 22 March 2017, the State Bar sent a Letter of Notice in file number
17G0235 to Defendant by certified mail to his address of record with the State
Bar.
71. On or about 24 April 2017, the certified mailing of the Letter of Notice in file
number 17G0235 was returned to the State Bar marked "unclaimed."
Based on the foregoing Established Facts, the Hearing Panel made the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and over the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2. Entry of default was proper.
3. Pursuant to N.C. Admin. Code 1B.OllS(g) and IB.0115(l)(4), Plaintiff's
Motion for Default Order hnposing Discipline may be decided based on the
parties' written submissions.
4. Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Established Facts above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that
Defendant violated the Rilles of Professional Conduct as follows:
a. By failing to communicate with Terzakis, Defendant failed promptly to
comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule
lA(a)(4) and failed to explain the matter to the extent reasonably
necessary to penuit Terzakis to make informed decisions regarding the
representation in violation of Rule lA(b);
b. By failing to perform any meaningful work on Terzakis's behalf,
Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing Terzakis in violation of Rille 1.3;
NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4

Order Imposing Disciplino
Page 6of14

c. By collecting $2,000 from Terzakis to handle his claims and then failing
to perform any meaningful work on Terzakis's behalf and failing to refund
the unearned $2000 he collected from Terzakis, Defendant collected a
clearly excessive fee in violation of Rule 1. 5(a) and failed to take steps to
protect his client's interests in violation of Rule 1.16(d);
d. By failing to inform Terzakis of his suspension from the practice of law,
Defendant failed to keep the client reasonably informed about the status of
the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to consult with Terzakis
about this relevant limitation on Defendant's conduct when Defendant
knew that Terzakis expected assistance not permitted by the Rules of
Professional Conduct due to Defendant's suspension in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(5);
e. By failing to withdraw from his representation of Terzakis before the
effective date of his suspension, Defendant failed to terminate
representation of a client where the representation will result in a violation
of the Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 1.16(a)(l);

f. By failing to return Terzakis's original documents, Defendant failed
promptly to deliver to the client entrusted property belonging to the client
to which the client is currently entitled in violation of Rule l.1S-2(n) and
N.C. Admin. Code IB .0128(a);
g. By failing to communicate with Gorton, Defendant failed promptly to
comply with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(4) and failed to explain the matter to the extent necessary to peImit
Gorton to make informed decisions regarding the representation in
violation of Rule 1.4(b);
h. By failing to perform any meaningful work on Gorton's behalf, Defendant
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing
Gorton in violation of Rule 1.3:

i. By collecting $3000 from Gorton to defend the criminal charges against
him and then failing to perform any meaningful work on Gorton's behalf
and failing to refund the unearned $3000 he collected from Gorton,
Defendant collected a clearly excessive fee in violation of Rule l.5(a) and
failed to take steps to protect his client's interests in violation of Ru1e
1. 16(d);
j.

By failing to inform Gorton of his suspension from the practice of law,
Defendant failed to keep the client reasonably informed about the status of
the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to consult with Gorton
about this relevant limitation on Defendant's conduct when Defendant
knew that Gorton expected assistance not permitted by the Rules of
Professional Conduct due to Defendant's suspension in violation of Ru1e
l.4(a)(S);
NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4
Order Imposing Discipline
Page 7 of 14

k. By failing to withdraw from his representation of Gorton before the
effective date of his suspension, Defendant failed to terminate
representation of a client where the representation will result in a violation
ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 1.16(a)(l);
I.

By holding himself out to Gorton as an attorney admitted to practice in
North Carolina after his suspension, Defendant engaged in the
unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(b)(2) and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fi:aud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);

m. By failing to submit a written response to the Notification of Mandatory
Fee Dispute Resolution in 16FD0151 and 17FD0042, Defendant failed to
participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process in violation
of Rule 1.5(f)(2); and
n. By failing to submit a written response to the Letter of Notice in 16G0572,
Defendant failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a
disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b).

Additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
1. Defendant was admonished by the Grievance Committee in 2016 for failing to
respond to the 26th Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee, for failing to
respond timely to the State Bar Grievance Committee, and for failing to
respond to requests for additional information from the State Bar Grievance
Committee.
2. The purpose of the State Bar's fee dispute resolution program is to give clients
a readily accessible and free process by which to attempt to resolve issues
relating to disputed fees. Defendant's failure to respond to and participate in
good faith in the fee dispute resolution program denied his clients this benefit
and interfered with the State Bar's self-regulatory function.
3. Defendant's dishonest and selfish actions caused actual or potential significant
harm to the public's trust and confidence in the legal profession.
Based on the Established Facts, the Conclusions of Law and the Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure,
suspension, and disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to
impose in this case.

NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4
Order Imposing Discipline
Page 8 of14

2. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0116(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable:
27 N.C.A.C. IB §. 0116(a)(1):
a. Factor (B), intent of Defendant to commit acts where the hann or potential
hann is foreseeable;
b. Factor (C), circumstances reflecting the Defendant's lack of honesty,
trustworthiness, or integrity;
c. Factor (D), elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of the
client;
d. Factor (E), negative impact of the Defendant's actions on the client's or
public's perception of the profession;
e. Factor (G), impainnent of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;
g. Factor (I), acts of dishonesty and misrepresentation; and
h. Factor (J), multiple instances of failure to participate
profession's self-regulation process.

III

the legal

27 N.C.A.C.1B § .0116(a)(2):
a. Factor (A), acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, or deceit.
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .116(a)(3):
a. Factor (A), prior disciplinary offenses;
b. Factor (C), dishonest or selfish motive;
c. Factor (D), lack of timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to
rectify consequences of misconduct;
d. Factor (E), indifference to making restitution;
e. Factor (F), a pattern of misconduct; and
f.

Factor (0), multiple offenses.

2. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the disciplinary options available to it
and determined that a period of active suspension is appropriate and
necessary.
3. Defendant's conduct resulted in significant harm to his clients.
NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4
Order Imposing Discipline

Page 90f14

4. By failing to disclose his upcoming suspension to his client, Defendant failed
to act in his client's best interests and acted with a dishonest and selfish
motive.
5. The legal profession is entrusted with the privilege of self-regulation. The
State Bar can only regulate the profession if its members respond timely and
fully to inquiries of the State Bar.

6. The Hearing Panel has considered lesser sanctions and concludes that any
discipline short of suspension would not adequately protect the public for the
following reasons:
a. Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses, would not adequately protect
the clients, the public, and the administration of justice, and would send
the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State;
b. Defendant has failed to reform his conduct in response to lesser prior
discipline; and
c. For the public to have confidence in the State Bar's regulation of the
profession, lawyers who continuously engage in improper conduct must be
removed from the profession.
Based upon the foregoing Established Facts, Conclusions of Law,
Additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I. Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is hereby
suspended for four years, beginning 30 days from the date of service of this
order upon Defendant.

2. Defendant shall submit his law license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this
order upon Defendant.
3. Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0128 ("Obligations of Disbarred or
Suspended Attorneys"). As provided in § .0128(d), Defendant shall file an
affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of
the effective date of this order, certifying he has complied with the wind down
rule.
4. The administrative fees and costs of this action are taxed to Defendant.
Defendant must pay the costs of this action within 30 days after the statement
of costs is served upon Defendant by the Secretary of the State Bar.
NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4
Order Imposing Discipline
Page 10 of14

5. Within 30 days after service of this Order, Defendant shall provide the State
Bar's Office of Counsel with an address and telephone number at which
clients seeking their files can communicate with Defendant. Defendant shall
promptly deliver all files to his clients upon request.
6. After serving no less than two years of the suspension, Defendant may apply
for a stay of the remaining period of suspension imposed by this Order by
filing a motion in the cause and demonstrating by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that, in addition to complying with the general provisions
of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1~ Subchapter B, § .0129 ("Reinstatement"),
he has complied with the following conditions:
a. Defendant timely complied with paragraphs 2-5 of this section of the
Order of Discipline;
b. Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical (not P.O. Box or Drawer) home and
business addresses, telephone numbers, and email address, and notified the
membership department within 10 days of any change to his contact
information;
c. Defendant accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar
and responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
North Carolina State Bar-including communications from the Attorney
Client Assistance Program-within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline
stated in the communication, whichever was earlier;
d. Defendant participated fully, timely, and in good faith in the State Bar's
fee dispute resolution program when notified of any petitions for
resolution of disputed fees;
e. Defendant timely complied with State Bar membership requirements and
paid all fees and costs assessed by the State Bar and the Client Security
Fund by the applicable deadline. At the time he petitions for reinstatement
or seeks a stay, Defendant must demonstrate that he is current in payment
of all applicable membership dues, fees, costs, penalties accrued, Client
Security Fund assessments, judicial district dues, and any other charges
the State Bar is authorized to collect;

f.

During the period of active suspension, Defendant attended twelve hours
of accredited Continuing Legal Education (CLE) courses annually, as ifhe
were a member in good standing. No more than six of the twelve annual
CLE hours may be completed via online courses. Six of the twelve annual
CLE hours must be in the areas of ethics and professionalism. At the time
he petitions for reinstatement or seeks a stay, Defendant must demonstrate
that there is no deficit in his completion of CLE hours, in reporting of
CLE hours, or in payment to the State Bar of any fees associated with
attendance at CLE programs. The CLE requirements shall apply to each
NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4
Order Imposing Discipline
Page 11 of14

calendar year during which Defendant
December 31 ;

IS

actively suspended as of

g. Defendant completed a course of training in law office management,
approved in advance by the Office of Counsel. It is recommended,
although not required, that Defendant read the treatise entitled "How to
Start and Build a Law Practice" by Jay Foonberg.
h. Defendant does not, at the time he petitions for reinstatement or seeks a
stay, have any physical or mental impairment or other condition or illness
that significantly impairs his professional performance, judgment or
competence.

i.

Defendant has not engaged in the unauthorized practice of law during the
period of active suspension; and

j. Defendant has not violated the Rilles of Professional Conduct or any state
or federal laws (including the revenue and tax laws of any jurisdiction)
other than minor traffic violations during the period of active suspension.
7. Defendant may file a motion in the cause seeking a stay of the remainder of
the suspension up to 30 days prior to completing two years of active
suspension but shall not be permitted to resume practicing until he has served
at least two years of active suspension.
8. If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license
pursuant to this Order, the stay will (',ontinuc in force only as long as
Defendant complies with the following conditions:
a. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of his current physical (not P.O. Box or Drawer) home
and business addresses, telephone numbers, and email address, and shall
notify the membership department within 10 days of any change to his
contact information;
b. Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar
and respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
North Carolina State Bar Within 30 days or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is earlier;
c. Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and
continuing legal education requirements and shall pay all fees and costs
assessed by the State Bar and the Client Security Fund by the applicable
deadline;
d. Defendant shall satisfy the CLE requirements for members in good
standing. Six of the annual CLE hours completed by Defendant during the
stayed suspension must be in the areas of ethics and professionalism;
NeSB v. ElIingw011h, 18 DHC 4

Order Imposing Discipline
Page 12 of14

e. Defendant shall participate fully, timely, and in good faith in the State
Bar's fee dispute resolution program when notified of any petitions for
resolution of disputed fees;
f.

Defendant shall arrange for an active member in good standing of the
North Carolina State Bar who has been approved by the Office of Counsel
and practices in the county of Defendant's practice to serve as Defendant's
practice monitor. The monitor shall: (i) meet with Defendant monthly to
review Defendant's cases; (ii) provide supervision to ensure that
Defendant timely and completely handles client matters; and (iii) provide
written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel on the
following dates as they occur during the duration of the stay of the
suspension: January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. Defendant will
be solely responsible for the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for
providing supervision and/or generating quarterly reports. Failure to
ensure that the reports required herein are timely submitted shall be
grounds for lifting the stay and reactivating the suspension;

g. Defendant must submit to the Office of Counsel the name of the proposed
monitor within 15 days after the order staying the suspension. Upon
approval, and within 30 days after entry of the order staying the
suspension, Defendant must submit to the Office of Counsel a letter from
the approved monitoring attorney confirming his or her agreement to
perform the duties outlined above. Defendant's failure to timely submit
the name of a proposed monitor will not toll or excuse noncompliance
with Defendant's obligations under this Order to meet monthly with a
monitor and to ensure the monitor provides quarterly reports;
h. Defendant shall meet at least monthly with the practice monitor, to whom
he shall report the status of all current clients and provide copies of any
court filings for the monitor's review. Defendant shall provide any other
information or documentation deemed necessary by and requested by the
monitor. Defendant's first meeting with the monitor must occur within 30
days of entry of the order staying suspension;
i.

Should it become necessary to replace the practice monitor, Defendant
shall immediately notify the Office of Counsel and shall provide the name
of a proposed alternate monitor for approval. Defendant's failure to timely
submit the name of a proposed replacement monitor will not toll or excuse
noncompliance with Defendant's obligations under this Order to meet
monthly with a monitor and to ensure the monitor provides quarterly
reports; and

j.

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state
or federal laws (including the revenue and tax laws of any jurisdiction)
other than minor traffic violations during the period of stayed suspension.

NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4
Order Imposing Discipline
Page 13 of14

9. If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in
Paragraph 8 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be
lifted as provided in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118(a) ("Stayed
Suspensions.")
10. If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension, or if some part of the
suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must
provide in support of his petition for reinstatement clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence of the following;
a. Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0129 ("Reinstatement"); and
b. Compliance with the conditions set out in paragraph 6 above.
11. Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional
misconduct discovered or reported which occurred during the same time
period as the conduct addressed in this Order.
12. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .01 18(a) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the suspension, and any stay
thereof, and until all conditions set out above are satisfied.
Signed by the c~~nsent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day of N,
,2018.

:21

8~~S?~
Donald C. Prentiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

...

NCSB v. Ellingworth, 18 DHC 4
Order Imposing Discipline
Page 14 of14

