NOR7'1 I CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NOR'TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0498

WAKE COUNTY

Steven E. Philo,
Attorney At Law

1
1
)

REPRIMAND

1
1

On July 12, 2007 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
I'ursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as -'reasonable cause to
believe lhal a member or ihe Norlh Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifjling
disciplinary action."

1he rules provide that after a finding of probable causc, the Grievancc Committee may
determine that the ilIing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct. the actual or potential injury caused. and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has tiolated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You are associated with an entity called Gina & Vic, Inc., which owns a franchise
of'a business company called The Closing Place. 'l'he Closing Place providos settlement
agent services in residential real estate closings, and Gina & Vic. Inc. sought to engage i n
such business in Franklin, North Carolina You sent a letter to realtors in about April
2005 on Icttcrhcad bearing thc caption "Philo & Spivey, P.A., Attorneys For The Closrng

Place" with a Franklin, North Carolina address. The letter contained statements
suggesting that an entity named The Closing Place could provide services for real estate
closings, including your finn's legal services, for the fees quoted in the letter. You
utilized the services of Gina &: Vic, Inc., doing business as The Closing Place, in certain
real estate transactions, and disbursed funds to '"The Closing Place" to compensate the
company for its work. Your association with this company and communication to others
by the April 2005 letter described herein and by similar sign assisted this company in
holding itself out as capable of providing legal services to others, a form of unauthorized
practice of law, in violation of Rule 5.5(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
llone and ordered, this the

,2007

~ $ h e s xFox, chair

