,

t

~(f{tt'2J?f';~
A)(fF>
'"lII'"
<;::,

~v

' \1;>

INA A{Jf) 2{Jf111 ~
BEFORE THE
fftb
DIS
INARY HEARlNG COMMISSION
''!: q/!.!f) IJp..W <:CY
OF THE

STATE OF NORTH CARl

(n

~~

WAKE COUNTY

'11iP

«Il

.t\;

ORTHC~~t~tlSTATEBAR

'."j,'

THE NORTH CAROLINA STA
Plaintiff

v.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

DAWN£. ELY, ATTORNEY,
Defendant
THIS MATTER was heard on July 15, 2016 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of William O. King, Chair, and members R.
Lee Farmer and Patti Head. Joshua T. Walthall and Barry McNeill represented Plaintiff,
the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Dawn E. Ely, was present and appeared pro se.
Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated facts,and the evidence admitted at the
hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Defendant, Dawn E. Ely ("Defendant"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on September 10, 1993, and is, and was at all times referred to herein,
an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State
of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar, and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
2,.
Defendant was administratively suspended by the North Carolina State
Bar on June 10, 2011 for failure to comply with Continuing Legal Education
requirements.
3.
As of Jury 15, 2016;, Defendant was still administratively suspended in
North Carolina.
4.
Defendant is also a licensed attorney in Georgia but has been
administratively suspended since July I, 2011 due to her failure to pay mandatory bar
dues.
5.
Georgia.

As of July 15, 2016, Defendant was still administratively suspended in

1

6.
Defendant operates a business registered in Georgia called Palladitun
Legal Services, LLC ("PLS") that functions under the trade name Palladium Chief Legal
Officers ("PCLO").
7.
Carolina.
8.

Neither PLS nor PCLO is authorized to provide legal services in North
Defendant describes herself as the "President and Founder" of PCLO.

9.
Defendant advertises the services of PCLO via email solicitations and a
website, www.palladiumclos.com.
10.
According to the PCLO website and Defendant's email solicitations,
PCLO offers" to provide various businesses with legal services through a ntunber of
lawyers on the PCLO staff, including Defendant.

11.

According to the. PCLO website and Defendant's email solicitations,
Defendant holds herself out to residents of North Carolina and Georgia as able to provide
them with legal services through "PCLO despite not being actively licensed in either state.
12.
Defendant offers the services of PCLO to businesses and individuals in
various states, including those in North Carolina and Georgia.
13.
Defendant describes the legal services PCLO offers as "in-house" legal
cOUllsel services provided by "Chief Legal Officers."
14.
Defendant offers to' provide the legal services of-attorneys under contract
with PCLO to other businesses on a temporary or as needed basis.
15.
To obtain the services of these attorneys, clients must retain and pay
PCLO which will then instruct one of its attorneys to provide legal services to the client
upon payment from PCLO.
16.

PCLO attorneys arc employees of PCLO and not the" companies they

serve.

17.
Defendant makes all hiring and fIring decisions regarding the attorneys
who work for PCLO.
18.
PCLO attorneys are not paid directly by the businesses they serve, but
rather are paid by PCLO.
Defendant has sent solicitation emails to potential clients in North
19:
Carolina and other states representing that PCLO could provide them with legal services
and advice.
20.
In August and September of2012, Defendant sent emails to Tony Maupin,
a North Carolina resident and the owner of a North Carolina company, soliciting his "
2

business by offering to provide him with legal services through PCLO attorneys,
including Defendant.
21.
In Defendant's emaHs to Tony Maupin, she used the designation "Esq."
after her I).atne despite not being actively licensed to practice law in any state at the timc.
22.
The designation "Esq.," an abbreviation for "Esquire," has historically
been used in the United States to indicate to others that someone is an attorney licensed to
practice law. Defendant was using.thedesignation "Esq." for this purpose.
23.
In or around January 2008, Defendant sent a proposed employment
.contract to Henry Abelman ("Abelman"), a North Carolina licensed attorney who moved
to inactive status in 1998, in an effort to hire him as an attorney employee ofPCLO.
24.
The contract Defendant sent to Abeiman notes in one provision that
. Abelman "agrees .to perform legal coUnsel services on behalf of Company [PCLO] to
third party companies retaining Company[.]"
25.
Abelman did not agree to the provisions in the contract anl\ did not agree
to become an employee of Defendant's company.
26.
Defendant nonetheless held out on her website that Abelrnan was an
employee of PCLO and was able to provide legal serviCes to North Carolina residents on
.
behalf of the company.·
27.
The contract Defendant had clients of Palladium sign indicated in
numerous places that Palladium was providing legal services to the clients:
a. "This Attorney Engagement & Consulting Agreement for Services
("Agreement") is made and entered into effective as of the _ day of
-::::-_-:---=-::-:::;-" 2015, by and between Palladium Legal Services, a
Georgia LLC d/b/a Palladium Chief Legal Officers ("Palladium" or
"Company") with offices at 2625 Piedmont Rd., NE, Suite 56-117, Atlanta
GA 30324 and
., a
company
with its principal offices located at
("Client")."
b. "Client hereby engages Company [Palladium], to provide in-house legal
services for the telm and compensation described herein. Company agrees
to assign an appropriate Paladium Attorney, who at the time of execution
of this Agreement shall be
("Attomey") to perform the
services specified in the "Description of Services" (the "Services")
attached to this Agreement as Exhibit A and incOlJlorated herein by
reference. "
c. "Company [palladium] warrants that it shall perform the Services utilizing
at least the degree of skill and care exercised by diligent and prudent
professionals performing similer services in accordance with best industry
practices. "
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

3

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All of the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Dawn E. Ely, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings ofYact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a) By holding herself out on her website as able to provide legal services and
advice to North Carolina residents, Defendant made false or misleading
statements about her services in violation of Rule 7.1(a) and engaged in
the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(b)(2);
b) By' holding her company out on her website as able to provide legal
services and advice to North Carolina residents, Defendant made false or
misleading statements about her company's services in violation of Rule
7.1 (a) and engaged in the unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule
5.5(b)(2);
e) By contacting Tony Maupin via an email in which she designated herself
as "Esq." and offered to provide him with legal services through her
company, Defendaot ·solicited professional employment from a North
Carolina resident when a significant motive wa~ Defendant's pecuniary
gain in violation of Rule 7.3(a), made false or misleading statements about
her and her company's services in violation of Rule 7.1 (a), and engaged in
the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(b)(2); and
d) By claiming on her website that Henry Abehnan was an attorney
employed by her company when he was not, Defendant made false or'
misleading communications about her and her company's services in
violation of Rule 7.l(a) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rules 8.4(c).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The findings offact in paragraphs 1 - 27 are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
Defendant has not acknowledged the wrongful nature of her conduct or
indicated remorse.
3.
By attempting to practice law in North Carolina despite not being actively
licensed here, Defendant caused significant potential harm to her company's cHents and
to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it showed her disregard
for one of the foundational duties of an attorney - practicing law solely within the bounds

4

of licensure. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the reputation
of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a -whole. Confidence in the legal
profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
4.
The Hearing Panel frods by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence any
additional facts that may be contained in the conclusions rcgardmg discipline set out
-below.
5.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional
Findings Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(l), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar,
and concludes that the following factors are applicable:
27N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(1)
a. Factor (B), Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or
potential harm is foreseeable; and
b. Factor (I), Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(2)
a. Factor (A), Acts of dishonesty, _misrepresentation, deceit, or
fabrication.
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(3)
a. Factor (G), Multiple offenses; and
b. Factor (0), Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct.
2.
Although the Hearing -Panel determined one of the factors under 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(2) to be present, the Hearing Panel concluded that disbarment
was not warranted in light of all of the circumstances of the case.
3.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the disciplinary options available to it
and determined that imposition of a suspension is appropriate and necessary.
4.
The Hearing Panel concluded that Defendant, by unlawfully providing and
offering to provide legal services to others through herself and her company, exposed the -

5

public to significant potential hann. Whenever attorneys engage in the unauthorized
practice of law, there is the potential for significant hann, particularly when money
. exchanges hands, court appearances are made, and legal fonns are drafted or filed on
. behalf of others. The risks of this type of arrangement include divided loyalties, fee
splitting, inadequate representation, excessive fees, a lack of understanding sufficient to
adequately represent and protect the interests of clients in a given jurisdiction, and
criminal activity. There is also the inherent danger that someone other than a licensed
North Carolina attorney will provide legal services to North Carolina citizens, thereby
hampering the State Bar's ability to protect the public by regulating the practice oflaw in
this state.
5.
The Hearing Panel considered all lesser sanctions and concluded that
discipline short of an active suspension would not adequately protect the public.
Imposition of lesser discipline would fail to ackoowledge the seriousness of the offenses
Defendant committed and would send the wrong message to members of the Bar and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members ofthe Bar of this State.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant, Dawn E. Ely, is hereby SUSPENDED from the practice oflaw
for five years, effective 30 days from service of this Order upon Defendant. This
suspension may be stayed after a period of two years, as set forth in paragraph 4 below.

2.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide
the State Bar's Office of Counsel with an address and telephone number at which clients
seeking return of files can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and
Defendant shall promptly provide client files to all clients who request return of their
files.
3.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding,
including the costs of all depositions, as assessed by the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar within 90 days after service of the statement of costs on her.
4.
No earlier than two years after the effective date of this Order, Defendant.
may seek a stay. of the remaining period of suspension by filing a verified motion
demonstrating by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Detendant has met all
requirements for reinstatement set out in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B§ .0125(b), and has complied
with each of the following:
a. Defendant paid all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within 90 days after service of the statement of
costs on her;
b. Defendant did not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions of the
Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the suspension;
6

c. Defendant responded to all State Bar requests for infOimation as required by
Rule 8.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by the deadline stated in
the communication or within 30 days of receipt;
d. Neither Defendant, Palladium, nor any other corporate entity with which
Defendant is associated engaged or attempted to engage or held itself out as
able to engage in the practice of law in North Carolina during the period of
the suspension;
,
e. With reference to her administrative suspension by the Administrative
Committee, Defendant shall have: (1) satisfied all requirements for
reinstatemerit as established by the Administrative Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar for reinstatement from the suspension imposed by the
Administrative Committee, including, but not limited to, the payment of all
fees to the Continuing Legal Education and membership depattments of the
North Carolina State Bar; (2) submitted her petition for reinstatement from
the administrative suspension, to the Administrative Committee; and (3)
been reinstated by the Administrative Connnittee or approved for
reinstatement by the Administrative Committee contingent upon the DHC
granting her petition for stay of the DHC suspension; and
f.

Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of her current home and business street (no P.O. Box) addresses and
telephone numbers during the period ofthe suspension.

5.
If Defendant 0 blains a stay of her suspension pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Order of Discipline, she must comply and continue to comply with all of the
following conditions, or the stay of the suspension of her law license may be lifted as
provided in § .0114(x) ofthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules:
a. Defendant shall maintain all of her atmual CLE requirements as required by
the State' Bar;
b. Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions of the
Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the stayed suspension;
c. Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for information by the
deadline stated in the communication or within 30 days of receipt,
whichever is sooner;
d. Defendant shall timely comply witb all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements; and
e. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of her current home and business street (no P.O. Box) addresses and
telephone numbers.

7

,

.
6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason or if Defendant never obtains a stay of the suspension, the DHC may enter an
Order imposing such conditions as it . deems necessary for the reinstatement of
Defendant's license at the end of the suspension. Furthermore, Defendant must have
complied with each of the following conditions precedent to reinstatement before she can
be reinstated to the active practice oflaw:
a. Submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the North

Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date of the order
activating her sllspension;
b, Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A,C, lB, § .0124 of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules on a timely basis;
c, With reference to her administrative suspension by the Administrative
Committee, Defendant shall have: (1) satisfied all requirements for

reinstatement as established by the Administrative Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar for reinstatement from the suspension imposed by the
Administrative Committee, including,but not limited to, the payrnent of all
fees to the Continuing Legal Education and membership departments of the
North Carolina State Bar; (2) submitted her petition for reinstatement from the
administrative suspension to the Administrative Committee; and (3) been
reinstated by the Administrative Committee or approved for reinstatement by
the Administrative Committee contingent upon the DRC granting her petition
for stay of the DHC suspension;
d.

Paid any outstanding disciplinary administrative fees arid costs; and

-e.

Within 15 days of the effective date of an order activating the suspension
Defendant shall have provided the State Bar with an address and telephone
number at which clients seeking return of fIles could communicate with
Defendant and obtain such fIles, and Defendant shall have promptly returned
all fIles to clients upon request.

7,
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuantto 27 N.C.A.C, I B, § .0 114(x) of theNorth Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules throughout the period, if any, of the stayed suspension.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this

"'4"",0'

Allq

2016.

,",

~.-..

#±~~~~~----~

illiam O. King
Chair, Disciplinar

-----'

8

