BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
10G0132

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
David W. Erdman,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 28, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by C.G.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminaty hearing. After considering the inforn1ation
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee fmmd
probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the ntles as "reasonable cause to believe that a member
of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinmy action."
The rules provide tlmt after a fmding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine tl1at the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinmy Hearing Commission
are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending
upon tlle misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, aJ1d any aggravating or mitigating
factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimaJ1d, or a censure to the
respondent attorney.
A reprimat1d is a written fom1 of discipline more serious thaJ1 an admonition issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct al1d has
caused ham1 or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession, or a member of
the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Conmrittee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Cat'olina
State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented P.e. in his attempts to gain joint legal custody m1d visitation privileges
with his child. On the morning of December 18,2009, P.C. and e.G., the child's mother, failed to
reach a resolution in mediation regmding child visitation. Your client, P.C., submitted an affidavit
to the Committee stating that he received numerous cOlmnunications prior to the mediation raising
his concerns about the health, living arrangements and well being of the child and that these
concerns were heightened by the unsuccessful mediation.

Following the unsuccessful mediation, you, accompanied by P.C., made an unscheduled and
unnoticed appearance before a judge. You indicated to the judge that you were there on a "mission
for Christmas mercy." You did not give C.G. prior notice that you were going to the presiding
judge, which was in violation of Mecklenburg County Local Rule 11.3. TIle date of the mediation,
December 18, was the last date the district courts were open in 2009. You asserted that it was
impractical under the circumstances to provide prior notice to G.c. of this initial appearance.
You engaged in an ex parte communication with the presiding judge, on the record,
regarding the merits of the case. Although you initiated an ex parte communication with the
presiding judge only for the purpose of scheduling an emergency hearing on the custody and
visitation issues, your comments to the judge pertained to more than the need to schedule an
emergency hearing on custody and visitation. The transcript of your ex parte communication with
the judge reflects that you made negative comments about C.G. and you offered your opinion
about her conduct relative to your client and the child. After making those remarks, you
apologized on the record for making characterizations before the Judge had heard the evidence.
Furthermore, P.C. testified about the failed mediation and why he believed he should
have visitation with the child, primarily in response to questions from the presiding judge. All
of these communications took place before the judge about the merits of your motion without
C.G. being present and having an opportunity to respond to those statements.
Your ex parte communications with the judge regarding your client's case violated Rule
3.5(a)(3) and your conduct violated Rule 8.4(d).
After these communications, the presiding judge ordered a hearing later that afternoon
and directed that C.G. be notified of the hearing. The hearing was held and C.G. attended,
participated and testified at the hearing. After the hearing, the presiding judge entered a
memorandum ofjudgment granting P.C. visitation with the child over the Christmas holiday.
There was a January II, 2010 hearing before the same presiding judge who heard your
client's case on December 18, 2009. The presiding judge entered an order, which included a
proltibition of C.G. removing the child from Mecldenburg County without further order of the
Court. You were ordered to prepare the order from the January II hearing. Your client's
affidavit stated that later that day, C.G. posted a message on the internet stating: "C.G. is
packing up me and the kid and heading to the airport ... catch me if you can!" P.C.'s affidavit
further indicated that he brought the internet message to your attention while you were preparing
the order.
After completing the order, you presented it to the presiding judge that same day for his
consideration. You did not provide C.G. with a copy of the drafted order prior to presenting it to
the presiding judge for his consideration. Mecklenburg County Local Rule 19.3 provides that
no order shall be presented to a judge until the opposing attomey or party has had a reasonable
opportlmity to review it and has been advised of the date when the proposed order will be
presented for signature. Mecldenburg County Local Rule 19.4 requires that all orders submitted
by attomeys for signature shall be delivered to the family court administrator.

You stated in your response to the grievance that you believed C.G. was leaving the state
with the child which created an emergency. You informed the Judge about C.G's message and
told him that you had not provided C.G. a copy of the proposed order. You did not attempt to
give C.G. any notice of the proposed order bye-mailing it to her prior to presenting the order to
the judge, even though you had her e-mail address. The Committee found that, notwithstanding
your explanations, your failure to follow the local rules regarding serving a drafted order on the
opposing attorney or party violates Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
As part of the materials you submitted to the Committee, you presented considerable
evidence from several former judges, current and previous State Bar councilors and other
members of the bar that you possess good character, high ethical and moral standards and a
reputation for truth, honesty and integrity in the legal community.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attomey issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$100.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the 27 th day of May, 20 II

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
RGB/lr

