K-,1,,\lIlZ91Ull, !
/;y'l:.;

STATEOFNORTHCAROL

WAKE COUNTY

~

.

..

.?,y

~ BEFORE THE
m!lelPLIN)\RY HEARING COMMISSION
#
,Co
OF THE
1.9/ Sf hI rI 1\\ . RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
• - " L\
12 DHC 7

<;p

lLt:DDI-lr.

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISBARMENT

v.
JODI A ERNEST, Attorney,
Defendant
THIS MAITER coming before the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission pursuant to 27 N.c' Admin, Code IB § ,0117(d) upon an Affidavit of Surrender of
Law License executed by Jodi A, Ernest ("Defendant" or "Ernest") dated 28 August 2012 and
filed with the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission on 28 August 2012,
Based upon the pleadings and the record, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1, Plaintiff, the North Carolina Slate Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Jodi A. Ernest, was licensed to practice law in North Carolina on 23 March
1996 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in
North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina,
3, The North Carolina State Bar filed a formal complaint against Defendant on 19 January
2012, The complaint and other matters referred by the Grievance Committee include allegations
of dishonesty, client neglect and failure to properly maintain and deliver entrusted funds, The
conduct set out in the complaint and other matters constitute a violation of Rule I, 15-2(a) and
(m), Rule L3 and 8A(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and as such constitutes grounds for
discipline pursuant to N,C. Gen, Stat. 84-28(b)(2),
4, Defendant has indicated her consent to disbarment by tendering and filing an affidavit of
surrender with the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, The affidavit meets all
requirements set forth in 27 N,C, Admin, Code IB § ,0117(a) (I), (2), (3), (4) and (d),

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0108 provides that the Chair has the power and duty to enter

orders disbarring members by consent.
2. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0117(d) , if an affidavit of surrender filed by a
defendant against whom a formal complaint has been filed meets the requirements set out in §
.01 17(a)(I), (2), (3) and (4), the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission will accept the
surrender and issue an order of disbarment.
3. Defendant's affidavit meets all requirements set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.01 17(a)(I), (2), (3), (4) and (d) and the facls upon which the affidavit is predicated warrant
Defendant's disbarment.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the undersigned Chair
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following
ORDER
1. The surrender of the license of Jodi A. Ernest is hereby accepted.
2. Jodi A. Ernest is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina effective upon
the entry of this order with the Secretary ofthe North Carolina State Bar.
3. Jodie A. Ernest shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124 of
the Slale Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and shall surrender her license and permanent
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit
required by 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
The effective date of this disbarment order is September 30, 2012.
4. Applicable administrative fees and the costs of this action are taxed against the
Defendant.
This the'Jr day

of--,-tM~u¥,"",:i"---,,
2012.
J

Disciplinary Hearing Commission

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
RY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
AROLINA STATE BAR
12 DHC 7

Petitioner
AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LAW LICENSE

v.

JODI A. ERNEST, Attorney,
Respondent.
Jodi A. Ernest, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign as an attorney and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or duress. I
anl fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.
3. I am aware that there is a formal complaint pending against me before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission and I am aware that the Grievance Committee has found probable cause in three
additional matters and directed counsel toprepare and file a complaint as to those matters. I am
aware that the complaint and additional matters include allegations of dishonesty, client
neglect, and failure to promptly deliver entrusted n.mds.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigations are predicated are true.

5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that I cannot successfully defend against the
charges of misconduct in the complaint and the additional matters recently referred to the DHC
by the Grievance Committee.

This

theJJ'~ay of-LA.!-l-t"J t0-=--:..t-_ _ _ , 2012.
L

I,J,.ln~J:;, ..... }J\.S\",+b, Notary Public of the COWlty of \r-l!" k.e..
, State of North Carolina,
certify that Jodi A. EID~t personally appeared before me tllis day, was sworn, attested that the
foregoing Affidavit of Surrender of Law License is true and accurate of her own personal
knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.
'""

' tl 'Ci5"';(j
f 1>1_
ThIS
le _ _ ay 0 -nV\3u",,~ ,2012.
Notary Public

""

om

....

'W

_ •

..,._~'---"'~~

•

OFFICIAL SEAL

Notary Publ;c - North Carolina
County of Wake

JENNIFEr< M SLATTERY
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES MAY 7. 2013

My commission expires: lv\",,-\, 1, ?-o I ~~~~=--~

