/;'~
.
....4, ,(').

/t.,..~

~

.,£".;,.,

STATE OF NORTH

CARO~~A
.'"

! ...... .J

~
~

9"

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA

J.-}

API?"

'{;j,
BEFORE THE
<'O!'P1SC1\,'
ARY HEARlNG COMMISSION
-' '"
I'lL t::D
c::
OF THE
t;:, Df
;J':(bRTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
iC c~:,,o!
IODHC8
,...

STl(E~B:AR,r ., \~~:::iV
~ ...... ~~

Plaintiff
ORDER TRANSFERRING
DEFENDANT TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

v.

ANNETTE H. EXUM, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER came on to be heard and was heard on 4 March 2011 before a
hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of J. Michael Booe,
Chair, Robert F. Siler and Michael Houser. Brian P.D. Oten represented the North
Carolina State Bar. Dudley A. Witt represented Defendant, Annctte H. Exurn. Based
upon the pleadings and evidence presented at trial, the hearing panel hereby enters the
following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized wlder the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding Wlder the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the niles and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereWlder.
2.
Defendant, Annette H. Exurn ("Exum" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on 4 April 2003 and is, and was at all times rcferred to
herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the tinJes relevant hereto, Defendant was actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Raleigh,
Wake COWlty, North Carolina.
4.
Plaintiff filed the complaint in this action on 15 January 2010 and
amended its complaint on 6 December 2010. Defendant was properly served with
process and received due notice of the hearing in this matter.
5.
By motion dated 31 January 2011, Defendant raised the issue of her
disability in the Wlderlying disciplinary proceeding.

6.
On 7 February 201 I, the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Panel stayed
the underlying disciplinary proceeding, transferred Defendant to disability inactive status,
set a hearing date of 4 March 20 II to determine whether Defendant is disabled and
appointed counsel to represent Defendant in the 4 March 20 II hearing on disability
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118(c).
7.
On 4 March 2011, Defendant was an inpatient at Wake Medical Center
under the care of her cardiologist, Robert Wesley, n, M.D., FA.C.C. ("Dr. Wesley"),
who has treated Defendant since 2007. At the time of the hearing, a cardiac
catheterization was being performed to define her coronary artery anatomy with
simultaneous stint implantation if required, thereby preventing Defendant from attending
the 4 March 2011 hearing. Counsel for Defendant stipulated in open court that
Defendant wished and instructed her counsel to proceed with the 4 March 2011 disability
hearing dcspite hcr absence.
8.
Defendant began experiencing significant health issues requiring inpatient
treatment and admission to Wake Med as early as March 2006. During this period of
inpatient hospitalization, Defendant advised her treating physicians that she was
experiencing light headedness, stuttering and slurred speech, that she felt unsteady on her
feet with an abnormal gait, and that she felt weak and anxious. At some point after her
discharge from Wake Med in March 2006, Dr. Wesley began treating Defendant for
evaluation of hypertension, chest pain and shortness of breath. Defendant was again
hospitalized under Dr. Wesley's care at Wake Med in 2008 with symptoms of dizziness
and stuttering speech. After a thorough work up it was determined that her episodes were
"not particularly consistent with transient ischemic attacks (mini strokes)." She was once
again hospitalized under Dr. Wesley's care at Wake Med in 2010 for weakness and
slurred speech. Defendant was again hospitalized in January 2011 after experiencing an
episode of dizziness and weakness at the courthouse during which she lowered herself to
the ground.
9.
Based upon his cardiovascular and neurology evaluations of Defendant
over the preceding four years, Dr. Wesley diagnosed Defendant with neurocardiogenic
presyncope due to hypertensive heart disease. In Dr. Wesley's opinion, this condition is
exacerbated by acute and chronic emotional stress. Dr. Wesley explained that
neurocardiogenic presyncope is a cardiovascular condition which develops in the setting
of decreased blood volume in the left ventricle, which is the main pumping chamber of
the heart. A chronic state of decreased blood level leads to stimulation of stretch
receptors in the heart muscle, which activate an epinephrine-mediated cardiovascular
reflux which leads to enlargement of the veins in the leg. Venous enlargement leads to
pooling ofa large amount of blood in the lower extremities, which reduces the amount of
blood returning to the heart. The ultimate effect is less blood flows from the heart to the
brain which leads to neurological symptoms including dizziness and wealmess.
10.
In Dr. Wesley's opinion, chronic stress combined with acute stressors,
including the recent death of her father and the everyday life/practice of an attorney,
cause Defendant to experience recurrent symptoms which impact her on a daily basis.
Defendant's chronic hypertension combined with her chronic strcss cause her symptoms

to be especially debilitating. Dr. Wesley concluded that Defendant currently suffers from
a physical disability that impairs her professional performance as an attorney.
I I.
Dr. Wesley recommended a course of treatment consisting of a referral to
cardiac rehabilitation for supervised exercise sessions to allow the Defendant to improve
cardiovascular conditioning, lose weight, retrain her cardiovascular system to maintain an
appropriate blood pressure response to upright posture and improve blood pressure
response to stress. He also indicated that treatment should include careful monitoring of
medications and using beta blocker therapy to antagonize the epinephrine-mediated
cardiovascular reflex which causes neurocardiogenic presyncope. By following the
prescribed cardiac rehabilitation, Dr. Wesley is hopeful that Defendant can improve to a
state that allows her to function without neurocardiogenic presyncope.
12.
Dr. G. Lane Wagaman, Ed.D, Licensed Psychologist ("Dr. Wagaman"),
began treating Defendant in December, 2010. Dr. Wagaman testified that Defendant's
general anxiety is presently at such a high level that it impairs her professional judgment
and performance as an attorney. Defendant's anxiety and response to acute stressors
combined with Dr. Wagaman's limited clinical observations and inability to review
medical records outlining Defendant's prior medical history prohibited Dr. Wagaman
from conducting a complete psychological examination of Defendant and forming an
opinion as to a formal diagnosis of Defendant's psychological condition. However, Dr.
Wagaman through his clinical observation has been able to form a working diagnosis that
Defendant suffers from an adjustment disorder of unspecified origin that significantly
impairs Defendant's judgment and performance as an attorney and which impairs her
ability to practice law.
13.
Dr. Wagaman recommends the following course of treatment for
Defendant: First, attempting to control Defendant's high level of anxiety by referring
Defendant to a psychiatrist to determine what, if any, medications may be helpful in
reducing, eliminating, or better controlling the Defendant's current significant levels of
anxiety and reaction to acute stress because such reaction presently impairs Dr.
Wagaman's ability to properly evaluate and determine Defendant's psychological
condition. Once Defendant regains control of her anxiety, Dr. Wagaman recommends
Defendant submit to a full psychological examination to determine if Defendant suffers
from any additional or alternative psychological condition(s) and produce a final,
definitive diagnostic impression and consequent treatment.
Dr. Wagaman's
recommended course of treatment would also include referral for a complete medical
work up on Defendant's physical condition, if after reviewing Defendant's previous
medical records said referral is necessary to determine what, if any, physical
characteristics contribute to Defendant's psychological condition.
14.
Defendant's pattern of behavior reflects an ongoing inability to carry out
her professional responsibilities based upon her neurocardiogenic presyncope due to
hypertensive heart disease, exacerbated by acute chronic stress, chronic anxiety, and
potentially other undiagnosed psychological conditions.

15.
In order to protect the public, it is necessary for Defendant to identify and
obtain appropriate treatment for the mental and physical conditions that have rendered
her unable to fulfill her professional responsibilities.
16.
The parties, through counsel, informed the panel that an additional
amendment to the complaint will be necessary to include an additional claim for relief.
Counsel for both parties stipulated in open court that they consented to an Order being
entered allowing this amendment. Counsel for the parties further stipulate that the time
to answer the allegations of the amended complaint would be stayed until Defendant is
reinstated to active status.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Defendant
and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
I.

2.
Defendant suffers from a mental and physical condition (or conditions)
that significantly impairs her professional judgment and performance as an attorney, and
she is therefore disabled within the meaning of27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0103(19), and should
be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118.
3.
Plaintiff, by and with the consent of Defendant, should be allowed to
amend its complaint to add a claim for relief.

4.
The time in which Defendant will be required to respond to the allegations
ofthe amended complaint will be stayed until she has been reinstated to active status.
ORDER
I.
Defendant, Annette H. Exum, is hereby transferred to disability inactive
status in accordance with North Carolina General Statute 84-28(g) and 27 N.C.A.C. IB §
.0118(c).
2.
The disciplinary action filed by Plaintiff is stayed until such time as
Defendant is reinstated to active status.
3.
The costs of this proceeding are taxed against Defendant. The Secretary
of the State Bar shall send a statement of costs to Defendant. These costs are due within
two years after entry of this order, or upon petition by Defendant for reinstatement to
active status, whichever is earlier. The costs taxed to Defendant include but are not
limited to all fees associated with Dr. G. Lane Wagaman's testimony provided pursuant
to subpoena in this case, all fees associated with Dr. Robert Wesley's testimony provided
via written letter in this case, and all fees associated with Mr. Witt's appointment to serve
as counsel for Defendant in this case.

·

.
4.
Defendant initiated evaluation and treatment by Dr. Wesley and Dr.
Wagaman prior to this disability hearing being scheduled.
Defendant remains
responsible for any fees associated with Dr. Wesley's and Dr. Wagaman's evaluation and
treatment of Defendant.
5.
Upon application for reinstatement to active status, in addition to
complying with the requirements of27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0125(c), Defendant must show by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that she:
a. Paid the costs of this proceeding, as contained in the statement of costs
provided by the Secretary of the State Bar, within the time frame set forth
in paragraph 3 above;
b. After reducing her anxiety level as described by Dr. Wagaman above,
successfully underwent a psychodiagnostic and needs-based behavioral
mental health evaluation at Defendant's expense that included a
comprehensive review of Defendant's personal, medical, and behavioral
health history and current status, as well as a comprehensive mental status
evaluation. The evaluation shall also include the administration and
interpretation of the current version, in professional use at the time of
examination, of at least one empirically-validated psychometric
instrument, which must include but need not be limited to the MMPI-2.
The purposes of this evaluation shall be: (l) to determine Defendant's
current diagnoses based on DSM criteria; and (2) to recommend a course
of treatment for Defendant based thereon, if warranted by the evaluation
and any resulting diagnoses. The diagnostic testing, interpretation of
results, and recommendations shall be performed by an appropriately
trained, cxperienccd and licensed psychologist selected by Dcfcndant and
approved by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant shall provide the results of the evaluation and her treatment
plan, if any, to the Office of Counsel for its review;
c. Has consistently complied with the treatment recommendations (including
but not limited to medication and/or psychotherapy) of Dr. Wesley and Dr.
Wagaman described in the findings of fact above and any additional
recommendations generated as a result of the diagnostic evaluation
described in paragraph 5(b), as well as any subsequent treatment
recommendations indicated by any treatment provider(s), for a period of
time sufficient to improve her condition and functioning to the point that
Defendant is no longer disabled from the practice of law as defined by 27
N.C.A.C. lB § .0103(19) and as verified by Defendant's treatment
provider(s). All treatment of Defendant and evaluation of Defendant's
improvement as referenced in tins Order shall occur at Defendant's
expense;
d. Has executed a written release authorizing the Office of Coullsel of the
North Carolina State Bar to speak with and obtain copies of records from

Dr. Wesley, Dr. Wagaman, any evaluating physicians and any treating
health providers;
e. Is no longer disabled and is competent to practice law;
f.

Has not engaged in the unauthorized practice of law during her period of
inactive status;

g. Has not engaged in any conduct during the period of her inactive status
that would constitute grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. 8428(b); and
h. Has accepted all certified mail and has responded to all letters and other
communication from the North Carolina State Bar within the time period
stated therein.
6.
Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. JB § .0118(1), Plaintiff is permitted to continue
investigating allegations of misconduct and preserve evidence of any alleged professional
misconduct by Defendant, including taking depositions. However, Plaintiff is not
permitted to depose Defendant in its attempt to preserve evidence.
7.
To protect the interests of Defendant during the time of her disability,
Dudley A. Witt is hereby appointed to represent Defendant in any depositions taken by
Plaintiff pursuant to paragraph 6 above.
8.
Plaintiff is further allowed to amend its pending disciplinary complaint in
this matter to include any additional allegations of professional misconduct. Defendant's
time to file a response to Plaintiff's amended complaint shall be tolled until Defendant
returns to active status with the North Carolina State Bar.
9.
This order shall be effective immediately upon entry pursuant to 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .0118(c).

Signed by

thed-li~ day of

e Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this is
fU \
,2011.

g:;h;cJJM. ~
J. Michael Booe, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

