THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

MEREDITH P. EZZELL, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Allison C. Tomberlin, Chair, and members, Maya Madura Engle and John M. Kane,
Jr., pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0115(i).
Plaintiff was represented by Joshua T. Walthall and Alex G. Nicely. Defendant, Meredith P.
Ezzell, appeared pro se. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter. The patties stipulate
and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order, and consent to the
discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant knowingly,
freely, and voluntarily waives her right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the
sufficiency of the findings and conclusions herein.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the patties' stipulations of fact, facts developed
during the pending litigation, and with the consent of the patties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules atId regulations of
the NOlth Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Meredith P. Ezzell ("Defendant"), was admitted to the NOlth Carolina
State Bar in 1996 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in NOlth Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bat' and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.

Defendant was properly served with the summons and complaint in this matter.

4.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Defendant was actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State ofNOlth Carolina and maintained a law office in Wilmington.
5.
In June 2017, Defendant held out to lR., a North Carolina resident in need of legal
representation before the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District ofNOlth Carolina ("the
Bankruptcy COUli"), that Defendant would provide her with legal services.

Page 1 of 11

6.
In June 2017, lR. retained Defendant and paid to Defendant a $300.00 retainer fee
for representation in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition.
7.
In September 2017, lR. paid $1,600.00 to Defendant, $373.00 of which was for filing
fees and credit counseling fees, and the remainder of which was for attorney's fees.
8.
Throughout September and October 2017, lR. conesponded with Defendant's legal
assistant, delivered requested documents, completed a course on credit counseling and took time
off work for the date that her petition was scheduled to be filed.
9.
On the morning of lR.' s appointment regarding her petition, Defendant's legal
assistant called lR. and explained that Defendant had cancelled their appointment.
10. lR. continued to reach out to Defendant's office regarding re-scheduling the
appointment.
11. After several months of requesting updates regarding her file and receiving no
response, J.R. went to Defendant's office in February 2018 to reh'ieve her file and request a refund,
but Defendant was not there.
12. Defendant did not provide to lR. the legal services for which Defendant had
collected legal fees.
13. In or around February 2018, lR. terminated her relationship with Defendant and paid
another attorney to represent her before the Bankruptcy Court.
14. On April 13, 2018, Defendant refunded to J.R. the $373.00 that Defendant had
collected for filing fees and credit counseling fees.
15. On August 31, 2018, Defendant refunded to J.R. $100.00 of the attorney's fees
collected from lR.
16. Defendant has not refunded the remaining $1,427.00 in attorney's fees collected from
lR. for work that was not performed.
17. On November 9, 2017, Defendant was scheduled to appear in the Bankruptcy Court
to represent a client, S.H.
18.
hearing.

On November 8, 2017, Defendant filed a motion to continue the November 9, 2017

19. The Bankruptcy Court granted Defendant's motion to continue and scheduled the
hearing for December 7, 2017.
20. On December 7, 2017, less than one hour prior to the scheduled hearing, Defendant
filed another motion to continue the hearing.
21.

Defendant did not appear in court on December 7, 2017.

NCSB v. Ezzell, 18 DHC 42
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 2 of 11

22. On December 8, 2017, the Bankruptcy Court granted the motion to continue and
rescheduled the hearing for January 10,2018.
23. Despite the fact that Defendant did not file a motion to continue the January 10,2018
hearing, Defendant did not appear at such hearing, forcing S.H. to represent himself.
24. From November of2017 to May of2018, Defendant was absent from her law office
and failed to adequately communicate with her clients.
25. From November of2017 to May of2018, Defendant did not perform, supervise the
creation of, or sign monthly or qumierly reconciliations of her trust account.
26. From November of2017 to May of2018, Defendant did not review barue statements
and cancelled checks or complete or sign transaction reviews of her trust account.
27. From November of 2017 to May of2018, Defendant failed to supervise her legal
assistant and permitted her assistant to engage in the unauthorized practice of law by allowing her
assistant to draft and file pleadings without the supervision or involvement of an attomey.
28. From November of 2017 to May of 2018, Defendant, via her website, held herself
and her firm out to clients as able to provide them with legal services.
29.

From November of 2017 to May of 2018, Defendant claimed on her website, inter

alia: "I will personally attend to all of the details of your case[.]"
30. From November of2017 to May of2018, Defendant did not appear in her office or
personally attend to her clients' cases.
31. From November of2017 to May of2018, Defendant failed to provide her clients with
the legal services for which she had previously been paid.
32. In April of 20 18, the Barucruptcy Court entered a consent order in which Defendant's
CMIECF filing privileges were suspended and Defendant was ordered not to represent any
ban1cruptcy clients until fmiher order of the Comi.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties m'e properly before the Hearing Panel and the DHC has jurisdiction over
Defendant, Meredith p, Ezzell, and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a) By failing to provide lR. the legal services for which she was retained, Defendant
failed to act with diligence in violation of Rule 1.3;

NCSB v. Ezzell, 18 DHC 42
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of 11

b) By failing to respond to J .R. 's phone calls and requests for information about her case,
Defendant failed to communicate with her client in violation of Rule 1.4(a) and Rule
1A(b);
c) By collecting fees from J.R. for legal services she did not provide, Defendant collected
illegal or excessive fees in violation of Rule 1.5(a);
d) By failing to refund unearned fees and failing to communicate with lR. upon
termination of the representation, Defendant failed to take steps to protect her client's
interests upon termination in violation of Rule 1.16(d);
e) By claiming to clients via her website that she would provide them with legal
representation and personally attend to their cases during a time when she knew she
was not attending to her cases or even going into her law office, Defendant
misrepresented the services she would provide in violation of Rule 7.l(a);
f) By failing to appear in cOUli on behalf of S.H., Defendant engaged in activity that was
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d);
g) By allowing her nonlawyer paralegal to provide legal services to lR., Defendant failed
to take reasonable measures to ensure that a nonlawyer assistant acted in accordance
with the professional obligations of the profession and aided another in the
unauthorized practice of law, a criminal act that reflects adversely on a lawyer's
professional fitness in violation of Rule 5.3(b), Rule 5.5(f) and Rule 8A(b); and
h) By failing to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations, review banlc statements
and cancelled checks, and complete or sign transaction reviews, Defendant violated
Rule 1.15-3(d), Rule 1.15-3(i)(l), and Rule 1.15-3(i)(2).
Based upon the consent of the pmiies, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

The findings of fact and conclusions of law above m'e reincorporated as if set forth

2.

Defendant has a history of alcohol and marijuana abuse.

herein.

3.
Defendant was under the influence of alcohol and marijuana at the time of the events
described above.
4.
After the events described above, Defendmlt sought treatment for her alcohol and
marijuana abuse. Defendant successfully completed a thiIiy-day inpatient program at The Shores
Treatment and Recovery and an eight-week intensive outpatient program with Pavillon by the Sea.
5.

In April of2018, the BanklUptcy COUli entered a consent order in which Defendant's

CM/ECF filing privileges were suspended and Defendant was ordered not to represent any
banlauptcy clients until fmiher order of the Court.

NCSB v. Ezzell, 18 DHC 42
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 oftt

6.
In August of 2018, the Bankruptcy Court, after finding that Defendant had
sufficiently recovered from her chug-abuse issues so as to no longer be a danger to her clients,
entered an order reinstating Defendant's CMlECF filing privileges and permitting Defendant to
represent clients in the U.S. Bankmptcy Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, subject
to certain terms and conditions.
7.
Defendant has agreed to repay her client, lR., $1,427.00 for unearned and excessive
attorney's fees.
8.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
determining the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0116(f)(I) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes that the following factors that warrant suspension or disbarment are present:
(a) Elevation of Defendant's own interest above that of the client;
(b) Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justiCe; and
(c) Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0116(f)(2) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes that no factors are present that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0116(f)(3) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) A pattern of misconduct;
(b) Interim rehabilitation;
(c) Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings; and
(d) Imposition of other penalties or sanctions.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or censure but
concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient. The Hearing Panel concludes that such
discipline would fail to ac1mowledge the seriousness of the violations committed by Defendant
and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
NCSB v. Ezzell, 18 DHC 42
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 of 11

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered all alternatives and concludes that a suspension is
necessaty to adequately protect the pUblic. The Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline shOtt of suspension would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of
the patties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant, Meredith P. Ezzell, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for three
years, effective thilty days from service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as assessed
by the Secretary. Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees within thhty days of service
of the statement of costs and administrative fees upon her.
3.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as Defendant
complies, and continues to comply dming the period of the stay, with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary of the State Bar within thirty days of service of the statement of fees and
costs upon her;
(b) Defendant shall inform the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of North
Carolina of this discipline and accept and abide by any and all sanctions or
requirements established by that court concerning her practice before that court;
(c) Each year of the stay, Defendant shall complete three additional hours of Continuing
Legal Education ("CLE") courses on the subject of substance abuse. This CLE
requirement is in addition to the CLE requirements set out in North Carolina
Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter D § .1518. These comses must
be completed within the applicable time period for completing the CLE homs required
under North Cat'olina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter D § .1518
each year of the stay and must be repOlied on the annual CLE report forms;
(d) Defendant shall arrange for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar who is
in good standing who practices law in the county in which Defendant primarily
practices and who has been approved in advance by the State Bar Office of Counsel to
serve as her practice monitor. The selected monitor must agree to serve and agree to
meet with Defendant monthly to review Defendant's cases. Each month, the monitor
must go over at least one case in detail in each area of law in which Defendant is
practicing, with discussion including but not limited to identification of applicable
statutOlY and regulatOlY authorities, identification of potential legal issues, plan of
representation, and the appropriate roles of Defendant's nonlawyer assistants in each
case. Defendant shall come prepared each month to discuss these topics in her cases
with her practice monitor. Defendant shall ensme that the monitor submits written
quarterly repOlts of these meetings and discussions to the Office of Counsel; such
repOlts at°e due on the following dates as they occm during the stay of this suspension:
October 15, January 15, April 15, and July 15. This monitoring must occm for the
NCSB v. Ezzell, 18 DHC 42
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of 11

duration of the stay of this suspension. Defendant will pay all costs, if any, charged by
the monitor. No later than thirty days fl.-om service of this Order upon Defendant,
Defendant must have made arrangements for this monitoring attorney and supplied the
Office of Counsel with a letter from the monitoring attorney confirming her agreement
to perform the duties listed above;
(e) Within the first thirty days of the stay period, Defendant shall execute a three-year
contract with the Lawyer's Assistance Program (LAP), and Defendant shall provide a
copy of her LAP contract to the Office of Counsel. Defendant shall comply with and
complete the terms of her LAP contract. Defendant shall sign a written release
authorizing the Office of Counsel to communicate with LAP personnel about
Defendant's participation in LAP and Defendant's compliance or noncompliance with
the LAP contract, and authorizing the Office of Counsel to obtain copies of records
relating to Defendant's participation in and compliance or noncompliance with LAP.
Defendant shall ensure that LAP provides to the Office of Counsel qum1erly rep011s
indicating the nature of the ongoing treatment and Defendant's compliance or
noncompliance with contract. The reports will be due by Janumy 15, April 15, July 15,
and October 15 during the period of the stay. It is Defendant's obligation to ensure that
the rep011s are timely submitted. Defendant will sign all necessm'y releases or
documents to authorize LAP to make these reports. If Defendant is refelTed to a thirdparty treatment provider through LAP or if Defendant engages with a third-party
treatment provider during the stay period, Defendant shall simultaneously sign a
written release authorizing the Office of Counsel to communicate with such treatment
provider(s) and authorizing the Office of Counsel to obtain copies of records relating
to her treatment, including medical records. Defendant shall not revoke any releases
required by this paragraph during the period of the stay. Defendant shall comply with
any request for information concerning her participation in and compliance with LAP
or concerning her pursuit or receipt of treatment from a third-party treatment provider
within ten days of receiving such a request. Defendant is solely responsible for all costs
associated with compliance with this paragraph;
(f) Defendant shall not possess, use or consume any alcohol, controlled substances or any
prescription drugs other than as authorized by her treating physician and obtained with
a lawful prescription from a licensed pharmacy during the entire period of this
suspenSIOn;
(g) Defendant shall enroll in FirstLab Professional Health Monitoring Program or other
service agreed to in advance by the Office of Counsel of the N 011h Carolina State Bar
(hereinafter "monitoring laboratory") within thirty days of the effective date of this
Order of Discipline. Such monitoring will be at Defendant's expense. Such monitoring
will include daily call-ins and random testing for the substances identified by the N011h
Carolina State Bar. Such monitoring will include at least thll1een random dmg screens
per year for a period of one year. Compliance shall include having no failures to test
and having no positive test results that m'e not consistent with proper authorized use of
a prescribed medication. The monitoring agreement with the monitoring laboratory will
require the monitoring laboratory to rep011 to the North Cm'olina State Bar the
following: any failure of Defendant to call in; any failure of Defendant to submit a
required testing sample at a location approved by the monitoring laboratory when
directed to do so by the monitoring laboratory; any failure of Defendant to pay for a
NCSB v. Ezzell, 18 DHC 42
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 of 11

test; dilution in excess of the parameters set by the monitoring laboratOlY or any attempt
by Defendant to alter the required testing sample or impair the ability ofthe testing to
detect alcohol or controlled substances in the testing sample; and any positive test
result. If there is any positive test result, Defendant shall cooperate in any medical
review to determine whether the positive test result is consistent or inconsistent with
any authorized medications prescribed to Defendant, at Defendant's expense. The
monitoring laboratory will repOli the results of any such medical review to the State
Bar. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or documents to allow such repOliing
and shall not revoke any such releases during the period of the stay;
(h) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of
her current physical business address (not post-office box or drawer addresses),
telephone number, and e-mail address and notify the Bar of any change in address
within ten days of such change;
(i) Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address on record
with the Membership Depmiment of the North Carolina State Bar;

U) Defendant shall provide full and complete responses to all letters of notice and requests
for information from the North Carolina State Bar within thirty days of receipt of the
communication or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner;
(k) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar continuing legal education
requirements and pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;

(1) Defendant shall pay all membership dues, fees, costs and assessments, including all
Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is
authorized to collect from her, including all judicial district dues and assessments, by
the applicable deadline;
(m)Within one yem' of the date this Order is entered by the Hearing Panel, Defendant shall
refund $1,427.00 to her client, lR.;
(n) Defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect during
the period of the stay; and
(0) Defendant shall not violate the laws of the United States, or the laws of any state or
local government, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the stay.
4.
If Defendmlt fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out above in
this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted in accordance with 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB.0118.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason,
the DHC may enter an order imposing such conditions as it deems proper for the reinstatement of
Defendant's license at the end of the suspension. Additionally, Defendant must establish the
following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence prior to being reinstated to the practice of law
after any period of active suspension:

NCSB v. Ezzell, 18 DHC 42
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8 of 11

(a) That Defendant submitted her law license and membership card to the Secretary of the
State Bar within thilty days ofthe date of the order lifting the stay and/or activating the
suspension of her law license;
(b) That Defendant complied with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128
following entry of the order lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension of her law
license;
(c) That Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against her in this
proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon her by the Secretary of
the State Bar;
(d) That within fifteen days of the effective date of the order activating the suspension,
Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which
clients seeking return offiles could communicate with Defendant and obtain such files;
(e) That Defendant provided the client file to any client who requested it within ten days
of Defendant's receipt of such request;

(f) That, within one year of the date this Order is entered by the Hearing Panel, Defendant
refunded to lR. $1,427.00 for unearned and excessive fees;
(g) That Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of her cun'ent
business street address (not post-office box or drawer addresses) and notified the State
Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;
(h) That Defendant responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days of
receipt of the communication or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner;
(i) That, throughout the period of the suspension, Defendant accepted all celiified mail
from the State Bar sent to the address on record with the Membership Department of
the North Carolina State Bar;

U) That at the time of her petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment of
all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments,
and other assessments, charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect £i'om
her, including all judicial district dues and assessments;
(k) That at the time of her petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory CLE hours, in repOliing of such hours, or in payment of any
fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

(1) That at the time of her petition for reinstatement, Defendant has complied with all of
the additional continuing legal education (CLE) requirements established by this Order;
(m)That at the time of her petition for reinstatement, Defendant is not suffering from any
addiction, disability or condition that would impair her current ability to competently
engage in the practice of law;

NCSB v. Ezzell, 18 DHC 42
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 9 of 11

(n) That Defendant has abstained from the consumption of any alcohol and from the
consumption of any controlled substance, other than as expressly authorized by a
treating physician, continuously for the one year immediately preceding the filing of
her petition for reinstatement.
1.

This abstinence must continue from the date of the filing of the petition for
reinstatement.

11.

Evidence of compliance with this condition must include compliance with the
monitoring requirements of FirstLab Professional Health Monitoring Program
or other service agreed to in advance by the Office of Counsel of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "monitoring laboratory"). Such monitoring
will be at Defendant's expense. Such monitoring will include daily call-ins and
random testing for the substances identified by the North Carolina State Bar.
Such monitoring will include at least thilteen random drug screens per year.
Compliance shall include having no failures to test and having no positive test
results that are not consistent with proper authorized use of a prescribed
medication. The monitoring agreement with the monitoring laboratory will
require the monitoring laboratory to repOlt to the North Carolina State Bar the
following: any failure of Defendant to call in; any failure of Defendant to
submit a required testing sample at a location approved by the monitoring
laboratory when directed to do so by the monitoring laboratory; any failure of
Defendant to pay for a test; dilution in excess of the parameters set by the
monitoring laboratory or any attempt by Defendant to alter the required testing
sample or impair the ability of the testing to detect alcohol or controlled
substances in the testing sample; and any positive test result. If there is any
positive test result, Defendant shall cooperate in any medical review to
determine whether the positive test result is consistent or inconsistent with any
authorized medications prescribed to Defendant, at Defendant's expense. The
monitoring laboratory will repOlt the results of any such medical review to the
State Bar. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or documents to allow
such repOlting and shall not revoke any such releases prior to Defendant's
reinstatement to active status;

(0) That Defendant did not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct, the laws of the
United States, or the laws of any state or local government during her suspension; and
(P) That Defendant participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition that was pending at the time of entry of this order or of which
she received notice after the effective date of this order.

6.
If the stay of suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason, and
if Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.0128, Defendant shall reimburse
the State Bar for any expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding down Defendant's practice.
Such expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility fees, rent payments, moving
expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage or other mailing expenses, and
compensation paid to any appointed trustee andlor the trustee's assistant for time and travel
associated with the trusteeship. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until she has
reimbursed the State Bar for all wind-down expenses incurred.
NCSB v. Ezzell, 18 DHC 42
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 10 of 11

JJ...UfJ.,JUUJ...J...

I L-UL...(\

WI I J... 'WL...

I H "-A L...

U UIU

!
I

I
7. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission wm retain jurisdiction of this m.lltter~utsuant
to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.01l8 until all conditions of the stay of suspension are satisfi~d.
8. Unless Defendant's obligations under this Ordet are modified by further order of the
DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the effective date ofthe Order
provided there are at that time no pending motions and no pending show cause proceeding~
alleging lack of compliance with the conditions ofthe stay ofthe suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code m.OllS, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all cOllditiol)S of the stay of the
suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with
the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the
suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains jurisdiction to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the suspension in whole or in part if it fmds that any of the conditions of
the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant' 5 obligation to comply with
the conditions for the stay will continue untill'esolution of any such pending motion 01' show cause
proceeding.
Signed by the DiS)lj~inat:Y Heanll anel Chair with the consent of the other hearing
panel members, this thed
day Qf---.l,-"","!L£.L..~~o.L....,04--~ 2019.

Jo ua T. W~lthalI, Deputy Counsel
The No.l'fu Carolina State Bnr
State Bar No. 46482
P.O. Box 25908
Raleigh, NC 27611
919·828·4620

AN~~r~~+-__~__~_
Alex G. Nicely, D uty Counsel
The North Carolina State Bal'
State Bar No. 40996
P.O. BoX 25908
Raleigh, NC 27611
919-828-4620
Attomey for Plaintiff

NCSlJ v. Ezzell, 18 DBC 42
COllflBnt Order of Discipline
l'age 11 ofH

UL

