BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0801425

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Mary C. Fairley,
Attorney At Law

)

REPRIMAND

)
)

On January 14, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Sar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. M.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the mles as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committec may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee wasof the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you." As chairmarti of the Grievancc Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issuc this reprimand.
You engaged in the practice oflaw in North Carolina. Your practice included providing
legal services for real estate closings. In 2004 and 2005 you closcd 4 real estate transactions that
werc same-day flips in which J.2. bought and sold the properties at issue on the same day. J.Z.
did not own the properties at issue prior to the same-day closing dates, yet you falsely listed him
as the owner on your preliminary opinions of title prior to those closing dates. The funds loaned

to the ultimate buyer were used by J.Z. to purchase the property from the original owner. In
mitigation, the evidence indicated you took steps to try to make the transactions transparent to the
parties and the lenders, including certain notations in,dicating use of the loan proceeds to
purchase the property from the original owner on the HUD-1 Settlement Statements sent to the
lenders. The Grievance Committee was conc.erned by your failure to appropriately respond to the
..... SlatlmarsinqUlrienlITougliout tl1e.'iflvestigaIll:lll offili'S gnevance,nowever. You IaiTeci to
provide information about J.Z. when originally requested and failed to timely respond to a
supplemental inquiry in this file. Furthennore, you failed to comply with two separate subpoenas
to produce files, including the 8 files from the 4 flips discussed above. Your failures to timely
respond to the inquiries and subpoenas of the State Bar constitute violations of Rule 8.1 (b) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct. In mitigation, it is file understanding ofthe State Bar that you
have been experiencing financial and health problems while this grievance has been pending.
Accordingly, the Grievance Committee determined that a reprimand was the appropriate
discipline for your violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by file Council of the North

Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing ofthe administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you,,' .
. '.,
Done and ordered, this the ,;;?.::z. dayolC~~~'J::~~':h.<-' 2010

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

ROB/lr

