NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G0306

WAKE COUNTY

---~--~-_.=====================-

IN THE MATTER OF
Mary C. Fairley,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 14, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. R.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Conunittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Conunittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member ofthe North Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjusti£Ying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and. a hearing before the Disciplinary Heming
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Conunittee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injUiy caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You undertook representation of J.R. in a real estate transaction in which J.R. bought
property with N.P. and D.P. J.R.loaned N.P. and D.P. their share of the purchase price. You
prepared the deed of trust by which this debt was to be secured by the property. You failed,
however, to record the deed of trust. Additionally, although you had previously represented N.P.
and D.P. on many prior occasions and'also:represented them in this transaction with l.R., you

failed to discuss with J.R. any potential or actual conflicts of interest or limitations on your
ability to represent J .R., including but not limited to your inability to represent J.R. in subsequent
litigation against N.P. and D.P. should they fail to malce payments due to J.R., in violation of
Rule 1.4(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Furthermore, you failed to obtain informed
consent confirmed in writing from J.R. to this representation in violation of Rule 1.7(b). Last,
you failedj;D.limeL)LIespondlo.-the-letter~Qf-notiGe-sent~tG-yetl-by-the-State Bar and provided no
response to the supplemental letter sent to you by the State Bar in this matter, in violation of Rule
8.1 (b). In mitigation, it is the understanding of the State Bar that you have been experiencing
financial and health problems while this grievance has been pending. Accordingly, the
Grievance Committee determined that a reprimand was the appropriate discipline for your
violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trust~)l1at you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficialto you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

=<~day of~~

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

;.,.,

,2010

