BEFORE THE
GRlEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
10G1275

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN TI-IE MATTER OF
Nile K. Falk,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On April 21, 2011, the Grievance Conunittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the GJievance Committee fOlmd probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written fonn of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
signiticant hann or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Conunittee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
In September or· October 20 I 0, you approached a prosecutor in Edgecombe County District Court
seeking dismissal of charges against your client due to the absence of the State's prosecuting witness. The
prosecutor would not agree to the dismissal, noting that the prosecuting witness would be subpoenaed for
the next court date she scheduled on the case file shuck. The prosecutor then handed the case file shuck to
you so that you could be made aware of the court date. When the prosecutor later rechecked the case file
shuck, she found that the case file had been marked in handwriting, without her or any other prosecutor's
authorization or approval, to be voltmtarily dismissed if the prosecuting witness did not appear for trial.
When the prosecutor later confronted you about the unauthorized notation on the case file shuck, you
acknowledged making the notation on the case file shuck and apologized. Another unsuspecting prosecutor
may have been misled to dismiss the charge if and when the prosecuting witness failed to appear. By your

admitted making of the unauthorized notation on the shuck, you engaged in conduct which was prejudicial
to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4C d).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation ofthe Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the NOlth Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amolmt of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you .
Done and ordered, this

,,/

/tL

.I ,

day of
,,-

/1,1"
/(/IC0';f/' 201l.
,..,..;;

d-P~4-.

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina Slate Bar

'

