BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
15G0289

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
MARK I. FARBMAN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 21, 2016 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by N. P. The grievance was assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs investigation of this
matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In 2013, you settled a personal injury case with Ms. N.P.'s company, State
Farm, on behalf of your client, Mr. J. L. W., Jr. On July 24, 2013, State Farm sent a postsettlement release form to your office. Approximately three weeks later, State Farm received the
release form but it was not signed by Mr. W, your client. The State Farm adjuster called and left

a message for you that State Farm could not accept the release form because it was not signed by
your client.
State Farm did not hear from you or anyone from your office for two months. The State
Farm adjuster left additional messages for you in October and November 2013. You did not
respond to those messages.
In December 20] 3, an adjuster spoke with your assistant and he agreed to pull the file and
send a release form. The assistant sent the same release form, the one which was not signed by
Mr. W. For the next 15 months, State Farm made numerous attempts to get your office to send a
properly executed release. The State Farm representative was unable to speak directly with you.
Ms. N. P. filed a grievance against you on March 30,2015. After Ms. P. filed the grievance, she
received a properly executed release from your client.
The Grievance Committee found that you neglected your client's case by not sending a
properly executed release to the insurance company for almost two years in violation of Rule 1.3.
You violated Rule 8.4Cd) when you did not send a properly executed release signed by your client
to State Farm for almost two years, which prevented State Farm from being able to close out its
file and avoid additional liability.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the NOlth Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

~y of---L----'=~~~~~;;:--_
Michael L. Robinson, Chair
Grievance Committee

MLRllb

