BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE'
NORTH CmOLINA STATE BAR
0560623

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

DONALD M. BROWN, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

1
1
1
1

CENSURE

On October 18,2007, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by DB.
Pursuant to section -0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.

DB hired you on November 11,2004 for a NASD arbitration case. A hearing was set for
January 6,2005. You failed to provide a witness list and information regarding an additional claim to
the NASD. You waited until on December 28,2004 to request a continuance. The motion to continue
was denied and there was insufficient time to adequately prepare for the hearing. Your conduct violated
Rule 1.3.
On January 5,2005, you sent a letter to NASD Resolution Inc. indicating that you were
withdrawing as counsel and would not appear at the hearing. Your withdrawal in this matter had an
adverse effect on DB's interests in this matter and violated Rule 1.16.

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal.
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this 1 (o % day of

,2007.

6'b

h e s & . Fox, Chair

