STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
v.

CAMERON M. FERGUSON, Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was heard on the issue of imposition of discipline on 31 May 2012
before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred M.
Morelock, Chair, William M. Claytor and Patti Head after the I-Iearing Panel entered its
18 May 2012 Order on Sununary Judgment. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff.
Defendant, Cameron M. Ferguson, appeared pro se.
FACTS ESTABLISHED BY THE SUMMARY JUDGMENT ORDER
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bling this
proceeding nnder the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNOlih
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Cameron M. Ferguson ("Defendant" or "Ferguson"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 29 August 1998, and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, an attomey at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and
the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant
was actively engaged in the private practice oflaw in the city of Boone, Watauga County,
North Carolina.
4.
Ferguson represented the plaintiff in the Watauga County Superior Court
case of Small v. Pittman.
5.
Ferguson failed to appear for trial of the Small case on 17 November 2008
and failed to provide a sufiicient explanation to the court for his absence.

6.
The court ordered Ferguson to appear on 1 December 2008 and show cause
why he should not be held in contempt of court for his failure to appear at the 17
November 2008 trial.
7.
Ferguson willfully failed to appear on I December 2008 as required by the
court's show cause order.
8.
Ferguson's failures to appear violated the General Rules of Practice for
Superior and District COLllis.
9.
After hearing on 4 December 2008, the cOLlli found Ferguson in contempt of
court and censured Ferguson for violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
10. Ferguson represented E. Mink in a personal injury case that resulted from an
accident in June 2006.
II. Mink incurred approximately $41,000 in medical expenses from the
accident, some of which expenses were protected by medical liens.
12.

Ferguson settled Mink's case for $50,000.

13. On or about 20 November 2006, Ferguson paid Mink two-thirds of the
$50,000 settlement.
14.

Ferguson paid the remaining one-third of the settlement to himself as a legal

fee.
15. Ferguson failed to explain to Mink the effect of medical liens and the effect
of non-payment of her medical bills.
16. Ferguson did not use any portion of the settlement proceeds to pay Mink's
medical bills.
17. Ferguson also filed a claim with Mink's 111surance company to recover
pursuant to her uninsured motorist insurance.
18. In or about .Tune 2007, Ferguson obtained $36,000 on Mink's behalf fi'om
her insurance company.
19. Ferguson failed to disburse the proceeds received from Miruc's insurance
company to Mink until 19 August 2008.
20. Ferguson did not pay any of Mink's medical bills with the funds he received
fi'om Miruc's insurance company.
21. Ferguson failed to respond to Mink's inquiries about the status of the
$36,000 Ferguson collected from Miruc's insurance company on her behalf.

22. Ferguson entered into a contingent fee agreement with C. Cox to negotiate
on her behalf to reduce a CIGNA healthcare lien.
23. The agreed upon fee was 113 of the difference between the amount of the
medical lien at the start of the representation and the reduced amount of the medical lien
ultimately negotiated by Ferguson.
24. Cox deposited in trust with Ferguson the full amount she recovered in
settlement of her personal injury claim with the expectation that a portion of these funds
would be used to satisfy the CIGNA healthcare lien and to pay Ferguson's legal fee (if
any) with the balance being retumed to her.
25.

CIGNA was represented by a debt collection agency: ACS.

26. On 11 December 2007 Ferguson sent a letter to ACS purpOliing to confirm
ACS's verbal acceptance on behalf of CIGNA to reduce its $73,465.56 medical lien to
$31,803.27. Ferguson enclosed with his December 11th letter a check for $31,803.27 and
instructions stating that ACS's deposit of the check would be deemed acceptance of
$31,803.27 as full satisfaction ofCIGNA's healthcare lien.
27.

ACS never deposited the $31,803.27 check.

28. Instead, ACS sent Ferguson a letter dated 21 December 2007 stating that
there had been no agreement to resolve the CIGNA healthcare lien though ACS did not
reject Ferguson's offer to settle the lien for $31,803.27.
29. Ferguson responded to ACS's letter by instructing ACS to retum the
$31,803.27 check w1less it accepted it as an accord and satisfaction of the CIGNA
health care lien.
30. ACS did not retUl11 the check to Ferguson, nor did it cash the check
confinl1ing the accord and satisfaction.
31. Ferguson failed to inform Cox about the 21 December 2007 letter and failed
to infol111 her that CIGNA did not cash the check he sent. Ferguson also failed to explain
to Cox the effect of CIGNA's failure to cash the check.
32. Ferguson tailed to obtain the uncashed check from CIGNA or to stop
payment on the check.
33.

Ferguson represented T. Mahala in a worker's compensation matter.

34.

Ferguson scheduled mediation for Mahala's case on 7 Janum-y 2010.

35. A few days before the 7 January 2010 mediation, Ferguson's secretm-y
called Mal1ala to infol111 her that Ferguson would not attend the mediation.

36. Ferguson failed to contact Mahala for several weeks after this
communication between his secretary and Mahala. In Febmary 2010, Mahala called
Ferguson to ask about the status of rescheduling the mediation.
37. Later that day, Ferguson left a message for Mahala stating that mediation
had been rescheduled for 29 April 2010.
38. Ferguson did not perform any substantive work on Mahala's case from
January 2010 through the date that he spoke with Mahala about rescheduling the
mediation for her case.
39. On 28 April 2010, Ferguson called Mahala and told her that her case was
ready for mediation on the following day. Ferguson had not prepared for Mahala's
mediation.
40.

Ferguson aITived 45 minutes late for the mediation.

41. During his presentation at the mediation, Ferguson stated that he did not
have all of the documents he needed to make his presentation. Ferguson then walked out
of the mediation room.
42. Ferguson returned to the mediation room approximately fifteen (15) minutes
later, but was stilllmprepared for the mediation.
43. When the mediator asked Ferguson for a settlement demand, Ferguson
asked Mahala for her weekly salary and age. This is infol111ation Ferguson should have
obtained JiOlll Mahala prior to the mediation. Ferguson then offered to settle Mahala's
case for $250,000.
44. The mediator talked with counsel for the opposing party about Ferguson's
ofTer. Within two minutes of his conversation with opposing counsel, the mediator
returned to the mediation room and adjoul11ed the mediation.
45.
mediation.

Ferguson failed to perform any substantive work on Mahala's behalf before

46. Ferguson represented D. Olsen in a personal injury matter. Ferguson settled
Olsen's case on or about 16 Aplil 2010 for $45,000, which amount was deposited into
RBC bank trust account ending in no. 7848 ("Trust Account 1").
47. CUITent Chiropractic Clinic, PC ("CuITent Chiropractic") had a $1,475
medical lien on Olsen's lawsuit proceeds.
48. Ferguson was out of the office when Olsen's case settled.
management of his office and of Olsen's case to his office manager Pam Roark.

He left

49. Begil111ing on or about 26 April 2010, Roark wrote checks on Olsen's behalf
totaling approximately $45,000, the total amount on deposit for Olsen in Trust Account 1.

50. On 3 May 2010, Roark prepared Trust Account I check no. 6038 payable to
Cunent Chiropractic in the amount 01'$1,475 in addition to the other checks she prepared
that are referenced in the preceding paragraph.
51. Roark issued checks for a greater amount than that held in Trust Account I
on Olsen's behalf.
52. On or about 19 May 20 I 0, Ferguson transferred $208,791.13 from Trust
Account I to RBC Bank trust account ending in no. 5704 ("Trust Account 2"). After this
transfer, the balance in Trust Account I was $6.98.
53. Ferguson's transfer of funds fi-om Trust Account I to Trust Account 2
occUlTed before Current Chiropractic presented check no. 6038 for cashing. Therefore,
Olsen's Trust ACCOUllt I client balance was not overdrawn though Roark issued checks
for a greater amoUllt than that held for Olsen in Trust Account I because the check to
Current Chiropractic was not negotiated.
54. Ferguson began representing M. Fisher in a personal injmy matter on or
about 10 May 2007.
55. On or about 9 April 2010, Ferguson settled Fisher's case for $21,000.
Ferguson held Fisher's settlement proceeds in Trust ACCOUllt 1 pending her execution of
the settlement agreement.
56. Ferguson was out of the oi1ice when Fisher's case settled.
management of his office and Fisher's case to oi1ice manager Pam ROlli"k.

He left

57. Fisher was entitled to $14,000 of the settlement proceeds. The remaining
one third was for Ferguson's legal fee.
58. Roark disbmsed Fisher's pOliion of the settlement proceeds
installments: (i) check no. 6004 for $7,000 llild (ii) check no. 5349 for $7,000.

111

two

59. Trust account check no. 6004 cleared the Trust Account I on 23 April 2010.
Trust Account I check no. 5349 was retumed to Fisher unpaid and marked as "refer to
maker. "
60. Because of Ferguson's 19 May 2010 transfer of funds fi'om Trust Account 1
to Trust ACCOUllt 2 (as described in paragraph 52 above) there were insufficient funds in
Trust Account 1 to pay check no. 5349 at the time Fisher presented the check for
payment.
61. After Fisher contacted Ferguson's office about the unpaid check, Roark
prepared a replacement check for Fisher: check no. 6040 in the amount of $7,000.00
dated II May 20 10.
62. When Fisher presented check no. 6040 to the bartie for payment, it was
returned due to insufficient nmds.

63.
proceeds.

Ferguson failed to supervise Roark's disbursement of Fisher's settlement

64.

Ferguson represented T. Coe in a personal injury matter.

65.

On or about 28 March 2008 Ferguson settled Coe's case for $24,000.

66. After making all other disbursements on Coe's behalf, Ferguson held
$7,783.03 in trust for payment to Medicaid.
67.

Ferguson failed to make ffily payments to Medicaid on Coe's behalf.

68. On or about 24 November 2008, Momma Ferguson issued Trust Account 1
check no. to AlC Advice of South Florida, Inc. for $97.75. Momma Ferguson mistakenly
ffild improperly issued payment of Ferguson's Florida rental property expense II'om Trust
Account 1 instead of from Ferguson's personal account where $97.75 was held on
Ferguson's behalf.
69. Neither Momma Ferguson nor Ferguson had $97.75 in Trust Account 1.
Monmla Ferguson paid AlC Advice from Trust Account 1 using entrusted client funds
that did not belong to MOlmna Ferguson, AlC Advice or Ferguson.
70. On or about 13 April 2010, Pam Roark issued Trust Account 1 check no.
5340 to herself for $1,500. Roark improperly issued payment of her salary from the
Trust Account instead of Ferguson's operating aCCOlmt.
71. Neither Roark nor Ferguson had $1,500 in Trust Account 1. Roark paid
herself $1,500 from Trust Account 1 using entrusted client funds that did not belong to
Roark or to Ferguson instead of using funds from Ferguson's operating account.
72. On or about 11 May 2010, Roark issued Trust Account 1 check no. 6036 for
$480 to Sam Potter, another Ferguson employee. Roark improperly issued payment of
Potter's salary Ii'om Trust Account 1 instead of Ferguson's operating account.
73. Neither Ferguson nor Potter had $480 in Trust Account 1. Potter's $480
salary was paid from Trust Account 1 using entrusted client funds that did not belong to
Potter or to Ferguson instead of using funds from Ferguson's operating account.
74. Ferguson was out of the office and failed to supervise Roark when she
issued these payments. He left management of his office to office manager Roark and
gave her full access to Trust Account 1 in his absence.
75. On 20 April 2010, Ferguson was required to hold $263,044.26 in Trust
Account 1 for his clients. However, Ferguson only had $257,259.13 in Trust Account 1
on that date.
76. From 20 April 2010 tlu'ough 26 May 2010 Ferguson had less money in his
trust accounts than he was required to hold in trust for his clients.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW ESTABLISHED BY TI-IE ORDER OF SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Cameron Ferguson, and over the subject matter.
2. Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-24(b)(2) in that Defendmlt
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a.

By lmowingly disobeying the court's show cause order court and
failing to appear on 17 November 2008 mld 1 December 2008,
Ferguson knowingly disregarded an obligation under the rules of
the tribunal in violation of Rule 3.4(c) and Rule 3.5(a)(4),
committed criminal contempt in violation of Rules 8.4(b) ffild (d),
and failed to act with reasonable diligence mld promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

b.

By failing to advise Mink about the elTect of medical liens mld
nonpayment of her medical bills, Ferguson failed to explain a
matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pennit the client to
make informed decisions regarding the representation in violation
of Rule 1.4(b);

c.

By failing to respond to Mirtle's inquiries about the status of the
$36,000 payment from her insurmlce compffily, Ferguson failed to
promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

d.

By failing to disburse the $36,000 insurance proceeds to Mink or
on her behali: Ferguson failed to promptly pay to the client or third
persons entrusted property belonging to the client in violation of
Rule 1.15-2(m);

e.

By failing to pay that portion of Mink's medical expenses that
were protected by medical liens, Ferguson engaged in conduct that
is prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4( d);

f.

By failing to inform Cox that CIGNA failed to cash the check
enclosed with his December 11'h letter mld failing to explain the
effect of CIGNA's failure, Ferguson failed to explain the matter to
the extent reasonably necessary to pennit the client to make
informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of
Rule 1.4(b);

g.

By failing to obtain from CIGNA the uncashed check or to stop
payment on the un cashed check so that the balance of the
settlement proceeds could be retumed to Cox, Ferguson failed to
act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a
client in violation of Rule 1.3;

h.

By failing to perform any substantive work on Mahala's behalf
before mediation, Ferguson failed to act with reasonable diligence
and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

1.

By failing to supervise Roark in her handling ofthe Olsen
settlement proceeds resulting in Roark issuing checks on Olsen's
behalf for a greater amount than that Ferguson held for Olsen in
Trust Account 1, Ferguson failed to make reasonable efforts to
ensure that a non-lawyer's conduct was compatible with a lawyer's
professional obligations in violation Rule 5.3(a)(b);

J.

By failing to properly supervise Roark's disbursement of Fisher's
settlement proceeds, Ferguson failed to malce reasonable efTorts to
ensure that a non-lawyer's conduct was compatible with a lawyer's
professional obligations in violation Rule 5.3(a)(b);

k.

By failing to promptly disburse Fisher's settlement proceeds to her,
Ferguson failed to promptly payor deliver to the client entrusted
property belonging to the client and to which the client is currently
entitled in violation of Rule 1.15-2 (m);

1.

By failing to promptly pay Medicaid with the money withheld
fi"Oln Coe's settlement proceeds, Ferguson tailed to promptly pay
or deliver to the a third party on behalf of the client entrusted
property belonging to the client in violation of Rule 1.15-2 (m) and
tailed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

m.

By failing to properly supervise Roark's handling of the Trust
AccOlmt, Ferguson failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that
a non-lawyer's conduct was compatible with a lawyer's
professional obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(a)(b);

n.

By allowing the balance of his trust accounts to fall below the
amount that he was required to hold in trust on behalf his clients,
allowing Trust Account funds to be used to pay employees'
salaries and allowing Momma Ferguson to use Trust Account
funds to pay Ferguson's personal expense, Ferguson used entrusted
property for the personal benefit of one other than the legal or

beneficial owner without authorization to do so in violation of Rule
1.15-20); and
o.

By allowing Momma Ferguson to have access to and sign checks
for Trust Account 1, Ferguson failed to maintain entrusted property
separate from the property of the lawyer in violation of Rule 1.152(a).

Based on the foregoing Facts Established by Summmy Judgment and Conclusions
of Law Established by Summm·y Judgment, and the evidence presented at the heating the
Hearing Pmlel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. At the time of the misconduct at issue in this Order, Defendant was
suffering from ml addiction to prescription drugs.
2. Defendmlt caused significmlt harm to his clients by abandoning his law
practice mld leaving it in the care of his onice mmlager without proper supervision.
3. Defendmlt placed his interests above the interests of his clients by
abandoning his law practice without making mmngements to protect his clients by
properly winding down his law practice.
4. The hann that Defendant caused when Defendmlt abandoned his law
practice was foreseeable at the time of the abmldonment.
5. Defendant's clients trusted him to diligently mmmge their cases and
properly disburse their settlement proceeds. These clients were vulnerable in iliat
Defendmlt controlled access to their settlement proceeds and the clients' only access to
these funds was through Defendmlt.
6. Defendant caused hm·m to Mink, Cox and Coe by failing to promptly pay
their medical bills from their settlement proceeds. Defendant impeded the goal of the
representation in these cases, to wit: collection of damages for their personal injUly and
payment of their medical bills.
7. Defendmlt caused significmlt harm to Fisher by failing to promptly disburse
to her the full amount of her settlement proceeds.
8. Defendmlt's failure to appear in the Small case and in response to the show
cause order requiring the court to hold Defendant in contempt for his actions impeded
the administration of justice in the Small case.
9. Defendant's conduct has the potential to cause significant ha1111 and caused
actual haml to the standing ofthe profession in the eyes of the public because it shows

his disregard for his duties as an attorney. Defendant's conduct lU1dermines the
public's confidence in lawyers' ability to safely maintain entmsted client funds and
diligently tend to client matters.
10. Defendant has prior discipline of an admonition for publishing a false
advertisement in the telephone book.
Based on the foregoing Facts Established by Summary Judgment, Conclusions of
Law Established by Summary Judgment and Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure and suspension. In
addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all orthe factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§ .01 14(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes that the
following factors warrant suspension of Defendant's law license:
a. intent of defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential hal1n
is foreseeable;
b. elevation of defendant's own interests above that of the client;
c. negative impact of the defendant's actions on clients' or public's
perception of the profession;
d. negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of
justice; and
e. impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation.
2. The Hearing Panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes
that no factors are present in this case that would walTant disbannent.
3. The I-rearing Panel has also considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. lB § .0114(w)(3) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. prior disciplinary offenses;
b. a pattern of misconduct;
c. multiple o11'enses;

d. the dIect of any physical or mental disability or impaimlent on the
condnct in qnestion;
e. the degree of experience in the practice of law;
f.

the vulnerability of victims;

g. the imposition of other penalties or sanctions.
4. Defendant's failure to supervise his office manager who had access to his trust
account and his failure to protect his tmst account from unauthorized access by third
parties resulted in potential significant harm to his clients by placing entrusted client
funds at risk of misapplication or misappropriation.
5. Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the legal profession in that his
actions bring the legal profession into disrepute.
6. Defendant's conduct caused harm to his clients: Mink, Cox, Coe and Fisher.
7. The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a censure,
reprimand or admonition would be insufficient discipline because ofthe harm and
potential significant harm to Defendant's clients and the significant harm to the legal
profession caused by Defendant's conduct.
8. The Hearing Panel finds that discipline short of suspension would not
adequately protect the public for the following reasons:
a. Defendant's conduct caused potential significant harm to his clients by
placing entrusted client fWlds at risk of misapplication and
misappropriation; and
b. Entry of an order imposing less severe discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the misconduct and would send the
wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct expected
of members of the Bar of this State.
9. Due to the significant actual and potential harm resulting fi'om Defenda11t's
conduct, the Hearing Panel concludes that active suspension of Defendant's license with
conditions on reinstatement is the only discipline that will adequately protect the public
from future misconduct by Defendant, is the only discipline that aclmowledges the
seriousness of the otIenses Defendant committed and is the only discipline that sends a
proper message to attomeys a11d the public regarding the conduct expected of members of
the Bar of this State.

Based upon the foregoing Facts Established by Summary Judgment, Conclusions
of Law Established by Summary Judgment, Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and
Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I. The law license of Defendant, Cameron M. Ferguson, is hereby suspended for
five (5) years effective thirty days from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon
him.
2. Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
State Bar no later than thirty days following service of this Order upon Defendant.
3. Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0124, the North Cm'olina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4. Defendmlt shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the State Bar within ten
days of the effective date of this Order of Discipline certifying that he has complied with
the wind down rule.
5. Within fifteen days of the effective date of this Order, Defendmlt will provide
the State Bar with a street address and mailing address at which clients seeking return of
their files and records in Defendant's possession or control may obtain such files and
records mld at which the State Bar may serve any notices or other matters upon him.
6. Defendmlt shall pay the fees m1d costs of this proceeding within thiriy days of
service of the statement of costs upon him by the Clerk ofthe Disciplinary Hearing
Commission.
7. Defendant shall pay the costs incuned by the State Bar for storage of his
abandoned client files, publishing notice to the owners of these files mld shredding these
files within thiliy days of service of the statements of costs upon him by the Clerk of the
Disciplinm-y I-Iearing Connnission.
8. Before being reinstated to the practice oflaw at the end of his five yem'
suspension, Defendant must demonstrate the following by clear, cogent m1d convincing
evidence:
a. That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
tenns of27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0124, the NOlih Carolina State Bar
Discipline ffild Disability Rules.
b. That he paid the fees and costs of this proceeding mld the costs of
storing his abandoned client files, publishing notice to the owners of
these files and shredding these files within thirty days of service of the

statement of costs upon him by the Clerk of the Disciplinary Hearing
Conm1ission.
c. That he obtained a complete psychological examination by a licensed
psychologist or psychiatrist approved by the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar. Defendant shall be solely responsible for the cost of this
examination. Before undertaking this psychological examination,
Defendant shalliirst submit the name and credentials ofthis proposed
medical provider to the Office of Counsel for approval.
d. Defendant shall direct the medical provider who perf0I111S the
psychological examination to provide to the Office of Counsel a report
summarizing the results of his or her psychological examination of
Defendant. This report shall include the diagnosis, prognosis,
treatment recommendations and any treatment plan propose for
Defendant.
e. That the report of Defendant's psychological examination was
provided to the Office of Counsel at least thirty days before
Defendant's petition for reinstatement. Defendant shall be solely
responsible for all costs associated with preparing this report.
f.

That Defendant has for the twelve continuous and consecutive months
immediately preceding his petition for reinstatement abstained from all
alcohol and illicit drug use or consumption and has not taken any
prescription drugs or controlled substances other than as authorized by
his treating physician.

g. That at the time of his petition for reinstatement Defendant is not
suffering from any disability or addiction that would impair his ability
to practice law.
h. That for the twelve continuous and consecutive months immediately
preceding his petition for reinstatement, Defendant has submitted to
random drug and alcohol testing by a monitoring service agreed to by
the parties which includes thirteen drug and alcohol screens per year at
Defendant's expense; that the monitoring agreement required the
monitoring service to report to the State Bar any failure of Defendant
to take or pay for the test and any positive test result; that Defendant
has signed all necessary releases or documents to authorize reporting
to the State Bar; and that Defendant did not revoke such releases
during the period of his suspension.
1.

That within forty-five days of any petition for reinstatement,
Defendant has provided the Office of Counsel with releases
authorizing and instructing his health care providers to provide the

Office of Counsel with all medical records relating to his evaluation,
prognosis, care or treatment including psychological and mental health
evaluations, and authorizing and instructing such providers to submit
to interviews by the Office of Counsel.
J.

That Defendant has not engaged in the practice of law during the
period of active suspension.

k. That Defendant has kept the State Bar Membership Department
advised of his home street address (not P.O. Box) and notified the Bar
of any change in address within ten days of such change.
I.

That Defendant has responded to all communications from the State
Bar, including conununications from the Attorney Client Assistance
Program, within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and has participated in good
faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition
for which he receives notice after the effective date of this Order.

m. That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is cun·ent
in payment of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client
Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges the State
Bar is authorized to collect from him, including all judicial district
dues, fees and assessments.
n. That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) hours, in reporting sLlch hours or in payment of any fees
associated with attendance at CLE programs.
o. That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the laws of the United State or of any state or local govellli11ent during
his suspension.
9. Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary which Defendant shall pay within thiliy days of service of the
notice of costs upon the Defendant.

r;/.

Signed by the undersigned Chair with .}j1e full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Panel, this is the,::;Zl) , aay of 1'l)Ne.~

(~}t\JI~IIU~
Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Hearing Panel

