STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA: I,
COUNTY OF WATAUG~UQG DEC \ G

'.-

IN THE MATTER OF

.

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
\\: 22SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION

ii~C.sC.

RE:;6~I5ENJ~~r--~~ER

)
ATTORNEY CAMERON FERGUSON)
)

FINDING RESPONDENT
IN CONTEMPT OF COURT
AND ORDER OF FINE
AND CENSURE

NOW COMES the undersigned, as Senior Resident Superior Court Judge of this Judicial
District, and also as presiding judge at the December I, 2008, regularly-scheduled term of
Superior Court for Watauga County. For purposes ofthis Order, this court makes the
following findings of fact, and conclusions oflaw. This Order is entered as a written
record of this court's actions taken in this matter dUling the regularly-scheduled tenn of
Superior Court for Watauga COUl1ty, which began on December I, 2008.
1. The above-named attorney and Respondent, Cameron Ferguson, was counsel of
record for the Plaintiff in the Superior Court case entitled Small v. Pittman,
Watauga County file number 08-CVS-180. The case was scheduled for trial at
the Superior Court term which began on November 17, 2008.
2. The Respondent had em-lier filed a motion to continue the case from that
November 17,2008, term of court. The motion to continue was vigorously
opposed by counscl for the Defendants. This couli considered the motion to
continue the case and the objections presented, and denied the motion to continue.
The Respondent's motion to continue was dated November 7, 2008, was duly
considered by this court, and was denied on November 11,2008.
3. On the date set for the trial of the case, November 17,2008, the Respondent, as
counsel for Plaintiff, did not appcm- in court. No sufficient explanation was
presented to the judge presiding. The presiding judge, after inquiry concerning
Respondent's absence from court, detennined Respondent's failure to appear for
the tJial of the case and failure to appear on behalf of his client without sufficient
explanation was in violation of the General Rules of Practice for the Superior and
District Courts.
4. The presiding judge therefore issued an Order for Respondent to appear in cOUli
before this court on Monday, December 1,2008, at 9:30 A.M., to Show Cause
why Respondent should not be sanctioned for his failure to appear in court on
behalf of his client and represent his client, as Respondent was obligated to do,
both contractually and professionally.
5. The Show Cause order was duly executed and Respondent was notified to appear.
Although there are questions regarding the actual service of the Order on, or

delivery of the actual Order to, the Respondent, this cOUli has no doubt about
Respondent's knowledge of the trial court's issuance of the Order to Show Cause,
or the Respondent's knowledge of that court's directive that he appear in court
before the undersigned on December 1,2008. Respondent's own actions (such as
the letter referred to in paragraph six, below, personally addressed to this court
and dated November 26,2008) and Respondent's attempts to contact this court's
office prior to December I, 2008, clearly demonstrate his personal knowledge of
his obligation to appear. This court has also been advised, but has no personal
knowledge, that a representative of Respondent's office was present in court when
the Show Cause Order was announced by the presiding judge.
6. Respondent did not appear in court on December I, 2008, at 9:30 A.M. or at
anytime during that day. Present in court as court began was an employee of
Respondent's law llrm, who presented the court with a single page typewritten
letter stating the Respondent had begun outpatient treatment for a medical
problem, referred to as addiction, in Delray Beach, Florida. The letter was dated
November 26, 2008, was personally addressed to this court, and was purportedly
from a treating physician, but was not actually signed.
7. The employee of the Respondent's law llrm advised this court, in open cOUli, that
she could not with any degree of certainty infoml the court of the Respondent's
whereabouts. or even what state, but that she believed him to be in the state of
Florida. She could also give no further explanation for his absence other than the
aforementioned letter.
8. This court, having no information of Respondent's inability to be present in court
other than the single page letter stating that the Respondent had begun outpatient
treatment for the described condition in Florida, and hearing no other justifiable
reason for his absence from court and failure to appear as directed by a Show
Cause Order, had Respondent called out by the bailiff, on December I, 2008.
This action was in response to Respondent's failure to appear before this court on
December 1.2008, and did not address his failure to appear in court to represent
his client on November 17, 2008.
9. This court further found, and announced in open court, that Respondent's
unjustified absence from court on December 1,2008, constituted an act of
Criminal Contempt of Court, pursuant to N.C.G.S. SA-I I (a)(3); i.e., the willful
disobedience of a court's lawful order, directive, and instruction, that being the
Show Cause Order directing Respondent to appear in court.
10. This court further found that Respondent's actions, and lack thereof, in his private
practice oflaw, justify the appointment of an attorney to serve in a temporary
capacity to assist Respondent and Respondent's law office in seeing that cases
were managed in an appropriate manner, a holding status if necessary, until
determination could be made of Respondent's ability to continue in his practice of
law. This person's role would be to detennine if pending cases had trial dates that
needed to be rescheduled or other cases and matters with time restraints or
2

deadlines which might require the filing of motions to continue or motions to
extend deadlines. The comi made no announcement of this appointment in open
court on December 1, 2008, other than to determine that, based on information
provided to the court, there did exist a need for such a person.
II. A representative of the North Carolina State Bar, Mr. Root Edmonson, was
present in cOllli during the proceedings described above.
12. Respondent later appeared in court, on Tuesday afternoon, December 2,2008,
while court was in session during the trial of a criminal jury trial. The court
allowed Responded to remain at liberty, with directions to appear in conrt on
Wednesday, December 3, 2008, at 9:30 A.M. The court was later advised
Respondent was being assisted and represented by an aliomey, Mr. Scott Casey of
the Watauga County bar, and that the attorney requested the malier be held open
nntil Thursday December 4, 2008, at 2:00 P.M. This court agreed to hold the
matter open until that time.
13. On Thursday December 4,2008, Respondent appeared in court. An attorney from
Mr. Scott Casey's fi11l1, Ms. Lanren Elizabeth Hassler-Waterworth, appeared with
Respondent.
14. Respondent was given an opportunity to explain his absence on Monday,
December I. 2008. in disobedience to the Show Cause Order issued on November
17,2008. No explanation was given which this court found could justify his
failure to appear.
IS. This court's detem1ination and oral announcement, made in open conrt on
December I. 2008, finding Respondent Cameron Ferguson in criminal contempt
of court pursuant to N .e.G.S. SA-11 (a)(3) for his willful disobedience to a court's
lawIiJl order. directive and instruction (the Show Cause Order), is thereby not
changed. This is specifically for Respondent's failure to appear in court on
December I. 2008, and does not address Respondent" s failnre to appear in court
on November 17,2008, which led to the issuance orthe Show Cause Order.
16. This court further determincd, on December 4,2008, with Respondent present in
court, that Respondent's failure to appear on December 1, 2008, merits sanctions
by the court. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 5A-I2. After allowing Respondent to be heard
and present such evidence as he might desire, this court determined that as a
sanction that. first, Respondent should be, and is, FINED in the amount of
$500.00, payable to the Clerk of Superior Comi of Watauga County. Said fine
was ordered to be paid by 5:00 P.M. on December 4,2008, and this court has
since verificd with the Clerk of Court that said fine was paid as directed.
17. This court fllrther detelU1ined in court on the same date as indicated above, that
Respondent, by his conduct, violated one or more provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct, and caused ham1 or potential harm to the administration of
justice. This conrt examined standards applicable to such situations in State Bar
3

proceedings, and also considered sanctions available to the court pursuant to
N.C.O.S. 5A-12; and this court determined that the sanction of Censure should be
imposed.
18. Respondent is therefore publicly CENSURED for his willful disobedience of the
Show Cause Order, directing him to appear in court before the undersigned on
December 1,2008, at 9:30 A.M., and this Order of Censure shall be filed with the
Clerk of Superior Court and made a part of the public record. This court also
directs a copy of this Order of Censure be delivered to the North Carolina State
Bar.
19. This court further directed the Respondent, with assistance if need be from the
State Bar or any local representative, to seek and begin medical treatment for his
cunent medical problem refened to as addiction in the letter furnished by
Respondent to the court. Respondent was further direcled by this court to report
to this court on Monday morning, January 5, 2009, either in open court or in
chambers as this court shall direct on that date, and advise this court what
treatment programs Respondent has begun, and what treatment recommendations
have been made for Respondent to deal appropriately with the ongoing problem.
20. This court shall, on January 5, 2009, deternline what sanctions shall be imposed
for Respondent's failure to appear in court on November 17,2008, which led to
the issuance of the Show Cause Order directing Respondent to appear before this
court on December 1,2008.
21. Respondent shall also attend to his practice oflaw, as his condition and ability
shall pennil. Mr. Scott Casey of the Watauga County Bar shall assist Respondent
in dealing with case management situations as are required. This was the attomey
requested to serve in this capacity by Respondent, and is also the attorney already
representing Respondent. Thc attomey initially approached by this court to serve
in that capacity, Mr. Frank C. Wilson, is relieved from further obligations in this
regard, and Mr. Wilson shall provide to this court a record of his time expended in
this matter to this date.
1T IS FURTHER ORDERED, that this Order shall be filed-stamped and appropriately
filed; and that copies shall be provided to the Respondent Cameron Ferguson, and to the
North Carol ina State Bar.
This done in chambers, the 12th day of December, 2008. ~

~)

i_/l ,--',--

_.V

(
1,
-=-f,-""-'-'~""'""'--=---~==d--"--""'--~

les L Baker
Sr. Re,,-. Superior Court Judge

4

