_'\ '0 9 iii!!!;>

. 'Q

'"

STATE OF NORTH CAR

A-

'< /"

"4,"'''~

~INA APR 2017,

_:. THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

WILKES COUNTY

~

SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
ENOS.: 17 CRS 50505, 50506, 50507,
< 508,50509,50510,50511,50512,50513,
~Z\,,~ 0514,50515,50516,50517,50518,50519

F'ILED DHC

l\'~

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

RONALD TYSON FERRELL

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Superior Court Judge upon request by the
parties to impose professional discipline against Defendant Ronald Tyson Fen'ell in connection
with his tender of a guilty plea in the above referenced files as well as additional misconduct
committed by Defendant. Ronald Tyson Ferrell was represented by Dudley A. Witt and David
B. Freedman. Brian P.D. Oten appeared on behalf of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant
waives a formal hearing in this matter, including any notice requirement concerning this Court's
imposition of professional discipline. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this order, and consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By
consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant knowingly, freely, and voluntarily waives his
right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings and
conclusions herein.
Based upon the paliies' stipulations of fact, and with the consent of the parties, the Court
hereby enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Defendant, Ronald Tyson FelTell (hereafter "Defendant" or "FeITell"), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar on 22 March 1991 and is an attorney at law licensed to practice
in N0l1h Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the
North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State of North Carolina.
2.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Ferrell was actively engaged in the
practice of law in Wilkesboro, Wilkes County, North Carolina.
3.
From at least February 2012 through July 2015, FelTell maintained a trust account
in connection with his law practice at Yadkin Bank, account number ending in 4391 ("trust
account").
4.

Ferrell used his trust account as a general trust account.

Page 1 of16

S.
From at least Febmary 2012 through July 2015, FeITell also maintained a business
operating account in connection with his law practice at Yadkin Bame, account number ending in
4871 ("operating account").
6.
From at least Febmary 2012 through July 2015, Ferrell employed his wife and
nonlawyer assistant Kristy FeITeli ("KF") as an office manager with his firm.
7.
FeITeli also employed his wife's nonlawyer ex-husband, Randell Waddell ("RW"),
as an assistant with his firm.
8.
Ferrell had managerial and direct supervisory authority over KF and RW during
their employment with his firm.
9.
While employed with FeITell's firm, Ferrell delegated to KF his responsibilities of
maintaining proper records concerning his trust account and monitoring the film's handling of
entmsted funds.
10. Ferrell also gave KF access to FeITell's trust account checkbook, Ferrell's operating
account, and online access to both FeITell's trust account and operating account.
11. Ferrell failed to supervise the employees of his law firm, including KF and RW, and
otherwise failed to review his employees' handling and monitoring of entmsted funds received
by his finn and/or deposited in his trust account.
12. In early 2015, Ferrell observed KF transfening funds between his trust account and
his firm's operating account without properly attributing the funds to a particular client or
otherwise ensuring the transfer of funds was justified.
13.
account.

Upon discovering this activity, FeITeli failed to undertake a full review of the trust

14. Although FeITell admonished KF for the inappropriate transfer, FeITell continued to
delegate to KF his responsibilities in handling the firm's entmsted funds.
15. FeITell also did not take subsequent steps to monitor his trust account or monitor
KF's handling of entmsted funds, including failing to review his trust account's ballie statements
and failing to reconcile his account.
16. Between Febmary 2012 and July 2015, KF and RW misappropriated over
$100,000.00 of entrusted funds from Ferrell's clients, including cash payments of entrusted
funds paid by the clients to the firm and entrusted funds that had been deposited in the firm's
trust account.
17. Fen'ell's failure to supervise KF's and RW's work, combined with his failure to
reconcile and review his trust account as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct, enabled
KF's and RW's theft of client funds.

State v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 20f16

18. During the periods of time recited above that Ferrell maintained an attorney trust
account, KF, RW, or another employee with Ferrell's law firm
a. Made multiple disbursements of funds fi'om Ferrell's trust account without
maintaining any record in the bank documents or otherwise identifying the client
against whose balance in the trust account the disbursements were being made;
b. Failed to identify the client(s) associated with funds deposited into Ferrell's hust
account, including funds deposited into his trust account from a credit card
processing service; and
c. Deposited and disbursed entrusted client funds into and from Ferrell's business
operating account.
19. During the periods of time recited above that Ferrell maintained an attorney trust
account, Ferrell engaged in the following conduct:
a. Ferrell failed to review his trust account's banle statements, failed to conduct
monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust account, failed to maintain
accurate client ledgers that accurately identified and tracked, per client, the fimds
received and disbursed for each client, and otherwise failed to monitor his trust
account;
b. Fen'ell failed to preserve entrusted client funds deposited in his trust account,
including funds received for the benefit of clients Moore, Mathis, and Ashley;
c. Ferrell failed to ensure that all entrusted client funds received by his finn from
clients were deposited in his trust account, including funds received for the
benefit of client Freeman;
d. Ferrell did not always review his trust account records to ensure that he had
sufficient funds in his trust account belonging to a particular client prior to
disbursing funds for that client;
e. Fen'ell disbursed funds from his trust account to or on behalf of clients using
funds belonging to other clients, resulting in negative client balances within the
trust account and funds being used for the benefit of someone other than the
beneficial owner of the funds.
20. During 2014, 2015, and 2016, Ferrell represented clients Ellington, Caputo,
Gindlesperger, Powell, Mathis, Clanton, Myers, Minton, Miller, Golden, Zacharias, Greene, and
Morgan concerning their respective traffic citations in Wilkes County.
21. Ferrell failed to appear at scheduled court dates and/or failed to timely pay
applicable court costs and fines for the clients listed in paragraph 20 above, resulting in some
clients receiving notices from the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles threatening their
driver's licenses with suspension.

Siale 1'. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of 16

22. During this same time period, Ferrell delegated to KF his responsibilities of
maintaining an accurate and updated calendar to ensure FelTell timely resolved his clients' cases.
23. KF did not consistently update Ferrell on his clients' cases and did not inform
Ferrell of all hearing dates and/or deadlines associated with his clients' cases.
24. After learning of his failures to appear and/or missed deadlines in his clients' cases,
Ferrell failed to undertake a full review of his office management procedures.
25. Ferrell failed to file, within the times required by law, federal and state income tax
returns showing his tax liability for tax years 2013, 2014, and 2015.
26. Ferrell failed to pay, within the times required by law, his federal and state income
tax liability for tax years 2013, 2014, and 2015.
27. Ferrell's failure to file federal and state income tax returns and failure to timely pay
tax liabilities due for tax years 2013, 2014, and 2015 was willful.
28. During tax years 2013, 2014, and 2015, Ferrell failed to deduct and withhold taxes
from the wages paid to employees.
29. Willful failure to file a tax return and willful failure to collect any tax imposed by
the Internal Revenue Code and the North Carolina Department of Revenue are criminal offenses
pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 7202, 26 U.S.C. § 7203, N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236(a)(8), and N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 105-236(a)(9), respectively.
30. Willful failure to file a tax return is a criminal offense showing professional
unfitness pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0103(17).
31. On 10 April 2017, Ferrell pled guilty to 15 misdemeanor offenses of failure to
withhold tax, failure to file tax returns, and failure to pay tax in Wilkes County file nos. 17 CRS
50505,50506,50507,50508,50509,50510,50511, 50512,50513,50514,50515,50516,50517,
50518, and 50519.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Court
makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
The courts of this State have inherent authority to take disciplinary action against
attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
2.
This Court has jurisdiction over Ferrell and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.
3.
Ferrell's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Ferrell violated the Rules
of Professional Conduct as follows:
State v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 ofl6

(a)

By failing to review his nonlawyer assistant's handling and record-keeping of
entrusted funds, thereby enabling his nonlawyer assistants to misappropriate
entrusted funds from his clients, Fenell failed to supervise his nonlawyer
assistants to the extent necessary to ensure that their conduct was compatible with
Ferrell's professional obligations in violation of Rule S.3(b);

(b)

By failing to reconcile his trust accounts on a monthly and quarterly basis, Ferrell
failed to conduct the requisite reconciliations of his trust accounts in violation of
Rules l.lS-3(d)(1) and (2);

(c)

By failing to accurately track, per client, the funds received and disbursed for
each client, Ferrell failed to properly identify and maintain entIusted funds in
violation of Rules l.1S-2(a) and 1.lS-3(b)(S);

(d)

By failing to monitor and safeguard the entrusted funds that he held for the benefit
of his clients, including clients Moore, Mathis, Ashley, and Freeman, Fenell
failed to safeguard entrusted client funds in violation of Rules l.1S-2(a) and (b);

(e)

By advancing funds for a client from funds belonging to another client who was
not the beneficiary of those funds, Fenell used or pledged entrusted property for
the personal benefit of a person other than the legal or beneficial owner of that
property in violation of Rules l.lS-2(a), (k), and (n);

(f)

By failing to appear at his clients' scheduled court dates and by failing to timely
pay the court costs and fines associated with his clients' traffic tickets, Fenell
failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing a client in violation of Rule
1.3, failed to promptly pay entrusted funds to a third party as directed by his client
in violation of Rule l.lS-2(m), and engaged in conduct that was prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(g)

By failing to file federal and state income tax, withheld tax, andlor employment
tax returns, FelTell committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c); and

(h)

By failing to timely pay federal and state income tax, and by failing to deduct and
withhold taxes from the wages paid to employees, Ferrell committed criminal acts
that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects
in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

Based upon the consent of the palties, the Court also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following

State v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 50fl6

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
KF and RW are the sole sources of embezzlement in this case. There is no evidence
indicating that FelTelI participated in KF's and RW's ongoing misappropriation or that he was
aware of the misappropriation at the time it occurred. Fmthermore, the evidence demonstrates
that KF and RW took steps to conceal their activity from Ferrell, including forging a client's
signatme on two settlement checks in August 2014 and responding to Bar inquiries sent to
Ferrell's email address without Ferrell's knowledge or authorization.

2.
Although KF and RW committed criminal acts in misappropriating funds from
Ferrell's trust account independent of Ferrell, Fen'ell's excessive delegation coupled with his
failme to supervise and failme to conduct the required quarterly reconciliations created the
circumstances that enabled KF and RW to embezzle entrusted funds. Conducting quarterly
reconciliations of the trust account is the Iynchpin of proper maintenance and protection of
entrusted funds. Ferrell repeatedly failed to monitor the activity in his trust account and
otherwise failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the client funds entrusted to his care
remained protected. Ferrell also failed to make reasonable efforts to ensme that his non-lawyer
assistant's conduct was compatible with his professional obligations in the handling of entrusted
funds in the trust account, and Ferrell displayed poor judgment by continuing to delegate his
professional obligations to KF after witnessing KF's improper transfer of funds from the trust
account. Fen'ell's conduct demonstrates a pattern of misconduct and demonstrates his intent to
commit acts where the potential harm was foreseeable.
3.
Ferrell's conduct placed entrusted funds at risk and has the potential to cause
significant harm to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows his
disregard for his duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to
sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the
legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
4.
Ferrell's conduct - to wit: neglect of multiple client matters, failure to adequately
communicate with his clients, failure to timely resolve the matters for which he was retained,
failme to properly supervise his employees, and failme to safeguard entrusted client funds impaired his clients' ability to achieve the goals of the representation and unnecessarily delayed
resolution of his clients' pending cases.
5.
Although there is evidence that KF and R W took steps to conceal their activity from
Ferrell, including but not limited to failing to inform FelTell of new clients, scheduled court
dates, and the firm's receipt of settlement checks, Ferrell's interactions with his clients over this
time period and the State Bar's pursuit of an injunction against Ferrell should have reasonably
notified him that his law office was not providing him with all of the inforrnation needed to
fulfill his professional responsibilities. Ferrell, however, did not undertake a review of his law
office, his trust account, or his employees' activities despite multiple warning signs. Ferrell's
lack of a meaningful response to his clients' expressed concerns, to being infOlmed of his
repeated failme to properly tend to his clients' cases, or to being enjoined from handling
entrusted funds again demonstrates a pattern of misconduct and demonstrates his intent to
commit acts where the potential harm was foreseeable. Ferrell's lack of prompt action in this

Stale v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 60f16

regard also demonstrates his failure to rectify the consequences of his misconduct and his
indifference to making restitution to the clients harmed by his and his employees' conduct.
6.
FeTI'ell is genuinely remorseful for his own misconduct and his unfortunate
judgment, acknowledges the seriousness of his misconduct, and accepts responsibility for his
misconduct. FeTI'ell's judgment was clouded by his marital relationship with KF and his desire
to believe that his wife had not taken advantage of his trust.
7.
Ferrell's delay in filing his state and federal taxes and his delay in paying state taxes
was willful in that he was solely responsible for complying with his known personal tax
obligations.
8.
When lawyers violate the law in their business and personal affairs, it brings
disrepute upon the legal profession and undelmines public confidence in lawyers.
9.
FeTI'ell, who was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1991, has substantial
experience in the practice oflaw.
10.

Fen'ell has no prior disciplinary record concerning his license to practice law.

11. KF and R W have been convicted for their criminal conduct referenced herein. As a
result of those convictions, KF and RW have been ordered to pay restitution to the victims of
their criminal activity.
12. The Court has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline available
to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbaTI'llent, in considering the
appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Court also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Court considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.OI14(w) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
2.
The Court has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB
§ .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors waTI'ant suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
(b) Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on his clients' and the
public's perception of the legal profession.

Siale v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 of 16

3.
The Court concludes that none of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code
1B § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar are present in this
case.
4.
The Court has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B
§ .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Lack of timely, good faith efforts to make restitution
consequences of the misconduct;

01'

to rectify the

(c) Indifference to making restitution;
(d) Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
(e) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
(f) Defendant is genuinely remorseful; and

(g) The effect of personal 01' emotional problems on the conduct in question.
5.
Defendant's neglect, failure to communicate, failure to timely resolve the matters
for which he was retained, and failure to safeguard entrusted client funds caused significant harm
to his clients.
6.
Defendant's failure to properly safeguard entrusted client funds and properly
supervise his non-lawyer assistant caused significant harm to his clients whose funds were used
for a purpose other than that which was intended by the clients.
7.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses significant
potential halm to future clients and to the profession.
8.
The Court has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand 01' censure but
concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
potential hann to the clients. The Court further concludes that such discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant and send the wrong
message to attorneys regal'ding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
9.
The Court concludes that Defendant's conduct wanants and can only be addressed
tln'ough imposition of a suspension on Defendant's law license. The Court further concludes that
such Defendant should be allowed to petition for a stay of the suspension after serving an active
portion of the suspension upon Defendant's compliance with conditions outlined below that will
ensure the public is protected from future transgressions by Defendant as well as ensure
Defendant's continued adherence to the Rules of Professional Conduct.

State v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8 of 16

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the findings of fact
and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the Court enters
the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Ronald Tyson FelTell, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for
five years. This Order, including the suspension of Defendant's license, shall be effective upon
filing.
2.

Defendant is taxed with the costs and any administrative fees ofthis action.

3.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the effective date of this Order.
4.
Defendant has informed the Court that he has wound-down his law practice prior to
entry of this Order. To the extent not already complied with, Defendant shall comply with the
wind down provisions contained in Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124. As provided in § .0124(d), Defendant shall
file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective
date of this order, certifying he has complied with the wind down rule.
5.
Within 10 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide the State
Bar with an address and telephone number at which cl ients seeking retum of files can
communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant shall promptly retum all files
to his clients upon request.
6.
If Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124 and the
Court appoints a trustee to wind down any portion of Defendant's practice, Defendant shall
reimburse the State Bar for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding down Defendant's
practice. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility fees, rent payments,
moving expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage or other mailing expenses,
and compensation paid to the trustee andlor the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated
with the trusteeship. After the Court has discharged the trustee, the State Bar shall send an
invoice of wind-down expenses to Defendant at Defendant's last known address of record with
the NOlih Carolina State Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he has
reimbursed the State Bar for all wind-down expenses incurred.
7.
Any subsequent review of this Order, including any petition for a stay of this
suspension or any petition for reinstatement from suspension, shall be filed with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar and shall be conducted by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114 et seq.
8.
After serving no less than two years of the suspension, Defendant may apply for a
stay of the remaining period of suspension imposed by this Order by filing a verified petition
with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. In addition to complying with the general
provisions for reinstatement listed in Rule .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
State v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 9 of16

Disability Rules, to be eligible for a stay of the remaining period of suspension, Defendant must
demonstrate compliance with the following conditions by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence:
(a) Defendant has timely complied with paragraphs 2-6 of this section of the Order of
Discipline, including payment of any costs and administrative fees assessed as a
result of this disciplinary proceeding or any related administrative fees imposed by
the North Carolina State Bar;
(b) That, not more than 90 days after the effective date of this Order, Defendant was
evaluated by a licensed and qualified psychiatrist or psychologist. Such
psychiatrist/psychologist shall be approved in advance by the North Carolina State
Bar Office of COlmsel. Such psychiatrist/psychologist shall certify under oath
whether, based on his or her independent and comprehensive evaluation of
Defendant and in his or her professional opinion, Defendant cunently has any
physical, mental, psychological, behavioral, cognitive, or emotional illness,
disorder, or other condition that impairs Defendant's ability to practice law, that
impacts Defendant's ability or willingness to comply with the Rules of
Professional Conduct, and/or that poses a risk of harm to the public if he engages
in the practice of law. Defendant shall sign an authorization form consenting to
the release of all medical records and information related to Defendant's
evaluation to the Office of Counsel, and Defendant shall not revoke that release.
Defendant shall simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the
Office of Counsel and the psychiatrist/psychologist. Defendant shall direct the
evaluating psychiatrist/psychologist described herein to provide a written report of
such evaluation and recommended treatment, if any, to the Office of Counsel
within 30 days of the evaluation taking place. All expenses of such evaluation,
report(s), and production of records shall be borne by Defendant;
(c) Defendant has complied with all treatment recommendations of the evaluating
psychiatrist/psychologist described in paragraph (b) above. Defendant shall sign
an authorization form consenting to the release of any medical records and
infOlwation related to Defendant's treatment to the Office of Counsel, and
Defendant will not revoke that release. Defendant shall simultaneously provide a
copy of such signed authorization to the Office of Counsel and his treatment
provider(s). Within 30 days of beginning treatment, Defendant shall direct his
treatment provider(s) to provide the Office of Counsel with a written report
detailing Defendant's treatment. Defendant shall also direct his treatment
provider(s) to provide the Office of Counsel with a written report concerning
Defendant's condition, Defendant's compliance with the treatment plan, and
Defendant's progress resulting from treatment. Such repOli shall be received by
the Office of Counsel prior to or with Defendant's application for reinstatement.
Defendant shall also comply with any and all requests from the Office of Counsel
seeking updates on the status of his ongoing treatment within fifteen (15) days of
receipt of such requests. All expenses of such treatment, repOli( s), and production
of records shall be borne by Defendant;

Siale v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 10 of 16

(d) That, not more than 90 days before he petitions for reinstatement, Defendant has
been evaluated by a licensed and qualified psychiatrist or psychologist. Such
psychiatrist/psychologist shall be approved in advance by the North Carolina State
Bar Office of Counsel. Such psychiatrist/psychologist shall certify under oath
whether, based on his or her independent and comprehensive evaluation of
Defendant and in his or her professional opinion, Defendant cunently has any
physical, mental, psychological, behavioral, cognitive, or emotional illness,
disorder, or other condition that impairs Defendant's ability to practice law, that
impacts Defendant's ability or willingness to comply with the Rules of
Professional Conduct, and/or that poses a risk of hmm to the public if he engages
in the practice of law. Defendant bears the burden of proving that he does not
suffer from any such impairing condition at the time of reinstatement. Defendant
shall sign an authorization form consenting to the release of all medical records
and information related to Defendant's evaluation to the Office of Counsel, and
Defendant shall not revoke that release. Defendant shall simultaneously provide a
copy of such signed authorization to the Office of Counsel and the
psychiatrist/psychologist.
Defendant
shall
direct
the
evaluating
psychiatrist/psychologist described herein to provide a written report of such
evaluation and recommended treatment, if any, to the Office of Counsel within 30
days of the evaluation taking place. All expenses of such evaluation, report(s), and
production of records shall be borne by Defendant;
(e) Defendant has ananged for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar to
serve as his law practice monitor. Defendant's practice monitor shall be an
attorney in good standing who practices law in Defendant's judicial district and
who has been approved by the Office of Counsel. The monitor shall agree to
supervise all client matters and will ensure that Defendant handles all client
matters in a timely fashion, including promptly responding to his clients, attending
all scheduled court dates, and diligent pursuit of his clients' matters. Defendant
shall agree to meet once a month with his monitoring attorney, report the status of
all current client matters to the monitor, cooperate with the monitoring attorney,
and provide any information the monitoring attorney deems reasonably necessary
to ensure that Defendant is properly and timely handling all client matters. The
monitor will submit written quarterly repOlis of this supervision to the Office of
Counsel, such reports due on the following dates as they occur during the stay of
this suspension: January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. Defendant bears
the responsibility of ensuring the monitoring attorney sends a written report each
quarter to the Office of Counsel as described above. This monitoring will occur
for the duration of any stay of this suspension. Defendant will pay the cost, ifany,
charged by the monitor for this supervision. Defendant must make the
anangements for this monitoring attorney and supply the Office of Counsel with a
letter from the monitoring attorney confinning his or her agreement to perfonn the
duties listed above;
(f) Defendant has completed eight hours of trust account continuing legal education

programs, approved in advance by the Office of Counsel, including at least one
State v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 11 of 16

that includes discussion of quarterly reconciliations of the trust account taught by
Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar;
(g) Defendant has timely filed his federal and state income tax returns along with any
associated schedules and attachments thereto, and shall provide proof of these
filings to the Office of Counsel within 30 days of filing;
(h) Defendant shall timely pay all state and federal tax liabilities, fines, and penalties
accrued during the stay period;
(i)

Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar membership department advised
of his current physical home and business addresses and telephone numbers;

G) Defendant has accepted all ce11ified mail from the North Carolina State Bar and
responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or within fifteen
days of receipt of such communication, whichever is earlier;
(k) Defendant has timely complied with his State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements, and paid all fees and costs assessed by the State Bar
and the Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline. However, because KF
and R W have been ordered to pay restitution to the victims of their criminal
activity, Defendant shall not be responsible for reimbursing the Client Security
Fund for reimbursements made by the Fund to victims ofKF's and RW's criminal
activity;
(I)

Defendant has pm1icipated fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution prograIll when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;
and

(m) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
federal laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of suspension.
9.
Defendant may file a petition seeking a stay of the remaining period of suspension
and setting forth the above requirements up to 30 days prior to the end of the 2 year period but
shall not be reinstated prior to the end of that 2 year period.
10. If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license pursuant
to this Order, the stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies with the
following conditions:
(a)

Defendant shall continue to comply with all treatment recommendations of the
evaluating psychiatrist/psychologist described in paragraph 8(d) above as well
as his treatment provider(s) described in paragraph 8(c) above.
Defendant
shall direct his treatment provider(s) to provide the Office of Counsel with
semi-annual written reports concerning Defendant's condition, Defendant's
compliance with the treatment plan, and Defendant's progress resulting from

State v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 12 of 16

treatment for the duration of any stay of his suspension. Such reports shall be
received by the Office of Counsel every June 1 and December 1. Defendant
shall also comply with any and all requests from the Office of Counsel seeking
updates on the status of his ongoing treatment within fifteen (15) days of receipt
of such requests. If Defendant switches treatment providers during any stayed
period of his suspension, Defendant shall sign an authorization form consenting
to the release of any medical records and information related to Defendant's
treatment to the Office of Counsel, and Defendant will not revoke that release.
Defendant shall simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to
the Office of Counsel and his new treatment provider(s). Within 30 days of
starting treatment with the new provider( s), Defendant shall direct such new
treatment provider(s) to provide the Office of Counsel with a written report
detailing Defendant's treatment plan, as well as the semi-annual written reports
described above. All expenses of such treatment and reports shall be bome by
Defendant;
(b)

Defendant shall meet with his law practice monitor as described in paragraph
8(e) above. Defendant shall meet at least once a month with his monitoring
attomey, report the status of all CUlTent client matters to the monitor, cooperate
with the monitoring attomey, and provide any infolTllation the monitoring
attorney deems reasonably necessary to ensure that Defendant is properly and
timely handling all client matters. Defendant shall direct his law practice
monitor to submit written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of
Counsel, such reports due on the following dates as they occur during the stay
of this suspension: January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. Defendant
bears the responsibility of ensuring the monitoring attorney sends a written
report each quarter to the Office of Counsel as described above. This
monitoring will occur for the duration of any stay of this suspension. Defendant
will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this supervision;

(c)

Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make appropriate
alTangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed during any stay of
this suspension;

(d)

Defendant is presently enjoined from handling entrusted funds by the Wake
County Superior Court. Should Defendant successfully petition the court to lift
the injunction, Defendant shall take all reasonable steps to promptly disburse
the funds remaining in his Yadkin Bank trust account, including escheating any
unidentified funds at the appropriate time. After disbursing all funds from the
Yadkin Bank trust account, Defendant shall close the Yadkin Bank trust
account. Should Defendant choose to operate a trust or fiduciary account in
connection with his law practice, Defendant shall open a new trust andlor
fiduciary account to operate in connection with his law practice;

(e)

Each quarter that Defendant operates a trust or fiduciary account in connection
with his law practice, Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar with an accurate three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar
State v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 13 of 16

Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook for all trust accounts maintained by him.
Defendant shall provide the three-way reconciliation report, accurate client
ledgers for all clients with funds in the trust account(s) during that quarter, a
ledger for any personal funds maintained in the trust account( s) for bank or
credit card fees, his general tJust account ledger, and the bank statements,
cancelled checks, deposit slips, and any other document or instruction (such as
wire or electronic tJ'ansfer activity) regarding the deposit or disbursement of
funds into/from his trust account for each month. Defendant shall certify with
each quarterly report that he has personally reviewed the reconciliation report(s)
and all relevant ledgers, bank statements, cancelled checks, deposit slips, and
deposit items associated with the report(s). These documents are due no later
than 30 days after the end of the quarter - for example, the three-way
reconciliation for the first quarter of the calendar year (January, February, and
March) is due on April 30;
(f)

Each quarter that Defendant operates a trust or fiduciary account in connection
with his law practice, Defendant shall employ a CPA approved in advance by
the NOlih Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel to assist Defendant in
monitoring and reconciling his trust account(s) as required by the Rules of
Professional Conduct. Defendant shall have that CPA audit Defendant's trust
account(s), and Defendant will be responsible for any associated costs. This
audit shall assess whether Defendant has in his trust account the client funds he
should be maintaining for his clients at that time, as well as Defendant's
compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The CPA's audit shall include
addressing the items on the form which will be provided by the State Bar to
Defendant. The quatierly audit reports from the CPA (including all supporting
documentation) are due no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter - for
example, the CPA audit for the first quarter of the calendar year (January,
February, and March) is due on April 30;

(g)

If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit reveals
any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2, Rule 1.15-3, or
Rule 1.15-4, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the date of
the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall provide
documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar within 2 days of the
date of the remedial action;

(h)

Defendant shall have sole signatory authority on all general trust accounts,
dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by Defendant and
shall not allow the use of signature stamps, or electronic signature in lieu of his
hand affixed signature. Defendant shall retain sole possession of all trust
account or fiduciary account checks, and Defendant shall retain sole possession
of all usernames and passwords used for online banking access for any trust or
fiduciary accounts;

(i)

Defendant shall certify annually on or before June 30 to the North Carolina
State Bat· that all general trust accounts, dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary
Slate v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 14 of 16

accounts maintained by Defendant or his law firm are administered, to the best
of his knowledge, in compliance with the requirements of Rule 1.15 (including
all subparts) or that he is exempt from this provision because Defendant does
not maintain any trust or fiduciary accounts for North Carolina client funds;
G)

Defendant's failure to timely submit any report or materials required by this
Order shall be grounds to lift the stay and re-activate the suspension;

(k)

Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel to provide
any information regarding his trust accounts or to sign and provide any release
or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to obtain information directly
from any bank in which Defendant maintains a trust account, by the deadline
stated in the request;

(1)

Defendant shall timely file during the period of stay his federal and state income
tax returns along with any associated schedules and attachments thereto and
shall provide proof of these filings to the Office of Counsel within 30 days of
filing;

(m)

Defendant shall timely pay all state and federal tax liabilities, fines, and
penalties accrued during the stay period;

(n)

Defendant shall execute any written waivers and releases necessary to authorize
the Office of Counsel to confer with the Internal Revenue Service or the NOlih
Carolina Department of Revenue for the purpose of determining whether
Defendant has cooperated and complied with all requirements of this Order,
Defendant will not revoke these waivers and releases at any time during the
period of stay;

(0)

Defendant shall keep the NOlih Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical home and business addresses and telephone
numbers;

(p)

Defendant shall accept all certified mail fi'om the North Carolina State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or within
fifteen days of receipt of such communication, whichever is earlier;

(q)

Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements, and pay all fees and costs assessed by the State
Bar and the Client Security Fund by the applicable deadline;

(r)

Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution program when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed
fees; and

Slate v. Ronald Tyson Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 150f16

(s)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
federal laws other than minor traffic violations.

11. If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in
Paragraph 8 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114 et seq. of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
12. If Defendant does not seek a stay of any active period of suspension, or if some part
of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must provide in his
application for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of the following:
(a)

Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules;

(b)

Compliance with the conditions set out in paragraphs 8(d) and 8(f); and

(c)

Compliance with all federal and state tax obligations.

13. Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct discovered
or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct addressed in this Order.
14. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will assume jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114 et seq. of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules throughout the suspension, and any stay thereof.
Orderedthisthe

Icrv- day of

~

,2017.

~cV {f;~'j{d--u-6
Patrice A. Hinnant
Superior Court Judge Presiding

TEDT~~
Bna .D. Oten, Deputy Counsel
Attorney for the North Carolina State Bar

on
on Ferrell
Defendant

dman
Attorneysfor Defendant

Slate v. Ronald 0'son Ferrell
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 16 ofl6

