NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05G0652 & 0660480

IN THE MATTER OF
Richard E. Steinbronn,
Attorney At Law

On JuIy 12,2007 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by R. E and the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
Slate Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committec found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing uPa complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission arc not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina Slate Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You are associated with a husiness company called The Closing I'lace which provides
scttlelnent agent services for residential real estate transactions. The Closing Place received a
letter of caution to cease and desist the unauthorized practice of Ian in February 2004 from the
North Carolina State Bar and you received a reprimand for assisting The Closing Place in the
iinauthorircd practlce of law in August 2004. Since that time, The Closing Place continued to

hold itself out as able to provide legal services or as having provided legal services, as
manifested in use of letterhead by The Closing Place that listed you as attorney with that
company and by the listing of The Closing Place on HUD-1 Settlement Statements as having
performed the legal scrvice of a title examination, During this time you shared office space with
The Closing Place, including the sharing of a reception area, receptionist, and telephone and fax
lines with The Closing Place, which heightened the appearance that The Closing Place could
provide customers with your Iegal services. Your arrangement with The Closing Place as
dcscribed above continued to assist The Closing Place in holding itself out as able to provide
legal services to others in vioIation of Rule 5.5(d). The risk of a customer believing that The
Closing Place could provide him or her with your legal services was manifested in the grievance
filed by R.E., file number 05G0652. The Grievance Committee considered your prior discipline
for unauthorized practice of law with The Closing Place to be an aggravating factor. The
Grievance Committee considered your cooperation with the State Bar and the changes you have
made to office location, information provided to parties at real estate closings, and to your HUD1 Settle~nentStatements to address the appearance issues raised to be mitigaling factors.
Your trust account was examined in file 06G0480. The evidence in file 0660480 showed
a check deposited into your trust account for a real estate transaction was returned with
insufficient funds, creating a shortfall in your account for that transaction. Although some fundq
Miere deposited prolnptly to partially reimburse the trust account of the shortfall, a deficit for that
transaction remained for a significant period of time until total reimbursement was made. 'The
evidence also showed a transaction in which disbursements were made several weeks prior to
funds being deposited into your trust account for that transaction. Such u~lsupported
disbursements potentially place other client funds at risk and are in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a)
and (m). Overall, however, the evidence showed proper management of your trust account. The
Grievance Committee considered your cooperation with the State Bar, the overall proper
management of your trust account, your prompt reimbursement of your trust account when the
remaining deficit referenced above came to your attention during the pendency of this grievance
file, and the changes you have made with your deposit procedures as mitigating factors.
The evidencc in file O6GO480 also showed you shared Iegal fees with a person who was
not licensed to practice law in North Carolina, although she was licensed to practice law
elsewhere. This is in violation of Rule 5,4(a). The Grievance Committee considered your
cooperation with the State Bar as a mitigating factor.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 198 1 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the

6

*

,J&I ,R.

,2007

day of

LLP-h
Fox, Chair

Committee

