~~
..J.
0'

~

lI'I>.-p

\t-

JIJ!V",O'-d'

STATE OF NORTH CAROL·

nfucl -;

"'J

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
ARY I-lEARINO COMMISSION
OF THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR

09 DHC 31

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
v.
DAVID P. FOLMAR, JR.. , Attorney,
Defendant

This matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Tommy W. Janett, Chair, Theodore C. Edwards, III and Karen B. Ray.
Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff. Defendant was represented by Wade M.
Smith. Defendant waives a formal hearing in the above referenced matter. The parties
stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent
order. The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. Defendant knowingly,
freely and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any
way the sufficiency of the findings by consenting to the entry of this order.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the partics, the I-Iearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws ofNOlih Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rulcs and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. Defendant, David P. Folmar, Jr. (hereinafter "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1989 and at all times referred to herein,
possessed a license to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations,
and Rules of Professional Conduct ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the
State of North Carolina. Defendant is not now, and was not during the times referred to
herein, an active member of the North Carolina State Bar authorized to practice law in
North Carolina.
3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the practice of
law as an Assistant United States Attoqley for the United States Department of Justice in

its United States Attorney's Offices located in the Eastern District of North Carolina at
Raleigh, the Eastern District of Tennessee at Knoxville, the Northern District of Ohio at
Cleveland, and the Middle District of North Carolina at Greensboro.
4. Defendant is required to be an active member of a bar of any U. S. jurisdiction
in order to practice law as an Assistant United States Attorney.
5. During the times relevant herein, Defendant possessed a license to practice law
from two U.S. jurisdictions: Florida and North Carolina. However, from November 14,
2003 through March 2009 Defendant was not an active member of a bar of any U.S.
jurisdiction and was not authorized by Florida or North Carolina to practice law.
6. Although Defendant is licensed to practice law by the Florida Bar, Defendant's
status with the Florida Bar is retired. Therefore, from November 14, 2003 through March
2009 Defendant was not eligible to practice law pursuant to his Florida license.
7. On or about July 18,2003, the North Carolina State Bar deposited into the
United States Mail, certified mail, retUl1l receipt requested, addressed to Defendant, a
Notice to Show Cause why he should not be suspended ti·om the practice of law by the
North Carolina State Bar for his failure to comply with mandatory Continuing Legal
Education requirements.
8. The Notice to Show Cause was mailed to Defendant at his address of record
with the North Carolina State Bar Membership Departmcnt which, at that time, was 2765
Oakview Circle, Cleveland Ohio.
9. Defendant was suspended fi·om the practice oflaw on November 5, 2003
pursuant to an Order of Suspension for Failure to Comply with Continuing Legal
Education (CLE) Requirements dated November 5, 2003.
10. Defendant became aware of his suspension for failure to comply with CLE
requirements in or about early 2004.
11. Defendant knew that he was suspended from the practice of law for his
failure to comply with mandatory CLE requirements.
13. Despite the fact that Defendant was suspended from the practice of law, he
continued to work as ffil Assistffilt United States Attorney, to appear in court on behalf of
the United States Attorney ffild to prosecute cases on behalf orthe United States li·om
November 14,2003 tln·ough March 2009.
14. Defendant concealed his suspension fi·om his supervisors.
15. Defendant falsely held himself out to the courts, his colleagues and the public
as authorized ffild qualified to practice law.

-2-

16. Defendant Imew that he was required to have an active law license in order to
prosecute cases as an Assistant United States Attorney.
17. Defendant knew that he had no active law license from November 14, 2003
tlnough March 2009. Despite this fact, Defendant executed "At10rney's Bar ReCertification" forms on March 22,2005, March 14,2006, April 16,2007, November 6,
2007 and April 15,2008 falsely certifying to his employer, the United States Department
of Justice, that he was illl active member of a state bar.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. All pill·ties me properly before the I-Iearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, David P. Folmar, Jr., and over the subject matter.
2. Defendilllt's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline purSUilllt to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-24(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a.

by practicing law as an Assistant United States Attorney while
his North Cmolina law license was suspended and without bcing
licensed to practice law by any other jurisdiction, Defendant
engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule
5.5(a) and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration
ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d); and

b.

by concealing his suspension from the courts, his supervisors
and his colleagues; by executing "Attomey's Bar ReCertification" forms falsely certifying that he was an active
member of a state bar; and by holding himself out to the eourts,
his colleagues illld the public as authorized and qualified to
praetice law, Defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(e).

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the I-Iearing
Panel enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I. Defendilllt was suffering from depression and tumed to alcohol during the time
of his misconduet.
2. Defendmt was having personal and family problems during the time of his
misconduct.

o

-J-

3. Defendant has sought counseling for his depression.
4. Prior to thc occurrence of the misconduct at issue in this case, Defendant's
professional reputation among the federal prosecution and defense bars was unblemished.
5. Dcfendant has the professional reputation of being an honest lawyer.
6. Although Defendant's law license was administratively suspended for failure
to comply with mandatory CLE, Defendant always maintaincd adequate CLE course
credit throughout the period of his suspension though he failed to submit the necessary
forms.
7. Defendant has exhibited extreme remorse for his misconduct.
8. Defendant was disciplined by the United States Department of Justice Office
of Professional Responsibility for his misconduct that is at issue in this case.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of
Fact Regarding Disciplinc, the I-Iearing Panel enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different f01111S of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure and suspension.

2. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .OI14(w)(I) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and tinds the
following factors are applicable.
a.

negative impact of the Defendant's actions on public's
perception of the profession;

b.

negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of
justice;

c.

acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication;

d.

experience in the practice of law;

e.

the absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

f.

effect of personal and emotional problems on the conduct in
question;

-4-

g.

full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

h.

remorse;

1.

character and reputation; and

J.

imposition of other penalties or sanctions.

3. Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the legal profession in that his
actions bring the legal profession into disrepute.
4. Defendant's conduct caused significant prejudice to the administration of
justice in that, as a result of Defendant's misconduct, criminal defendants who have been
convicted and me incarcerated have filed motions to set aside their convictions. This has
resulted in bm-den on the court and upon Defendant's former colleagues.
5. The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a censure,
reprimand or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
conduct and potential harm to the administration of justice and the legal profession
caused by Defendant's conduct.
6. The Hearing Pffi1el finds that discipline short of an active suspension would not
adequately protect the public for the following reasons:
a.

Defendant's conduct reflects adversely on his trustworthiness or
fitness as a lawyer.

b.

Entry of an order imposing less severe discipline would fail to
aclQ10wledgc the seriousness of the misconduct and would send
the wrong message to attorneys about the importance of
complying with all administrative licensing requirements and to
attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this State.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline ffi1d Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel
hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I. The law license of Defendant, David P. Folmar, Jr., is hereby suspended for
live (5) years effective thirty (30) days after service of this Order of Discipline on
Defendant.

-5-

2. Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than thiliy (30) days following service of this Order on
Defendant.
3. Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C.A.C. lB § .0124, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State
Bar within ten days of the effective date of this Order of Discipline certifying that he has
complied with the wind down rule.
5. Within fifteen (15) days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant will
provide the State Bar with a street address and mailing address at which clients seeking
return of their files and records in Defendant's possession or control may obtain such
files and records and at which the State Bar may serve any notices or other matters upon
him.
6. Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding within thirty (30) days of
service of the statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar.
7. After the completion of eighteen (18) months of active suspension of his
license, Defendant may apply for a stay of the remainder ofthe suspension upon filing a
petition with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar at least thirty (30) days before
any proposed effective date of the stay and demonstrating the following by clear, cogent
ffild convincing evidence the following:
a.

That at the time of the petition Defendffilt is not suffering from
any disability that would impair his ability to practice law.

b.

Defendant has continuously participated in mental health
cOllllseling provided by a licensed psychologist or psychiatrist,
meeting at least monthly with this counselor;

c.

Defendant has provided the Office of Counsel with releases
authorizing and instructing his psychological and mental health
care providers to provide the Office of Counsel all medical
records relating to his evaluation, prognosis, care or treatment,
including psychological and mental health evaluations, and
authorizing ffild instructing such providers to submit to
interviews by the Office of Counsel;

d.

Defendffilt has kept the North Carolina State Bar- Membership
Department advised of his cunent business and home addresses
and notified the Bar- of any change in address within ten (10)
days of such change;

-6-

e.

Defendant has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar, including communications [i'om the
Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty (30) days of
receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner, and has participated in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition of
which he receives notice after the effective date of this Order;

f.

That at the time of his petition for stay, Defendant is current in
payment of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all
Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or
surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from him, and
including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments.

g.

That at the time of his petition for stay, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory Continuing Legal
Education (eLE) hours, in reporting of such hours or in
payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs.

h.

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the laws of the United States or of any state or local government
during his suspension;

1.

Defendant has properly wound down his law practice and
complied with the requirements of27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0124, the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules; and

J.

Defendant has paid the costs of this proceeding as reflected on
the statement of costs served upon him by the Secretary of the
State Bar.

8. If Defendant sucCeSSfl.llly seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies with the following
conditions:
a. Defendant shall participate in mental health counseling provided by a
licensed psychologist or psychiatrist, meeting at least monthly with
this counselor; Defendant will authorize and instruct his counselor to
provide quarterly written reports to the State Bar confirming
Defendant's continued participation in mental health counseling; the
first such report shall be submitted to the State Bar thirty (30) clays
from the initial date of stay of Defendant's suspension; subsequent
reports shall be submitted on the first day of the first month of each
quarter thereafter; any cost associated with the counseling or reports
shall be borne by Defendant;

-7-

b. Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel with releases
authorizing and instructing psychological and mental health care
providers to provide the Office of Counsel all medical records relating
to his evaluation, prognosis, care or treatment, including psychological
and mental health evaluations, and authorizing and instructing such
providers to submit to interviews by the Office of Counsel;
c. Defendant shall keep the NOlih Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home addresses and
notified the Bar of any change in address within ten (10) days of such
change;
d. Defendant shall respond to all communications l1-om the North
Carolina State Bar, including communications from the Attorney
Client Assistance Program, within thirty (30) days of receipt or by the
deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner, and shall
pmiicipate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective
date ofthis Order;
e. Defendant is cunent in payment of all Membership dues, fees and
costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges
or surchm'gcs that the State Bar is authorized to collect from him, and
including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;
f.

That there is no deficit in Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE
hours, in reporting of such hours, or in payment of any fees associated
with attendance at CLE programs; and

g. Defendm1t has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws ofthe United States or of any state or local government during
his suspension.
9. If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed
suspension provided in paragraph 8(a) - (g) above, the stay of the suspcnsion may be
lifted as provided in § .OI14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules.

-1-

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full lmowledge and consent of the other
day of
I.M--f' , 20 I O.
members of the Hearing Plli1el, this is the

J

Tomm0/ anett, C\1air
Hearing Panel
!

-8-

C014NTED TO BY:

'J-j

/,

Y\N~I

Leylor Bailey Hod e
Deputy COlU1sel
The North Carolina State Bar
P.O. Box 25908
Raleigh, NC 27611
Attorney fbI' Plaintiff

Wade M. Smith
Attorney for Defendant

David P. Folmar, J1'.
Defendant

-9-

