BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G0951

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
JENNIFER NICOLE FOSTER,
A TTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 17,2019, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by District Attorney Todd M. Williams, 28th Prosecutorial
District ("Williams"), Assistant District Attorney James A. Bass, and attorney Samuel B. Craig
("Craig"). These grievances were assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results
of the State Bar staff's investigation of these matters.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Subcommittee found
probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the mles as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of
the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one 01' more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has
caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice) the
profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is 110t required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar) it is now my duty to issue this censure.
On or about November 8, 2018, you made public postings on social media that you "basically"
have been put out of business by Craig and Williams, and that you were "not able to take new cases, nor
likely resolve the ones [you] presently [had] due to this retaliation from DA Todd Williams, matters
which he submitted to the NC State Bar 15 months ago, upon which the State Bar has taken no
action." You also asserted that Williams's misconduct claims were "reporting to you, our
community) of said wrongful conviction of former doctor [G.P.]." On their face, these public social

media statements about being unable to take new cases or resolve the ones you currently had due to
retaliation by Williams and being "put out of business" by Craig and Williams were false. At the time,
there was no legal or State Bar impediment to your being retained by new clients or for your being able
to resolve the already pending cases of your clients. Your characterization of Williams's claims was
also misleading, if not false, given that your social media comments were not the only allegations of
misconduct against you. By making these publicly false and misleading statements on social media,
you engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation that reflect adversely
on your fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(c).
In addition, you violated Rule 4.2(a) by communicating and meeting with G.P. on or about
December 7, 2017 at the Marion Correctional Institution, when you knew that G.P. was represented by
Craig at the time and had been warned by Craig not to do so. For similar reasons, you made a
misleading statement to prison personnel at the time about your role as G.P.'s attorney and thereby
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation ofthe Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, anadministmtive fee in the amount of$350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered,

thiS?..5t!;yOf~, 2019.

A. fodd Brown, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar
ATB/lb

