'6 ~ \\\ 1112 1]I(
c'\
1t .J'~,
o
St:P
,;.:,
STATE OF NORTH CAR

A

WAKE COUNTY

(-.\

'~~,

-~- ,

,

THE NORTH CAROLINA

~OffJ

,:;;;,

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
DfIC;:A
OFTHE
,~ RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

ft/lt:!).

[y)

DISC~

~6'2~i :_cl,j~'0&

14 Olle 7

STAT~~~t -

---- - -

Plaintiff

v.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

JENNIFER NICOLE FOSTER, Attorney,
Defendant
_ _ .,_ _ _ _ _ _ _, - - - - -

I_----~.

_ _ _ _ _ _.

THIS MATTER was heard on July 8, 2016 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, and members
Shirley Fulton and Randy A Moreau, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code,
Title 27, Chapter I, Subchapter B, § ,0114(m) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
aJ,ld Disability Rules. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bat")
was represented by Barry S. McNeill, Deputy Counsel. Defendant, Jennifer Nicole
Foster ("Defendant" or "Foster"), appeared pro se.
Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated facts, and the testimony and evidence
admitted at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to this proceeding
under the authority granted in Chapter 84 of the General Statntes of North Carolina, and
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the
North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Jennifer Nicole Foster ("Foster" or "Defendant''), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on September 8, 1995, and was at all times
referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Foster was engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and practiced in Asheville, Buncombe
County, North Carolina.

In October 2011, Foster was an organizer and member of a local "Occupy
4.
Asheville" movement in Asheville, North Carolina.

5.
After arrest warrants were issued for some of the "Occupy Asheville"
members, on Saturday, November 5, 2011, at approximately 8:30 p.m. Foster entered the
magistrate's office in the Buncombe County Detention Facility ("BCDF").
6.
Signage on the outside windows of the magistrate's office referred to the
area as a "court" or "courtroom," and a sign inside the magistrate's office area located
above the glass-enclosed cubicle work stations for the magistrates read, "Magistrate's
Court 28th Judicial District." Signage at the entrance of the BCDF provided directional
information to the "Magistrate's Office" and a sign inside the lobby ofthe BCDF pointed
to the "Magistrate'"
7.
Foster introduced herself to Magistrate Amanda R. Fisher ("Magistrate
Fisher"), one of two magistrates on duty at the time, and identified herself as an attorney
there on behalf of Occupy Asheville.
8.
Foster then asked Magistrate Fisher, "[w]hat the hell is going on around
hen:" regarding the warrants for the Occupy Asheville members.
9.

Foster's demeanor was agitated and she spoke in a raised voice.

10.
Magistrate Fisher warned Foster that as an attorney she should know that
she was in a courtroom and should "watch her language."
11.
Foster requested a list of the Occupy Asheville members who had been
issued warrants.
12.
Magistrate Fisher informed Foster that office policy did not permit her to
provide the names of persons with outstanding warrants.
13.
When Magistrate Fisher offered to check to see if there was an outstanding
warrant for Foster, Foster said, "Okay, fine."
14.
Foster provided her name and Magistrate Fisher checked the warrant
database for whether there was an outstanding warrant for Foster.
15.
Issuing warrants and checking on the status of warrants are part of a
magistrate's duties as ajudicial official.
16.
After Magistrate Fisher reported to Foster that there was not an
outstanding warrant for Foster, Foster exclaimed, "[w]hat the fuck is going on around
here?"
17.
Magistrate Fisher warned Foster that her vulgarity was the second time
she had used inappropriate language in the magistrate's courtroom area, and that
Magistrate Fisher was "going to have to ask [Foster] to leave."
18.
Foster did not immediately exit the magistrate's courtroom area, but
repeated the vulgar expletive three or four more times, including "[t]his is fucking
ridiculous."

·.
19.
As Foster repeated the vulgar expletives and continued to do so while
Magistrate Fisher attempted to talk, Magistrate Fisher informed Foster that she was
holding Foster in contempt of court.
.20.
Foster then walked toward the exit door and Magistrate Fisher instructed
her to stop, but Foster exited the magistrate's courtroom area, stating as she left, "[w]hat
the fuck is going on?" and "[t]his isa bunch ofbullsbit."
21.
Magistrate Fisher considered Foster's use of such vulgarities discourteous
and degrading to her as a judicial official performing her duties.
22.
Brandon Freeman ("Magistrate Freeman"), now an attorney for Buncombe
County, was also a magistrate on duty the evening of November 5, 2011, and was in the
rear intake area of the magistrate's courtroom area processing a defendant's criminal
matter during the confrontation between Foster and Magistrate Fisher.
23.
Magistrate Freeman heard Foster loudly shout vulgarities multiple times
and corroborated Magistrate Fisher's testimony about warning Foster that the area was
deemed a courtroom, that Foster should watch her language therein, that Magistrate
Fisher Wat1).ed Foster she would be held in contempt if she continued the vulgarities, and
that Foster continued to loudly use vulgarities as she exited the magistrate's courtroom
area.
24.
Magistrate Fisher notified on-duty detention officers in the BCDF to arrest
Foster because she was going to hold Foster in contempt of court, and the officers
arrested Foster outside the BCDF.
25.
When Foster was arrested outside the BCDF, she asked if she was being
arrested because she had said "Fuck" to the magistrate.
26.
Once Foster had been detained, searched, and processed, the officers
escorted Foster back to the Magistrate's office area where Magistrate Fisher informed her
that she had been held in direct criminal contempt in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 5A-11
and that Foster would be confined for a period of five days.
27.
With Magistrate Freeman present and witnessing Foster's initial
appearance, Magistrate Fisher provided Foster with a copy of the direct criminal
contempt order.
28.
Foster stated to Magistrate Fisher that she did not know the Magistrate's
office was a courtroom, and Magistrate Fisher reminded Foster that she had previously
warned Foster to watch her language in the magistrate's courtroom area.
29.

Foster also asked if Magistrate Fisher was ajudicial official.

30.
As a result of Foster's behavior in the magistrate's courtroom area,
Magistrate Fisher and Magistrate Freeman had to interrupt their other responsibilities that
evening in order to prepare the direct criminal contempt order and serve it upon Foster.

-3-

31.
Approximately 30 minutes after Foster was held in contempt, Foster
appealed Magistrate Fisher's contempt order.
At the bond hearing on Foster's appeal, Magistrate Fisher imposed a
32.
$10,000 secured bond, designating it as a "cash bond."
33.
Foster was unable to raise the cash bond and remained in the custody of
the BCDF for approximately 48 hours, until Monday, November 7, 2011.
34.
At Foster's initial appearance in Buncombe County Superior Court on
Monday, November 7, 2011, Superior Court Judge James U. Downs modified Foster's
bond to an unsecured bond and Foster was released fi'om custody.
35.
In a social media posting about her contempt conviction prior to her de
novo appeal in Buncombe County Superior Court, Foster wrote, "[J'lunny thing is that,
pursuant to the First Amendment, myself, like every one of you, has the right to tell the
judge they are a fucking idiot, which I didn't even do in this case ... innocent I tell youl"
36.
In another social media posting about her contempt conviction prior to her
de novo appeal in Buncombe County Superior Court, Foster also admitted to cursing out
of "extreme frustration" and "generally raising hell" in the magistrate's courtroom area
before Magistrate Fisher.
37.
Foster's de novo appeal was heard in Buncombe County Superior Court
on December 1, 2011 before Superior Court Judge Downs.
38.

Foster represented herself at the contempt trial before Judge Downs.

39.
Following the evidence and arguments, Judge Downs made findings of
fact in open court, including that Magistrate Fisher was a judicial official; that Foster's
conduct was willful; that Foster's conduct was committed during the sitting of the
magistrate court, in the court's innnediate view and presence; and that such acts impaired
the respect of the magistrate court's authority.
40.
Judge Downs concluded that Foster's conduct was contemptuous and, like
Magistrate Fisher, Judge Downs held Foster in direct criminal contempt of court in
violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 5A-II(a).
41.
Judge Downs ordered that Foster be confined in the BCDF for a period of
48 hours, but awarded Foster credit for the 48 hours she had already spent in the BCDF
and therefore Foster was not required to serve additional time in the BCDF.
42.
Foster gave notice of appeal of Judge Downs' order finding her in direct
criminal contempt of court.
43.
On appeal, on May 21, 2013, a panel of the North Carolina Court of
Appeals reversed Foster's conviction in In re Foster, No. COA12-865 (N.C. Court of
Appeals, May 21, 2013) (unpublished), holding that, in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § SA14(b), Magistrate Fisher did not afford Defendant Foster a snnnuary opportunity to
respond before finding her in direct criminal contempt.

-4-

44.
In reversing Foster's direct criminal contempt conviction, the North
Carolina Court of Appeals commented, "we agree that [Foster's] behavior was
contemptuous, but since the magistrate failed to comply with the statutory requirements
prior to holding [Foster] in contempt, we must reverse." Id. (slip op. at 18).
We are, however, very troubled by defendant's use of profanity in
the magistrate's office while conducting court-related business
despite warnings by the magistrate about the inappropriate
language. Such disrespect, particularly by an attorney familiar
with proper courtroom practices, is wholly inappropriate. In
addition, we are disturbed by defertdanl's Facebook posts
following the incident which evidence her failure to acknowledge
the wrongfulness of her conduct - - indeed the posts indicate a very
cavalier attitude.
Defendant went so far as to create a Facebook post
regarding the incident that stated: "FUlUly thing is that pursuant to
the First Amendment, myself, like every one of you, has the right
to tell the judge they are a fucking idiot, which I did not even do in
this case. Innocent, I tell you, struck by lightning tn this arbitrary
system we call American justice." Given defendant is a lawyer,
practicing in our State's courts, we find defendant's attitude.
offensive and incomprehensible.
.

ld. (slip op. at 18).
45.
The Attorney General's Office, on behalf of the State, filed in the North
Carolina Supreme Court a motion for temporary stay, petition for writ of supersedeas,
and petition for discretionary review seeking review ofthe decision in In re Foster.
46.
The North Carolina Supreme Court granted the State's motion for
temporary stay on June 10,2013.
47.
On August 27, 2013, the North Carolina Supreme Court dissolved the stay
and denied the State's petitions for supersedeas and certiorari. In re Foster, No. 243P13
(N.C. Supreme Court, Aug. 27, 2013).
48.
On November 7, 2014, Foster filed a complaint against Magistrate Fisher
and Buncombe County Sheriff Jack Van Duncan in the United States District Court for
the Western District of North Carolina. Foster v. Fisher, et al., No. 1:14-CV-292
(W.D.N.C., Nov. 7, 2014) ("Foster v, Fisher, et aI, ").
49.
In dismissing Foster's federallawsuit against Magistrate Fisher and others,
United States District Court Judge Martin Reidinger specifically concluded, among other
things, that Magistrate Fisher "was performing judicial acts as a magistrate when [Foster]
approached her November 5, 2011." Foster v. Fisher, et al., No. 1:14-cv-292-MR-DSC
(W.D.N.C., Mar. 9, 2016) (Slip op. at 28).

-5-

50.
Judge Reidinger further held that "[Foster's] entire encounter with
Defendant Fisher was undertaken in counection with Fisher's role as a judicial officer
within the subject matter jurisdiction accorded magistrates by the State and [Defendant
Fisher] is thus entitled to immunity for her acts taken thereby." Foster v. Fisher, et al.,
No. 1:14-cv-292-MR-DSC (W.D.N.C., Mar. 9,2016) (Slip op. at 29).
51.
Magistrate Fisher was a judicial official performing judicial acts when
Foster confronted Magistrate Fisher in the magistrate's courtroom area on November 5,
2011.
52.
The Hearing Panel finds the testimony of Magistrate Fisher to be
consistent with the corroborating testimony of Magistrate Freeman and with
contemporaneous notes and statements, and to be more credible than the testimony of
Foster.
Based upon the stipulations ofthe parties, the testimony and evidence introduced
at the hearing, and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subj eet matter of this proceeding.
2.
Rille 3.5(a)(4) prohibits a lawyer from engaging in conduct intended to
disrupt a tribunal, including "undignified or discourteous conduct that is degrading to a
tribunal" as specified in Rule 3.5(a)(4)(8).
3.
Comment 10 to Rule 3.5 states that conduct by a lawyer intended to
disrupt a tribunal includes "angry outbursts . . ., as well as ... bullying, and other
attempts to intimidate or humiliate judges, opposing counsel, litigants, witnesses, or court
personnel." Rule 3.5, Comment [1OJ.
4.
Rule 1.0(n) defines "tribunal," for purposes of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(8), as
denoting "a court, an arbitrator in a binding arbitration proceeding or a legislative body,
administrative agency or other body acting in an adjudicative capacity."
5.
As written, the phrase "acting in an adjudicative capacity" in the first
sentence of Rule l.O(n) modifies only "a legislative body, administrative agency or other
body," and does not modify "Court" or "an arbitrator in a binding arbitration
proceeding."
6.
Therefore, it is unnecessary to also show that, for purposes of Rule
3.5(a)(4)(B), a "Court" also was "acting in an adjudicative capacity" or that there was an
adversarial hearing ongoing at the time.
7.
One of the powers specifically given to a magistrate is the power to punish
for direct criminal contempt nnder N.C. Gen. Stat. § 5A-11. N.C. Gen. Stat. § 7A292(2).
8.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 7A-273, a magistrate has adjudicative
powers in certain misdemeanors and infractions, in addition to having the powers to issue
arrest and search wan'ants and grant bail before trial for any noncapital offenses.
-6-

9.
North Carolina law recognizes that a magistrate is an officer of the district
court, N.C. Gen. Stat. § 7A-170, and in issuing a warrant a magistrate perfonns a judicial
act. Foust v. Hughes, 21 N.C. App. 268, 270, 204 S.E.2d 230, 231 (1974).
10.
Like judges, state court magistrates enjoy judicial immunity for actions
taken in their judicial caEacity, such as setting bonds or issuing warrants. Pressly v.
Gregory, 831 F.2d S14 (4 Cir.1987).
11.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 7A-173(a), the grounds for suspension or
removal of magistrates are the same as for judges of the General Court of Justice, and
magistrates must abide by the Code of Judicial Conduct.
12.
Every state and federal court which has reviewed the facts relating to the
confrontation between Foster and Magistrate Fisher concluded that Magistrate Fisher was
perfonning judicial acts as a judicial official at the time of Foster's contemptuous
behavior.
13.
On the night in question, Foster went to BCDF to check on the status of
arrest warrants, which is one of the official duties of Magistrate Fisher.
14.
Foster entered an area clearly designated as the "Magistrate's Court" and
announced she was an attorney, suggesting Foster was there on legal business and
suggesting that Foster was aware that she was appearing before a government official
who perfonned judicial acts.
IS.
When Foster was arrested outside the BCDF and asked the arresting
officers if her arrest was because she had said "Puck" to the magistrate, Foster
demonstrated a consciousness of her inappropriate behavior toward Magistrate Fisher in
the magistrate's courtroom area.
.
16.
Therefore, for purposes of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B), this panel concludes that
Magistrate Fisher meets Rule 1.0(n)'s definition of a ''tribunal.''
17.
Although Foster argnes that she did not subjectively believe the
magistrate's area was a courtroom and that Magistrate Fisher was a judicial official, the
test is not a subjective one; the test is objective, i.e., would a reasonable attorney believe
he or she was appearing before a tribunal?
18.
By all the objective criteria, Foster knew or reasonably should have known
that, under the circumstances, Magistrate Fisher was a tribunal as defined by Rule 1.0(n)
and Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B), and that Foster should refrain from engaging in undignified or
discourteous conduct that was degrading to Magistrate Fisher.
19.
Conduct prejudiciai to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4(d) may occur even though the subject of the vulgarities is not a judge or judicial
official, and even though the area in question is not a courtroom.
20.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
By using profanity before Magistrate Fisher in the magistrate's
courtroom area, and by continuing to do so after being warned by
-7-

Magistrate Fisher about her inappropriate language, Defendant
engaged in undignified or discourteous conduct that was degrading
to a tribunal in violation ofRuIe 3.5(a)(4)(B), and also engaged in
conduct that was prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation ofRuIe 8A(d).
Based upon the evidence, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISqPLINE
1.
Foster graduated with a juris doctor degree from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Law in 1995 with Honors.
2.
Foster was a member of the Order of the Coif and North Carolina Law
Review staff.
3.
Following admission to the bar, in 1996-98 Foster served as an appellate
staff attorney for the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit in Atlanta,
Georgia.
4.
In 1998-99, Foster was admitted to the Georgia State Bar and worked in
Fulton County, Georgia as an Appellate Public Defender handling criminal appeals.
5.
In 1999-2000, Foster worked as a federal pro 8e Law Clerk to the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California, in Oakland, California.
6.
While in California, Foster was admitted to the California State Bar and
worked for a criminal and immigration attorney handling criminal and imniigration law
post-conviction matters.
7.
In 2005, Foster served as a lobbyist and organizer for the People of Faith
Against the Death Penalty in North Carolina.
8.
In 2005-2006, Foster served as a legal editor for Immigration Law and
Crime, editing the treatise quarterly.
9.
In 2005-2007, Foster worked for Cogburn & Brazil. P.A., an Asheville
civil law firm handling motions and appeals.
10.
In 2007-2010, Foster served as the pro bono administrator for Pisgah
Legal Services in Asheville, North Carolina, providing recruitment, event planning,
marketing, case referrals, management, public speaking, and e-newsletter
communication.
11.
In 2009, Foster received the 28th Judicial Bar's pro bono award for
excellence in leadership.
12.
In 2010, Foster founded the National Association for the Reform of
Marijuana Laws in North Carolina (NCNORML), helping in events, concert production,
and lobbying.
-8-

13.
On October I, 2011, Foster and others co-foWlded "Occupy Asheville,"
intended for nOll-violent civil disobedience.
14.
California.

Foster has no prior public discipline in North Carolina, Georgia, or

15.
Foster was administratively suspended by the North Carolina State Bar on
December 23, 2013.
16.
In seeking reinstatement by the Administrative Connnittee of the North
Carolina State Bar in March 2016, Foster asserted that she had been diagnosed with
secondary Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) by her treating psychologist and had
been 100% disabled from the practice oflaw and a fimctionallife until the summer of
2015.
17.
In a letter dated April 18,2016 proffered by Foster to the Administrative
Committee in support of her reinstatement, Foster's psychologist confirmed her diagnosis
of Foster suffering chronic PTSD, but stated that she was not qualified to comment on
Foster's level of competence to practice law.
18.
Foster's psychologist also wrote: "In my opinion, [Foster] will need to
continue to work with her psychiatrist for medication matlagement and continue to obtain
consistent psychological treatment."
19.
Foster's arrest and conviction for direct criminal contempt before
Magistrate Fishcr generated national publicity.
20.
The State Bar's Grievance Connnittee issued Foster a Censure for
misconduct in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B) and Rule 8.4(d), but Foster did not accept
the Censure, resulting in the instant Complaint being filed against her in the Disciplinary
Hearing Connnission.
21.
In correspondence with the State Bar's opposing counsel, Foster accused
opposing counsel of prosecuting this action against her for political reasons and because
of her cannabis activism, of suborning petjury by presenting the testimony of Magistrate
Fisher, and threatened further legal action against both opposing counsel and Magistrate
Fisher.
22.
At the hearing, Foster acknowledged that she had no supporting evidence
that this action was politically motivated against her, cited her PTSD as the reason for her
accusations, and apologized to opposing counsel.
23.
Foster acknowledged at the hearing that she has met with the local District
Atlorneyfor the 28 th Judicial District to initiate a Grand Jury investigation of Magistrate
Fisher and her alleged peIjury against Foster, but that the District Attorney had declined
to do so.
24.
Foster used at least one vulgarity in her e-mail communications with the
State Bar's opposing cOWlsel, and at the hearing apologized to opposing counsel for
doing so.
-9-

25.
Foster offered into evideoce letters from local attorneys and one elected
official attesting to her good character and reputation.
26.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, ceosure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS WITH RESPECT TO DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
eoumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
(B)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm was
foreseeable;

(E)

Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession; and,

(F)

Defendant's actions had a negative impact on the administration ofjustice.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes that none of the factors are present or warrant consideration of
disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors eoumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.Ol14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(A)

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses in this state or other jurisdictions;

(K)

Absence of a cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

(0)

Refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of her conduct;

(P)

Defendant's remorse;

(Q)

Defendant's character or reputation; and,

(S)

Defendant's degree of experience in the practice oflaw

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the misconduct at issue, the harm or potential harm Defendant's
misconduct caused to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal profession,
and because of the Hearing Panel's concern for the protection of the public.
5.
A lawyer is an officer of the legal system who is expected to behave with
dignity, and who should demonstrate respect for the legal system and those who serve it,
"including judges, other lawyers, and public officials," and that lawyers are expected to
behave with dignity. Rule 0.1 Preamble: A Lawyer's Professional Responsibilities,
Comments [5], [13].
6.
The conduct engaged in by Foster breeds disrespect for the courts and for
the legal profession; "[d]ignity, decorum, and respect are essential ingredients in the
proper conduct of a courtroom, and therefore in the proper administration of justice."
Comment 10 to Rule 3.5, quoting, Attorney Grievance Com 'n v. Alison, 317 Md. 523,
536-38, 565 A,2d 660, 666 (1989).
7.
Foster's conduct caused potential significant harm to the administration of
justice by breeding disrespect for the courts and the legal profession.
8.
Foster's conduct caused actual halm to the administration of justice by
interfering with the ability of Magistrates Fisher and Freeman to perfonn their duties on
the night at issue.
9.
For the following reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of suspension of Defendant's law license would not adequately protect
the public, the legal profession, or the administration of justice for the following reasons:
(a)

The factors under 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.01l4(w)(1) and (w)(3) that
are established by the evidence are of a nature that SUppOlt
imposition of suspension as the appropriate discipline;

(b)

Entry of less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and would send
the wrong message to prosecutors, attorneys, and the public
regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this
State; and,

(c)

A stayed suspension with appropriate conditions, such as requiring
Foster to continue her therapy with a psychologist and periodic
reporting by that psychologist to the State Bar, will assure
Defendant's progress and compliance with treatment.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Jennifer Nicole Foster, is hereby suspended from the practice
of law for two years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.

2,
Defendant's two year suspension is ordered stayed for the duration of the
suspension as long as Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of
the stay with each of the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant, at her own expense, continues counseling with her
present psychologist, andlor any other board-certified psychiatrist,
psychologist, or counselor (hereafter "Therapist") of her own
choosing, and folIows and complies with the course of treatment
prescribed by her Therapist. The Therapist shall provide quarterly
reports, due in the Office of Counsel by the tenth day of each
quartet· (starting with the first report due on or by October 10,
2016, and then quarterly reports thereafter on or by January 10,
2017, April 10, 2017, JIlly 10,2017, October 10, 2017, January 10,
2018., April 10, 2018, and July 10, 2018), to the State Bar (with a
copy to Defendant) confinning Defendant is following the
recommendations of the Therapist. The Therapist shall notifY the
State Bar if Defendant fails to follow the recommendations and
treatment program of the Therapist. Defendant shall ensure these
reports and notifications are timely made. Defendant will sign all
necessary releases or documents to allow such reports and
notifications, to allow the Therapist to provide documents from
Defendant's treatinent to the State Bar, and to allow the Therapist
to discuss Defendant's participation and treatment with the Office
of Counsel of the State Bar, and shall not revoke the release during
the period of the stayed suspension;

(b)

Defendant instructs her Therapist to notifY the Office of Counsel
immediately in writing if, at any point during the stayed
suspension, Defendant ceases to be a patient or otherwise fails to
comply with the course of treatment prescribed by the Therapist;

(c)

Defendant shall timely submit her annual Continuing Legal
Education ("CLE") report form to the CLE Department of the
No!th Carolina State Bar each year of the stay and
contemporaneously send a copy of the CLE repOit form to the
Office of Counsel of the State Bar to document compliance.
"Timely" means by the date specified by the CLE department as
the date by which members must submit their annual report forms
to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late filing penalty. Defendant
must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a copy of her annual

CLE report fonn no later than IS days after it is due to the CLE
department of the State Bar each year;
(d)

Defendant shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and comply with all CLE requirements on a timely
basis;

(e)

Defendant shall keep her address of record with the North Carolina
State Bar current, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina
State Bar, and respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines
stated in the communication;

(f)

Defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect during the period of the stay;

(g)

Defendant shall not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina
or of the United States during the period of the stay; and

(h)

Defendant shall pay all costs and administrative fees of this
proceeding as. assessed by the Secretary within ninety (90) days
after service of the notice of costs on her, or as may be extended by
the panel for good cause shown by Defendant.

If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions of the
3.
stay of his suspension provided in paragraphs 2(a)-2(h) above, the stay of suspension may
be lifted in accordance with 27 N.C.A.C. iB § .0114(x).

4.
Defendant's obligations under this Order end after the applicable period of
.the stay provided there are no motions or show canse proceedings pending alleging lack
of compliance with. the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .0114(x), the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the
suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period
of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have tenninated, the DHC retains the
jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the remaining portion
of the suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have
not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the
conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show
cause proceeding.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the remaining period of
suspension is activated for any reason, the following conditions are placed upon
Defendant's reinstatement to active status. With any petition Defendant files for
reinstatement to active practice, Defendant must demonstrate by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that she complied with each ofthe fullowing conditions:
(a)

Complied with 2(a)-2(e) above;

(b)

Submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective
date of the order activating h snspension;

(c)

Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0124 on a
timely basis;

(d)

Complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. lB § 0125(b);

(e)

Not have violated any of the Rules of Professional Conduct;

(f)

Not have violated any laws of the State of North Carolina
United States; and

(g)

Paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
within thirty (30) days of service of the notice of costs upon her.

01"

of the

6.
Defendant is taxed with the admimstrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary, which shall be paid within muety (90) days of service of the
notice of costs upon Defendant, or as may be extended by the panel for good cause
shown by Defendant.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other
Hearing Panel members ..
Thisthe

13 day of September, 2016.

0..

~9~e,..Jtki
Donald C. Prentiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-14-

