BEFORE THE
NCE COMMITTEE CHA IR

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

18DL
IN RE:
SUSAN R. FRANKLIN,
ATTORNEY

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0122(b). Regina Jay Wheeler
represented the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"). Susan R. Franklin was represented by
Deanna S. Brocker. Based upon the information presented and with the consent of the member
and of the Office of Counsel, the undersigned makes the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar") is a body duly organized under the
laws ofNOlih Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Susan R. Franklin was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 23 May 1997
and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Franklin was engaged in the practice of law in
the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Chapel Hill, Orange County, North
Carolina.
4.
Franklin presently suffers from a physical condition (to wit, cancer) which
significantly impairs her professional performance as an attorney.
5.

Franklin voluntarily consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

6.

The State Bar consents to Franklin's transfer to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following

Page I of2

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
There is clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Franklin is disabled within the
meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0103(19).
2.

Franklin should be transferred to disability inactive status with the State Bar.

3.
Franklin and the State Bar voluntarily consent to Franklin's transfer to disability
inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0122(b).
4.
Any pending or future grievances against Franklin should be stayed during the
period of disability.

THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED
1.

Susan R. Franklin is transferred to disability inactive status.

2.
Franklin shall not practice law in North Carolina until she is no longer disabled
and has been returned to active status as a member of the NOlth Carolina State Bar. The
reinstatement process shall be as provided in 27 N.C . Admin. Code IB § .0129(c).
3.
Any pending or future grievances against Franklin are hereby stayed during the
period of disability until such time as Franklin returns to active status. The State Bar may
continue to investigate allegations of misconduct and preserve evidence as necessary pursuant to
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0122(e).

THIS the

1"1 t

yof

t1~.c

,2018.

CONSENTED TO:

P~A~
0

Counsel fo Susan R. Franklin

ReginaJa h eel
Deputy Counsel

In Re: S. Franklin
Consent Order
Page 2 of2

