STATE OF NORTH CAROL

BEFORE THE
UNARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

18 DHC 21

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

DANIEL REID FULKERSON, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Allison C. Tomberlin, Chair, R. Lee Farmer, and Cindy L. MareHi pursuant to
NOlth Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0115(i). Plaintiff was
represented by Brian P.D. Oten. Defendant, Daniel Reid Fulkerson, represented himself.
Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter. The patties stipulate and agree to the findings
of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order, and consent to the discipline imposed by this
order. By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant knowingly, freely, and voluntarily
waives his right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the
findings and conclusions herein.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the patties' stipUlations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
NOlth Carolina and is the proper patty to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
NOlth Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Daniel Reid Fulkerson, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on
23 March 2002 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3. During patt of the relevant periods referred to herein, Fulkerson was actively engaged
in the private practice of law in the city of Hickory, Catawba County, North Carolina. On 16
June 2015, Fulkerson transferred to inactive status with the NOlth Carolina State Bar.
4. Fulkerson was properly served with process in this matter.

Page 1 of8

5. Fulkerson failed to file, within the times required by law, federal income tax returns
showing his tax liability for tax years 2010 through 2016.
6. Fulkerson failed to file, within the times required by law, state income tax returns
showing his tax liability for tax years 2010 through 2016.
7. Fulkerson failed to pay, within the times required by law, his federal income tax
liability for tax years 20 I 0 through 2016.
8. Fulkerson failed to pay, within the times required by law, his state income tax liability
for tax years 2010 through 2016.
9. For these tax years, Fulkerson was aware of the deadlines for filing state and federal
tax returns and paying any tax liability.
10. Fulkerson's failure to file federal and state income tax returns and failure to timely
pay income tax liabilities due for tax years 2010 through 2016 was willful.
11. Willful failure to file and pay federal income tax within the time required by law is a
violation of26 U.S.C. § 7203.
12. Willful failure to file and pay NOlth Carolina income tax within the time required by
law is a violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 105-236(a)(8) & (9).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has jurisdiction over
Defendant, Daniel Reid Fulkerson, and over the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2. Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds for
discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By failing to timely file his federal and state income tax returns for tax years 2010
through 2016, and by failing to timely pay federal and state income tax liabilities
for tax years 2010 through 2016, Defendant committed criminal acts that reflect
adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of
Rule 8A(b).
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant has no prior discipline.
2. When lawyers violate the law in their business and personal affairs, it brings disrepute
upon the legal profession and undermines public confidence in lawyers.
NCSB v. Fulkerson, 18DHC21
Consent Order ofDiscipJine
Page 2 of8

3. Prior to the initiation of this action, Defendant hired an accountant to assist in the
preparation and filing of taxes for 2010 ~ 2016. To date, those tax filings remain delinquent due
to Defendant's inability to pay the accountant for the extensive amount of work necessary to
complete the returns. Defendant has, however, timely filed his state and federal tax returns for
tax year 2017.
4. Defendant's delay in filing his state and federal taxes and his delay in paying state
taxes was willful in that he was solely responsible for complying with his known personal tax
obligations.
5. Prior to August 2013, Defendant engaged in substance abuse namely, alcohol and
pain medications - that culminated with him attending a residential substance abuse
rehabilitation program in August 2013. As a result of his substance abuse, Defendant
abandoned his law practice and his clients, causing significant harm or potential significant
harm to his clients at the time of his abandonment. Defendant's substance abuse also caused
significant turmoil in his personal and professional life, and contributed to Defendant's
misconduct described herein. Stemming from his abandonment of his law practice, the Client
Security Fund reimbursed two claims submitted by Defendant's fonner clients totaling
$4,450.00.
6. Following his completion ofthe rehabilitation program, Defendant chose not to return
to the practice of law and transferred to inactive status with the North Carolina State Bar in
2015. Defendant has since petitioned to return to active status with the State Bar. In April
2018, the State Bar Council granted Defendant's petition to return to active status conditioned
upon resolving the present disciplinary matter with less than an active suspension and coming
into compliance with all membership obligations, including reimbursing the Client Security
Fund for the amount previously disbursed to Defendant's former clients as mentioned in
paragraph 6 above. As ofthe date of this order, Defendant has not yet satisfied all outstanding
membership obligations to render him eligible for a return to active status with the North
Carolina State Bar, including reimbursing the Client Security Fund.
7. Defendant currently resides in Croatia. Defendant is aware of his addiction and the
impact it can have on the lives of his clients and third pmties. Defendant reports that he has not
consumed alcohol or any other controlled substance other than medications prescribed by a
physician since July 2015.
8. Defendant cooperated fully with the State Bar's investigation of this matter.
9. Defendant, who was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 23 March 2002, has
substantial experience in the practice of law.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the
following

NCSB v. Fulkerson, 18DHC21
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of8

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure and suspension.
2. The Hearing Panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in 27N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0116(£)(3) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and determines the following factors are applicable:
a. Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
b. The effect of any personal or mental disability or impairment on the conduct in
question;
c. Full and fi'ee disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude toward the
proceedings; and
d. Defendant's experience in the practice of law.
3. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code lB § .0116(£)(2) and concludes no factors are present that would warrant disbarment.
4. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0116(£)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
determines the following factors warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
a. Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's perception
of the legal profession.
5. The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a censure,
reprimand or admonition would be insufficient discipline because ofthe significant potential
harm to the legal profession caused by Defendant's conduct.
6. Although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to warrant more than a censure it
does not warrant an active suspension of his license.
7. A stayed suspension of Defendant's law license is warranted because entry of an
order imposing less severe discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
misconduct and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State. However, any stayed suspension, including the
conditions imposed therein, should be tolled until Defendant returns to active status with the
State Bar to ensure the effectiveness of and Defendant's compliance with such conditions, and
to ensure the public remains protected.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of the patties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
NCSB v. Fulkerson, 18DHC21
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 of8

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The law license of Defendant, Daniel Reid Fulkerson, is hereby suspended for two
years. This order shall be effective upon filing. However, because Defendant is currently
inactive with the State Bar and cannot return to active status until satisfYing his pending
membership requirements as dictated by the Administrative Committee of the North Carolina
State Bar Council- including reimbursing the Client Security Fund - the period of suspension
and the stay outlined below is tolled until Defendant returns to active status with the NOlth
Carolina State Bal'.
2. Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action. Defendant
shall pay the costs and administrative fees ofthis proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within
60 days of service of the statement of costs and administrative fees upon him.
3. Upon Defendant's return to active status, the two-year suspension shall go into effect,
and the suspension is stayed for two years as long as Defendant complies, and continues to
comply during the period of the stay, with the following conditions:
a. Within the first 90 days ofthe stay period, Defendant shall finalize and file all
outstanding federal and state income tax returns along with any associated
schedules and attachments thereto. Within the first 180 days of the stay period,
Defendant shall pay all outstanding federal and state income taxes owed.
Defendant shall provide proof of these filings and payments to the Office of
Counsel within 30 days of filing and/or issuance;
b. During the stay period, Defendant shall timely file all required federal and state
income tax retutns and pay all state and federal tax liabilities, fines, and penalties
accrued;
c. Defendant shall respond to all communications from the Internal Revenue Service
and the NOlth Carolina Depaltment of Revenue;
d. Defendant shall execute any written waivers and releases necessary to authorize
the Office of Counsel to confer with the Internal Revenue Service 01' the North
Carolina Department of Revenue for the purpose of determining whether
Defendant has cooperated and complied with all requirements of this Order.
Defendant will not revoke these waivers and releases at any time during the stay
period;
e. Defendant shall abstain from the consumption of alcohol or any controlled
substance other than medications as prescribed by his treating physician.
Defendant shall submit to a random drug test initiated at the State Bar's request
within 24 hours of receiving the request at a location determined by the State Bar.
All expenses of such random drug testes) shall be borne by Defendant;
f.

Within the first 30 days of the stay period, Defendant shall execute a 2-year
contract with the Lawyer's Assistance Program (LAP), and Defendant shall
provide a copy of his LAP conh'act to the Office of Counsel. Defendant shall
comply with and complete the terms of his LAP contract. Defendant shall sign a
NCSB v. Fulkerson, 18DHC21
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 of8

written release authorizing the Office of Counsel to communicate with LAPILAP
personnel about Defendant's participation in LAP and Defendant's compliance
with this LAP contract, and authorizing the Office of Counsel to obtain copies of
records relating to his participation in and compliance with LAP. If Defendant is
referred to a third-party treatment provider through LAP or if Defendant engages
with a third-party treatment provider during the stay period, Defendant shall
simultaneously sign a written release authorizing the Office of Counsel to
communicate with such treatment provider(s) and authorizing the Office of
Counsel to obtain copies of records relating to his treatment, including medical
records. Defendant shall not revoke such releases. Defendant shall comply with
any request for information concerning his participation in and compliance with
LAP or concerning his pursuit or receipt of treatment from a third-party treatment
provider within 10 days of receiving such a request. The costs associated with
Defendant's compliance with this paragraph shall be at Defendant's sole expense;
1) Alternatively, should Defendant continue to reside outside of the United
Sta.tes when he returns to active status with the State Bar, Defendant can
satisfy the requirements of paragraph 3(f) by demonstrating his regular
participation in a similar program offering support services for substance
abuse issues, addiction, and recovery. Defendant shall sign any rylease(s)
required to allow the Office of Counsel to communicate with and obtain
records D:om any such program concerning Defendant's participation and
compliance with the program, and Defendant shall not revoke such
release(s). Upon returning to North Carolina, Defendant shall comply
with the entirety of paragraph 3(f).
g. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current contact information, including his current business and
home addresses (not a P.O. Box) as well as his current telephone number(s), and
shall notify the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within 10 days
of such change;
h. Defendant shall respond to all communications D'om the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications fi'om the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
15 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, and shall
participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any
petition of which he receives notice after the effective date of this Order;

i. Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail fi'om the State Bar
that is sent to him;
j.

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements;

k. Defendant shall timely pay the costs and administrative fees ofthis action as
described below; and

1. Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws ofthe
United States or of any state or local government during his suspension.
NCSB v. Fulkerson, 18DHC21
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of8

4. If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more
ofthe conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in § .01 I 8(a) of the NOIih Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
5. Ifthe stay ofthe suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason,
Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension by filing a petition
pursuant to Rule .0 129(b) of the NOlih Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules (27
N.C. Admin. Code IB.0129) demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein as well as
the following requirements by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
a. Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the terms of
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
b. Defendant has filed all required federal and state income tax returns and paid all
state and federal tax liabilities, fines, and penalties accrued;
c. Defendant kept the NOlih Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of
his current business and home addresses, as well as his current telephone number,
and notified the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within 10 days
of such change;
d. Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information fi'om the
NOlih Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full and complete
responses and all requested documentation throughout the period of his
suspension;
e. Defendant accepted all celiified mail from the State Bar sent to the address on
record with the Membership Depmiment of the North Carolina State Bar
throughout the period of the suspension;
f.

Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding CLE or membership
obligations at the time of the filing of his petition for reinstatement, including but
not limited to payment of all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges
or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from him;

g. Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws ofthe
United States 01' of any state or local government during his suspension, including
Defendant's timely filing and payment offederal and state tax obligations;
h. Defendant has paid the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the Secretary of the State
Bar; and

i. Defendant has complied with any other conditions deemed necessary for
reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel pursuant to the order lifting the stay
ofthe suspension of Defendant's law license.
6. If the stay of suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason, and if
Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0128 and the Court appoints a
trustee to wind down any pOliion of Deferidant's practice, Defendant shall reimburse the State
NCSB v. Fulkerson, 18DHC21
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 of8

Bar for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding down Defendant's practIce. ::iuch
expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility fees, rent payments, moving
expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage or other mailing expenses, and
compensation paid to the trustee andlor the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated with
the trusteeship. After the Court has discharged the trustee, the State Bar shall send an invoice of
wind-down expenses to Defendant at Defendant's last known address of record with the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he has reimbursed the
State Bar for all wind-down expenses incurred.
7. Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order ofthe
DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end two years from the effective date ofthe
Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions of tile stay of the suspension. Pursuant to § .0118(a) of the
North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions
of the stay of the suspension have been met. Ifa motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack
of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of
the stay of the suspension would otherwise have temlinated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction
and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the two year suspension in whole or in
part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the
suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue
until resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
8. Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if necessary,
pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct discovered or reported
which occurred during the same time period as the conduct addressed in this Order.
/J
Signed by the Chair with the consent offhe other Hearing Panel members, this the
1k-d,yof ~ <
,2018.
~

Allison C. Tomberlin, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

c~/:)
B,j,nP,D.Oten
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Attorneyfor PlaintijJ

~?
Defendalll

NCSB 1'. Flllkel·son. 18DHC21
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8of8

