BEFORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
15 BCS 5

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

v.

ADRIAN A. GARCIA, Attorney,
Respondent
TI-IIS MATTER came on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0117(a) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon the tender of an Affidavit tendering the
surrender oflaw license ("Affidavit") executed by Adrian A. Garcia ("Garcia" or
"Respondent") on October 21, 2015 and filed in the offices ofthe North Carolina State
Bar on October 22,2015.
Based upon the Affidavit, the Council finds that Garcia abandoned his legal
practice and misappropriated entrusted client funds in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct, and the Council further finds that Garcia's misconduct
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
WHEREFORE, upon motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the
following Order:
1.

The surrender of the license of Adrian A. Garcia is hereby accepted.

2.
Adrian A. Garcia is hereby DISBARRED fi'om the practice oflaw in
North Carolina effective upon entry of this Order.
3.
Garcia shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B
§.0124 and shall surrender his law license and permanent membership card to the
Secretaty ofthe North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0124.
4.

The administrative fees and costs ofthis action are taxed against Garcia.

Done and Ordered this

bJ dday of October, 2015.

R~Jit.1fbson,
President
North Carolina State Bar

Margaret
unt, President-Elect
North Carolina State Bar

2

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA
15 BCS 5

Jl
THE NORTH CAROLINA STAT

~,

Sit

Petitioner

v.
ADRIAN A. GARCIA, Attorney,

AFFIDAVIT TENDERING THE
SURRENDER
OF THE LAW LICENSE
OF ADRIAN A. GARCIA

Respondent

Adrian A. Garcia, being first duly sworn, deposes and says:
1.I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section.
0117 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
2.My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, and is not the result of
coercion or duress. 1 am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.
3.I am aware that there is a pending investigation against me by the State Bar
regarding the allegations that 1 misappropriated approximately $4,000 of funds entrusted
to me on behalf of clients and that I abandoned my legal practice.
4.I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the State Bar's investigation is
predicated are true.
5.I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend
against them.
6.1 understand that the hearing by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar
with regard to the acceptance of the tender of surrender of my license to practice law will
occur at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Council of the North Carolina State Bar
on Friday, October 23,2015,8:30 a.m., at the NOlih Carolina State Bar building located
at 217 East Edenton Street in Raleigh, North Carolina.

Garcia Surrender Affidavit
15 BCS 5

7.I hereby waive any further notice of the hearing before the Council on my
affidavit of surrender. I waive any claim, argument, or assertion that I have not received
proper or timely notice of the hearing before the Council on my affidavit of surrender or
any other defect in notice. I further waive any and all right or privilege to appear before
the Council at that hearing.
8.1 affirm that I have had a full opportunity to seek the advice and counsel of an
attorney in filing my Affidavit of Sun'ender and in waiving any rights set forth herein.

Respectfully submitted, this the ~ illPi"'6t·

Adrian A. Garcia

o

I,~{;1te., Cl1u-h6rfa/~~Y\tyq Notary Public of the County of Wlr\a{Yl
State of
N
certify that Adrian A. Garcia personally appeared

e'

,

before me this day, was sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of
his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.

Swom to and subscribed before me
This thedl day of

Oc JUb<:-r

,2015.

's:r {1ft£. ~~oYYllA£
~

A

No7al}rPUbliC

My Commission ExPires:\1C\ (\ J;»)'

1 0 ICj

2

IVETTE C GUTIERREZ ROMERO
Notary Public
Durham Co., North Carolina
My Commission Expires Jan. 23, 2019

