STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF mSTICE
SUPERIO~ C{,QURT DIVISION
18 CVS 001 to9

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner

v.
ROBERT F. GARNER, Attorney,
Res ondent
THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of Wake
County upon the tender of surrender of the law license of Robert F. Garner. Petitioner, the
North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Margaret Cloutier. Respondent appeared pro se.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Robert F. Garner, the cOUli makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

Garner was licensed to practice law on August 19, 1978.

2.
During all periods relevant hereto, Garner was actively engaged in the practice
of law in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.
3.
Garner misappropriated at least $9,470.70 of fiduCiary funds by allowing the
North Carolina Department of Revenue to garnish his trust account at a time when he had no
funds to which he was erititled in the account. In addition, Garner failed to properly reconcile
his trust account, label disbursements with the client for whom the disbursements were made,
or keep accurate client ledgers.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Court makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. This court has jurisdiction over Garner and over the subj ect matter of this
proceeding.
2. The courts ofthis State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary action against
attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
3. By misappropriating fiduciary funds and failing to properly reconcile his trust
account, label disbursements with the client for whom the disbursements were made, or keep
accurate client ledgers, Garner used entrusted property for the benefit of one other than the
legal or beneficial owner in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 1.15-20), engaged in
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in
violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(b), engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,

fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(c), and
Rules 1.15-3(b) and (d) governing the maintenance of a general trust account.
4. Gamer's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §
84-28(b)(2).
5. Gamer has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.
IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.

The surrender of the license of Robert F. Gamer is hereby accepted.

2.
Robert F. Gamer is DISBARRED from the practice oflawin North Carolina
effective upon entry of this Order.
3.
Gamer shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §.OI28
and shall surrender his law license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by Rule .0128.
4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Garner shall provide the State
Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Garner and obtain such files.
5.
Gamer shall promptly return client files in his possession, custody, or control to
clients upon request, within five days of receipt of such request. Garner will be deemed to
have received any such request three days after the date the request is sent to him if the request
is sent to the address Gamer provided to the State Bar pursuant to this Order.
6.
Gamer shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the expiration
of at least five years from the date of entry of this order.
7.
Gamer's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §§ .0128 and .OI29(a).
8.

The costs ofthis action are taxed against Robert F. Garner.

Done and Ordered this

~"t.. day of 9~

Margaret C outier, Deputy Counsel
Attorney for Plaintiff

•

,2018 .

Robert F. Garner, Defendant
ProSe

2

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION

:.18 ~VS 00 I ~lpq

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

"m~~::OF
. -, t -

Petitioner
v.

SURRENDER OF LAW LICENSE
ROBERT F. GARNER, Attorney,
Respondent

Robert F. Garner, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1.

I desire to surrender and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2. My surrender is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my surrender.

I am aware that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar regarding allegations
that I misappropriated at least $9,470.70 of fiduciary funds by allowing the North Carolina
Department of Revenue to garnish my trust account at a time when I had no funds to which I
was entitled in the account. In addition, I failed to properly reconcile my trust account, label
_disbursements with the client for whom the disbursements were made, or keep accurate client
ledgers.
3.

4.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are

true.
I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.
5.

This the 2..0 day of

0. brv...o...ry

,2018.
Robert F. Garner

I,
-jAI.!JY'o. \/--fk,\~ol\"J , Notaty Public of the County of Gv:\G,J
North Carolina, certify that Robert F. Garner personally appeared before me this day and
acknowledged the due execution of the foregoing Affidavit.
cribed before me, this the <2--0 day of

Notaty Public
My Commission Expires: {_I 'S" ~ t '1
1

h ~,(.JMt

,2018.

, State of

