~~~
..
t;-C
A
/.?
?
\

tc

'\~

f\::v

STATE OF NORTH CAROL ,0"
~

";:D

"..~

MAR 2009

Fit /L-ft,

V1

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
'-J
OF THE
G
RTH CAROLlNA STATE BAR
~
07 DHC 27

h. i!;;WISCIPL

uHC

'7<'l

WAKE COUNTY

u;..

Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

SUSANNA G. GARZA, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on 6 March 2009, bcforc a hearing committce of thc
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Theodore C. Edwards II, Chair, Robert
F. Siler, and Donald G. Willhoit. Carmen K. Hoyme represented Plaintin~ the North
Carolina State Bar. Alan M. Schneider represented Defendant, Susannah G. Garza.
Based upon the pleadings ill1d the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing
committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
PlaintitT, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina ill1d is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, Chapter I of Title 27 of the North
Carolina Administrative Code ("NCAC").
')
Defendant, Susannah G. Garza (hereinafter "Garza" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 2002, and was at all times referrcd to herein
an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State
of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During the relevant periods referred to herein, Garza was cngaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Charlotte,
Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
4.
Gmza was properly served with process and received due notice of the
hearing in this matter.
5.
In 2006, Garza represented Mario Llamas-Hernandez
Hernandez") on drug-related charges in Mecklenburg County.

-I -

("Llamas-

6.
Garza flied a Motion to Reveal Conlidential Informant in LJamasHernandez's case, seeking to compel the State to reveal all its information about a
eonl1dential informant (CI) in the ease.
7.
The Motion to Reveal Confidential Informant was addressed by the court
on 8 May 2006, at an in-chambers conference and a hearing in LJamas-Hernandez's ease.
8.
At the in-chambers conference prior to the 8 May 2006 hearing, the
assistant district attorney (ADA) prosecuting the ease provided Garza the CI's name and
the amount of compensation he had received.
9.

The ADA did not provide Garza with the CI's address.

10.
At the 8 May 2006 hearing, the court indicated that the Motion to Reveal
Confidential Informant was moot because the ADA had "elected to provide the name of
the informant" in chambers.
11.

On 16 May 2006, the ADA gave Garza the Cl's cell phone number.

12.
On or about 16 May 2006, Garza called the CI, introduced herself as an
attorney, and stated who she represented.
13.
When Garza asked the CI if she could meet with him, he responded that he
was busy working.
14.

Garza gave the CI her phone number, but he did not call.

15.
Garza instructed her secretary to continue calling the Cl's cell phone as
part of their elIort to determine whether the CI lived in Charlotte.
Garza also directed her secretary to tell the CI they had met in a nightclub
16.
and to propose that they arrange a meeting.
17.
When Garza's secretary contacted the CI by phone, she told him they had
met in a nightclub and she wanted to meet him.
18.

The statements made by Garza's secretary to the CI were false.

19.
At Garza's direction, Garza's secretary did not disclose to the CI that she
worked for Garza.
20.
At a 3 I .July 2006 hearing in LJamas-I-Iernandez's case, Garza stated to the
court that she had personally contacted thc CI by phone, disguised her voice, and
attempted to arrange a meeting with him by telling him that they had met socially at a
nightclub.

-2-

21.
In JWle 2006, Jerzain Flores Roman ("Roman") retained Garza to
represent him on a charge of speeding 51 mph in a 35 zone.
22.
In plea negotiations with the assistant district attorney (ADA) on 25
August 2006, Garza stated that Roman had a clean driving record for the preceding three
years.
23.

Roman in fact had a two-year-old conviction for Driving While Impaired

24.

The ADA asked Garza to provide a copy of Roman's driving record.

(DWI).

25.
Garza then went to the Clerk of Court's office and asked to use the Clerk
of Court's computer.
26.
Using the Clerk of Court's computer, Garza obtained Roman's driving
record and altered it by deleting the 2004 DWI conviction.
27.
Garza printed the altered version of Roman's driving record and presented
it to the ADA.
28.
Relying upon Garza's representations and the altered record provided by
Garza, the ADA allowed Roman to enter a plea of guilty to the lesser charge of improper
equipment.
30.
In August 2007, Garza was retained to represent Rafael Gareia Hernandez
on a criminal charge and in immigration matters.
3 I.
The objective of the immigration representation was for Hernandez to
voluntarily depm1 the United States rather than being deported.
32.
Hernandez's Jiance, April Denise Neal, paid Garza's fees and provided
Garza with funds to purchase a plane ticket to Mexico for Hernandez.
33.
Neal initially sent Garza $410.00 for the ticket by check dated 6
November 2007. The 6 November 2007 check was for a total of $910.00, $500.00 of
which was for Garza's fees, mld $410.00 of which was for the purchase of the ticket.
34.
Garza deposited the 6 November 2007 check from Neal into her personal
bank account, rather than an attomey trust account.
35.
Garza subsequently told Neal that the ticket would eost an additional
$365.00, which Neal provided to Garza by check dated 16 November 2007.
36.
Garza deposited the 16 November 2007 check 11'om Neal into her personal
bank account, rather than an attomey trust account.

- "
J -

37.
Hernandez was deported on 13 December 2007, so it became unnecessary
to purchase the plane ticket for him.
38.
Garza did not use the $775.00 provided by Neal to purchase a plane ticket
for Hernandez. Instead, she utilized the $775.00 entrusted to her for purchase of
Hernandez's plane ticket for some other purpose.
39.
Neither Neal nor Hernandez authorized Garza to lise the $775.00 for any
purpose other than the purchase of the plane ticket.
40.

Garza failed to hold the $775.00 in trust for Hernandez.

In February 2008, Neal contacted Garza to inquire about Hernandez's case
41.
and the money designated for the plane ticket.
42.
Garza responded to Neal by email on or about 26 February 2008, in which
she told Neal she was "still waiting on the airline ticket refimd."
43.
From the date of that email through June 2008, Neal made repeated
attempts to contact Garza but received no response.
44.
In or about June 2008, Neal contacted the State Bar's Attorney Client
Assistance Program (ACAP), for assistance in communicating with Garza and obtaining
a refund of the $775.00 entrusted to Garza for the plane ticket.
45.
Garza told ACAP staff that she would send a check for the $775.00 to
Neal by 26 June 2008.
46.
Garza failed to refund Neal's money by 26 June 2008, and Ncal made
several more attempts to contact Garza without success.
47.
installments:

Garza eventually refunded Neal's money

III

the following

three

a. A $280.00 money order on 28 July 2008,
b. A $300.00 money order on 19 August 2008, and
c. A $200.00 payment by Western Union on 19 September 2008.

Based on the record and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee
makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

-4-

1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing committee and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Susanna G. Garza, and the subject matter.
2.
Garza's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By directing her secretary to make false representations to the CI, Garza
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct through the acts of another in
violation of Rule 8.4(a), knowingly made false statements of matcrial fact
to a third party through the acts of another in violation of Rule 4.1, implied
to an unrepresented party through the acts of another that she was
disinterested in violation of Rule 4.3, and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(b)

By stating to the court that she, personally, had called thc CI and disguised
her voice in order to ascertain his whereabouts, when in fact hcr sccretary
had done so, Garza madc a false statement of material fact to the tribunal
in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(l) and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit, and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(c)

By stating to the ADA that Roman had no convictions in the preceding
three years and by representing to the ADA that the altered driving record
was an accurate copy of Roman's driving record, Garza knowingly made
false statements to a third person in the course of representing a client in
violation of Rule 4.1, and engaged in conduct involving dishoncsty, dcceit,
or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(d)

By fabricating an altered version of Roman's driving record, Garza
engaged in the unlawful alteration of evidenee or material having potential
evidentiary value in violation of Rule 3.4(a), falsified evidence in violation
of Rule 3.4(b), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(e)

By making lmowingly false representations to opposing counsel and
unlawfully altering and falsifying evidence, Garza engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

(J)

By failing to deposit the 6 November 2007 check from Neal, $SOO.OO of
whieh was for Garza's fees and $410.00 ofwhieh was for the purehase of
the ticket, into a trust account, Garza failed to deposit mixed funds intact
in violation of Rule I.IS-2(g);

(g)

By depositing the $77S.00 entrusted to her for the purchase of
Hernandez's plane ticket into her personal bank account, Garza failed to
maintain entrusted funds separate from hcr personal funds in violation 0 f
Rule 1.1S-2(a);

- S-

(h)

By willfully and lmowingly utilizing the $775.00 entrusted to her lor the
purchase of Hernandez's plane ticket for some other purpose without
authorization from Hernandez or Neal, Garza used entrusted funds Jar her
personal benefit or the benefit of a third party in violation of Rule 1.152(j), engaged in criminal conduct-embezzlement-that rellects adversely
on her honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness to practice in violation of Rule
8.4(b), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, dceeit, or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(i)

By reflmding Neal's money more than six months after Neal's initial
request for a refund, Garza failed to promptly deliver entrusted property to
which Neal was currently entitled, in violation of Rule l.15-2(m); and

(j)

By stating to Neal that she was "waiting on the airline ticket refund" when
she had not purchased an airline ticket and was not awaiting a refl.md,
Garza lmowingly made a false statcment of material fact in violation of
Rule 4.1 and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or
misrcpresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

Based upon the Joregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the
additional evidence regarding discipline presented at the hearing, the hearing committee
hereby finds by elear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional

FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

2.

Garza's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Dishonest or selfish motive;

b.

A pattem of misconduct;

c.

Multiple offenses; and

d.

Vulnerability of the victims, including the ADA and the fom1er
Clerk of Court who testified regarding the Roman matter, in that
they had to rely on representations by Garza as an officer of the
court in order to perform their respective jobs.

Garza's misconduct is mitigated by the following factor:
a.

3.

Absence of a prior disciplinary record.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factor.

-6-

4.
Garza's actions caused significant actual harm to her client in that her
misappropriation of the $775.00 entrusted to her by Neal deprived Neal of funds to which
Neal was entitled, resulting in significant financial hardship to Neal.
5.
Garza's actions caused significant actual harm to the profession, in that
members of her community are aware of her misconduct. Such publicity erodes public
conlldence in, tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as
a whole.
6.
Garza's actions caused signil1cant actual harm and signil1cant potential
hanD to the administration of justice. The ADA in the Roman matter relied upon the
falsil1ed record produced by Garza, and additional time and effort had to be expended to
return the matter to status quo. Thereafter, neither the ADA nor the Clerk felt they could
rely on Garza's word as an officer of the court, impeding the ef11cient administration of
justice in cases in which she was involved.
7.
The hearing committee has considered lesser alternatives and Ilnds that a
public censure or reprimand or suspension of Garza's law license would not be sufficient
discipline because of the gravity of the actual harm to her client and to the legal
profession caused by Defendant's conduct, and the threat of significant potential harm
Defendant poses to the public and to future clients.
8.
The hearing committee has considered lesser sanctions and finds that
discipline short of disbarment would not sufficiently protect the public for the following
reasons. Garza engaged in a continuing course of multiple offenses constituting a pattern
of dishonesty and deceit in various and distinct circumstances, causing harm to clients,
the profession, and the administration of justice. Garza continued hcr dishonest and
deceitful behavior even after the filing of the original complaint in this case, and despite
assuring the State Bar's Grievance Committee in her written response to its inquiry in
March 2007 that she would "never" engage in further dishonest acts. Entry of an order
imposing less serious discipline would send the wrong message to attorneys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.
9.
The hearing committee therefore l1nds that the only sanction in this case
that can adequately protect the public is Garza's disbarment.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant, Susanna G. Garza, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice

of law.

-7-

2.
Defendant shall surrender her license and membership card to the
Secretary of thc North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this
order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar, including DHC costs as follows: court
reporter costs and witness costs. Defendant must pay the costs within 30 days of service
upon her of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
4.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions 01'27 NCAC IB ยง .0124 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
this thc

"30 +-'- day of rY\"'v"c..1,

, 2009.

dL..L c.~11=

Theodore C. Edwards, 11, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee

- 8-

