THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

JOI-INNY S. GASKINS, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter came on to be heard and was heard before a hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, Sharon B. Alexander, Harriett
Smalls, and David L. Williams on November 12,2010. The Plaintiff was represented by
William N. Farrell, Deputy Counsel. Defendant was represented by R. Daniel Boyce.
The complaint in this matter was brought by the Plaintiff following Defendant's
criminal convictions for violating 31 U.S.C. Section 5324. The criminal offenses of
which Defendant was convicted are felonies under federal law.
The sole issue determined by the panel was the extent of discipline to be imposed.
See Rule .0115 (c) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.
Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated facts and the evidence introduced at the hearing,
the hearing panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the l'.Jorth Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws ofNmih Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules
and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Johnny S. Gaskins, (hereinafter "Defendant" or "Gaskins"),
was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 19,1979, and is an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State ofNmih
Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Raleigh,
Wake County, North Carolina.

4.
On or about 9 October 2009 in the United States District COUli for the
Eastern District of North Carolina, a jury rendered verdicts of guilty against Defendant on
seven counts of violating 31 U.S.c. Section 5324(a)(3) and (d), and 31 C.F.R. Section
103.11 for structuring financial transactions with banks for the purpose of evading the
reporting requirements of 31 U.S.C. Section 5313(a).
5.
The offenses of which Defendant was convicted are criminal offenses and
felonies under federal law.
6.
The felonies of which Defendant was convicted are criminal offenses
showing professional unfitness as defined by Rule .0103(17) of the State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
7.
On August 2, 2010 Defendant was sentenced by the trial court for his
convictions of "structuring" under 31 U.S.C. Sec. 5324.
8.
Defendant's punishment included one day of confinement, supervision by
a United States probation officer for three years, and placement in a community
confinement facility (half-way house) for the first nine months of supervision.
9.
Defendant had served his one day of imprisonment and was undergoing
confinement in the half-way house as ofthe date of this hearing.
10.
The jury verdicts in the criminal cases are conclusive evidence of
Defendant's guilt for the purpose of the disciplinary hearing.
11.
The hearing panel can not re-examine the evidence that was presented to
the jury to determine whether or not Defendant committed the offenses of which he was
convicted.
12.
Although the panel can not look behind the jury's verdicts as to the felony
convictions, the panel notes that immediately fonowing the jury's verdicts on the
"structuring" indictment, the trial cOUli instructed the jury to determine whether the
$355,567.00, the total amount of cash alleged to have been structured in the indictment,
was involved in or traceable to the structuring violations of which Defendant was
convicted.
13.
The jury answered this question "no" and further answered that zero was
the amount involved in or traceable to or property involved in the structuring violation of
which Defendant was convicted.
14.
The panel is of the opinion that the jury's determination on this question is
inconsistent with the jury's verdicts on the substantive felonies.

15.
Defendant's explanation and evidence for what occurred leading up to his
indictment and conviction can not change the fact that the panel must accept the jury's
verdict, although the panel is of the opinion that the applicable federal statues and the
case law that was interpreted in applying those statutes did not provide clear guidance to
the Defendant in making the decisions that he needed to make in terms of depositing the
cash.
16.
Defendant was not attempting to defraud the government when he
deposited the cash into his banle accounts. Significantly, Defendant did not deposit the
cash into any other individuals account but only into his own properly identified personal
or business account.
17.
The govermnent stipulated that Defendant filed his income tax returns,
including schedule C's, repOliing gross receipts, gross profits, and gross income for tax
years 2004, 2005, and 2006.
18.
The government presented no evidence that the cash deposits were
structured for the purposes of evading or avoiding income tax.
19.
The govermnent presented no evidence that Defendant did not fully pay
his federal income taxes for 2004,2005, and 2006. Defendant presented affirmative
evidence that he did so.
20.
The government presented no evidence that the cash received and
deposited by Defendant was derived from any criminal activity.
21.
The government offered no motive as to why Defendant structured his
cash deposits in the manner in which he did.
22.

The Defendant had no dishonest or selfish motive

23.
Defendant properly accounted for and repOlied to the IRS for attorney fees
that he received in cash, exceeding $110,000.00, on IRS Form 8300 for the years
contained in the indictment.
24.
Defendant presented extensive and overwhelming evidence of good
character and reputation as a person and an attorney.
25.
Defendant has made positive contributions to the practice oflaw including
representing many clients without compensation, establishing a scholarship at Campbell
University School of Law for law students, representing many cOUli appointed clients,
representing more than twenty (20) clients in court appointed death penalty cases, and
devoting his time in helping younger lawyers to learn how to practice law.

26.
Defendant voluntarily closed his office on Jlme 1, 2008 when he learned
that the government intended to indict him and refunded attorney fees to clients that had
retained him.
27.
Defendant's felony convictions have caused him great personal and
processional embarrassment.
28.
convictions.

Defendant suffered financial problems as a result of his indictment and

29.
proceedings.

Defendant exhibited a cooperative attitude towards the State Bar

30.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice of law.

31.
Defendant was reprimanded by the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar in case number 08G0692 on May 17, 2010 for making extrajudicial
statements to the media about a former client that he knew or reasonably should have
known would be disseminated by means of public communication and would have
substantial likelihood of materially prejudicing the case thereby violating Rule 3.6(a) and
Rule 8.4(d) which prohibits engaging in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice.
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The panel deems it of some importance that the trial court did not
determine to disbar Defendant as Palt of its criminal judgment.
2.

The panel had no concern that ally discipline was needed to protect the

public.
3.
Defendant's indictment and convictions are matters of public record alld
were reported in the media.
4.
Defendant's felony convictions harm the reputation of the legal profession
and bring the legal profession into disrepute and disgrace.
5.
When a lawyer commits a felony it causes significant harm to the public's
trust of the legal profession.
6.
Defendant's action caused a negative impact of the public's perception of
the legal profession alld endangers public confidence in the legal profession.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and upon consideration of the factors
set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0114(w), the hearing panel
hereby enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0114(w) of the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors are applicable
in this matter:
a.

From Rule .0114(w)(1):
Subsection (e):

b.

From Rule .0114(w)(2):
Subsection (d):

c.

negative impact of Defendant's actions on public's
perception of the profession

commission of felonies

From Rule .0114(w)(3):
Subsection (a):

prior disciplinary offenses

Subsection (c):

absence of a selfish motive

Subsection (f):

a pattern of misconduct

Subsection (g):

multiple offenses

Subsection (k):

cooperative attitude toward the proceeding

Subsection (q):

character or reputation

Subsection (s):

degree of experience in the practice oflaw

Subsection (u):

imposition of other sanctions or penalties

Subsection (v):

other factors fowld to be pertinent to the
consideration of the discipline to be imposed:

1. Defendant vohmtarily closed his office when he learned the
government intended to indict him.
2. Defendant had an excellent character and reputation prior
to these convictions.

3. Defendant has made positive contributions to the practice
of law during his career.
4. The applicable Federal statutes and the case law that was
interpreted in applying these statutes did not, in the opinion
of the panel, provide clear guidance to Defendant in
making the decision that he needed to make in terms of
depositing the cash.
5. The trial court judge did not determine to disbar the
Defendant as part of the Federal criminal proceedings.
6. The panel considered the jm:y' s general guilty verdict on
the seven felonies and the jury's verdict on the special
verdict, relating to the asset forfeitures, to be conflicting in
the opinion of the panel.
2.
Defendant's felony convictions caused significant harm to the reputation
of the legal profession due to the public nature of his criminal indictment and
convictions.
3.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all forms of discipline
including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension and disbarment in considering the
appropriate discipline in this case.
4.
The hearing panel finds that admonition, reprimand and censure would not
be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of harm to the legal profession in the
present case.
5.
The hearing panel concludes that discipline short of an active suspension
would not adequately protect the legal profession and its reputation for the reasons stated
above and for the following reasons:
a.

Defendant repeatedly engaged in felonious criminal acts over a
period of 2 liz years. Felonies are by description offenses which
show professional unfitness and reflect adversely on an attorney's
dishonesty. Any felony offense is among the most serious
misconduct that an attorney can commit.

b.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of defendant's misconduct and would
send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding
conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.

c.

The protection of the legal profession requires that Defendant be
suspended from the practice of law.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Additional Findings and Conclusions
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Johnny S. Gaskins, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for a minimum of two years from the date this order is entered or for the entire length
of time that he is on supervised release pursuant to the criminal judgment, whichever is
longer.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and with actual costs
permitted by law in connection with the proceeding. Defendant will pay the costs within
30 days of service upon him of the statement of costs by the Secretary of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission.
3.
Because Defendant is presently suspended from the practice of law
pursuant to an interim suspension, the wind down period contained in 27 N.C.A.C.
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0124 is not necessary.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other panel members, this the~
day of
,2010.

FteCB\t\%le/

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARlNG COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09 DHC 30

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
DISSENTING OPINON

v.
JOHNNY S. GASKINS, Attorney,
Defendant

I, David L. Williams, concur with the first two paragraphs of the introduction, the
FINDINGS OF FACT contained in paragraphs 1 through 5, 7 through 9 and 11 through
29, and the ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE contained in
paragraphs 1 through 3, 5 and 6. I, however, respectfully dissent from first sentence of
the third paragraph of the introduction, paragraphs 6 and 10 of the FINDINGS OF FACT,
paragraph 4 of the ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF REGARDING DISCIPLINE, the
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE and the ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
The matter before the hearing panel appeared, on the surface at least, to be simple
and routine. A federal district court jury had convicted the Defendant on seven counts of
violation of31 U.S.C. Section 5324(a)(3) and (d) and 31 C.F.R. Section 103.11 for
structuring financial transactions with banks for the purpose of evading the reporting
requirements of31 U.S.C. Section 5313(a). The Plaintiff alleged thatthe criminal
offenses of which the Defendant was convicted are criminal offenses showing
professional unfitness as defined by Rule .0103(17) of the State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules. The Plaintiff further alleged that the Defendant committed a criminal
act that reflects adversely on the lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer
in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b).
The task before the hearing panel was to determine if the Defendant had violated
Rule 8.4(b) and, if so, to determine the appropriate discipline. Rule 8.4(b)
MISCONDUCT reads in part: "It is professional misconduct for a lawyer to (b)
COMMIT (emphasis added) a criminal act that reflects adversely on the lawyer's
honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects." Rule .0103 Definitions
reads in part: "Subject to additional definitions contained in other provisions of this
subchapter, the following words and phrases, when used in this subchapter, will have

unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the meaning given in rule ....(17) Criminal
offense showing professional unfitness-the COMMISSION (emphasis added) ... ofany
felony."
So then, ifthe Defendant COMMITTED a felony, by definition, the Defendant
has shown professional unfitness in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and the panel must then
determine the appropriate discipline. If, however, the panel does not find by clear, cogent
and convincing evidence that the Defendant COMMITTED a felony, the panel must
dismiss the case and, obviously, no discipline is appropriate. No other allegations of
rules violations were before the panel.
It is a fact that the Defendant was CONVICTED of seven felony counts. The
panel's first task then was to determine if those convictions rose to the level of
COMMITTED. The Rules do not define "convicted" and "committed," but I think it is
apparent that "committed" presupposes a higher burden than "convicted." To state the
matter simply and, at least for purposes of this matter, we can think of "committed" as
"did" and we can think of "convicted" as "having been determined by a jury to have
done."

My review of the record presented to the panel indicated that in all referenced
cases where a defendant was convicted of the offense the Defendant was convicted, or a
similar offense, the discipline imposed by the relevant governing authority of the state
issuing the license to practice law, was suspension or disbarment. However, in none of
the referenced cases, to my knowledge, was there an incidence of
conflicting/contradictory verdicts in the same case; accordingly, this matter is
distinguishable from all the cases referenced during this hearing. A criminal felony
conviction is generally viewed as conclusive evidence of the commission of a felony and
the only matter before the panel is the determination of discipline. In this matter,
however, because the inconsistent/contradictory verdicts constitute extenuating and
mitigating circumstances, in the interest ofjustice, an exception to the general rule that a
felony conviction automatically constitutes professional unfitness, is appropriate. I agree
with the majority that the panel must not look beyond the verdicts of a jury and I did not
do so in reaching my decision. I do, however, consider it not only appropriate, but in fact
necessary to consider all the verdicts (plural) rendered by ajury in determining if a
CONVICTION rises to the level of COMMITMENT of a felony, especially when the
verdicts relate to the same alleged crime and the verdicts are inconsistent/contradictory.
This is an extraordinary case characterized by unique facts, conflicting/contradictory
verdicts and a lenient active prison sentence. Accordingly, the appropriate question to
ask prior to a determination of discipline, if any, is: Did the Defendant, by clear, cogent
and convincingevidence, COMMIT a felony as defined by Rule .01 03(17)? After that
question is answered, discipline, if any, should then and only then, be considered.

Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated facts and the evidence introduced at the
hearing, I hereby find by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
A. The panel found that ... "the hearing panel cannot re-examine the evidence
that was presented to the jury to determine whether or not Defendant committed the
offenses of which he was convicted."
B. The panel found ... "the jury's determination on this question (the
forfeiture verdicts) is inconsistent with the jury's verdicts on the substantive felonies."
C. The majority found ... "that the panel must accept the jury's verdict."
D. In its CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE, the majority
found ... "pertinent to the consideration of the discipline to be imposed...the jury's
general guilty verdict on the seven felonies and the jury's verdict on the special verdict,
relating to the asset forfeitures, to be conflicting."
E. The panel considered the special verdicts regarding discipline. Logic, then,
seems to demand that the panel fully consider all the jury's verdicts (plural), especially
inconsistent/contradictory verdicts because such verdicts call into question the veracity of
the jury's verdicts.
F. The panel may not look behind any of the jury's verdicts, but justice
demands the panel look plainly and squarely at all the jury's verdicts, especially
inconsistent or contradictory verdicts.
G. This matter involved 38 cash deposits by or for the Defendant at the
Defendant's bank totaling $355,567 which the government grouped into 7 structuring
counts and 1 forfeiture count for the same $355,567 total amount as the 7 structuring
counts.
H. Between January 16,2001 and November 4,2006 the Defendant filed with
the Internal Revenue Service 24 information returns on Form 8300 (Report of Cash
Payments Over $10,000 Received in a Trade or Business) thereby the Defendant selfreported cash receipts of$481,000.

1. The Defendant's bank filed with the appropriate federal agency 4 CTRs
(Currency Transaction Report) showing a total of $101,322 in cash deposits made by the
Defendant.

J. The Defendant's bank filed with the appropriate federal agency 4 SARs
(Suspicious Activity Report) including one amended report showing a total of$255,195
in cash deposits made by the Defendant.
K. Regarding the 7 structuring counts, Judge Britt instructed the jury, in part,
as follows:
It is your duty to determine the facts.

Each count specifically charges that the Defendant structured bank cash
deposits.
Your verdict must be unanimous.

In order to sustain its burden of proof for this offense, the government must
prove the following elements beyond a reasonable doubt:
First, that the Defendant knew of the domestic fmancial institution's
legal obligation to report currency transactions in excess of $1 0,000;
Second, that the Defendant knowingly structured or assisted in
structuring a transaction; and,
Third, that the Defendant did so with the purpose of evading currency
reporting requirements under federal law.
. ..Domestic fmancial institutions are required to file a Currency
Transaction Report for each deposit... which involves a transaction in currency of more
than $10,000 during anyone business day. Multiple currency transactions are treated as a
single transaction if... they are in... cash totaling more than $10,000 during anyone
business day.
L. The jury was away from the courtroom for 5 hours 40 minutes.
M. The jury found the Defendant guilty on the 7 structuring counts.
N. Implicit in each verdict, in accordance with Judge Britt's instructions, was
a finding of fact that the Defendant illegally structured at least $10,001 in connection
with each of the 7 guilty verdicts (a minimum total finding of fact that the Defendant
illegally structured at least $70,007 in connection with the 7 guilty verdicts). This is an
essential "element" of each structuring count per Judge Britt's instructions.
O. The court then moved to the special verdict (the forfeiture COlillt).

P. Regarding the forfeiture count, Judge Britt instructed the jury, in part, as
follows:
... in view of your verdict that the Defendant is guilty of structuring a
transaction to evade reporting requirements, you have one more task to
perform before you are discharged. I must ask you to render a special verdict
concerning the interest and property the United States has alleged are subject
to forfeiture to the United States.
.. .any person who is found guilty of structuring a transaction.. .is required to
forfeit to the United States all property... involved in the offense.
It is your duty to determine what property, if any, should be forfeited. The
government must prove its case for forfeiture by a preponderance of the
evidence.

To establish a fact by a preponderance of the evidence means to prove that
something is more likely true than not true.
In this case, the United States Government has alleged that... a sum
of. .. $355,567 ...was involved in the structuring of the transaction.
.. .in your deliberations on the forfeiture issue, you will not revisit the issue of
guilt or innocence. Those decisions have been made...
A special verdict form has been prepared for your use. You will determine
the total amount which you find ... was involved in the structuring offenses for
which you have found the Defendant guilty, and you will record that amount
on the special verdict form.
Your verdict, of course, must be unanimous. The verdict form reads: With
respect to the below property, please answer the following question. Money
judgment. One, does $355,567 ... constitute property involved in... the
structuring violations of which the Defendant was convicted? There's a yes
and no blank. You check it on one or the other.
If you have answered "no" to the preceding question, what is the amount
which constitutes property involved in...the structuring violations of which
the Defendant was convicted? And there's a blank space for the entry of a
dollar amount.
Q. The jury was away from the courtroom for 5 minutes.

The verdict was handed to the clerk. Judge Britt asked the clerk to answer
the following questions?
One, does $355,567 ... constitute property involved in... the structuring
violations of which the Defendant was convicted? You have answered that
no.
Two, if you have answered no to the preceding question, what is the amount
which constitutes property involved in...the structuring violations of which
the Defendant was convicted? You have answered that zero.
R. Judge Britt let stand the inconsistent/contradictory substantive and
forfeiture verdicts.
S.

The jury was excused and a sentencing date was set.

T. The Honorable Senior Judge Britt, an experienced judge not renowned for
being soft on crime, gave the Defendant an active prison sentence of 1 day (0.008% of
the maximum 35 year active sentence he could have imposed).
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Rule 8.4(b) MISCONDUCT reads in part: "It is professional misconduct for a
lawyer to (b) COMMIT (emphasis added) a criminal act that reflects adversely on the
lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects." Rule .0103
Definitions reads in part: "Subject to additional definitions contained in other provisions
of this subchapter, the following words and phrases, when used in this subchapter, will
have, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the meaning given in rule ....(17)
Criminal offense showing professional unfitness-the COMMISSION (emphasis added)
... of any felony."
1.

2. If the Defendant COMMITTED a felony, by definition, the Defendant has
violated Rule 8.4(b) and the panel must determine the appropriate discipline. If,
however, the panel does not find by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that the
Defendant COMMITTED a felony, the panel must dismiss the case and, obviously, no
discipline is appropriate. No other allegations of rules violations were before the panel.
3. The 7 structuring verdicts, standing alone, are clear, cogent and
convincing evidence that the Defendant COMMITTED a felony in violation of Rule
8.4(b).

4. The special verdicts finding as fact that zero dollars were structured, standing
alone, are clear, cogent and convincing evidence that the Defendant did not COMMIT a
felony or any other crime in violation of Rule 8.4(b).
5. The special verdict finding as fact that zero dollars were structured effectively
eviscerated an essential "element," per Judge Britt's instructions, from the structuring
convictions thereby calling into question the veracity of the 7 structuring verdicts.
6. The jury, when it rendered its special verdicts, wittingly or unwittingly, in
contravention of Judge Britt's explicit instruction, effectively revisited the issue of guilt
or mnocence.
7. The structuring verdicts and the forfeiture verdicts, taken together, are neither
clear, nor cogent nor convincing evidence that the Defendant COMMITTED a felony.
Based upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT and CONCLUSIONS OF LAW the
complaint in this action should be DISMISSED.
CLOSING STATEMENT
As the public member of the panel, I have no formal legal training and no
experience in legal writing. Accordingly, my dissent may contain errors of a legal natme
that are obvious to trained legal professionals, but errors of which I am oblivious.
When on a panel I try to be reasonable, fair, respectful and mindful that the
purpose of professional discipline is to protect the public, the courts and the legal
profession. In my opinion, the public, the courts and the legal professional have no need
of protection from Mr. Johnny S. Gaskins, the defendant in this matter. I would impose
no discipline in this matter.
Signed by the dissenting panelist this the 21 st day of December, 2010.

~~.;/ J
// /~I .
!/u~w «1 b/!/(qld/dzf/lb~
1

David L. Williams • Dissenting Panelist
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

