STATE OF NORTH CAR01~t\ t=: lf~'j
L=i..~~

WAKE COUNTY

INTBE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
. : SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
17 CRS 3902 & 17 CRS 3903

STATE OF NORTH cAtII8~INA:- 2 P l\: I I
v.

vr

c/::" (;.:::. ':; .CONSENT ORDER OF DISBARMENT

.:;. ;"c·

JOHNNY S. GASKINS, Defendant
THIS MATIER came before the undersigned Judge ofthe Superior Calli of
Wake County upon the tende!' of smrender of the law license of Johnny S Gaskins.
Defendant, Johnny S. Gaskins was represented by R. Daniel Boyce..
Based upon the Affidavit of SUlTender of Law License submitted to the Calli by
Johnny S. Gaskins and the consent ofthe paliies, the couli makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Gasldlls was licensed to practice law on 19 August 1979.
2. During all periods relevant hereto, Gaskins was actively engaged in the practice
of law in Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina.
3. Gaskins failed to infoJ1'll his client, R. Sullivan, that he settled Sullivan's personal
injury claim and of Gaskins' receipt of the MetLife settlement proceeds check.
4. After Gaskins had settled Sullivan's claim, Gasldns falsely represented to
Sullivan that it may take up to two years before any funds were received as
payment for injmies Sullivan sustained ii'om the automobile accident.
5. Gaskins failed to deposit the pl'oceeds of Sullivan's MctLife settlement check into
a nust account.
6. Gaskins forged Sullivan and his late wife's signatures on the back of the MetLife
settk,ment check with the intent to defraud the bank into believing the check had
been endorsed by the Sullivans and uttered the check containing the forged
endorsements.
7. Gasldns embezzled the proceeds of the MetLife settlement check.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. This COlli has jurisdiction over Respondent and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.

Page 1 of4

2. The COUltS of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary action
against attomeys licensed to practice law in NOith Carolina.
3. Respondenthas ehgllgeaHiattor1leymiscoirilllcfirichiding vi611itillgthe NOlih
Carolina Rules ofProfessionai Conduct as stated below.
4. By failing to infOim SUllivan that he settled Sullivan's personal injury claim and
of his receipt of the settlement proceeds check, Gaskins failed to promptly infolm
the client of any decisions or circumstance with respect to which the client's
informed consent is required in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct
1.4(a)(1), failed to reasonably COl1sult with the client about the means by which
the client's objectives are to be accomplished in violation of Rule of Professional
Conduct 1.4(a)(2), and failed to keep the client reasonably infOlmed about the
status of the matter in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 1.4(a)(3).
5. By falsely representing to Sullivan that it may take up to two years before any
funds were received as payment for injUlies Sullivan sustained from the
automobile accident, GaSldns engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule ofProfessionai Conduct 8.4(c).
6. By failing to deposit the MetLife check into a trust account, Gaskins failed to
maintain entrusted property in accordance with Rule 1.15 in violation of Rule of
Professional Conduct 1.15-2(a) and failed to deposit trust funds he received into a
trust account in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 1.I5-2(b).
7. By forging the Sullivans' signatures on the back ofthe MetLife check with the
intent to defi'aud the bank into believing the check had been endorsed by the
Sullivans and uttel'ing the check containing forged endorsements, Gaskins
committed criminal acts (forgery and uttering an instrument containing forged
endorsements) that reflect adversely on the lawyer's honesty, trustwOlthiness or
fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct
8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fi'aud,deceit, or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(c).
8. By failing to disburse the proceeds of the MetLife check to or on behalf of
Sullivan and instead using them for his personal benefit, Gaskins used entrusted
propelty for his personal benefit in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct
1.IS-2G)! , committed a criminal act (embezzlement) that reflects adversely on the
lawyer's honesty, trustwOlthiness or fituess as a lawyer in other respects in
violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(b), and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or tnisl'epresentation in violation of Rule of
Professional Conduct 8.4(c).
9. Gaskins' misconduct constitutes grounds for discipliue pursuant to N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) and warrants discipline by this C01I1t.
I

Now codified as Rule I. 15-2(k).
NeSB v. Gaskins,
Consent Order of Disbannent
Page 2 of4

10. Gaskins has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbannent.
ORDER
I. The surrender of the license of Johnny S. Gaskins is hereby accepted.
2. Johnny S. Gaskins is DISBARRED fi'om the practice oflaw in North Carolina
effective upon entry of this Order.
3. Gaskins shall wind-down his law practice within 30 days of entry of this order in
accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0121 (e).
4. Gaskins shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.0128 and
shall surrender his law license and permanent membership card to the Secl'etary of
the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0l28.
5. Within 15 days of the effective date of this OJ'der, Gaskins shall provide the State
Bar with a physical address and telephone number at which clients seeking return
of files can communicate with Gaskins and obtain such files.
6. Gaskins shall promptly return client files to clients upon request, within 5 days of
receipt of such request. Gaskins will be deemed to have received any such
request 3 days after the date such request is sent to Gaskins if the request is sent to
the address Gaskins provided the State Bar pursuant to the preceding paragraph.
7. Gaskins shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the expiration
of at least five years from the date of entry of this order.
8. Gaskins' law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council ofthe NOIth
Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.0129.
9. The costs of this action, including the costs of deposition of RobeIt Sullivan and
Robin Casey, and administrative fees assessed by the State Bar are taxed against
Gaskins.

()d

Done and Ordered this the

~ day of Nov~ ,2017.

~:;?:
'. . ourt Judge Presldmg

NCSB v. Gaskins,
Consent Order ofDisbannent
Page 3 of4

CONSENTED TO BY:

~~~~~!tIlQ50l\CQ
J
~yce
(\
Attorney for Respondent

~a~
Wake Co. First Assistant District Attomey
10Ih Judicial District Attomeys' Office

NCSP v. Gaskins,
Consent Order of Disbarment
Page4of4

STATE OF NORTH CAROL~fI;
WAKE COUNTY

71P1]1 '1

'f')'1 "',_
')
I,d)

r::: D
tr..J

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
Ii'

II

SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
17CRS3902 & 17 CRS 3903

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
V, <4','
{:? ::'

AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER
OF LAW LICENSE

JOHNNY S, GASKINS, Defendant

Johnny S. Gaskins, being first duly sworn, deposes and says:
1, I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of27N,C, Admin, Code lB.0121,
2. My resignation is fi-eely and voluntarily rendered, .It is not the result of coercion 01'
duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation,
3, I am aware that there is a pending disciplinary complaint against me, a copy of which
is attached hereto as Exhibit A, regarding the following allegations:
a, I failed to infOlm my client, R, Sullivan, that I settled his personal injury claim
and of my receipt of the MetLife settlement proceeds check,
b. After I had settled the claim, I falsely represented to Sullivan that it may take up
to two years before any funds were received as payment for injuries Sullivan
sustained fi'om the automobile accident.
c, I failed to deposit the proceeds of Sullivan's MetLife settlement check into a trust
account.
d, Iforged Sullivan and his late wife's signatures on the back of the MetLife
settlement check with the mtent to defi'aud the bank into believing the check had
been endorsed by the Sullivans and uttered the check containing forged
endorsements,
e, I embezzled the proceeds of the MetLife settlement check.
4, I acknoWledge that the material facts upon which the disciplinary complaint is
predicated are true,
5, I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the alleged misconduct, I could not successfully defend against them,

Page I of2

,2017.

I,

Rebecca., s. Co..,rrol/

, Notary Public ofthe County of H QYI1e..tt ,

State of North Carolina, certify that Johnny S. Gaskins personally appeared before me
this day, was sworn, and aclmowledged the due execution of the foregoing Affidavit.
Swom to and subscribed before me
This the ~ day of NoveMber-

,2017.

Notary Public
My Commission Expires: --,I--'O-j/,-,3~/t-/",-~-,O=...L)1>'-",--_

NeSB v. Gaskins
Affidavit of SUll'ender
Page 2 of2

EXHIBIT

~

in' b'gm71'' '

P./.?

(,/;l

A)

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

8::
>-

~

i;;'~

''''0 ."':

BEFQRE}'HE

ryc'':;:'
OF THE
,~. TH CAROLINA STATE BAR

'

___~_____~'<i~<'(_'?'!?J£ ,) l\).,/7

17 D/1C

1!l

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

COMPLAINT

JOHNNY S. GASKINS, AttolTIey,
Defendant
PlaintitT, complaining of Defendant, alleges and says:

1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of NOlth Carolina and is the propel' party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
theretmder.
2. Defendant, Johnny S. Gaskins ("Defendant" 01' "Gaskins"), was admitted 10
the North Cal'Olina State Bar on 19 August 1979 and is, and was at all times refemd.to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State ofNOl'th Carolina.
3. During the relevant period referred to herein, Gaskins actively engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Raleigh,
Wilke County, NOlth Carolina.
4. In 01' arOlmd May 2015, R. Sullivan, Jr. ("Sullivan") retained Gaskins to
represent him after an automobile accident.
5.

A

0

'-0* ;>

$0Gl;iISCTPI;tt V\RYHEARTNG COMMISSION

"'2",

WAKE COUNTY

!l

:g{! '.<0

»<

Gaskins undertook representation of Sullivan on a contingent fee basis.

6. In or abotlt October 2015, MetLife agreed to settle Sullivan's personal
injury claim.
7. Accordingly, on 01' about 30 October 2015, MetLife Auto & Home
Insurance issued check no. 008451324 payable to Sullivan and his late wife, Mrs,
Sullivan, Individually and as Husband and Wife and Johnny S. Gaskins, Attorney in the
amount of$23,000.
8. Gaskins did not inform Sullivan that Gaskins had settled Sullivan's personal
injUJ'y claim.
Page lof4

i--

9.

Gaskins did not infonnSullivan of his receipt of the MetUfe Check.

10. Instead, Gaskins falsely represented to Sullivan that it may take up to two
years before any funds were received as payment tor injuries Sullivan sustained from the
automobile accident.
II. Sullivan did not sign the MetUfe cheok.
12. Sullivan did not give Gaskins authority to endorse the MetLife check on his
behalf.
13. Upon information and belief, Gaskins signed Sulliva.n's name on the
MotLife check with the intent to defraud the bank into believing the check had been
endorsed by Sullivan.
14. Gaskins forged Sullivan's endorsement of the MetLife check in order to
negotiate the check.
J5. Mrs. Sullivan did not sign the MetLife Check.
16. Mi's. Sullivan did not give Gaskins authority to endorse the MetUfe check
on her behalf.
17. Upon information and belief, Gaskins signed Mrs. Sullivan's name on the
MetUfe check with the intent to defraud the brulk into believing the check had been
endorsed by her.
18. Gaskins forged Mrs. Sullivan's endorsement of the MetUfe check in order
to )legotiate the check.

19. On or about 17 November 2015, Gaskins presented the MetUfe check with
the forged cndOl'Semellts to the bank for deposit into Ilis personal bank account, BB&T
Bright Banking account ending in no. 1999.
20. The bank credited $23,000 to Gaskins personal account as a result of
Gaskins' presentment ofthe forged MetLife check,
2 J. The BB&T Bright Banking account was not a trust account.
22. Gaskins did not disburse any portion of the proceeds of the MetUfe Check
to or on behalf of Sullivan.
23. Instead, Gaskins disbursed the funds for his own personal benefit.
THEREFORE, the State Bar alleges that Defendant's foregoing actions constitute
gl'Ounds for discipline purslJant to N.C.G.S. § 84-28(b)(2) in that he violated one or mo!'e
of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as follows:
NCSIJ I'. GlIskll/~'

rage 2 of4

(a)

By failing to inform Sullivan that he settled Sullivan's p(ll:so~laLhlj]lXY ..
claim and of his receipt of the settlement proceeds check; basliinsfailed
to promptly inform the client of any decisions 01' circumstance with
respect to which the client's informed consent is required in violation of
Rule 1.4(a)(I), failed to reasonably consult with tbe client about the
means by which the client's objectives are to be accomplished in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2), and failed to keep the client reasonably
informed about the status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

(b)

By falsely representing to Sullivan thul it may take up to two years
before any funds were received as payment for injuries Sullivan
sustained from the automobile accident, Gaskins engaged In conduct
involving dishonesty, fi'aud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c);

(c)

By failing to deposit the MetLife check into a trust account, Gaskins
failed to maintain entrusted property in accordance with Rule 1.15 in
violation of Rule 1.IS-2(a) and failed to deposit trust funds he received
into a trust account in violation of Rule 1.15-2(b);

(d)

By forging the Sullivans' signatures on the back oflhe MetUfe check

with the intent to defraud the bank into believing the check had been
endorsed by the Sullivans and uttering the check containing forged
endorsements, Gaskins oommitted criminal acts (forgery and uttering an
instrument containing forged endorsements) that reflect adversely all the
lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects
in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fra\lc!, deceit, 01' ll1isl'epresen(ation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
(e)

By failing to disburse the proceeds afthe MetLife check to 01' on behalf
of Sullivan and instead using them for his personal benefit, Gaskins used
entrusted property for his personal benefit in violation of Rule 1.IS-2G) I,
committed a criminal act (embezzlement) that reflects adversely on the
lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects
in violation of Rule 8.4(b), and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violution of Rule
8.4(c),

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff prays that:
(l) Disciplinary action be taken against Defendant in accordance with N,C. Gen. Stat.
§ 84-28 (a) and 27 N.C, Admin, Code JB § .0114 as the evidence on hearing may
warrant;

I

Now codified as Rule 1, 15-2(k}.
NCSII p, Ga"/ri,,.\·

Page 3 of4

(2)

Defendant be taxed with the administrative fees and oosts permitted by law in
oonnection with this proceeding; and -

(3)

For suoh other and nllther relief as is appropriate.

d.

THIS the I +h day of June, 2017.

ano at ey Hodge
e y Counsel
State BlIr No. 27253

I

Attorney/or Plalntif(

"

The NOlih Carolina State Bar
P.O. Box 25908
Raleigh, NC 27611
919-828-4620

I

Signed pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0113(n) and §.OIOS(a)(IO),

Grievance COllmlittee

NCSB

)1, Gaskins
Page 4of4

