NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

. THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Petitioner

JOEL FLESHER GEER, Attomey
Respondent

)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF RECIPROCAL
DISCIPLINE

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chairperson of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, ยง .0105(a)(12) and
.0116(b)(3) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar; and based
upon the record in this matter, the undersigned finds as follows:
1. By order dated April 10, 2015, the Supreme Court of South Carolina issued an
order placing Joel Flesher Geer on interim suspension until further order of the Court.
2. On October 18,2016, a Notice of Reciprocal Discipline Proceeding was mailed to
Joel Flesher Geer by certified mail, return receipt requested. That Notice was returned unserved.
3. On November 28, 2016, Joel Flesher Geer was served with the Notice of
Reciprocal Discipline Proceeding and its attachments by Deputy Kathryn 1. Monahan of the
Greenville County Sheriffs Office in Greenville, SC at the address the certitied mail had
previously been sent.
4. Joel Flesher Geer failed to respond to the Notice of Reciprocal Discipline within
3D days of the date of service.

BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS, the Chairperson of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1. The North Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this
proceeding and over the person of Joel Flesher Geer.
2. The procedure for imposition of reciprocal discipline pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, SUbchapter B, Rule .0116 of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar has been complied with.

3. The order of the Supreme Court of South Carolina suspending Joel Flesher Geer
justifies the imposition of reciprocal discipline in this state.
4. The suspension imposed by the Supreme Court of South Carolina should be imposed
on Joel Flesher Geer's right to practice law in the State of North Carolina.
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1. The license of Joel Flesher Geer to practice law in the State of North Carolina is
hereby suspended.
2. Joel Flesher Geer shall forthwith sUlTender his license certificate and membership
card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
3. Joel Flesher Geer is hereby taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this
proceeding as assessed by the Secretary.
4. Joel Flesher Geer shall not resume the practice of law in the State of North Carolina
until he has submitted proof to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar that he has been
reinstated to the practice of law by the Supreme Court of Sonth Carolina.
5. Respondent shall comply with the wind down provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Rule .0124 of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar.

.

1/

/

~~7 f~~Ucc
Cllair
.0),

Grievance Committee

