BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
"-'.i1·~TnDTU CAROLINA STATE BAR

STATE OF NORTH LR''-VlJ
WAKE COUNTY

1

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE
Plaintiff,

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

RONNA DAWN GIBBS, Attorney
Defendant.
This matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Sharon R Alexander, Chair, Renny W. Deese, and Randy A. Moreau. Margaret T.
Cloutier represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Ronna Dawn Gibbs, was
represented by Dudley A. Witt. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter. The parties
stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order.
The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry of this
order, Defendant knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives her right to appeal this consent order
or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings. Based on the foregoing and on the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Ronna Dawn Gibbs ("Gibbs" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in August 1989 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the laws of
the State of North Carolina.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Gibbs was engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Havelock,
Craven County, North Carolina.
4.
On December 1,2005 Gibbs was transferred to disability inactive status by
consent (05D0002). Gibbs has remained on disability inactive status since that time and has not
engaged in the practice oflaw. By order entered contemporaneously herewith, Gibbs is
transferred to active status.

5.
In mid-August 2004 Nathan 1. Williams retained Gibbs to defend him against a
domestic action his wife initiated. Gibbs did not file responsive pleadings on Williams' behalf.
6.
Gibbs was generally uncommunicative with Williams concerning the status of his
case, and did not return any phone calls after September 17, 2004.

7.
On October 5, 2004 a hearing was held to address temporary cUstody, child
support and other matters. Gibbs informed Williams that it was not necessary for him to attend
the hearing.

8.
Gibbs was present at calendar can but did not return to the courtroom fOT the
hearing, The hearing was held without Williams' or Gibbs' participation and resulted in a ruling
adverse to Williams.
9.

In 2004 Cynthia Fountain hired Gibbs to represent her on a DWl

10.
During the representation, Gibbs continued Fountain's case severnl times without
infOlming Fountain of the new court dates. Gibbs failed to respond to Fountain's phone calls, ,
letters or attempts to schedule office appointments to discuss her case.
11.
On July 14,2005 Fountain terminated Respondent's representation and
subsequently filed a petition for fee dispute resolution,with the State Bar.

12.

Gibbs failed to properly respond to the fee dispute filed by Fountain.

13.

In June 2004 Danny Becton hired Gibbs for representation on a speeding ticket.

14.

Becton subsequently filed a petition for fee dispute resolution with the State Bar.

15,

Gibbs failed to properly respond to the fee dispute filed by Becton.

16.

In January 2004 Wendy M. Hench retained Gibbs for representation in a domestic

matter.

17.

After obtaining an unfavorable result in her domestic case, Hench asked Gibbs to
file an appeal. Hench paid Gibbs a portion of the fee quoted by Gibbs to handle the appeal.
l8.
Thereafter Hench requested that Gibbs withdraw from her appeal and refund the
money Hench had already paid, Gibbs failed to refimd any money to Hench.
19,

On June 10,2005 Hench filed a petition for fee dispute resolution with the State

20.

Gibbs failed to properly respond to the fee dispute filed by Hench,

Bar.

21.
On May 2, 2005 Patricia A. Stiltner hired Gibbs for representation on several
traffic charges,
22.

Gibbs continued Stiltner's cases on two occasions without notifying Stiltner,
2

23.
Gibbs failed to attend appointments Stiltoer scheduled at Gibb's office and did not
respond to Stiltner's various attempts to communicate with Gibbs concerning the stains of her
case.
24.

On July 8,2005 Stiltner filed a petition for fee dispute resolution with the State

25.

Gibbs failed to properly respond to the fee dispute filed by Stiltner.

26.

In October 2004 Shelly Spaulding hired Gibbs fOf representation in a domestic

27.

Gibbs was unresponsive to Spaulding's attempts to communication about her

Bar.

matter.
case.
28.
Spaulding.

On several occasions Gibbs did not attend scheduled appointments with

29.

Gibbs did not complete the work required to be performed in Spaulding's case.

30.

Spaulding then discovered that Gibbs had closed her office and disconnected her

phone.
31.
In June 2005 Gibbs filed bankruptcy petitions on behalfofher clients L. W. D.
and D. & M. V. The Bankruptcy judge questioned the amount off'ees Gibbs charged those
.
clients.
32.
Gibbs failed to refund a portion of her fees to those clients and failed to
communicate with the court. The Bankruptcy judge subsequently ordered Gibbs to appear and
show cause why a portion of her attorney's fees should not be disgorged.
33.
Gibbs failed to appear at the August 31, 2005 show cause hearing. On September
1,2005 the court ordered Gibbs to disgorge the fees she received in those cases. Gibbs did not
comply with the court order on a timely basis.
34.

On Apri120, 2005 Gibbs filed a petition for bankruptcy on behalf of her client P.

J.M.
35.
Gibbs did not respond to a motion objecting to the discharge ofP. J. M. 's
bankruptcy filed by his ex-wife and failed to attend the hearing on the motion. As a result, P. J.
M. 's bankruptcy discharge was denied.
36.

Gibbs filed petitions for bankruptcy on behalf of her clientsD. H., W. R., F. M.,

R. H., J. & J. R., and C. L.-F.

3

37.
The bankruptcy trustee notified Gibbs that the petitions were inaccurate but Gibbs
failed to file the required amendments.
38.

On November 1,2005 D. H. filed II petition for fee dispute resolution with the

State Bar.
39.

Gibbs failed to properly respond to the fee dispute filed by D. H.

40.

On May 27, 2004 IoAnnaM. Wishon hired Gibbs for representation in a custody

matter.
41.
Wishon's case was delayed for a year while her ex-husband attended to military
obligations. In March 2005 when Wishon made efforts to contact Gibbs, Gibbs did no! respond
to her phone calls and canceled three appointments Wishon had scheduled.
42.

- On September 28, 2005 Wishon filed II petition for fee dispute resolution with the

State Bar.
43.

Gibbs failed to properly respond to the fee dispute filed by Wishon.

44.

On June 22, 2004 Kim Nguyen hired Gibbs to sue a contractor.

45.

Six months passed with no communication from Gibbs.

46.
In July 2005 Gibbs told Nguyen that Gibbs had filed suit and the court date was
scheduled for August 26, 2005. Nguyen appeared in court on August 26 and learned Gibbs had
not filed suit on her behalf
47.

Nguyen attempted numerous times to contact Gibbs but Gibbs did not respond.

48.

On October 10,2005 Nguyen filed a petition for fee dispute resolution with the

State Bar.
49.

Gibbs failed to pl'Operly respond to the fee dispute filed by Nguyen.

50.
On or about AprilS, 2005 Carol Ann Bialkowski hired Gibbs for representation
on a DUI charge.
51.
Bialkowski called Gibbs' office numerous times to discuss her case and was
eventually advised Gibbs was closing her office. Bialkowksi left Gibbs several voicemalls
requesting a refund of attorney's fees and for her to withdraw from her case.

On October 6,2005 Bialkowski appeared in court and once again informed Gibbs
she wished to terminate her seNices and wanted a refund. Gibbs did not refund Bialkowski's
money.
52.

53.

On October 14, 2005 Bialkowski.filed a petition for fee dispute resolution with

the State Bar.
4

~~-~-~-

------~~-

54.
. 55.
behalf.

Gibbs failed to properly respond to the fee dispute filed by Bialkowski.
In September 2004 Jeffrey S. Melton hired Gibbs to pursue bankruptcy on his

56.
Melton was deployed overseas with the Marine Corps and unable to attend the
Debtor's § 341 meeting. Gibbs failed to attend Melton's Debtor's § 341 meeting or request a
continuance and, as a result, Melton's bankruptcy was dismissed.
57.
Melton attempted to contact Gibbs about reopening his case but Gibbs did not
reopen Melton's case.
58.
After several months with no action, Melton requested that Gibbs refund his
attorney's fees. Gibbs did not refund Melton's money.
59.
Slate Bar.

On October 20, 2005 Melton filed a petition for fee dispute resolution with the

60.

Gibbs failed to properly respond to the fee dispute filixl by Melton.

61.

In February 2005 Tommy Joyce hired Gibbs for representation on traffic charges.

62.
Joyce attempted to contact Gibbs numerous times regarding.the status of his case.
Gibbs did not return Joyce's calls.
63.
Joyce requested that Gibbs withdraw from his case and refund Ihe fees paid to
Gibbs. Gibbs did not return Joyce's money.
64.
State Bar.
65.

On October 27, 2005 Joyce filed a petition for fee dispute resolution with the
Gibbs failed to properly respond to the fee dispute filed by Joyce.

66.
In 2005 Gibbs filed bankruptcy petitions on behalf ofD. & A. H., S. & A. G. and
J. & C. N. Gibbs failed to pay the bankruptcy filing fees for those petitions on a timely basis.
67.
Bryana Locklear hired Gibbs for representation on a personal injury matter arising
out of a 1998 auto accident.
68.
Gibbs failed to take appropriate action to protect Locklear's claim before the
statute of limitations expired in Locklear's case.
69.
In 2004 Gibbs would not return Locklear's pilone calls. In tile summer of 2005
Locklear discovered Gibbs' office and ilome phone had been disconnected.

5

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Ronna Dawn Gibbs, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By failing to properly file legal documents or otherWise perform legal services she
was hired to perfolID by Williams, Spaulding, P. J. M., D. H., W. R., F. M., R. H.,
J. & J. R., C. L.-F., Nguyen, Bialkowski, Melton, and Locklear, and by failing to
attend scheduled hearings for Williams, P. J. M., and Melton, Gibbs fuiled to act
with reasonable diligence and promptness in violation of Rule 1.3;
(b) By failing to respond to phone calls, inquiries, and communications of Williams,

Fountain, Stiltner, Spaulding, Wishon, Nguyen, Bialkowski, Melton, Joyce, and
Locklear, Gibbs fulled tn keep her clients reasonably informed about the status of
their matters ill violation ofRnle 1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly comply with
reasonable requests for information in violation ofRnle 1.4(a)(4);
(c) By failing to inform Fountain and Stiltner of their new coulidates and to keep
scheduled appointments with Spaulding and Wishon, Gibbs failed to keep her
client reasonably informed about the status of the matter in violation of Rule
1,4(a)(3) and failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for information
in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
.

(d) By failing to respond to the notices of mandatory fee dispute resolution sent to
Gibbs by the State Bar in the disputes filed by Fountain, Becton, Hench, Stiltner,
D. H., Wishon, Nguyen, Bialkowski, Melton, and Joyce, Gibbs fuiled to
participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution process in violation of Rule
1.5(f)(2);

(e) By failing to appear at the show cause heating in L. W. D. 'sand D. & M. V,'s
bankruptcy cases and failing to comply with the cow"! order on a timely basis,
Gibbs engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation
of Rule 8.4(d);
(f) By telling Ngyuen that she had filed a lawsuit on her behalfwhen she had not,

Gibbs engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation
in violation of Rule 8A(c); and
(g) By failing to timely submit the filing fees to the bankruptcy court in the cases of
D. & A. R., S. & A. G. and J. & C. N., Gibbs failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3.

6

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
During the time of these violations, Gibbs was dealing with serious personal
problems, including the illness and hospitalization of her young daughter.

2.
The personal problems experienced by Gibbs contributed to. the deterioration of .
Gibbs' mental health. Gibbs suffered from a major depressive disorder and from symptoms of
post traumatic stress. Gibbs' mental health issues were a major contributing factor to her
neglect of client cases.
. 3.
Gibbs consented to an order transferring her law license to disability inactive
status in Novemb~-r 2005.
4.
During the time Gibbs was on disability inactive status, she sought appropriate
mental health treatment. She was gainfully employed as a paralegal and taught paralegal studies
cl~sses at a community college.
5.
Gibbs depression is clllTently in remission and she no longer suffers the symptoms
of post traumatic stress. Gibbs' law license has been returned to active status by order entered
contemporaneously herewith.
6.
Gibbs has been cooperative with the State Bar's investigation, acknowledged
wrongdoing, and expressed remorse.
7.
Gibbs was admonished by the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar in 1998 for violations regarding advertising.
8.
Because of Gibbs' neglect of her clients' matters, those clients had to hire other
attorneys to handle their matters and pay those attorneys for services for which they had already
paid Gibbs.
9.
. Gibbs' clients relied on her to attend to their legal matters and her failure to do so
left them vulnerable.
.
10.
Gibbs's neglect caused the bankruptcy court to expend its resources to issue show
cause orders and to hold hearings pursuant to those orders.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISC1PLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension and disbarment.

7

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enwnerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .OI14(w)(l) and determined tbe following factors are applicable:
(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the potential harm was foreseeable;
(b) Circumstances reflecting defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness or integrity;

(c) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession;
.
(d) Negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
(e) Impahment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation; and
({) Effect of defendant's conduct on third parties.
. 3.
The Hearing Panel has considered the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.OlI4(w)(2) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bill' and determines that
although some factors Ill'e present the circumstances of this case do not warrant disbarment in
order to protect the public.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB §.0l14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and determines
that the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(e) A pattern of misconduct;
(d) Multiple offenses;
(e) Effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;
(f) Effect of mental disability or impairment on the conduct in question;

(g) Interim rehabilitation;
(h) Full and free disclosure to the bearing panel or cooperative attitude toward the·
proceedings;
(i) Remorse;

G) Vulnerability of victims; and
(k) Dcgrec of experience in the practice of law.
S.
A censure, reprimand, or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of
the significant harm andlor potential harm to clients and the profession caused by Defendant's
conduct.
6.
The public will be adequately protected by suspension of Defendant's license,
part ofwbich may be stayed upon Defendant's compliance with conditions designed to ensure
protection of the public lind continued compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Among other things, Defendant must demonstrate that her professional judgment Or competence
is no longerirnpaired.
8

7.
The Hearing Panel determines that discipline short of suspension would not
adequately protect the public, the legal profession or the administration of justice for the
. following reasons:
(a) The factors under Rule .oJ 14(w)(l) that are established by the evidence in this

case are of a nature that support imposition of a suspension as the appropriate
discipline; and
(b) Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and to the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar ofthis state.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties,
the Heming Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

The law license of Defendant, Ronna Dawn Gibbs, is hereby suspended for three

years.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary, which Defendant shall pay within thirty days of service ofthe notice of costs
upon Defendant.
3.
The three-year suspension of Defendant's law license shall be stayed for three
years as long as Defendant complies and continues to comply with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 30 days of notice of the costs being served on
Defendant at her address of record;
(b) Defendant shall arrange for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar to

serve as her law practice monitor. Defendant's practice monitor shall be an
attorney in good standing who practices law in Defendant's judicial district and
who has been approved by the Office of Counsel. The monitor will supervise all
client matters and will ensure that Defendant handles all client matters in a timely
fashion, including promptly responding to her clients,pl'Omptly responding to
notices from the clerk of court, and diligent pursuit of her clients' matters.
Defendant shall meet once a month with her monitoring attorney, report the status
of all current client matters to the monitor, cooperate with the monitoring
attorney, and provide any information the monitoring attorney deems reasonably
necessary to ensure that Defendant is properly and timely handling all client
matters. The monitor will submit written quarterly rep011s of this supervision to
the Office of Counsel. such reports due on the following dates as they occur
during the stay of this suspension: January IS, April 15, July 15, and October 15.
9

Defendant bears the responsibility of ensuring the monitoring attorney sends a
written report each quarter to the Office of Counsel as descl'ibed above. This
monitoting will occur for the duration of the slay of this suspension. Defendant
will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this supervision. Defendant
must make the arrangements for this monitoring attorney and supply the Office of
Counsel with a letter from the monitoring attomey confirming his or her
agreement to petform the dnties listed above at the time the arrangement is
entered into;
(c) Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make appropriate
arrangements for an alternate monitoring attomey if needed during the stay of this
suspension;
(d) Defendant shall comply with all treatment presoribed by her current treating
psychiatrist or psychologist. Defendant shall ensure that the
psychiatrist/psychologist provides written reports to the State Bar Office of
Counsel concerning Defendant's need for ongoing treatment and compliance with
the treatment plan, if any, due each January 1 and July 1 throughout the stayed
suspension. All expenses of such treatment and reports shall be bome by
Defendant. If Defendant seeks the services of a different mental health
professional, such professional shall be approved in advance by the Office of
Counsel;
(e) Defendant shall execute written waivers and releases authorizing the Office of
Counsel to confer with Defendant's psychiatristlpsychologist for the pUrPose of
determining if Defendant has cooperated and complied with recommended
treatment and shall not revoke such releases during the period of stayed
suspension;
(f) Defendant shall be subject to ramjom audits of her trust account during the period

of stay as determined by the Office ofCounse!' In the alternative, at the
discretion of the Office of Counsel, Defendant shall provide, within three days of
(he request of the Office of Counsel, her trust account three-way reconciliation
report for the last preceding quarter along with all doclinentalion supporting
same, including copies of clients' ledgers, bank statements, checks, and deposits;
(g) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local govemment during her suspension;
.
(h) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department

advised of her cunent business and horne addresses (not P.O. boxes) and shall
notify the Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;
(i) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,

including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which she receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;

10

(j) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mllil from the State Bar

that is sent to her; and
(k) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and Continuing

Legal Education requirements.
4.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
provided in paragraph 3(a) - (k) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in §
.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Ru1es.

5.
If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is
activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of her Iieense to practice law, befendant
must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that she has complied with each of the
following conditions:
(a) Defendant arranged for a practice monitor as set forth in paragraphs 3(b} and (c),
above.
(b) Defendant demonstrated that she does not suffer from any disability, addiction or

condition that would impair her ability to competently engage in the practice of
law;
(c) Defendant provided the Office of Counsel with releases to obtain and review her
medical records, including psychological and mental health evaluations, and to
interview her medical care providers;
(d) Defendant submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date ofthe order lifting the
stayandlor actiVating the suspension of her law license;
(e) Defendant complied with all provisions of27 N.C .A.C. lB § .0124 following the
order lifting the stay andlor activating the suspension of her law license;
(f) Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of

her current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change;
(g) Defendant responded to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the colfununication, whichever is
sooner, and participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which she received notice after the effectiVe date of
thisOrdel';
(h) Defendant promptly accepted all certified mail sent to her by the State Bar;

(i) That at the time of her petition for stay, Defendant is current in payment of all

Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund as.~cssments
and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from her, as
well as all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

II

(j) That at the time of her petition for stay, there is no deficit in Defendant's

completion of mandatory CLE hours, in reporting of such hours, or in payment of
any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;
(Ie) Defendant has not violated the Rules ofProfessionaI Conduct or the laws of the

United States or of any state or local government during her suspension;
(I) Defendant has paid the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as

reflected on the statement of costs served upon her by the Secretary of the State
Bar; and
(m)Defendant has complied with any other conditions deemed necessary for
reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel pursuant to the order lifting the stay
of the suspension of Defendant's law license.
6.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by fUriher order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations Imder this Order end three years from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions oftile stay of the suspension. Pursnantto § .0 lI4(x) ofthe North
Carolina Discipline and Disability Rnles, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions ofthe
stay of the suspension have been met. If 8 motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay offue suspension is pending when the period of the
stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the Jurisdiction and
ability to lift the Slay of the suspension and activate the three year suspension in whole or in part
if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension
and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until
['esolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
7.

This Order shall be effective Oll the date it is served UpOll Defendant.

Signed by the undersigned Chair with th knowledge and consent of the other members
of the Hearing Panel, this is the ~ day of---.-:-'\F-~·-'--_--' 201~.

Dudley A. itt
Attorney r Defondant

Margaret T. loutier
Attorney for lalmiff
12

