...'

~.

,":.", '-, c·'-,". ,.-

.-'-'':6l(~,T';·'.~
,'-

-

.-

-

.-

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA·-' . . ." 'cIl':'TTHE'GENERAL COURT OF mSTICE
'.. SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
COUNTY OF JOHNSTON
FILE NO: 08 CVS 142

SECURITY CREDIT CORPORATION,
INC.,
Plaintiff
VS.

)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)

MICHAEL BAREFOOT, et al.
Defendants

)
)

This matter came before the undersigned judge of the superior court of Johnston
County on a report of professional misconduct filed 16 July 20 I 0 by plaintiff's counsel,
L. Lamar Annstrong, Jr., against defense counsel, Willie D. Gilbert, II. By order entered
in open conrt on 26 July 20 I 0, the conrt notified Mr. Gilbert that an evidentiary hearing
would be held on the allegations in the report on 27 August 2010. The conrt specifically
advised Mr. Gilbert that the conrt would consider whether or not sanctions should be
imposed against him in the event the conrt found that he had engaged in professional
misconduct.
The conrt conducted an evidentiary hearing on 27 August 20 10. Mr. Armstrong
appeared as the complainant. Mr. Gilbert personally appeared and represented himself.
At the conclusion of the hearing, Mr. Gilbert moved the conrt to strike Mr. Annstrong's
report from the record and for Rule 11 sanctions against Mr. Armstrong.
Based on the record and the testimony, affidavits, and other evidence received at
the hearing, and after considering the arguments of Mr. Armstrong and Mr. Gilbert, the
conrt, by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, mal<es the following
FINDINGS OF FACT:

RekvantBackground
1. This case, involving claims for fraud, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, and
unfair and deceptive trade practices, was tried before the Honorable Richard T. Brown
and ajury at the 11 January 2010 session of Johnston County civil superior conrt.
Following a seven week trial that ended on 1 March 2010 with a split verdict, Judge
Brown filed judgment on or about 15 April 2010.

2. The trial of the case originally was scheduled to begin 16 November 2009. On
3 November 2009, Mr. Gilbert filed a motion seeking a continuance ofthe trial. In his
motion, Mr. Gilbert stated that he had been retained by defendants Michael Barefoot,
Frankie Barefoot, and Security Auto Sales on 24 September 2009 after their original
counsel was disqualified by the court. Mr. Gilbert cited a number of reasons for his
continuance request, asserting inter alia, that since being retained he "... has been
required, and continues to be required, to prepare a multitude oflegal documents for
filing in matters that are pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit and in a California federal district court" and that he "... has been required to
devote a significant amount of time to preparing a lengthy document for filing in the
North Carolina Court of Appeals."
4. The undersigned continued the trial until 14 December 2009.
5. On Friday, II December 2009, Mr. Gilbert filed another continuance motion
with this court. Again, Mr. Gilbert set forth a number of reasons for the request,
including a statement that he was "... in need ofa short delay in the trial ofthis matter
because, within the past 10 days, counsel for the moving defendants has been confronted
with several unanticipated and unforeseeable deadlines to respond before December IS,
2009, to events transpiring in both state and federal cases in which such counsel is
involved."
6. On the morning of 14 December 2009, Judge Brown, over plaintiff's
objection, continued the trial uutilll January 2010.
7. Following the trial, on 26 April 2010, plaintiff filed a motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict on defendant Michael Barefoot's counterclaims or, in the
alternative, a motion for a new trial on the counterclaims.
8. On 29 April 2010, defendants responded by filing a motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict, or alternatively, a motion for a new trial.
9. On 29 June 2010, the trial court coordinator (TCC) for this district notified Mr.
Armstrong and Mr. Gilbert that their post-trial motions would be heard by Judge Brown
on 16 July 2010.
10. On Monday, 12 July 2010, Mr. Gilbert sent an email to the TCC requesting a
continuance of the hearing, stating that he was in California and had a continuing need to
be there until the end of July because he was "... attending to numerous discovery and
dispositive-motion related matters in a federal civil action."
11. Mr. Armstrong sent an email to Mr. Gilbert and the TCC on 13 July 2010
objecting to the continuance request.

12. Later that day, Mr. Gilbert responded in an email to the TCC and Mr.
Armstrong that "... I have already received continuances in two other matters due to the
conflict created by the very same federal court obligations that have necessitated the
continuance request that I am malcing now." He further asserted that "... until July 1,
2010, I actually thought that I would be in a position to return to NC for the July 16th
hearing in the Barefoot matter. On July I, 2010, however, 'all h_ll broke loose' in the
Los Angeles litigation, and I have since been worlcing 18-20 hours per day attempting to
overcome dire circumstances that were beyond my control to prevent, and that I had no
reason to anticipate would interfere with my ability to attend the Barefoot hearing on July
16,2010."
13. The undersigned granted Mr. Gilbert's request for a continuance and
rescheduled the hearing for 6 August 2010.
14. On 16 July 2010, Mr. Armstrong frIed the Report of Professional Misconduct,
alleging that Mr. Gilbert, in his motions to continue the trial and in his written request for
a continuance ofthe hearing on the post-trial motions, violated Rule 3.3 (Candor Toward
the Tribunal), Rule 4.1 (Truthfulness in Statements to Others), and Rule 8.4 (Misconduct)
of the Revised Rules ofProfessional Conduct. Mr. Armstrong moreover alleged that Mr.
Gilbert violated Rule 5.5(a) by engaging in the unauthorized practice of law in California
15. Mr. Armstrong filed a calendar request aslcing tbat this court conduct a
hearing on his report ofprofessional misconduct on 26 July 2010.
16. On 26 July 2010, the court denied Mr. Gilbert's motion to quash the report,
denied his motion to refer the report to Judge Brown, and allowed his motion to continue
the hearing on the report. The court scheduled this matter for an evidentiary hearing on
27 August 2010.

Hearing on post-trial motions
17. At no time has Mr. Gilbert appeared as counsel of record in any matter in the
federal courts of California.
18. Mr. Gilbert's wife is the plaintiff in Sheri H Gilbertv. New Line
Productions, Inc., et a/., Case No. 2:09-CV-02231, a copyright infringement case
pending in the United States District Court for the Central District of Califomia.
19. Mr. Gilbert's application to appear pro hoc vice in his wife's case had been
denied by the federal district court on 6 May 2009.
20. In May of2010, Ms. Gilbert's original Califomia counsel, Mr. Steven T.
Lowe, withdrew from her case, and Ms. Gilbert retained Ms. Nanette G. Reed, an
associate with the Los Angeles law firm ofMurchison & Cumming, LLP., on or about 18
June 2010.

21. On or about 21-23 June 2010, the defendants in Ms. Gilbert's case filed
motions for summary judgment. These motions were scheduled for hearing on 26 July
2010.
22. Mr. Gilbert provided substantial legal assistance to both of his wife's
California attorneys. His work included reviewing discovery and drafting pleadings and
briefs.
23. By his own admission in his email of 13 July 2010, Mr. Gilbert was aware as
early as 1 July 2010 of the 16 July 2010 hearing date for the post-trial motions. Still, Mr.
Gilbert failed to notify the court or opposing counsel until 12 July 2010 that the hearing
date imposed a personal hardship upon him.
24. By the language of his 12 and 13 July 2010 emails to the TCC and opposing
counsel, Mr. Gilbert intimated that he was appearing as counsel in a federal court civil
case in California.
25. Tills language of Mr. Gilbert's 12 and 13 July 2010 emails is misleading.

First trial continuance motion
26. At the time ofills 3 November 2009 motion to continue, Mr. Gilbert was not
counsel of record in any case pending in a California federal district court, in the United
States Court ofAppeals for the Fourth Circuit, or in the North Carolina Court of Appeals.
27. At that time, Mr. Gilbert was assisting his attorney, Mr. Eric C. Michaux, in
the preparation of a 100 page long Motion for a Temporary Stay and Petition for a Writ
of Supersedeas filed with the North Carolina Court of Appeals on 11 November 2009 in
connection with Mr. Gilbert's own disciplinary proceeding before the State Bar (North
Carolina State Bar v. Willie D. Gilbert, II, Case No. 03 DHC 16).
28. Mr. Gilbert also was assisting Mr. Michaux in preparing an Emergency
Motion for An Injunction Pending Appeal and a memorandum oflaw in support of that
motion filed on 4 November 2009 in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District ofNorth Carolina in Mr. Gilbert's own lawsuit against the North Carolina State
Bar (Willie D. Gilbert, II v. North Carolina State Bar, Case No. 5:09-CV-00383-D).
29. Mr. Gilbert's wife's case was pending in federal court in California at that
time. Mr. Steven T. Lowe represented Ms. Gilbert.
30. Mr. Gilbert's 3 November 2009 motion to continue did not mention that the
matters in which he was preparing legal documents were his own cases in which he had
counsel. His language implies that he was counsel in matters pending in the California
federal district court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, and the
North Carolina Court of Appeals.

31. This language of Mr. Gilbert's 3 November 2009 motion to continue is
misleading.
Second trial continuance motion
32. Mr. Gilbert was not counsel of record in any other case referenced at this
hearing when he filed his 11 December 2009 motion to continue.
33. On or about 3 April 2009, Mr. Marshall B. Pitts, Jr., an attorney in
Cumberland County, hired Mr. Gilbert to assist him in the preparation of an appellant's
brief to be filed in the North Carolina Court of Appeals in the case ofDorothy Harris v.
Clarence Barefoot, et al., File No. COA09-1313.
34. The original deadline for the filing of the brief was 30 November 2009. On
or about 23 November 2009, Appellant moved for a 30 day extension ofthis deadline.
The Court ofAppeals extended the deadline until 15 December 2009.
35. Neither the original nor the extended deadline for filing this brief was
"unanticipated and unforeseeable."
36. Mr. Gilbert prepared for his attorney, Mr. Michaux, a 31 page Docketing
Statement filed on 14 December 2009 in Mr. Gilbert's own appeal in the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Willie D. Gilbert, II v. The North Carolina State
Bar, Case No. 09-2193).
37. The filing of this Docketing Statement was neither unanticipated nor
unforeseeable.
38. To the extent that Mr. Gilbert's second continuance motion refers to his
wife's California case, she filed a Notice of Motion and Motion for Reconsideration in
that action on 9 and II December 2009. Mr. Gilbert was not counsel of record in that
case, and the filing of that motion was neither unanticipated nor unforeseeable.
39. Mr. Gilbert's representation to the court in his 11 December 2009 motion to
continue that he was facing "unanticipated and unforeseeable deadlines" in "both state
and federal cases in which [he] is involved" suggested that he was counsel in such cases.
40. The language in Mr. Gilbert's 11 December 2009 motion to continue
intimating that he was counsel in those cases is misleading. His statement that he had
been confronted with several unanticipated and unforeseeable deadlines is false.
Additionalfindings common to all the continuance requests
41. Each ofMr. Gilbert's misleading statements was material, even ifnot
determinative ofthe court's decision as to a particular motion or request to continue.

42. Considered in toto, Mr. Gilbert's misleading statements in support ofms
continuance motions and requests evidence a pattern by Mr. Gilbert of carefully crafting
his words so to create the impression that he was counsel ofrecord in other pressing
cases.
Applicable law, rules, and ethical considerations

43. The regulation of the conduct of attorneys is a responsibility shared by the
North Carolina State Bar and the courts of this state. See N.C. Gen. Stat. 84-36.
44. The civil case management plan for Judicial District II-B, promulgated
pursuant to Rule 2(a) ofthe General Rules of Practice for the Superior and District
Courts, provides that all co=unications with the court shall be addressed to the
attention of the TCC and may be by email.
45. Rule 3.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct provides in relevant
part: "(a) A lawyer shall not knowingly: (I) malce a false statement ofmaterial fact or
law to a tribunal. . ."
46. Co=ent 3 to Rule 3.3 states: "There are circumstances where failure to
malce a disclosure is the equivalent of an affirmative misrepresentation."
47. Rule 4.1 ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct provides: "In the
course of representing a client a lawyer shall not knowingly malce a false statement of
material fact or law to a third person."
48. Co=ent I to Rule 4.1 affirms: "Misrepresentations can also occur by
partially true but misleading statements or omissions that are the equivalent of affirmative
false statements."
49. Rule 5.5(a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct provides: "A
lawyer shall not practice law in a jurisdiction where doing so violates the regulation of
the legal profession in that jurisdiction."
50. Rule 8.4 of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct provides in relevant
part: "It is professional misconduct for a lawyer to: ... (c) engage in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation; (d) engage in conduct that is prejudicial to the
administration ofjustice..."
Based on the foregoing findings of fact and the application of the relevant law and
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct to those facts, the court reaches the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
L This court has jurisdiction over Mr. Gilbert and the subject matter ofthis
disciplinary proceeding.

2. Mr. Gilbert has been afforded due process in that this proceeding was initiated
by the written complaint of opposing counsel, he was advised ofthe specific allegations
of misconduct, he was ordered by the court to appear for an evidentiary hearing on the
charges and advised that the court would consider whether or not disciplinary sanctions
were warranted, he was granted a reasonable time to answer and prepare his defense, and
he was permitted to have counsel for his defense had he so chosen. See In re
Northwestern Bonding Co., 16 N.C. App. 272, 276 (1972).
3. Mr. Gilbert's personal obligations to his own attorney and in his own cases, his
personal or legal obligations to his wife or her attorneys, and his legal obligations to other
attorneys for whom he was doing work can not supersede or override his obligations to
this court and to his own clients in this case.
4. The evidence does not support a finding by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence that Mr. Gilbert engaged in the unauthorized practice oflaw in the state of
California.
5. In his first continuance motion, Mr. Gilbert failed to disclose: (a) that he was a
party and was represented by counsel in that matter pending in the United States Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit; (b) that the California federal civil action on which he
was working was his wife's case and that she was represented by counsel; and (c) that he
was preparing a lengthy document for his own case in the North Carolina Court of
Appeals and that he was represented by counsel in that case. Each of these failures to
disclose a material fact was the equivalent of an affirmative misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 3.3 ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
6. Each of these failures to disclose a material fact rendered his first continuance
motion partially true, and, hence, the equivalent of an affmnative false statement in
violation of Rule 4.1 of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
7. In his second continuance motion, Mr. Gilbert, in referring to 15 December
2009 deadlines he was facing "in both state and federal cases in which (he was]
involved," failed to disclose that: (a) the state case involved his assisting another lawyer
in preparing an appellant's brief for the North Carolina Court of Appeals; (b) one federal
case was his own appeal in the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and
that he was represented by counsel in that case; and (c) to the extent that he was referring
to any other federal case, it was his wife's California action and that she was represented
by counsel. Each ofthese failures to disclose a material fact was the equivalent of an
affmnative misrepresentation in violation of Rule 3.3 of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
8. Each of these failures to disclose a material fact rendered his second
continuance motion partially true, and, hence, the equivalent of an affIrmative false
statement in violation of Rule 4.1 ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

9. Moreover, Mr. Gilbert's statement in his second continuance motion tbat he
had "been confronted witb several unanticipated and unforeseeable deadlines" was a false
statement of a material fact in violation of Rule 3.3 of tbe Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
10. In his request for a continuance oftbe post-trial motions hearing, Mr. Gilbert
failed to disclose that tbe federal civil action in California in which he was "attending to
numerous discovery and dispositive-motion related matters" was his wife's case and tbat
she was represented by counsel. This failure to disclose a material fact was tbe
equivalent of an affirmative misrepresentation in violation of Rule 3.3 oftbe Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.
11. This failure to disclose a material fact rendered his post-trial hearing
continuance request partially true, and, hence, tbe equivalent of an affirmative false
statement in violation ofRule 4.1 oftbe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
12. By making affirmative misrepresentations and false statementa in support of
each ofhis continuance motions and requests, Mr. Gilbert committed professional
misconduct by engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation
and by engaging in condnct that is prejudicial to tbe administration ofjustice in violation
ofRule 8.4 ofthe Revised Rules of Professional Misconduct.
13. Mr. Gilbert's professional misconduct has caused significant harm to the
administration ofjustice in this case by creating unnecessary delays and by disrupting tbe
schedules oftbe court.
14. Mr. Gilbert's professional misconduct, specifically his dishonesty, deceit, and
misrepresentation, has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to tbe
profession.
15. There is no basis to support Mr. Gilbert's motion to strike Mr. Armstrong's
Report of Professional Misconduct from tbe record or his motion to impose Rule 11
sanctions against Mr. Armstrong for filing tbe report.
Based on tbe court's analysis oftbe foregoing findings offact and conclusions of
law, it is hereby ORDERED tbat:
1. Mr. Willie D. Gilbert, II is CENSURED for violating one or more provisions
oftbe Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and for causing significant harm or
potential significant harm to tbe administration ofjustice and to tbe profession of law.

2. Mr. Gilbert's oral motion to strike tbe Report of Professional Misconduct from
tbe record is DENIED.

3. Mr. Gilbert's oral motion for the imposition of Rule 11 sanctions against L.
Lamar Armstrong, Jr. is DENIED.
4. The Clerk ofthe Superior Court shall forward copies of this order to Mr.
Gilbert, Mr. Armstrong, and Ms. Katherine Jean, Counsel for the North Carolina State
Bar, P.O. Box 25908, Raleigh, North Carolina 27611.

JI+~

This the ~ day of September, 2010.

r---

--=:-_.

-~1..L

THOMAS H. LOCK
Senior Resident Superior Court Judge
Judicial District II-B

