.("~7'
1\ -'
<'] 0

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

l/rl/
'

A
"ill....

t~

APR 2010

~. 3

~

co

FiLED
DtiC

'i'2;.

';':",

'1-.-0,
'it. J?
f.

WILLIE D. GILBERT II, Attorney,
Defendant

'i

~

~.'..

BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE

i?;./ NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

}!.j:?

03 DHC 16

. 't."
... C\ "/

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

i'"

)
)
)

)
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter canle before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Tommy W. JarTett, Chair; DOima R. Rascoe and Donald G. Willhoit on March 1819,2010. A. Root Edmonson represented the North Carolina State Bar. The Defendant, Willie
D. Gilbert II was present and was represented by Eric C. Michaux. Based upon the record and
the evidence presented at the hearing, and after considering the arguments of counsel, the panel
finds the following facts were established by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. The plaintiff, the NOlih Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is a proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The defendant, Willie D. Gilbert II (hereinafter Mr. Gilbert), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1990 and he is, and was at all relevant times referred to,
an Attomey at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, and subject to the rules, regulations,
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North C2.rolina State Bar and the laws of North
Carolina.
3. In all relevant times Mr. Gilbert maintained a trust account with Central Carolina
Bank and an operating account with Centum Banlc The operating account was his regular finn
checking account.
4. On or about March 4, 1997, Necole S. Maxwell (hereinafter Ms. Maxwell) was injured
in an automobile accident. Ms. Maxwell retained Mr. Gilbert to represent her in the ensuing
personal injury action.

5. On or before September 5,1997, Mr. Gilbert received a $4,500.00 check in settlement
of Ms. Maxwell's claim.
6. On September 5, 1997, Ms. Maxwell signed a settlement statement prepared by Mr.
Gilbert that authorized $1,500.00 to be disbursed to Mr. Gilbert as his fee, $1,500.00 to be
disbursed to Dr. Spiro N. Comis (hereinafter Dr. Comis) to satisfy a doctor's lien held by Dr.
Comis, and the balance of$I,500.00 to be disbursed to Ms. Maxwell.
7. On or about September 8, 1997, Mr. Gilbert prepared three trust account checks to
disburse from Ms. Maxwell's settlement proceeds according to the settlement statement. These
checks were checks numbered 1034, 1035 and 1036, all dated September 8, 1997, drawn on his
trust accmmt.
8. Mr. Gilbert did not deliver check 1035 to Dr. Comis, and this check was never
negotiated. Accordingly, at least $1,500.00 should have remained in Mr. Gilbert's trust account
until paid to Dr. Comis.
9. On or after April 17, 1998, in addition to Ms. Maxwell's $1,500.00 still due to Dr.
Comis, Mr. Gilbert's trust account also should have had $973.43 due to Durham Rehabilitation
for a client by the name of Pamela Hailey and $2,200.00 due to Raleigh Rehabilitation for a
client by the name of Larry Pyrtle. Both of these latter amounts were deposited into Mr.
Gilbert's trust account and were required to satisfy the respective clients' doctor's liens.
Accordingly, the balance of Mr. Gilbert's trust account should have been at least $4,673.43 at all
times on or after April 17, 1998 until the doctors liens for each of these clients were paid from
the trust account.
10. On April 20, 1998, Mr. Gilbert wrote trust account check number 1078 in the amount
of $100.00 to his mother. At the time check number 1078 was written, Mr. Gilbert's mother had
no funds in Mr. Gilbert's trust account and Mr. Gilbert had no funds in the account to which he
was then entitled.
II. On April 22, 1998, Mr. Gilbert wrote trust account check number 1079 in the amount
of$100.00 to his then-fiance, now current-wife, and then-office employee, Sheri Hall
(hereinafter, Ms. Hall). At the time check number 1079 was written, Ms. Hall had no funds in
Mr. Gilbeli's trust account and Mr. Gilbeli had no funds in tlle account to which he was then
entitled.
12. On April 28, 1998, Mr. Gilbert wrote trust accowlt check number 1081 in the anlount
of $90.00 to Ms. Hall. At the time check nwnber 1081 was written, Ms. Hall had no funds in
Mr. Gilbeli's trust account and Mr. Gilbert had no funds in the account to which he was then
entitled.
13. At the time iliat Mr. Gilbert wrote checks numbered 1078, 1079, and 1081 from his
trust account, Mr. Gilbert's operating account had insufficient funds on deposit for Mr. Gilbert to
have been able to pay those personal obligations from his operating aCCOWlt.

14. As a result ofMr. Gilbert paying personal obligations fi'om his trust account, the trust
account balance dipped below the $4,673.43 balance Mr. Gilbert should have maintained to
cover Mr. Gilbert's obligations on behalf of Ms. Maxwell, Ms. Hailey and Mr. Pyrtle. After
checks 1078, 1079, and 1081 cleared, the balance in Mr. Gilbert's trust account was $4,379.10.
IS. Mr. Gilbert appropriated his clients' funds to his own use.
16. Dr. Comis was later paid, on or about January 13, 1999, out of funds from Mr.
Gilbert's operating account.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before this panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
and the Disciplinary Hearing Conunission and this panel have jurisdiction over Mr. Gilbert and
the subject matter.
?
Mr. Gilbert's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant
to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Mr. Gilbert violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect at the time as follows:

(a)

By appropriating the funds used to pay checks numbered 1078, 1079, and 1081
fi'om funds he held in a fiduciary capacity for Ms. Maxwell, Ms. Hailey and Mr.
Pyrtle to his own use, Mr. Gilbert committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on
his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, and deceit in violation of Rule
8.4(c); and failed to maintain property received in a fiduciary capacity separately
from his own property in violation of Rule US-I(a) and (c).

(b)

By failing to promptly pay Dr. Comis as directed by Ms. Maxwell from the funds he
retained for that purpose, Mr. Gilbert failed to promptly payor deliver to a third
person as directed by the client tlle funds he held for that purpose in violation of
Rule US-2(h).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments presented at the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the hearing
panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The findings in phase one of this hearing are incorporated here by reference.

2.

Mr. Gilbert was actively suspended for a substantial period of time as a result of an
order of discipline in 2000 DHC 3.

3.

Mr. Gilbert's conduct in this proceeding involved misappropriation and deceit;
however, this conduct occurred before the conduct that resulted in the order of
discipline imposed in 2000 DHC 3.

4.

Mr. Gilbert put his own personal interest and the interests of others ahead of his
clients' interests.

5.

Mr. Gilbert's conduct had the potential to significantly and substantially damage his
clients and could only have a negative impact on his clients and the public's
perception of the legal profession.

6.

The investigation of the allegations in this matter began in July 1999, but the
Complaint in this matter was not filed until September 2003. The delay in filing the
Complaint was not caused by Mr. Gilbert.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters tlle following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

The hearing panel has carefully considered all oftlle different fOllUS of discipline
available to it. In addition, tlle hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enwuerated iu 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w) (I), (2) and (3) oftlle Rules and
Regulations oftlle NOlih Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors are
applicable in tlllS matter:

General Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w) (3):
a.

Mr. Gilbert had a prior disciplinary offense in tlllS state;

b.

Mr. Gilbert had a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

Mr. Gilbert exhibited a pattern of misconduct;

d.

Mr. Gilbert committed multiple offenses;

e.

There was a three-year delay in prosecution of this disciplinary offense
tlu'ough no fault of Mr. Gilbert;

f.

Mr. Gilbert refused to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct; and

g.

At the time of the offenses in this matter, Mr. Gilbert was inexperienced in the
practice of law.

Suspension and Disbarment Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w) (1):
a.

Mr. Gilbert intended to cause the resulting harm or potential harm;

b.

The circumstances reflected Mr. Gilbert's lack of honesty;

c.

M1'. Gilbert elevated his own interest above the interests of his clients;

d.

Mr. Gilbert's conduct had a negative impact on his clients' and the public's
perception of the legal profession; and

e.

Mr. Gilbert engaged in acts of dishonesty and deceit.

Disbarment Factors from 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w) (2):
a.

Mr. Gilbert engaged in acts of dishonesty and deceit; and

b.

Mr. Gilbert engaged in misappropriation of clients' funds.

2.

The hearing panel considered alternatives other than suspension or disbarment and
found that public censure, reprimand or admonition would not be sufficient
discipline because of the gravity of the actual and potential harnl to his clients, the
public, the administration ofjustice and the legal profession and the significant
potential harm M1'. Gilbert poses to the public.

3.

The hearing panel considered disbarment, but the majority of the hearing panel
rejected that discipline because of the unique circumstances of this case. Those
circumstances include that the conduct at issue occUlTed before the conduct that
resulted in the prior order of discipline imposed in 2000 DHC 3, for which Mr.
Gilbert has already served a substantial period of active suspension. Further, there
was a three-year delay in the prosecution of the conduct at issue in tills proceeding,
tlu'ough no fault of M1'. Gilbert. Suspension is appropriate in this case to address
the rule violations and to provide some monitoring of M1'. Gilbert's practice to help
ensure that he does not engage in filliher professional misconduct.

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the majority of the hearing panel, consisting ofDOlma R.
Rascoe and Donald G. Willhoit, enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of Willie D. Gilbert, II is
hereby suspended for five (5) years from the date tills Order of Discipline is served
upon him.

2.

The period of suspension is stayed for five (5) years as long as Mr. Gilbert complies
and continues to comply with the following conditions:
a.

Mr. Gilbert must respond to all letters of notice and other requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in the
communication or request;

b.

Mr. Gilbert must advise the North Carolina State Bar in writing of all address
changes within ten (10) days of any change of address;

c.

Mr. Gilbert must comply with all membership and continuing legal education
requirements of the North Carolina State Bar and pay all fees and costs
assessed by the applicable deadline;

d.

Mr. Gilbert must not violate the laws of any state or of the United States;

e.

Mr. Gilbert must not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct;

f.

Mr. Gilbert must allow the North Carolina State Bar to examine all accounts
over which he has signatOly authority into which client or fiduciary funds have
been deposited and must produce the required records within five (5) business
days of a request for exanlination at his own expense;

g.

Mr. Gilbert, at his own expense, must retain a certified public accolmtant
(CPA) who shall provide semi-armual written reports to tile Office of Counsel
of tile North Carolina State Bar confirming that Mr. Gilbert's handling of his
trust account complies with all applicable provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. Mr. Gilb'~rt's CPA's report must be delivered to the
Office of Counsel within 10 days of the peJiods ending June 20 and December
31 throughout tile period of the stayed suspension;

h.

Mr. Gilbert must complete twenty (20) hours of continuing legal education in
the area of law office management and trust account management.
Mr. Gilbert shall provide Wl'itten proof of successful completion of the CLE
courses to the Office of Cowlsel within the (10) days of completing the
courses; and

I.

3.

Mr. Gilbert must pay the costs of this proceeding within thirty (30) days after
service of the statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar.

If Mr. Gilbert fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions referenced in
Paragraph 2, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0114(x). The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will
retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to § .0114(x) throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Dissent

Tommy W. Jarrett concurs in the Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and the first two
paragraphs of the Conclusions Regarding Discipline; however, he respectfully dissents from the
discipline imposed by the majority of the hearing panel. Mr. Gilbert's conduct, taken in
combination with the conduct found in 2000 DHC 3, leads Mr. Jarrett to the conclusion that Mr.
Gilbert should be disbaned.
Signed by the undersigned Chair of the hearing panel with the knowledge and consent of
the other members of the hearing panel this the 6th day of April, 2010.

. 7 1'

/ · f21.~

Tommy W...-Jaffett,Jhay
Hearing Panel
L ______

