NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
11 GOOl5

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Ralph L. Gilbert, III,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 19,2012, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar,
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The mles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the DisciplinaIY Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimaIld, issued in cases in which
all attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant hann or potential significant haml to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinmy Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You maintained several attorney tmst accounts, which you stopped using in 2003 when the
nature of your practice changed. When your trust accounts were raIldomly audited by the State Bar in
2010, a combined balance of approximately $9,000.00 still remained in the accounts. At the time of the
audit, you were unable to identify the beneficial owners of the funds in your trust accounts. The State
Bar's auditor determined that you had failed to: (a) file bank directives in violation of Rule 1.15-2(k);
(b) determine the owner(s) of unclaimed funds and/or escheat abandoned funds as required by Rule
1.15-2(q); (c) maintain the minimum records required by Rule 1. 15-3(b); or (d) reconcile your accOlmts
monthly and quarterly in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d). You failed to respond to subsequent
communications from the State Bar regarding the mismanagement of your trust accounts, in violation of
Rule 8.1 (b). Because you eventually escheated all of the money in your trust accounts and no longer

handle entlUsted funds in the course of your practice, the Committee detcnnined that discipline more
severe than a censure was not necessary to protect the public.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee tlUsts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have madc, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the fiJture your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the cOllrts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

i Lf-c-ft. day of tlU'1tt.A.i:- ,2012.

MargareYM. Hunt, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

