STATE OF NORTH CARO

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
LORI M. GLENN, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was heard on August 22, 2014 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Ronald R. Davis, Chair, and members
Beverly T. Beal and Randy A. Moreau, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code,
Title 27, Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0 114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A.
Porter. Defendant Lori M. Glenn ("Glenn") appeared pro se.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the Hearing Panel previously granted
Plaintiffs Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and entered findings of fact and
conclusions of law based upon the pleadings. Those findings of fact and conclusions of
law are repeated herein.
Based upon the pleadings and Defendant's admissions, the Hearing Panel finds by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Lori M. Glenn ("Glenn"), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1988 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina,
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter carne before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
Page 1 of 11

4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Glenn was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina.

5.
Glenn was the closing attorney in various residential real estate closings
from 2009 through 2012. In these closings she represented the buyer and the lender. In
at least thirty of these closings, Glenn failed to timely disburse the title insurance
premium shown on the HUD-I Settlement Statement and failed to submit the fmal title
opinion to obtain the title insurance policy for the owner and/or lender. Glenn failed to
respond to inquiries from at least one lender concerning an outstanding policy.
6.
Additionally, in several of these closings Glenn failed to make other
disbursements shown on the applicable HUD-I Settlement Statements.
7.
In certain closings, including those involving clients P.A., H.A., L.B.,
C.c., T.D., N.H., T.H., R.K., D.L., J.M., L.T., N.V., and T.Y., Glenn's deposits and
disbursements did not match the receipt of funds and disbursements shown on the HUD-I
Settlement Statements.

8.
In certain closings, including those involving clients R.K., PR., L.B.,
T.D., J.M., and N.V., Glenn failed to collect sufficient funds at closing to make all of the
disbursements shown on the HUD-1 Settlement Statement for the closing or that she
actually made for the closing. In the closings involving clients R.K. and P.R., this
resulted in Glenn disbursing more from her trust account for the closings than she had
collected for the closings. In the closings involving L.B., T.D., 1M., and N.V, this
resulted in Glenn not having sufficient funds to complete disbursements for the closings.
9.
Glenn maintained an attorney trust account from 2009 through 2012.
Glenn failed to conduct quarterly reconciliations of her trust account from at least
January 1,2010 through November 1,2012.

In November 2012, Glenn consented to an injunction which prohibited her
10.
from handling entrusted funds. Glenn arranged for another attorney to handle entrusted
funds for her real estate clients, who submitted the title opinions to the title insurance
company and handled all entrusted funds for closings for Glenn's clients after the entry of
the injunction.

II.
In about June 2013, Glenn was notified of title issues that needed to be
resolved in three closings in order for the title insurance company to issue title policies.
Glenn failed to timely address the issues and no title policies had been issued as of
January 2014.

Page 2 of 11

Based upon the foregoing findings offact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subj ect matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grouuds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to timely complete fmal title opinions and disburse title
insurance premiums to obtain title policies for owners andlor lenders, by
failing to complete disbursements to other third parties in certain closings,
and by failing to address title issues raised by the title insurance company,
Glenn failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to promptly
disburse client funds in violation of Rule I.IS-2(m);

(b)

By failing to respond to inquiries from a lender regarding an overdue title
policy, Glenn failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4) and failed to keep a client
reasonably informed about the statns of the matter in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3);

(c)

By failing to conduct quarterly reconciliations of her trust accouuts, Glenn
failed to conduct requisite reconciliations in violation of Rule 1.153(d)(l); and

(d)

By failing to collect and disburse funds in accordance with the HUD-I
Settlement Statements and by disbursing more for clients than she had
deposited for those clients in the trust accouut, Glenn failed to properly
maintain and disburse entrusted funds in violation of Rule I.1S-2(a), (j)
and (m).

Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel finds by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
1.

Glenn was not tracking matters to ensure completion of all items.

2.
Glenn felt overwhelmed when contacted by a lender about an outstanding
policy and did not retrieve the file for the matter or respond to the lender.
3.
Glenn did not realize how many title policies were outstanding from her
closings uutil she participated in the investigation and audit by the State Bar.
4.
Glenn has had a balance in her trust accouut in excess of $300,000.00 for
several years but carmot identifY all funds in her trust accouut.
Page 3 of 11

5.
Conducting quarterly reconciliations of the trust account is the lynchpin of
proper maintenance and protection of entrusted funds.
6.
Had Glenn been conducting quarterly reconciliations, she would have seen
balances remaining for various clients which would have signaled that work, such as
obtaining the title policy, still needed to be done in the file.
7.
Had Glenn been conducting quarterly reconciliations, she would have had
to identify the funds in her trust account and would have maintained awareness of whose
funds were in her trust account and the appropriate disbursement of those funds.
8.
The lenders in the residential real estate transactions closed by Glenn were
vulnerable clients in that it was solely through Glenn that the title insurance pl'emiunl
from the loan proceeds held by Glenn in her trust account could be disbursed to the title
insurance company and the title policy obtained.
9.
The title insurance companies are third parties affected by Glenn's failure
to timely disburse title insurance premiums and complete final title opinions. GleIm's
failure to pay the premium and provide the necessary final title opinion impedes the title
insurance company's ability to issue title policies.
10.
Glenn received a censure in 2009 for her handling of a real estate matter,
including her failure to obtain the title policy in a timely manner.
11.

Glenn was cooperative with the State Bar in its investigation.

12.

There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of

Glenn.
13.
While the State Bar's investigation was pending, Glenn consented to an
i1\iunction which prohibited her from handling entrusted funds. Glenn arranged for
another attorney to handle entrusted funds for her real estate clients, who submitted the
title opinions to the title insurance company and handled all entrusted funds for closings
for Glenn's clients after the entry of the injunction. Despite this association with another
attorney on her closings, however, Glenn continued to neglect title issues in certain
closings, resulting in delay of the issuance oftitle insurance policies.
14.
Glenn continues to experience personal life difficulties to which she
attributes her prior and ongoing failures to diligently complete all tasks in real estate
closings.

IS.
Glenn has expressed remorse and has made efforts to rectify the
consequences of her conduct, including by drafting the final title opinions for the
majority of the files for which policies are due.
16.
Glenn has cured all deficits in her trust account identified by the State Bar
caused by discrepancies between actual deposits and disbursements and those shown on
the HUD-I Settlement Statement.

Page 4 of 11

17.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw above and the additional
findings offact regarding discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(I) of the Rilles and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
a.
Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm is foreseeable, to wit: failing to conduct quarterly reconciliations and thus
failing to maintain awareness of whose funds were in her trust account and failing
to recognize work remained to be done and premiums remained to be disbursed
from closings;
b.
Negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's
perception of the profession;
c.
Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation, to wit: timely procurement of title insurance policies; and
d.

Effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regillations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that woilld warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

Prior discipline;

b.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.
Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify
consequences of the misconduct;
d.

A pattern of misconduct;

e.

Multiple offenses;
Page 5 of 11

f.

Effect of personal problems on Defendant's diligence;

g.
Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
h.

Remorse;

i.

Vulnerability of Defendant's clients; and

J.

Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

4.
Defendant's conduct caused significant hann to her buyer and lender
clients, whose funds were not properly maintained and disbursed and who did not receive
the desired product of the intended disbursements (e.g. title policies).
5.
Defendant's conduct caused potential significant harm to both her clients
and to the title insurance companies. The absence of title policies could have been, or
could be in the future, significantly hannful to the clients and the title insurance company
if a title issue arose or arises before being remedied.
6.
Defendant's failure to reconcile her trust account over the years has
caused significant hann to clients, contributing to her inability to identify all client funds
in her account and to determine and make appropriate disbursement of those funds.
7.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.
8.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the harm and potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes
that such discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed
by Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
9.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
suspension with the possibility for the suspension to be stayed upon compliance with
certain conditions is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions to
avoid significant harm or the potential for significant harm to clients.
10.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.

Page 6 of 11

Based upon the foregoing fiudings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

Order of Discipline
1.
Defendant, Lori M. Glenn, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for three years.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and the costs of this action
as assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs stating
the costs assessed against Defendant. Defendant shall pay the costs within thirty days of
service of the statement of costs upon her.
3.
Detendant shall submit her license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this Order upon
Defendant.
4.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§ .0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit
with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of
this Order, certifying she has complied with the wind down rule.
5.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of
files can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files, and Defendant shall
promptly return all files to her clients upon request.
6.
After no less than one year following the effective date of this order,
Defendant may file a verified petition for a stay of the remaining period of the
suspension. The remaining period of suspension may be stayed if Defendant establishes
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that she has complied with the following
conditions:
a. That Defendant has complied with paragraphs 2-5 of this section of
this Order of Discipline;
b. That Defendant has been receiving mental health treatment or
counseling on a routine basis for the six months immediately preceding the filing
of her petition for a stay. Defendant shall sign an authorization consenting to the
release of any medical records and information related to Defendant's treatment
to the Office of Counsel, and Defendant shall not revoke that release. Defendant
shall simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the Office of
Counsel and her treatment provider. Defendant shall direct her treatment provider
to provide the Office of Counsel with a written report detailing Defendant's
treatment plan. All costs of mental health treatment shall be borne by Defendant;
c. That Defendant obtained a mental health evaluation within 60 days of
the effective date of this order by a licensed and qualified psychiatrist or
psychologist ("mental health professional") engaged by Defendant. The mental
Page 7 of 11

health professional Defendant engages to peiform this evaluation shall be
approved in advance by the North Carolina State Bar Office of Connsel. Prior to
the evaluation, Defendant shall sign an authorization consenting to the release of
all medical records and information related to Defendant's evaluation to the
Office of Connsel, and Defendant shall not revoke that release. Defendant shall
simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the Office of
Counsel and the mental health professional. Defendant shall direct the evaluating
mental health professional to provide a written report of such evaluation and
recommended treatment, if any, to the Office of Connsel within ten (10) days of
the completion of the evaluation. Such evaluation shall contain an opinion as to
whether Defendant is suffering from a mental or physical condition which impairs
her professional judgment, performance, or competence as an attorney. All
expenses of such evaluation and report shall be borne by Defendant;
d. That within the 30 days immediately preceding Defendant's petition
for a stay, the mental health professional who conducted the evaluation described
in paragraph (c) above certifies, nnder oath, based on his or her independent and
comprehensive evaluation of Defendant, that in his or her professional opinion: 1)
Defendant does not currently have any mental, psychological, behavioral,
cognitive, or emotional condition or disorder that impairs Defendant's ability to
practice law, that impacts Defendant's ability or willingness to comply with the
Rules of Professional Conduct, and/or that poses a risk of harm to the public if she
engages in the practice of law; 2) Defendant is able to return to the practice of
law; and 3) Defendant appreciates the significance of her prior failures to comply
with the Rules of Professional Conduct and understands that, for the good of the
legal profession and her clients, she must comply with the Rules of Professional
Conduct upon her return to the practice of law. All expenses of such report,
including any additional evaluation necessary to complete such report, shall be
borne by Defendant;
e. That Defendant has identified the clients for whom all funds remaining
in her trust acconnt were deposited and/or are being held and the appropriate
disposition of those funds;

f. That Defendant has completed eight hours of trust account continuing
legal education (CLE) programs, including at least one that includes discussion of
quarterly reconciliations of the trust acconnt taught by Peter Bolac, Trust Account
Compliance Connsel for The North Carolina State Bar;
g. That Defendant has responded to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the N. C. State Bar by the deadline stated in the communication;
h. That Defendant has kept the State Bar Membership Department
advised of her current physical home address;

i. That Defendant paid all outstanding membership fees, Client Security
Fnnd assessments and fees or costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar and
Page 8 ofll

complied with and satisfied any outstanding CLE requirements imposed by the
State Bar; and

j. That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the laws of the United States or any state.
7.
If Defendant is granted a stay of her suspension, the stay of her suspension
will remain in effect only if Defendant complies, and continues to comply, with the
following conditions:
a.
Within sixty (60) days of the order staying the remainder of the
suspension, Defendant shall have completed the following: disbursed all
identified client funds existing in her trust aCcOlmt that can appropriately be
disbursed to the beneficial owner(s) of the funds; provided the State Bar with a
list of any funds (by client and amount) that cannot yet appropriately be disbursed
with the reason the funds cannot be disbursed and an estimated date of
disbursement; and initiated any necessary and associated escheat procedures;
b.
Within the first year of the stayed period of suspension, Defendant
shall complete eight hours of CLE in the area of trust account management
approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. At least one such trust
account management CLE session shall be taken within the thirty (30) days
following the entry of the order granting the stay of the suspension and at least
one such session shall be a trust account CLE program taught by Peter Bolac,
Trust Account Compliance Counsel for The North Carolina State Bar. Defendant
shall provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE courses to the
State Bar within ten days of completing the courses. These eight hours are in
addition to the continuing legal education requirements set out in 27 N.C.A.C. ID
§ .1518;
c.
Defendant shall continue receiving mental health treatment or
counseling on a routine basis, in accordance with a treatment plan established by
her mental health provider. Defendant shall sign an authorization consenting to
the release of any medical records and information related to Defendant's
treatment to the Office of Counsel, and Defendant shall not revoke that release.
Defendant shall simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the
Office of Counsel and her treatment provider. Defendant shall direct her
treatment provider to provide the Office of Counsel with a written report detailing
Defendant's treatment plan within 30 days of the entry of the order staying the
remainder of Defendant's suspension. Defendant shall also direct her treatment
provider to provide the Office of Counsel with quarterly written reports
concerning Defendant's condition and compliance with the treatment plan. Such
reports shall be received by the Office of Counsel each January I, Aprill, July 1
and October 1 for the time covered by this Order of Discipline. Defendant shall
also comply with any and all requests from the Office of Counsel seeking updates
on the status of her ongoing treatment within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such
requests. All expenses of such treatment and reports shall be borne by Defendant;
Page 9 of 11

d.
Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's
Trust Account Handbook for all trust accounts maintained by her. Defendant
shall provide the three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with
funds in the trust account(s) during that month, ledger for any personal funds
maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit card fees, her trust account
ledger, and the bank statements, cancelled checks, and deposit slips for each
month. These documents are due on the 15th day of the following month - for
example, the three-way reconciliation for the month of January is due on February
15;
e.
Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar with a list of clients for whom Defendant collected funds for title
insurance premiums but for whom Defendant has not submitted the final title
opinion and premium to the title insurance company. The list shall contain the
name of the client, the date of the closing, the reason why the final title opinion
and premium has not been submitted, and an estimated date for completion. This
list is due on the same day each month as the three-way quarterly reconciliation
required in the above paragraph;
f.
Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA audit her trust accounts.
Defendant will be responsible for any associated costs. This audit shall assess
whether Defendant has in her trust account the client funds she should be
maintaining for her clients at that time, as well as Defendant's compliance with
Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The CPA's audit shall include addressing the items
on the Accountant Checklist for Probation Cases which will be provided by the
State Bar to Defendant. The quarterly audit reports from the CPA are due no later
than 30 days after the end of the quarter - for example, the CPA audit for the first
quarter of the calendar year (January, February, and March) is due on April 30;
g.
If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA
audit reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the date of
the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall provide
documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar within 2 days of the
date of the remedial action;
h.
Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of
Counsel to provide any information regarding her trust accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to obtain
information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a trust account,
by the deadline stated in the request;

i.
Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current physical business address (not a Post Office
box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notifY the Bar of any
change in address, telephone number, or e-mail address within ten (10) days of
such change;
Page 10 of 11

j.
Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to
the address on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina
State Bar;

k.
Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with
full and complete responses and all requested documentation;
I.
Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;
m.
Defendant will pay all membership, Client Security Fuod, and any
other related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable deadline;
n.
Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect during the period of the stay;
o.
Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina
or of the United States during the period of the stay; and
p.
Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within thirty days after the statement of costs was served upon her.
8.
If an order staying any period of the suspension imposed by this Order is
entered and Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out in
this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension of her law license may be lifted
as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
9.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of
her law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must comply with the conditions set out in paragraph 6 of this
section as well as the requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB, § .012S(b) in order to be
reinstated from this suspension to active status.
10.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of any
stayed suspension.

::26

,?,-Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of
GU..5 r
2014.

Au

~ ~/ Q?ri/J6L ct/111rz...
Ronald R. Davis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Page 11 of 11

