WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

JAMES M. GOARD) Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Richard V. Bennett, Chair, David W. Long, and Michael S. Edwards. G. Patrick
Murphy represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Alan M. Schneider represented
Defendant, James M. Goard. Defendant waives a formal hearing, the parties stipulate and agree
to the findings of fact and conclusions, and the parties consent to the discipline imposed by this
order. By consenting to this order, Defendant knowingly, freely, and voluntarily waives his right
to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based on the foregoing and with the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel hereby
makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:

Findings of Faet
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized under
the la\vs of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations
of the NOlth Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 oftlle North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, James M. Goard ("Defendant" or "Goard"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 21, 1999 and is, and was at all times referred to hel'ein, an attorney
at law in NOlth Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods refened to herein, Defendant was engaged
in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and practiced from law offices in Mecklenburg
County and Gaston County, NOlth Carolina.

KUDLATE'S AFFIDAVIT
Defendant's license to practice law in North Carolina was suspended on September
4.
15,2008 and remained suspended until it was reinstated on January 25, 2013.
5.

In November 2009, Defendant was a friend of Robelt Newton ("Newton").

Page 1 of13

6.
On or about November 10, 2009, Newton met with Christine Kudlate ("Kudlate"),
Executive Director of Patton Counseling Services, Inc. ("PCS"), an entity operating in Asheville,
North Carolina. PCS operated from an office bUilding.
7.
As Newton was leaving the meeting with Kudlate on November 10,2009, Newton
was injured in a slip and fall incident while still on the premises ofPCS's office building.

8.

In April 2010, Defendant moved in with Newton.

9.
In discussing Newton's injury, Defendant told Newton that Newton possibly had a
lawsuit. Defendant suggested to Newton he should get an affidavit from Kudlate.
10.
Between April 2010 and October 21, 2010 while Defendant's license to practice
law was sllspended, Defendant assisted Newton with the preparation of an affidavit for Kudlate to
sign pertaining to Newton's presence at pes on November 10,2009 and the conditions that existed
at the office building at the time Newton was injured.

11.

TIle affidavit Defendant helped Newton draft was a legal document.

12.
Between April 2010 and October 21, 2010 while Defendant's license to practice
law was suspended, Defendant both communicated and met with Kudlate to discuss the affidavit
and revisions that she wanted made to the affidavit. Kudlate signed the affidavit on October 21,
2010.

13.
Defendant helped Newton obtain Kudate's affidavit to help Newton obtain
compensation for his injuries.
14.
Ne"wton retained The Olive Law Firm on December 10, 2010 to represent him in
recovering damages for his injuries sustained in the slip and fall incident.

15.

Defendant had worked for The Olive Law Firm from 1999 to 2004.

16.
Defendant was rehired by The Olive Law Firm in September 2012 and worked with
the film until Defendant's license to practice law was reinstated on January 25,2013. Defendant
continued to work with the finn after his license was reinstated.

17.
On or about October 3,2012, Newton filed a lawsuit against Kudlate and other
defendants based on the November 10, 2009 incident, Robert C. Newton and Joy Newton v.

Personnel Properties, LLC., Patlon Counseling Services, Inc., Patton COllnseling Charities, Inc.,
and Christine Kudlate, 12 CVS 4717 (Buncombe County) ("lawsuit").
18.

The lawsuit was signed by Lee Olive ("Olive") for The Olive Law Firm, P.A.

19.
Newton was deposed on February 27,2013 for his lawsuit. Defendant appeared
with Newton at Newton's deposition.

NCSB v. Goard, 18 DHC 11
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 2 of13

DONALD THOMPSON CASE
20.
Defendant signed a contingent fee contract on or about February 2, 2014 to
represent D.S. Thompson ("Thompson") conceming Thompson's potential claim arising from an
incident on January 15, 2014 that took place at Friends Sports Bar and Grill ("the bar") in Belmont,
North Carolina.
21.
Thompson told Defendant that the bar had a security video and that there was a
police report about the incident.
22.

Defendant told Thompson that Defendant would get a copy of the video and police

report.
Months passed and Thompson tried to contact Defendant about the progress of
Thompson's case but Thompson did not get a response from Defendant.
23.

24.
After approximately a year passed, Thompson was able to speak with Defendant
who told Thompson that the bar did not have any insurance. Defendant told Thompson that the
most Thompson could get was a judgment.

Thompson told Defendant he wanted to get a judgment but Defendant told
Thompson that Defendant was going to withdraw from Thompson's case.
25.

On or about March 18, 2015, Defendant distributed letters notifying medical
26.
providers that he no longer represented Thompson.
27.
On or about March 20, 2015, Thompson went to Defendant's office to get
Thompson's file. Defendant would not deliver Thompson's file to Thompson without Thompson
signing a statement acknowledging receipt of the file. Thompson refused to sign this
acknowledgement and left Defendant's office.

28.
After he contacted the State Bar's Attomey Client Assistance Program, Thompson
on March 31, 2015 received a copy of his file in the mail.
29.
Thompson filed a pro se action on April 6, 2015 against the bar in small claims
court, Thompson v. Friends Bar and Grill, 15 CVM 1376 (Gaston County).

30.

On or about May 12, 2015, Thompson settled his pro se action with the bar's

insurance company for $4,830.00.

31.

Thompson tiled a grievance with the North Carolina State Bar regarding
Defendant's conduct while handling Thompson's case. The grievance was assigned number
15G0319.
32.
In Defendant's response to the State Bar in 15G0319, Defendant stated that "the
bar went out of business and would not respond to our requests for insurance infoffi1ation."

NCSB v. Goard, 18 DHC 11
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of13

33.
The bar did not go out of business and as of the filing of the Complaint in this matter
the bar had an active web page and was in business.
34.
Defendant produced the file in Thompson's case with his response in 15G0319.
TIle file shows no substantial activity aimed at pursuing Thompson's claim after June 20, 2014.

DWICASES
35.
On June 3,2009, Defendant entered a plea of guilty to the offense of driving while
impalred ("DWI"), a violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. §138.l, in State v. James M Goard, 09CRS2915
(Gaston County). The offense took place on February 13,2009.
38.
On July 2, 2015, Defendant was charged with DWI in Rowan County, North
Carolina. On December 16,2015, Defendant entered a plea of guilty to the offense ofDWILeve12, a violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. §138.l, in State v. James M Goard, 15CR53743 (Rowan
County) and, among other sanctions, Defendant was placed on probation for 36 months.
39.
On February 6, 2016 at approximately 10:22 pm, Defendant was operating his
motol' vehicle on Interstate 85 near Charlotte. At or about that time, Defendant passed another
vehicle driven by RY.
40.
As Defendant moved his vehicle back into RY's lane of travel, his vehicle collided
with RY's causing Defendant's vehicle to roll several times.
41.

The collision caused RY's vehicle to spin out.

RY saw only one person in the vehicle Defendant was operating. According to RY,
42.
Defendant got Ollt of his vehicle and ran from the scene of the collision.
43.
As a result of the February 6, 2016 collision, Defendant was charged with DWI
reckless driving to endanger, driving while his license was revoked, and hit and run with property
damage by Trooper D. Bowen of the North Carolina Highway Patrol. The DWI case was State v.
James M. Goard, 16CR4452 (Mecklenburg County).
44.
Trooper Bowen saw Defendant at a hospital at or about 12:30 am on February 7,
2016 and 'observed that Defendant was unable to stand, had cuts and scrapes, and had
slurred/mumbled speech. Keys in Defendant's possession operated the ignition of Defendant's
vehicle left at the scene of the collision.

45.
Defendant admitted to Trooper Bowen that he was driving the vehicle and said he
didn't want to hutt anyone.
46.

A blood sample was obtained from Defendant following the collision.

47.
The State Crime Lab did an immunoassay drug screen of Defendant's blood. The
screen gave positive indications for benzodiazepines, opiates, cocaine metabolites, methadone and
oxycodone/oxymorphone.
NCSB 1'. Goard, 18 DRC 11

Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 ofl3

48.
The State Crime Lab's analysis of Defendant's blood confinned the presence of the
following substances: Benzoylecgonine (a metabolite of cocaine), alprazolam, oxycodone,
diazepam, nordiazepam, methadone and morphine.

49.

In the opinion of Trooper Bowen, Defendant was extremely impaired on the night

oft-he collision with RY's vehicle.
50.
On or about March 9, 2016, Defendant was served with a letter of notice in
grievance 15G0340. While that grievance addressed other conduct of Defendant, in Defendant's
April 20, 2016 response to grievance 15G0340 he added a section captioned "ADDITIONAL
DISCLOSURES" in which he discussed, in palt, the February 6, 2016 DWI charge.

5!.
In Defendanes response to grievance 1500340, Defendant stated that before the
February 6,2016 collision he went to a methadone clinic and was prescribed 70 mg of methadone.
Defendant was on the medication at the time of the collision.
52.
In Defendant's response to grievance 15G0340, Defendant further stated that
during the February 6,2016 collision he lost contfol of his vehicle and flipped six or seven times.
53.
Defendant's response to grievance 15G0340 further states that he was charged with
DWI, DWLR, careless and reckless driving, and leaving the scene of an accident arising from the
incident described in the "additional disclosure."
54.
On Of about August 28, 2017, Defendant was served with a letter of notice in
grievance 1600232 inquiring about the February 6,2016 DWI charge.
55.
In his response to grievance 16G0232, Defendant stated that at the time of the
collision he was riding in the passenger seat of his vehicle that was being driven by a friend when
his vehicle was struck by another vehicle.

56.

Defendant said his vehicle "flipped multiple times down interstate 85." The driver

ran from the scene of the collision and Defendant followed the driver down an embankment.
57.
Defendant committed the crime of OWl on February 6,2016, a violation ofN.C.
Oen. Stat. § 138.1.
58.
All criminal charges resulting from the February 6, 2016 collision were dismissed
because the lab rep0l1 was not available and the State's motion to continue was denied.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has jurisdiction over
Defendant, James M. Goard, and over the subject matter.
NCSB v. Goard, 18 DHC 11

Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 of13

2.
Goard's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds for
discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)

By assisting Newton with the drafting of an affidavit for Kudlate to be used
by Newton in his efforts to recover damages for his injuries, and by
communicating with Kudlate about an affidavit including discussing
revisions she asked to be made, all while his license to practice law in North
Carolina was suspended, Defendant engaged in the unauthorized practice of
law in violation of Rule 5.5(a);

(b)

By failing to timely respond to Thompson's requests for a progress report
about Thompson's case, Defendant failed to keep Thompson reasonably
informed about the status of the matter, and failed to promptly comply with
reasonable requests for information in violation.ofRule 1.4(a)(3) and (4);

(c)

By failing to timely communicate with Thompson or to take any action in
pursuit of Thompson's claim between July 2014 and March 2015, Defendant
failed to act with reasonable diligence in violation of Rule 1.3;

(d)

By telling Thompson the bar did not have any insurance, Defendant made a
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(e)

By stating in his response to the grievance inquiry that the bar went out of
business, Defendant made a misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(e);

(f)

By his conviction ofDWI in State v. James M. Goard, 09CRS2915 (Gaston
County), and his conviction ofDWI in State v. James M. Goard, 15CR53743
(Rowan County), and his commission ofDWI at the time of the February 6,
2016 collision, Defendant committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on
Defendant's fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b).

3.
Goard's conduct.. as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds for
discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3) in that:
(a)

By stating in his response to 1500319 that the bar went out of business,
Defendant made a knowing misrepresentation of facts surrounding a charge
of misconduct that was material to a disciplinary inquity; and

(b)

By stating in his response to 16G0232 that he was a passenger in his vehicle
and a friend was driving at the time of the February 6, 2016 collision,
Defendant made a knowing misrepresentation of facts sun'ounding a charge
of misconduct that was material to a disciplinary inquiry.

NCSB v. Goard, 18 DHC 11

Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of13

Additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
1.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 58 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.

2.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the profession and the public's
perception of the profession as Defendant's repeated acts of driving while impaired over an
extended period are documented in court files of his criminal cases and some were the subject of
media reports. The public expects that attorneys will abide by the law and Defendant's conduct
shows his disregard for his obligation to obey the laws of this State.

3.
Defendant's 1-85 DWI. taking place after he had been convicted of DWI in two
prior cases, involved a collision with another vehicle and Defendant fleeing from the scene to
avoid detection for his unlawful conduct.
4.
Defendant was on probation for a prior DWI conviction at the time he committed
the 1-85 DWI.

5. Defendant's past chronic substance ab1,.lse problem resulted in neglect of
Thompson's legal matter and denied Thompson the level of professional services he reasonably
expected when he agreed to hire Defendant as his attorney.
6.
Defendant's misrepresentations the State Bar during the grievance process
demonstrates Defendant's failure to participate in the self-regulation process which causes
significant harm to the profession and the public's perception of the profession.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In doing so, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB .0116(f)(1) and concludes that the following factors are present:
(a)
Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential hmm is
foreseeable;
(b)
or integrity;

circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness,

(c)
negative impact of the defendant's actions on client's or public' perception
of the profession;
(d)

effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties; and

(e)

acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

NCSB v. Goard, (8 DHC 11
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 of13

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B .01 16(f)(2) and concludes that the following factor is present but does not warrant
disbannent in this case given the totality of the circumstances:
(a)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in '27 N.C. Admin.
Code. IB .0116(f)(3) and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Dishonest or selfish motive;

(b)

prior discipline for criminal contempt in 01 CVD8298 (Mecklenburg

County);
(c)

a pattern of misconduct;

(d)

multiple offenses;

(e)

effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in questions;

(f)

effect of any personal or emotional disability or impail1nent on the conduct
in question;

(g)

submission of false evidence, false statements, or other deceptive practices
during the disciplinary process;

(h)

degree of experience in the practice of law; and

(i)
interim rehabilitation: since February 9, 2016, Defendant has been attending
AAlNAJCA meetings on a daily basis; all dmg testing of Defendant by the N.C.
Depattment of Public Safety since that date has been negative.
4.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the legal profession in that his
actions brought the legal profession into disrepute.

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser altematives and finds that a censure,
reprimand or admonition would be insufficient discipline becallse of the haml and potential
significant haon to Defendant's clients and the significant harm to the legal profession caused by
Defendant's conduct.
6.
The Hearing Panel finds that discipline short of suspension would not adequately
protect the public, would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the misconduct and would send
the wrong message to attomeys and the public about the conduct expected of members of the Bar
of this State.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact Regarding
Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following:
NCSB v. Goard, 18 DHC 11
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8ofl3

Order of Discipline

1.
Defendant, James M. Goard, is hereby SUSPENDED from the practice of law for
five (5) years, effective sixty (60) days after this Order of discipline is served upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than (30) days of the effective date of this Order.

3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0 l28 ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant
shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within thirty (30) days of
the cffecti ve date ofthis Order, certifying he has complied with the wind down provisions.
4.
Defendant shall obtain a mental health evaluation within thirty (30) days of the
effective date of this order by a licensed and qualified psychiatrist or psychologist ("mental health
professional") engaged by Defendant. The mental health professional Defendant engages to
perfonn this evaluation shall be approved in advance by the North Carolina State Bar Office of
COllnsel. Prior to the evaluation, Defendant shall sign an authorization consenting to the release
of all medical records and infonnation related to Defendant's evaluation to the Office of Counsel,
and Defendant shall not revoke that release. Defendant shall simultaneously provide a copy of
Stich signed authorization to the Office of Counsel and the mental health professional. Defendant
shall direct the evaluating mental health professional to provide a written report of such evaluation
and recommended treatment, if any, to the Office of Counsel within fifteen (15) days of the
completion of the evaluation and in no event more than forty-five (45) days of the effective date
of this Order of Discipline. Such evaluation shall contain an opinion as to whether Defendant is
suffering from any addiction, substance abuse, or mental, psychological, or emotional condition.
All expenses of such evaluation and repOlt shall be borne by Defendant.
5.
Defendant shall comply with all treatment recommendations of the evaluation
described in paragraph 4 above. Defendant shall sign an authorization consenting to the release of
any medical records and infonnation related to Defendant's treatment to the Office of Counsel,
and Defendant shall not revoke that release. Defendant shall simultaneously provide a copy of
such signed authorization to the Office of Counsel and his treatment provider. Defendant shall
direct his treatment provider to provide the Office of Counsel with a written repolt detailing
Defendant's treatment plan. Defendant shall also direct his treatment provider to provide the
Office of Counsel with quarterly written reports concerning Defendant's condition and compliance
with the treatment plan. Such reports shall be received by the Office of Counsel each January 1,
April I, July 1 and October 1 for the time covered by this Order of Discipline. Defendant shall
also comply with any and all requests from the Office of Counsel seeking updates on the status of
his ollgoing treatment within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such requests. All expenses of such
trerltment and reports shall be borne by Defendant.
6.
Defendant shall not possess, lise or consume any alcohol or controlled substances
or any prescriplion drugs othei' than as authorized by his treating physician and obtained with a
lawful prescription from a licensed pharmacy during the entire period of this suspension.

NCSB v. Goard, 1& DHC 11
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 9 of13

7.
Defendant shall enroll in FSSolutions professional monitoring program or othel'
service (hereinafter "monitoring program") agreed to in advance by the Office of Counsel of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this Order of Discipline.
Such monitoring shall be at Defendant's expense. Such monitoring will include random testing
[or alcohol and substances identified by the North Carolina State Bar. Such monitoring will
include at least thirteen (13) random drug screens per year for the period of this suspension.
Compliance shall include having no failures to test and having no positive test results that are not
consistent with proper authorized use of a prescribed medication. The monitoring agreement with
the monitoring program will require the monitoring program to report to the North Carolina State
Bar the following: any failure of Defendant to submit a required testing sample at a location
approved by the monitoring program when directed to do so by the monitoring program; any
failure of Defendant to pay for a test; any attempt by Defendant to alter the required testing sample
or impair the ability of the testing to detect alcohol, controlled substances andlor prescription
medicines in his testing sample; and any positive test result. Defendant will sign all necessary
releases or documents to allow such reporting and shall not revoke the release during the period of
monitoring.
8.
Defendant has chosen AA and/or NA as his treatment pl'Ogram(s). Defendant shall
attend at least five AA or NA meetings per week beginning ten (10) days from the effective date
of this order and work with a sponsor willing to make reports of Defendant's attendance to the
North Carolina State Bar. Within fifteen (15) days of the effective date of this order, Defendant
will notify the North Carolina State Bar of the identity and contact infonuation for the sponsor
with whom he will be working in the AA or NA program. Defendant will document his AA or
NA meeting attendance to his sponsor in any manner required by the sponsor. Defendant will
authorize and instruct his sponsor to provide monthly written reports to the North Carolina State
Bar of the dates on which the sponsor verified that Defendant attended AA or NA meetings. The
first such report shall be submitted to the North Carolina State Bar thirty (30) days from the
effective date of this order and subsequent reports submitted on the tenth (1 Olh) day of each month
thereafter. Any cost associated with the attendance or report shall be borne by Defendant.
9.
Defendant shall comply with all the tenus and conditions of any probationary
sentence he is serving and any court order modifying those terms or conditions.
10.
Defendant shall not violate the laws of the United States, any state, or the provisions
of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the pedod of his suspension.
11.
Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department advised
of his cunent home and business street (not P.O. Box) addresses and telephone numbers,
12.
Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for information as required by
Rule 8.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by the deadline stated in the communication.
13.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs ofthis disciplinary proceeding
within six (6) months of service of the statement of fees and costs upon him by the Secretary of
the 0101th Carolina State Bar.

NCSB v. Goard, 18 DHC 11
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 10 ofl3

14.
After serving an active suspension of two (2) years from the effective date of this
Order of Discipline, the remainder of the suspension may be stayed upon the filing of a motion
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB§ .0118(c) ofthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein and with paragraphs 2~13 above.
Defendant may file a motion for a stay up to sixty (60) days prior to the end of the two-year period
but 110 stay ofthe suspension shall be entered prior to the expiration of at least two (2) years ofthis
stlspension. If Defendant is granted a stay, the suspension of his law license shall be stayed only
so long as he complies and continues to comply during the period of the stay with paragraphs 512 above.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
15.
provided in paragraph 5-12 above. the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in 27
N.C.A.C. 18 §.0118(a) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
16.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason,
Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension by filing a petition
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0129(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Ru1es demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein as well as any requirements in the
order activating the suspension and the following requirements by clear, cogent) and convincing
evjdence establishing that:
ea)

Defendant submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary ofthe
~orth Carolina State Bar within thirty (30) days after the date of the order
lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;

(b)

Defendant complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § ,0128 of the
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following the order lifting the stay
and/or activating the suspension of his law license;

(c)

Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against him;

(d)

Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current address and notified the State Bar of any change in
address within ten (10) days ofsllch change;

(e)

Defendant responded to all communications from the North Carolina State
Bar within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the communication or by the
deadline stated in the communication;

(f)

Defendant timely complied with all State Bar membership and CLE
requirements, and timely paid all dues, costs, fees or assessments related
thereto; and

NCSB v. Goard, 18 DHC 11

Consent Order of Discipline
Page 11 of13

(g)

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States or of any state or local government during his suspension.

17.
If Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0128 at any point when
he is obligated to do so as a result of the discipline imposed in this case, Defendant shan reimburse
the State Bar for all expenses incuned by the State Bar in winding down his practice. Such
expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility fees, rent payments, moving expenses,
charges for secure disposal of client files, postage or other mailing expenses, and compensation
paid to any trustee and/or the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated with the trusteeship.
The State Bar shall send an invoice of wind-down expenses to Defendant's last known address of
record with the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he
has reimbursed the State Bar for all wind-down expenses incurred.

NCSB v. Goard, 18 DRC II
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 12 of 13

~

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
I~_dayof ~'s:\\
.2019.

~~t~
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

WE CONSENT:

O. Patrick Murphy, Dep
North Carolina State Bar
Attorney for Plaintiff

Defendant

Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

NCSB v. Goard, 1& DHC II
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 13 of 13

