FILED DHC

NORTH CAROLINA

'll..

';/
WAKE COUNTY

t'--.)

t:v

or

IIc't It 01 e~

BEFORE THE
[NARY HEARING COMMISSION

NORTH

CAR~~: STATE BAR
12DHC34

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

)
)
)

v.

)

ORDER OF orSCPLINE

)

JASON ALFRED MATTHEW GOLD, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)

On August 26, 2013, this matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, Ronald R. Davis, and Percy L. Taylor; with
A. Root Edmonson representing the North Carolina State Bar and Alan M. Schneider
representing the Defendant. Based upon the stipulated facts contained in the Pre-Hearing Order,
the panel finds the following facts were established by clear, cogent and convincing evIdence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and Is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. The defendant, Jason Alfred Matthew Gold (hereinafter "Gold"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on March 20, 2004 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State of North
Carolina.
3. During the times relevant to this complaint, Gold actively engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of Raleigh, Wake
County, North Carolina.
4. Ladwin Brissett and his wife, Courtnay Brissett, began investing in residential
properties in his wife's hometown of New Bern, NC.
5. In 2005, the City of New Bern advised the Brissetts that some of their investment
properties needed to be improved or the City would condemn the properties and tear down the
houses.

6. The Brissetts needed to borrow money to make the improvements to the properties.
Due to credit issues, the Brissetts were forced to seek non-traditional financing.
7. The Brissetts were referred to a broker at Labrador Financial Services, Inc. in Raleigh,
NC to get the loan they needed. Representatives of Labrador Financial Services, Tnc. arranged a
commercial loan for the Brissetts through First Mount Vernon Industrial Loan Association
("FMV") in Alexandria, VA.
8. Labrador Financial Services, Inc. referred the Brissetts to Gold in 2005.
9. On January 9, 2006, Gold closed the Brissetts' $230,000.00 loan from FMV.
10. The loan documents required that the Brissetts deed the properties securing the loan
to a Virginia limited liability company known as ProDev XVI, LLC ("ProDev 16") and the loan
would be made to ProDev 16. Courtnay Brissett was named as Manager of ProDev 16 and, as
Manager, would have a 40% ownership interest. Virginia lawyer John F. Gonzales
("Gonzales"), chosen by FMV and/or its lawyer Dale E. Duncan ("Duncan"), was the other
member of ProDe v 16 with a 60% ownership interest.
11. The loan documents required Courtnay Brissett as Manager to make all principal and
interest payments on the loan made to ProDev 16 when due and pay any taxes or other liens on
the properties. If the Manager was late or defaulted in any obligation, then Gonzales could call a
meeting at which, by majority vote, Courtnay Brissett would be removed as Manager and lose
control of the property she and her husband had deeded to ProDev 16.
12. As shown by the HUD-I for the $230,000.00 loan, the Brissetts (through ProDev 16)
only received $50,000 in loan proceeds that could be used to improve the properties. The
Brissetts paid $40,825.00 in settlement charges for the loan and FMV held back $127,343.37.
13. As the Brissetts' lawyer at the closing, Gold had a duty to adequately explain the
unusual terms of the commercial loan transaction to the Brissetts, including explaining the
consequences of signing the loan documents that had been prepared for the closing by Duncan.
14. Gold explained the costs and the risks of this unusual loan transaction involving a
non-traditional lender, transfer of their ownership of the properties with the risk of losing control
of the property to Gonzales, and the disadvantageous distribution of funds to the Brissetts at
closing.
J5. As also shown by the HUD-l, Gold's firm received $5,100.00 in fees from the
Brissetts for the January 9, 2006 closing, including $1,500 as a settlement fee, $2,225.00 for a
title search, $1,025.00 for title examination and $350.00 for deed preparation.

16, Gold failed to obtain Courtnay Brissett's signature on ten of the closing documents
that required Courtnay Brissett's signature.

2

17. After Courtnay Brissett left the closing, Gold signed her name to the ten closing
documents, with her knowledge and consent, including two ofthe documents that required her
signature to be notarized and three others that required her signature to be acknowledged by a
notary using the following (or very similar) legend:
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on January 9, 2006, before me, the
subscriber, a Notary Public in and for the State and County aforesaid,
personally appeared Courtnay T. Brissett (in handwriting), representative of
PRODEV XVI, LLC, known to me or satisfactorily proven to be the person
whose name is subscribed to the within instrument bearing the date of
January 9, 2006, and acknowledged the same to be her act and deed for the
purposes contained therein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official
seal.
18. After signing Courtnay Brissett's name to the five documents requiring notarization
or acknowledgment of her signature, Gold then signed the five documents as subscribing Notary
Public and affixed his seal. Notarizing or acknowledging documents that Courtnay Brissett had
not signed in his presence violated N.C. G. S. § IOB-20(c)(I).
19. Knowing that Courtnay Brissett had not signed two of the acknowledged documents,
Gold sent those documents to the Craven County Register of Deeds Office to be recorded.
Those two documents were recorded on January 11,2006. Those documents were:
A Commercial Loan Balloon Deed of Trust recorded in Book 2403 beginning at
pages II through 22; and
An Assignment of Contracts, Income, Leases, Rents and Profits recorded in Book
2403 at pages 23 through 34.
20. In addition to the two acknowledged documents that were recorded in the Craven
County Register of Deeds Office, Gold acknowledged Courtnay Brissett's purported signature on
a Business and Investment Affidavit that she had not signed.
21. In addition to the three acknowledged documents, Gold also notarized Courtnay
Brissett's purported signature on the following documents that she had not signed:
A Borrower Affidavit; and
A Document Correction Certification.
22. On March 5, 2007, the Brissetts filed a grievance against Gold with the North
Carolina State Bar alleging that Gold had failed to explain the legal documents at the January 9,
2006 closing. The grievance did not mention who had signed the closing documents. The
grievance was referred to the 10th Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee. In responding to
the investigating member of that committee, Gold indicated that Courtnay Brissett signed many

3

documents at the closing, but failed to disclose to the investigating member the material fact that
he had signed Courtnay Brissett's name to ten of the closing documents.
23. On September 9,2007 the Brissetts filed a civil action in Craven County Superior
Court, file number 07-CVS-I727, against FMV, Dale E. Duncan and Kathleen Neary, trustees
for FMV, ProDev 16,'and John F. Gonzales.
24. In or before May 2008, the Brissetts filed a claim with the NC Department of the
Secretary of State's Notary Enforcement Section claiming that Gold had notarized her signature
on the Document Correction Certification at the January 9, 2006 loan closing although she had
not signed the document.
25. On May 28,2008, Beverly Champion of the Notary Enforcement Section wrote to
Gold advising him that it had been alleged that Gold notarized Brissett's signature on the
Document Correction Certification of which Champion enclosed a copy of with her letter.
Champion asked for a response from Gold within ten days.
26. In Gold's June 10,2008 response to the notary complaint, Gold stated:
At closing the representative, Courtnay Brissett, signed numerous
documents relating to said loan. The document attached to the Notary
Complaint was acknowledged at closing by Courtnay Brissett.
27. By failing to disclose the material fact that he had signed Courtnay Brissett's name to
the Document Correction Certification that was the subject of the Notary Enforcement Section's
inquiry, Gold's response to the notary complaint was false or misleading.
28. On December 30, 2008, Gold was interviewed by Special Agent Daran R. Dodd of
the Notary Enforcement Section in Gold's office. During that interview, Gold told Dodd that
Courtnay Brissett was present at the closing and signed the Document Correction Certification.
Gold knew that statement was not true when he made it.
29. Gold did not communicate to the Notary Enforcement Section that he had signed
Courtnay Brissett's name to any of the documents relating to the January 9,2006 closing and had
notarized documents that Courtnay Brissett had not signed until October 20 II.
30. On January 16,2009, Gold signed a sworn affidavit for FMV in support ofFMV's
motion for summary judgment in civil action 07-CVS-1727.
31. Gold's January 16, 2009 affidavit contained false statements about Courtnay Brissett
having signed documents that Gold actually signed her name to, specifically:
(a)

Gold stated in paragraph \0:
In connection with such loan, Courtnay T. Brissett, as managing member of
ProDev XVI, LLC, executed a Deed of Trust dated January 9, 2006, wherein
4

Dale E. Duncan and Kathleen Neary, are Trustees, and First Mount Vernon is
Lender, in which all six of the Properties were granted as security for such
loan, such Deed ofTTUst being recorded in Book 2403, Page J J, Craven
County Registry.
(b)

After describing typographical errors he had made, Gold stated in paragraph 12:
In connection with the loan, Courtnay T. Brissett, as managing member of
ProDev XVI, LLC, executed a "Document Correction Certification" in which
she agreed to "immediately execute upon request any revision or correction
documents or forms as deemed necessary by the Lender or the Lender's
agent," including the correction or re-execution of any document "containing
typographical errors or omissions."

32. Gold signed the sworn January 16, 2009 affidavit knowing that it could be presented
to the Court for the Court to rely on in deciding the motion for summary judgment.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and the stipulated conclusions in the PreHearing Order, the hearing panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
I. All parties are properly before the hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission and the hearing panel has jurisdiction over Gold and the subject matter.
2. Gold's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(a) & (b)(2) in that Gold violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
at the time as follows:
(a)

by notarizing or acknowledging Courtnay Brissett's purported signature on
five closing documents despite the fact that she was not present and did not
sign those documents in his presence, Gold committed criminal acts in
violation ofN.C.G.S. § IOB-60(c) that reflect adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8A(b) and engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(b)

by representing to the investigating member of the lOth Judicial District's
Grievance Committee in response to the March 5, 2007 grievance filed by the
Brissetts that Courtnay Brissett signed many documents at the closing without
also revealing that he had signed Courtnay Brissett's name to ten of the
closing documents, Gold failed to disclose a fact necessary to correct a
misapprehension in violation of Rule 8.1(b);

(c)

by making a false or misleading statement in his June 10,2008 response to the
letter sent by Beverly Champion of the Notary Enforcement Section, Gold
5

engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);
(d)

by making a false statement to Special Agent Daran R. Dodd while being
interviewed on December 30, 2008, Gold engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(e)

by making false statements in his January 16,2009 sworn affidavit that was
filed with the Court in 07 -CVS-I727, which constituted perjury in violation of
N.C.G.S. § 14-209, Gold committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on
his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b)
and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the evidence
presented at the hearing, the hearing panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I. Gold compounded his initial offense of notarizing or acknowledging Courtnay
Brissett's purported signature on the five closing documents by not being forthright
regarding that offense.
2. Gold's lying to the Notary Enforcement Section of the Secretary of State's office
during its investigation of Gold's notary violation significantly harmed the ability of
the Section to protect the integrity of the notary process in North Carolina.
3. Gold's untruthful affidavit submitted to the court by FMV's lawyer caused the
litigation between FMV and the Brissetts to become more protracted once it became
known that the affidavit was false.
4. By making false statements in an affidavit that was submitted to the court, Gold
caused significant harm to the administration of justice.
5. A lawyer who makes false statements in an affidavit submitted to the court adversely
affects the public's perception of the legal profession.
6. Gold presented uncontroverted evidence of good character and reputation in
the form of testimony from a number of professional colleagues who have known him
since he became a lawyer, including an appellate court judge. These witnesses
convinced the hearing panel that the dishonest conduct at issue in this case was an
aberration from Gold's usual course of conduct.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
6

CONCLUSIONS OF LA W REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §

.Ol14(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes that the
following factors that warrant suspension or disbarment are present:
a. intent of Gold to commit acts where the harm or potential harm was
foreseeable;
b. circumstances reflecting Gold's lack of honesty, trustworthiness or integrity;
c. elevation of Gold's own interest above that of his clients;
d. negative impact of Gold's actions on his clients' and the public's perception
ofthe profession;
e. negative impact of Gold's actions on the administration ofjustice;
f. effect of Gold's conduct on third parties: and
g. acls of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication;
2. The Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §
.OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes that the
following factors that caused the panel to consider disbarment are present:
a. acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication: and
b. commission of a felony.
3. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §
.Ol14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes that the
following factors are present:
a. no prior disciplinary offenses:
b. a dishonest or selfish motive;
c. a pattern of misconduct:
d. multiple offenses;
e. full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and a cooperative attitude toward
the proceeding;

7

f. genuine remorse; and
g. good character and reputation
4. Gold caused significant harm to his clients, the administration ofjustice and the legal
profession.
5. The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline available and concludes
that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
offenses committed by Gold, the significant harm to his clients, the administration of
justice, and the legal profession, would not adequately protect the public, and would send
the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar.
6. Although it seriously considered the two disbarment factors present in this case, the
hearing panel was persuaded by the evidence indicating that Gold's dishonesty in
attempting to cover up his initial offense was an aberration from his usual course of
conduct. Accordingly, the panel concludes that disbarment is not necessary to protect
the public from future dishonest acts by Gold.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel
hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant, Jason Alfred Matthew Gold, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
in North Carolina for a period offive years effective immediately.
2. At any time two years after the effective date of his active suspension, Gold may file
a verified petition for a stay of the remaining term of his suspension pursuant to the
requirements of and the procedure for reinstatement from a suspension contained in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0 I25(b), upon a satisfactory showing that he has satisfied the
following conditions:
(a)

that he timely complied with the provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0124 of
the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

(b)

that he has not engaged in any conduct during his suspension that would
constitute a violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct if engaged in by a
North Carolina lawyer; and

(c)

that he paid the administrative fees and costs ofthis proceeding, including the
costs associated with the taking of his deposition, within 90 days of receipt of
the statement of fees and costs assessed by the Secretary.

8

3. Defendant may file a petition seeking a stay of the remaining suspension and
demonstrating compliance with the above requirements up to 30 days prior to the end
of the two year period, but shall not be reinstated until the end of the two year period.
4. If Gold successfully seeks a stay of suspension of his law license, such stay will
continue in force only as long as Gold complies with the following conditions:
(a)

Gold is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all
Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges that the State
Bar is authorized to collect from him, to include all judicial district dues, fees
and assessments;

(b)

That there is no deficit in Gold's completion of mandatory CLE
hours, in reporting of such hours, or in payment of any fees associated
with attendance at CLE programs;

(c)

Gold has kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his current
business and home addresses within ten days of any change; and

(d)

Gold has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or of any state or local government.

"/~ned by the Chair with the consent of the other members of the Hearing Panel this the

c;/{j
__ day of September 20 13.

~.J.~
Hearing Panel

9

