BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG0539

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
George F. Goosmmm, IV
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 21, 2011, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by S.W.
Pursumlt to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North
Carolina State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After
considering the information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice,
the Grievance Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as
"reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of
misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Gl;eVaI1Ce Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committec may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fOlm of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct mld has caused hanll or potential harnl to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this
case and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Since 1995, you represented S. W. and her husband's family LLC in more than 150
real estate transactions. S.W.'s signature appears on a deed of trust dated June 25, 2004
and on a deed dated August 20, 2004. S.W. did not sign the documents. You notarized the
documents without seeing the documents being signed, although you indicated that you
believed at the time that S.W. had signed the documents outside your presence.

N.C. Gen. Stat. §IOB-20(c)(I) provides:
(c) A notary shall not perform a notarial act if any of the following apply:
(1)

The principal or subscribing witness is not in the notary's presence at the time
the notarial act is perfomled.

Because you notarized documents supposedly signed by S.W. when neither S.W. nor a
subscribing witness was in your presence, you implemented a false jurat in violation of
Rule 8.4(c).
In deciding to issue this Reprimand, the Committee considered the following additional
facts. First, you have been practicing for over twenty years and have no prior disciplinary
actions. Second, S.W. suffered no financial harm because ofthe executed documents. The
underlying debt has been satisfied and a record of satisfaction was filed on the June 2004 deed of
trust. The deed executed in August 2004 conveyed property from S.W. and her husband back to
the family LLC in which they were members. That same property previously had been conveyed
by the fanlily LLC without consideration to S.W. and her husband for financing purposes with
the family LLC paying the indebtness. Third, it appears that you have performed a substantial
number of closings since 2004, llild the State Bar has not received any other grievances or
complaints in the intervening six years, or before that time, about you notarizing signatures for
others who were not in your presence. You had a long-standing professional and personal
relationship with S.W. [md the family and you allowed this relationship to affect your judgment
in this situation concerning the notarization ofthese signatures.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordllilce with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount
of $100.00 is hereby taxed to you.
,2011.

Done and ordered, this the

R6nald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/npm

-

