Ql\1(, \ \ ~ 13 141.);;r
(b
T
(){,.>

"..

c~ \::1'1

ftw;;.!.I!

'("1)

r

WAKE COUNTY

*'~

01'1
MAY2..

(0

In
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA '.~\.

;p

OW!,,;

'Ollic

,

FORE THE
INARY HEARING

~OMMISSION

/'/,0
,::;..':J OF THE
" ~~ CAROLINA STATE BAR
14DHC 5

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
GEORGE REXFORD GORE, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Renny W. Deese, and Scott A.
Sutton pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14 of the NOlth Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules. Plaintiff was represented by Deputy Counsel Margaret Cloutier.
Defendant, George Rexford Gore, appeared pro se. Defendant waives a formal heming
in this matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the fIndings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this order and to the discipline imposed. By conscnting to
the entry of this order, Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent order or
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the fIndings.
Based upon the pleadings and the admissions, and with consent of the parties, the
hearing panel finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organizcd under the laws of North Carolina and is the propcr pmty to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNOlth
Carolina and the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar
pr0111ul gated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, George Rexford Gore (also known as Rex Gore, membership
number 8780), was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on Augnst 19, 1979, and
was at all times refelTed to herein an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of

the North Carolina State Bar, and the Rules of Professional Conduct. On August 28,
2013, the Superior Comt of Brunswick County entered an order suspending Defendant's
law license for six montlls. On February 21, 2014, the Chair ofthe DHC filed a Consent
Order of Interim suspension suspending Defendant's license until the conclusion of all
disciplinary proceedings relating to this matter.
3.
At the times ofthe events alleged in this complaint, Defendant was
actively engaged in the practice oflaw in the State ofNortll Carolina and was the elected
district attomey for the Thirteenth Prosecutorial District.

4.
In 2005 Defendant hired Elaine Kelley ("Kelley") to serve as an assistant
district attomey in the Thitteenth Prosecutorial District.
5.
Defendant and Kelley entered into an agreement whereby Kelley, in
addition to salary, wonld be compensated by receiving reimbmsement from the NOlth
Carolina Administrative Office of the Conrts for mileage she did not incur.
6.
Defendant and Kelley agreed that Kelley would submit to the
Administrative Office of the Comts expense reports representing that each week she had
driven between the courthouses in Elizabethtown and Bolivia, NOlth Carolina, although
Defendant and Kelley knew that Kelley's duties would not require her to make that drive.
7.
After entering into this agreement with Defendant, Kelley suhmitted to the
Administrative Office of the Conrts sixty-three expense reports containing false
celtifications of mileage.
8.
Gore signed, 01' caused to be signed, each certification of mileage helow
the words "I have examined this reinlbmsement request and certify that it is just and
reasonabl e."

9.
Kelley received reimbursement of $14,190.39 fi'OIll the Administrative
Omce of the COUlts for mileage she had not driven.
Defendant facilitated and condoned Kelley's submission of these false
expense reports.
10.

Defendant instlUcted his administrative staff to facilitate Kelley's
submission of these false expense reports and receipt ofthe false reinlbursements.
11.

12.
On August 19, 2013, Respondent entered a plea of guilty to the criminal
offense of willful failure to discharge duties, a misdemeanor.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel enters the
following:

2

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinruy Hearing Commission and
llie Disciplinary Hearing COlmnission has jurisdiction over Defendant, George Rexford
Gore, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(1) and (2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules ofProfessional Conduct in effect at the time ofthe conduct as follows:
(a) By entering into all agreement with Kelley whereby Kelley would submit
false certifications for reimbursement of mileage she did not incur and
whereby Kelley would accept and retain funds as reimburscmcnt for mileage
she did not incur, Defendant knowingly assisted or induced another to violate
the Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 8.4(a), committed a
criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as
a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b), engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c), and engaged in conduct pr"judicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d); and
(b) By instructing Kelley to submit false certifications for reimbursement of
mileage she did not incur, by causing to be signed or signing each
certification, and by instlUcting his administrative staff to facilitate the false
certification, Defendant failed to ensure that a lawyer over which he had
supervisory authority confOimed to the Rules of Professional Conduct in
violation of Rule 5.l(b).
3.
In addition, Defendant's conviction in state court ofthe offense of willful
failure to dischru'ge d\lties constitutes misconduct and grounds for discipline in that such
conviction is a criminal offense showing professional unfitness pill'suant to N.C.G.S. §8428 (b)(I) ruld N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI15.

Based upon the pleadings and the adlnissions by consent of the parties, the
heruing panel also finds by clear, cogent ruld convincing evidence the following:

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant fully cooperated with the sm investigation of this matter and
freely admitted his conduct to the SBI, to the lawyers who prosecuted the criminal case, to
the court in the criminal case, to the Grievance Committee and to the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission.
2.
TIle cOUlt in the criminal action against Defendant imposed the following
sentence: 45 days incarceration, suspended; 12 months supervised probation until such

3

time as all monetary conditions are met, then transfer to unsupervised probation; fine of
$5,000.00 and court costs of $354.50; and suspension ofDefcndanl's law license for six
months. In suspending Defendant's law license for six months, the court specifically
stated that the suspension should not be interpreted as limiting or suggesting any specific
outcome of any Jhture independent State Bar proceedings.
3.
Defendant complied immediately with the monetary requirements of the
criminal judgment.
4.
Defendant has dedicated over 20 years of service to the State of North
Carolina as the District Attomey for the 13th prosecutorial district.
5.
Until recently, Defendant stated that he believed he had the authority to
"mler such an arrangement by virtue of his position as a constitutionally designated
elected official. However, Defendant now acknowledges that while he had statutory
authOlity over salaries and duty stations of the employees of his office, he did not have
the authority to approve travel reimbursement.for mileage that was not actually incurred
by the employees.
6.

Defendant has expressed sincere remorse and contrition.

7.
With the exception of the professional misconduct at issue in this case,
Defendant has demonstrated good character in his professional life.
8.

The misconduct at issue appears to be uncharacteristic of Defendaut.

9.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

10.
Defendant has not engaged in the practice of law since he was sentenced by
the court on August 19, 2013.
II.
Defendant's misconduct received public attention, causing significant harm
by bringing the legal profession into disrepute and significantly undermining the public's
confidence in the integrity of the justice system. As a prosecutor, Defendant was a
representative of the justice system and it was incumbent upon him to adhere to the highest
standards. At the time Defendant committed the misconduct described herein, Defendant
kncw or reasonably should have known that his actions could cause significant harm to the
profession and the administration of justice in the eyes of the public. As an elected official,
Defendaut was aware that his actions would play out in the public eye and that he had a duty
to ensure that his acts met the highest ethical standards.
12.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the difterent forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

4

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

The heming panel has also considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14(w)(1) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and determines that the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Defendant's intent to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm was foreseeable;

(b)

The circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack oftrustwOlthincss
and integrity;

(c)

The negative impact of Defendant's actions on the public's
perception of the profession; and

(d)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication.

2.
The hearing panel has considered the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
lB §.O 114(w)(2) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
determines that although some factors are present the circumstances of this case do not
warrant disbarment in order to protect the public.
3.
The hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. lB §.OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and determines that the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;

(b)

Defendant's pattem of misconduct;

( c)

That Defendant committed multiple offenses;

(d)

Defendant's full and free disclosure and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;

(e)

Defendant's remorse;

(f)

Other than the conduct at issue in this proceeding, Defendant has
demonstrated good character and judgment in his professional
career;

(g)

Defendant's years of cxperience in the practice oflaw; and

5

(h)

Imposition of other penalties or sanctions.

4.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of
discipline available to it. An admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be sufficient
discipline because of the gravity of the potential hano Defendant's conduct caused to the
public, to the administration of justice, and to the public's confidence in the justice
system and tbe legal profession.
,

5.
The panel detel1nines that discipline short of suspension would not
adequately protect the public, tbe legal profession or the administration of justice for the
following reasons:
(a)

The factors under Rule .0114(w)(1) that are established by the
evidence in this case are of a nature that support imposition of a
suspension as the appropriate discipline; and

(b)

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed
and would send the wrong message to attorneys and to the public
regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this state.

6.
Because Defendant has not engaged in the practice of law since August
2013 and is currently suspended, it is unnecessaJY for him to comply with the wind-down
provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of the North CaJ·olina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, George Rexford Gore, is hereby SUSPENDED from the
practice oflaw for four years efIective immediately upon the filing of this Order of
Discipline.
2.
Defendant shall receive credit toward satisfaction of the four year
suspension for the time since his law license was suspended by the court on August 19,
2013.

3.
Defendant shall surrender his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following filing of this
Order.

6

4.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding
within 30 days of service of the statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the
State Bar.
5.
After the completion of two years of active suspension of his law license,
which shall be deemed to have begun as of August 19, 2013, Defendant may apply for a
stay of the remainder of the suspension upon filing of a petition with the secretary at
least thirty days before any proposed effective date of the stay and demonstrating by
clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
(a)

Defendant has complied with the general provisions for
reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

(b)

Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home addresses
(not P.O. box) and notified the State Bar of any change in address
within ten days of such change;

(c)

Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar
within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;

(d)

That at the time of his petition for stay, Defendant is current in
payment of all Membership dues, fees, and costs, including all
Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges
the State Bar is authorized to collect from him, and including all
judicial district ducs, fees and assessments;

(e)

That at the time of his petition for stay, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) hours, in reporting such hours or in payment of any fecs
associated with attendance at CLE programs;

(f)

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the laws of the United States or any state or local government
during his suspension; and

(g)

Defendant has paid the costs and administrative fees of tllis
proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon him
by the Secretary of the State Bar within thirty days of receipt of the
statement of costs.

6.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies and continues to
comply with tlle following conditions:

7

(a)

Defendant shall timely pay all Membership dues, fees and costs,
including all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges
or surcharges that the State Bar is authorized to collect [rom him,
including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

(b)

Defendant shall timely complete all mandatory CLE hours, report
such hours, and pay any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;

(c)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the laws of the United States or of any state or local government
during his suspension;

(d)

Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Deprutment
advised of his current business and home addresses. Defendant
shall notify the State Bar of any change in address within ten days
of such change. His corrent business address must be a street
address, not a P.O. box or drawer; and

(e)

Defendant shall comply with such other and fiuther requirements
as may be imposed by any hearing panel that may grant a stay of
Defendllnt's suspension.

7.
If Defendant does not seek or fails to obtain a stay of the active portion of
the suspension, or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
lifted/revoked, De[cndantmust comply with the requirements of paragraphs 5(a)
through (g) above before being reinstated to the practice of law.
Signed by the undersigned Chai.l:-,'Yith the
e and consent of the other
members ofthe Hearing Panel, this ~-day of----"JJJI";jr--:--'i-" 2014.

red M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Consented to:
/

Margaret C outier, Deputy Counsel
Attomey for Plaintiff

8

