STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

WAKE COUNTY
IN RE:
ROBERT HARRISON GOURLEY, SR"
ATTORNEY

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N,c, Admin, Code I B § ,0118(g). Brian P.O. Oten
represented the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"). Robert Harrison Gourley, Sr.
represented himsel f. Based upon the information presented and with the consent of the member
and of the Office of Counsel, the undersigned makes the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar") is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
..,
Robert Harrison Gourley, Sr. ("Gourley"), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar on 16 August 1968 and is. and was at all times referred to herein. an attorney at law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein. Gourley was engaged in the practice of law in
the State of North Carolina and maintained a law omce in Statesville, Iredell County. North
Carolina.
4.
Gourley currently suffers frol1l extreme and debilitating back and spinal pain.
Gourley's condition limits his ability to sit or stand and inhibits his ability to concentrate.
Furthermore, Gourley sutlers tl'om various other significant medical co-morbidities which
prohibit corrective surgery for his debilitating back and spinal pain, thus making his condition
permanent and incurable. Gourley's health conditions require extensive medications which
detrimentally affect his cognitive capacity. As such, Gourley's present physical condition
significantly impairs his professional performance and competence as 2n attorney.
5.

Gourley voluntarily consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

6.

The State Bar consents to Gourley's transfer to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact. the undersigned makes the following

CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
I.
There is clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Gourley is disabled within the
meaning 01'27 N.C. Admin. Code I B § .0103(19).
2.

Gourley should be transferred to disability inactive status with the State Bar.

3.
Gourley and the State Bar voluntarily consent to Gourley's transfer to disability
inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01 18(g).
4.
disability.

The pending grievance against Gourley should be stayed during the period of

THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
I.

Robert Harrison Gourley, Sr. is transferred to disability inactive status.

2.
Gourley shall not practice law in North Carolina until he is no longer disabled and
has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to the
procedures set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125(c).
3.
The pending grievance against Gourley is hereby stayed during the period of
disability until such time as Gourley returns to active status. The State Bar may continue to
investigate allegations of misconduct and preserve evidence as necessary pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code I B § .0118(t).
This, the!f.JA day

Of~' 2012.

fVlargar

Grievance Committee
CONSENTED TO:

/?fJ1;r~

~.

Robert Harrison Gourley

Brian P.D. Oten
Deputy Counsel

2

