NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STA

~.s; t

Plaintiff. . ,

!

V.
J. BRANDON GRAHAM, Attorney,

CONSENT ORDER
OF INTERIM SUSPENSION

Defendant
THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Rearing
COlnmission (DRC) pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0119(b) by consent of the parties.
Upon consent of the parties and good cause shown, the undersigned hereby makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1, Defendant, J. Brandon Graham ("Graham"), was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in 2002, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subj ect to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. The current address of record for Graham with the North Carolina State Bar is 325 N.
Marietta Street, Suite 2002, Gastonia, NC 28052.
3. Graham pled guilty to felony possession of methamphetamine on October 1, 2018 in
Union County file State v. James Brandon Graham, 18CR051990.
4. Graham freely and voluntarily consents to entry of this Consent Order of Interim
Suspension.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned hereby makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0119(b) authorizes the Chair of the DRC to enter an order
suspending on an interim basis the law license of an attorney who pleads guilty to a
criminal offense showing professional unfitness in any state or federal court upon the
Chair's determination that there is a qualifying plea or conviction and that interim
suspension is warranted.
2. The offense to which Graham pled guilty is a criminal offense showing professional
unfitness as defmed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.OI03(17), and Graham's guilty plea is a

The North Carolina State Bar v. J. Brandon Graham
Consent Order of Interim Suspension

Page 1 ofl

qualifying plea to a criminal offense showing professional unfitness for which interim
suspension can be imposed.
3. It is appropriate to enter an order of interim suspension in this case.

THEREFORE, based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and
the consent of the parties, the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission hereby
enters the following:
ORDER

1. The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of 1. Brandon Graham is hereby
SUSPENDED pending the disposition of all disciplinary proceedings against Graham
related to his plea of guilty to a criminal offense showing professional unfitness in Union
County file State v. James Brandon Graham, 18CR051990.
2. Mr. Gtaham shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128.

This the _ _ day of..--.-J.~~~~___ 2019.

~c~
D011aidc:Prehtiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Commission

an M. Schneider
Counsel for Defendant

J9.:k::::;==

Counsel for Plaintift, The North Carolina State Bar

The North Carolina State Bar v. J. Brandon Graham
Consent Order of Interim Suspension

Page 2 of2

