BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG0758

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Nancy C. Green,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 20,2011, the GrievlU1ce Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinarj I-Iearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance COllli11ittee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You assisted United Financial Systems Corporation ("United Financial") in the unauthorized
practice oflaw when you prepared estate planning documents for United Financial clients after United
Financial non-lawyer representatives advised these clients that they needed an estate plan using certain
legal documents, usually a revocable living trust, and United Financial would furnish your services to
complete these documents. Your agreement to provide these services to United Financial clients
allowed United Financial to engage in the unauthorized practice of law and violated Rule 5.5(d). Also,
you shared a flat fee for estate plarming services with United Financial in violation of Rule 5.4(a). Your
duty ofloyalty to United Financial clients was compromised by your interest in continuing to receive
referrals from United Financial and created a conflict of interest in violation of Rule 1.7(a). Your

financial relationship witl1 United Financial was without the inforn1ed consent of United Financial
clients in violation ofRule 1.8(f).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depm1 from adherence to the
high ethical standards of ilie legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder m1d
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and ilie courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Conunittee, an administrative fee in the m110unt of$350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this 6th day of July, 2011.

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The N011h Carolina State Bar

