F\
WAKE COUNTY lUll JrJ!

t 2 P \: OS

NORTH CAROLTItf}:\,/t:: C;--)
~

ii I ..

j

1.

1"""",,

-

-~

C.S.C.
•

IN THE GENERAL COURTS OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
16 CVS 14668

,

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PETITIONER,

v.
CHRISTOPHER E. GREENE,
RESPONDENT.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior COUli of
Wake County. Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Carmen H.
Bannon. Respondent, Christopher E. Greene, was represented by F. Lane Williamson.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the court by
Greene, and the consent of the paIiies, the court makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Greene was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1998 and is, and
was at all times refelTed to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
2.
Petitioner, the NOlih Carolina State Bar, is a state agency vested with the
authority to regulate the practice of law in NOlih Carolina. The State Bar is the proper
party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
(Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the NOlih Carolina Administrative Code).
3.
Greene's address of record in the State Bar's membership database is:
5500 Executive Center Drive, Suite 222, Charlotte, North Carolina 28212.
4.
During all of the periods relevant hereto, Greene was engaged in the
practice of law in Mecklenburg County, NOlih Carolina.

5.
In and after 2011, Greene sent electronic messages to clients containing
sexual and sexually-suggestive subject matter during the existence of the attorney-client
relationship and had sexual relations as defined in Rule of Professional Conduct 1.19(d)
with clients during the existence of the attorney-client relationship. Several of these
clients with whom he had sexual relations are currently his clients, and all of these clients
were immigration clients and were especially vulnerable.
6.
Greene desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in North Carolina.
7.
Greene's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result
of coercion or duress. Greene is fully aware of the implication of submitting his
resignation.
8.
Greene acknowledges that the material facts upon which the investigation
is predicated are true.
9.
Greene has submitted his resignation because he knows that if disciplinary
charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could not
successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties, the
cOUli makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
Greene's conduct violates North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct
1.7, 1.19, 8.4(d) and 8.4(g).
2.
Greene's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
3.
The cOUlis of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary
action against attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
4.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person of Christopher E. Greene and
over the subject matter of this proceeding.
5.

Greene has engaged in professional misconduct wananting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.
Carolina.

Christopher E. Greene is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North

2.
Oreene shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter
I, Subchapter B, Section .0128 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and shull surrender hh; license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina SMe Bal' Rlong with tho affidavit required by § .0 [28.
3.
Greene shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
cxpinltion of at IOflst fIve (5) years from the effective date ofthis order.
4.
Greene's lnw license shall not be reinstated until he hus demonstrutcd to
the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Coul1cil ofthc NOI'th
Cnrolinu Stute Bar that he hils complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chnpter I,
Suhclmptel' B, Section .0129.
5.

Tht! costs of this actiDn arc taxed against Groene,
4"-

:s

Done am.! Ordered this ~ duy of

d

G,-,"", '-'--'--"-...-'

,2017.

,Superior
C>£),h~
Judge PreSlding
COllrt

CONSENT TO BY:

L
. ~al1t

WHlimnson
Attorney for Respondent

~j&.~
ClIrmen II. Bannon

Deputy Counsel, North Carolilll\ State Bar
Attolllcy t(.1r Petitioner

WAKE COUNTYzun

JFIN 12 P I;
,~,

C

as

IN THE GENERAL COURTS
OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
16 CVS 14668

r'

"--'1\).\-"',
FJ\}

wI

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PETITIONER,

v.
CHRISTOPHER E. GREENE,
RESPONDENT.

)
)
)

)
)
)
)

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LA W LICENSE

Christopher E. Greene, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as f01lows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section
.0117 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation. I affirm that I
have obtained the advice and counsel of an attorney before submitting this Affidavit.

3. I am aware that there is pending an investigation regarding allegations that in and after
2011, I sent electronic messages to clients containing sexual and sexually-suggestive
subject matter during the existence of the attorney-client relationship, that I had sexual
relations as defined in Rule of Professional Conduct 1.19(d) with clients during the
existence of the attorney-client relationship, that several of these clients with whom I had
sexual relations are currently my clients, and that all of these clients were immigration
clients and were especially vulnerable.

4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.

5. I IIIn submitting my resignation bccauHe 1know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the miSC011dllct undel' invc!o1tigntion, I could not successfully det~nd
against them.

ThiR the

r\~~ dlly of __r:......:...~.:...·_V._fH"'-1.J...-...~_ _ ,2017 .

~.

~

1\\<3!k\€1\8{JY~ .

\1

.
Ct . . ., Notary Public of the County of
Stllte of North Carolina~ ccrti hat Christopher E. Greene personally appeared before me
this day, was swoml attested thnt the foregoing Amdnvit is tmc und (lCCLJrate ofhi~ own
p~i'solml knowlcdg~, und executed the foregoing AffidAvit.

. I, -

Sworn 10 and subscribed bet()l'(~ me

l'hiSfhej1)dny of\Jil1l&:J..Y¥

dkk: 1/, ) )7C{('/IfJ
Notary Public

My Commisshm Expire;;:

~? t'l I

.1

201 7,

