.'

.

~\,\\% 1920;/<,,1
./:::,>"\
.... '0>,
~
A, 11"
'P'
I'rJ
'I'/4R.3
':}
,
'0/1/ d\. BEFORE THE
STATE OF NORTH CAROL
Cfl,

WAKE COUNTY

'YL!!DD D
'/fa ff1

0'.{' f'I
'if Ii jt

£: t

IPLINARY HEARING
COMMISSION
§:!
OF THE
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
14 DHC 2

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

MICHAEL H. GRIFFIN, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Ronald R. Davis, Chair, Renny W. Deese, and Randy Moreau.
Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant,
Michael H. Griffin, appeared pro sc. Defendant waives a formal hearing. The parties
stipulate and agree to the findings offact and conclusions oflaw recited below. The
parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to entry ofthis
order, Defendant knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this order
or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings of fact or conclusions of law or
the propriety of the discipline imposed.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General
Statutes, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Michael H. Griffin ("Griffin" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 19, 1979, and is, and was at all times refened to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the
State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

14DHC2
Page J of9

-----

------_ .. _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ . _ - -

3.
During the relevant periods referred to herein, Griffin was engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Shelby,
Cleveland County, North Carolina.
4.
Griffin maintained a general attorney trust account with BB&T bank,
account number ending 9623 (hereinafter "trust account").
5.
Griffin maintained the trust account for his general practice that consisted
mainly of real estate transactions and personal injury matters.
6.
account.

On 3 February 2010, Griffin was the subject of a random audit of his trust

7.
The random audit showed deficiencies in Griffin's management of his
trust account including: failure to maintain proper client ledgers, failure to provide
annual accountings to clients for whom he held funds in trust for more than twelve
months, failure to perform quarterly or monthly reconciliations of the trust account,
failure to promptly disburse client funds and disbursing for the benefit of one client funds
held in trust for the benefit of another client.
8.
Griffin had previously been the subject of two prior random audits: one in
January 2003 and one in September 2006. Like the February 2010 audit, the September
2006 audit showed that Griffin failed to reconcile his trust account and failed to provide
annual accountings to clients.
9.
An investigative audit of Griffm's trust account was conducted after the
February 2010 random audit.
10.
The results of the investigative audit confirmed the existence of the
deficiencies found during the February 2010 random audit and showed that the
deficiencies in Griffm's trust account were a consequence of Griffin's poor record
keeping and failure to reconcile his trust account.
II.
In the following instances, Griffm disbursed more funds for clients than he
held in the trust account on their behalf:
(a)T. Glover -$123.27 on or about 24 March 2008;
(b) K. Lynch -$110.00 on or about 25 April 2008;
(c) D. McDonald -$146.00 on or about 23 February 2009;
(d) M. Frost -$64.1 8 on or about 17 April 2009;
(e) H. Ingram -$9.00 on or about 13 July 2009; and,
(f) G. Cabaniss -$8.59 on or about on 29 December 2009.

14DHC2
Page 2 of9

12.
In the following instances, Griffin advanced funds for clients before
making the deposit into the trust account on their behalf:
(a) 1 October 2008 - $100.00 to J. Bell;
(b) 16 December 2008 - $23.00 to Cleveland County Register of Deeds for
D. Bridges;
(c) 3 February 2009 - $11,727.15 to B. Evans;
(d) 3 March 2009 - $146.00 to Clerk of Court for V. Agosto; and
(el 3 March 2009 - $156.00 to Clerk of Court for R. Boone.
13.
In eight instances, Griffin failed to timely disburse funds to clients or to
third parties on their behalf.

14.
On or about 24 February 2010, Griffin disbursed from the trust account
fees to himself in the amount of $1,938.94 and failed to list on the face of the check the
client balances from which these fees were drawn.
15.
The fees and expenses that Griffin disbursed from the trust account to
himself on or about 24 February 2010 had been held in the trust account for more than a
year.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Michael H. Griffin, and over the subject matter.
2. Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated
the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a.

By failing to maintain accurate client ledgers, Griffin failed to
maintain minimum records for accounts at banks in violation of
Rule 1.15-3(b);

b.

By failing to provide each client with a written accounting of his or
her trust account balance at least annually, Griffin failed to render
to the client a written accounting of the receipt and disbursement
of all trust funds at least annually when the funds were maintained
for more than a year in violation of Rule I-J5-3(e);

14DHC2
Page 3 of9

c.

By failing to reconcile his trust account, Griffin failed to perfonn
monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his general trust account
in violation of Rnle 1.lS-3(d);

d.

By disbursing funds for the benefit of clients for whose benefit he
did not hold funds in trust and by disbursing more funds for the
benefit of clients than he held in the trust account on said clients'
behalf, Griffin used entrusted property for the personal benefit of
persons other than the legal or beneficial owners of that property in
violation ot'Rule 1.1S-2(j);

e.

By failing to timely to disburse client funds for eight clients,
Griffm failed to promptly deliver client property in violation of
Rule 1.1S-2(m);

f.

By failing to list on the trust account check for $1,938.94 the
names of the client balances from which the fees and expenses
were drawn, Griffin failed to indicate on an item payable to the
lawyer the client balance from which the item was drawn in
violation of Rule 1.1S-2(h); and

g.

By failing to promptly withdraw his legal fees and expenses from
his trust account, Griffin failed to maintain entrusted funds
separate from his personal funds in violation of Rule I.1S-2(a).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Griffin's clients were vulnerable in that they entrusted their funds to Griffin to
be disbursed on their behalf according to their instruction.
2. Griffin has no prior discipline.
3. There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of Griffin.
4. Griffin cooperated with the State Bar during its investigation and prosecution
of this case.

14DHC2
Page 4 of9

. _ - - - - - - - - - - - _ . ---

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I. The Hearing Panel has considered all of factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§ .Oll4(w)(I), the Rules and Regulations ofthe State Bar, and concludes that the
following factors that warrant suspension are present:
(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable; and
(b) Negative impact of the defendant's actions on clients' and public's perception
of the profession.
2. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .OI14(w)(2), the Rules and Regulations ofthe State Bar, and concludes that no
factors that warrant disbarment are present.
3. The Hearing Panel has considered all the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. I B

§ .OI14(w)(3), the Rules and Regulations ofthe State Bar, and concludes that the
following are applicable in this matter:
(a) No prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
(d) Vulnerability of the victims;
(e) Multiple offenses; and,

(t) Defendant has been licensed to practice law for approximately thirty years.
4. Defendant's misconduct resulted in potential significant harm to his clients by
placing entrusted client funds at risk of misapplication and misappropriation.
5. Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage and handle entrusted funds
betrays a vital trust that clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal profession.
6. The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including: censure,
reprimand and admonition, and fmds that discipline less than suspension would not
adequately protect the public from Defendant's future misconduct because (i) ofthe
gravity of potential significant harm to clients, and (ii) lesser discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the violations committed by Defendant and would send
14 DHC 2
Page 5 of9

- - _ .......

__ . _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of
this state.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline,
and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I. Defendant, Michael H. Griffin, is hereby suspended from the practice oflaw
for two years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Griffin.
2. Defendant shall pay, within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and
costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative fees and costs of this
proceeding.
3. The two year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Defendant complies with the following conditions:
(a) Griffin pays the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as assessed
by the Secretary of the State Bar within 30 days of service of the statement of
fees and costs upon him.
(b) Griffin shall provide to the State Bar monthly the three-way reconciliation of
all attorney trust accounts to which he has access using the reconciliation
method described in the State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook, rev.
05120 II, pages 34 - 43. In addition to the three-way reconciliation report,
Griffin shall provide (i) client ledgers for each client whose funds are held in
the trust account during the month covered by the submitted report, (ii) ledger
for any personal funds maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit
card fees, (iii) the generalledger(s) of any trust account to which Griffin has
access, and (iv) the bank statement, canceled checks and deposit slips for any
trust account to which Griffin has access.
(c) Griffin shall provide any other records requested by the Office of Counsel
within ten days of the request.
(d) Within six months of the effective date of this order, Griffin shall complete
the trust account continuing legal education (CLE) course taught by NC State
Bar Trust Accounting Compliance Counsel Peter Bolac (usually titled "Trust
Accounting Rules" or "Trust Accounting Rules: Avoid the Pitfalls.") This
CLE requirement is in addition to the CLE requirements set out in 27
N.C.A.C. ID § .1518.

(e) Griffin shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business and home addresses. Griffin shall notify the State Bar of any
change of address within ten days of such change. Any address Griffin

14DHC2
Page 6 of9

provides to the State Bar as his current business address must be a street
address, not a post office box or drawer.
(f) Griffin shall respond to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within 30 days
of receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner.

(g) Griffin shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute rcsolution
process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective date of
this order.
(h) Griffin shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and CLE
requirements.
(i) Griffin shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or any state or local government.
4. Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order
of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the effective
date of the Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending
alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to
§ .0114(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion
or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of
the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise
have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay ofthe
suspension and activate the 2 year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any ofthe
conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
5. If Griffin fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out above
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay ofthe suspension may be lifted in accordance
with 27 N.C.A.C 1B § .0114(x).
6. If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order imposing such
conditions as it deems proper for the reinstatement of Griffin's license at the end of the
suspension. Additionally, Griffin must establish the following by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence prior to being reinstated to the practice of law after any period of
active suspension:
(a) Griffin submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary ofthe
State Bar within 30 days of the date of the order lifting the stay and lor
activating the suspension of his law license;

14 DHC2
Page 70f9

~-~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-

~-~---

(b) Griffin complied with the provisions of 27 N.C.A.C IB § .0124 of the State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules tollowing entry of the order lifting the
stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
(c) Griffin timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against him in
this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the
Secretary of the State Bar;
(d) That within 15 days of the effective date of the order activating the suspension
Griffm provided the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which
clients seeking return of files can communicate with Griffin and obtain such
files;
(e) That Griffin promptly provided client files to all clients who made a request
for return of their files;

(1) Griffin has kept the State Bar Membership; Department advised of his current
business and home street address within ten days of such change;
(g) Griffin has responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within 30 days
of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is

sooner;
(h) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Griffin is current in payment of
all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments, and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to
collect from him, including all judicial district dues and assessments;
(i) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Griffin's
completion of mandatory CLE hours, in reporting of such hours or in payment
of any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;
(j) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Griffin has completed the trust
account CLE course taught by NC State Bar Trust Accounting Compliance
Counsel Peter Bolac (usually titled "Trust Accounting Rules" or "Trust
Accounting Rules: Avoid the Pitfalls. "); and
(k) Griffin has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or any state or local government.
7. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(x) until all conditions of the stay of suspension are
satisfied.

14 DHC 2
Page 8 of9

.'

~

.

st

SignedM tite Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members this the
.(>\ day of
ft~c...t\ ,2014.

dMJA~IPMt1t.CIfrhI2-

Ronald R. Davis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

14DHC2
Page 9 of9

