STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

WAKE COUNTY

,I.
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,---F<-==~
Plaintiff

v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

ROBERT E. GRIFFIN, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Joshua W. Willey, Jr., Chair, and members Donald C. Prentiss
and Michael S. Edwards, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .OI14(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter.
Defendant, Robert E. Griffin ("Griffin"), was represented by Robert J. Lane, III. Both
Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Griffin consents to entry of
this order of discipline and freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the
entry of this order.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
Findings of Fact

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, Robert E. Griffin ("Griffin"), was admitted to the NOith
Carolina State Bar in 1977 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.

4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Griffin was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Fuquay-Varina, Wake County, North Carolina.
5.
During all ofthe relevant periods referred to herein, Griffin maintained an
attorney trust account, account number ending in 0243, and an operating account, account
number ending in 9349, at Fidelity Bank.
6.
In May 2009, Israel Ojimadu consulted with Griffin regarding a worker's
compensation case that Ojimadu was defending before the Industrial Commission.
7.
Ojimadu paid Griffin $300.00 for the consultation and for Griffin to obtain
a continuance of the upcoming hearing before the Industrial Commission set for June 15,
2009.
8.
Griffin had W.P., his non-attorney assistant, contact the assistant for the
Deputy Commissioner assigned to the case to ascertain the procedure for requesting a
continuance. Griffin drafted a motion to continue the case that was submitted to the
Deputy Commissioner during this dialogue, but Griffin did not sign the motion, did not
file the motion, and did not serve the motion on opposing counsel.
9.
In the course of W.P.'s dialogue with the assistant for the Deputy
Commissioner, the assistant informed W.P. that they needed to submit a proposed order
with the motion. The Deputy Commissioner's assistant faxed to Griffin's office a sample
proposed order on June 11,2009.
10.
The sample order said that the motion for continuance was granted and the
hearing was continued.
11.
Griffin and W.P. claim to have mistaken the sample order as the actual
order from the Deputy Commissioner.
12.
W.P. told Ojimadu by telephone that the hearing was continued and that
he did not need to go to the Industrial Commission hearing on June 15,2009.
13.
Although Griffin had failed to actually file a motion to continue, the
Deputy Commissioner issued an order on June 12, 2009 denying the motion to continue.
14.
The order denying the motion to continue was served by the Industrial
Commission upon counsel for the plaintiff in the case. The order was opposing counsel's
first notice that Griffin was seeking a continuance on behalf of Ojimadu.
15.

Ojimadu's case was heard on June 15,2009.

16.
Neither Ojimadu nor Griffin was present for the Industrial Commission
hearing on June 15,2009.

-2-

17.
At the request of the Deputy Commissioner, opposing counsel called
Griffin's office before the hearing began on June 15, 2009 regarding the absence of
Ojimadu and Griffin. Opposing counsel spoke with W.P.
18.
Opposing counsel told W.P. that the hearing was about to begin. W.P.
said Griffin was in disposition court. W.P. said she would get in touch with Griffin.
19.
W.P. contacted Griffin and told him that the hearing in Ojimadu's case
was going forward that day. Griffin told W.P. that he would take care of it.
20.
Griffin did not contact Ojimadu on June 15, 2009 to notify him that the
Industrial Commission hearing was being held.
21.
Griffin did not instruct W.P. to notify Ojimadu on June 15, 2009 that the
Industrial Commission hearing was being held.
22.
Griffin did not appear at the hearing or otherwise contact the Deputy
Commissioner or her assistant on June 15, 2009 to notify the Deputy Commissioner that
he thought the hearing was continued.
23.
Griffin did not instruct W.P. to contact the Deputy Commissioner or her
assistant on June 15, 2009 to notify the Deputy Commissioner that they thought the
hearing was continued.
24.
Griffin did not take any mitigating or corrective action after notice that the
hearing was proceeding to achieve the object of his representation of Ojimadu, to wit: a
continuance of the June 15,2009 hearing.
25.
Griffin did not take any mitigating or corrective action after notice that the
hearing was proceeding to achieve a result comparable to the object of his representation
of Ojimadu, such as requesting the setting of a hearing on a later date on which Ojimadu
would be given the opportunity to present evidence in defense of him and his company.
26.
Griffin did not notify Ojimadu on June 15, 2009 or after that Ojimadu's
case was heard on June 15th •
27.
Ojimadu discovered that the hearing had been held when he received an
order from the Deputy Commissioner stating that the case was heard on June 15, 2009
and providing 30 days for the parties to submit contentions and a proposed opinion.
On or about July 13, 2009, Ojimadu talked with Griffin regarding the
28.
Industrial Commission case.
29.
Ojimadu retained Griffin to negotiate with opposing counsel and the
Attorney General's office regarding the amounts awarded against Ojimadu and his
company at the June 15, 2009 hearing.

-3-

30.
Griffin required a deposit of $1,500.00 from Ojimadu, which was to be
deposited into Griffin's trust account and billed against at the hourly rate of$150.00.
31.
Ojimadu gave Griffin a check for $1,500.00 as an advance for Griffin's
legal fees, to be billed against as described above and as set out in the Hourly Fee
Agreement signed by Ojimadu and Griffin on July 13,2009.
32.
Griffin failed to deposit Ojimadu's $1,500.00 into his trust account at the
time he received the check from Ojimadu.
33.
Griffin subsequently gave the check to W.P., who deposited Ojimadu's
$1,500.00 into Griffin's operating account.
34.
Griffin became aware that Ojimadu's entrusted funds had not been
deposited into his trust account when subsequent counsel for Ojimadu requested deposit
documentation in about July 2010.
35.
Griffin had expended Ojimadu's $1,500.00 for Griffin's own use and
benefit by the time he became aware that these entrusted funds were in his operating
account rather than his trust account.
36.
Griffin had not earned $1,500.00 in fees in the representation of Ojimadu
entered into on July 13, 2009 at the time he expended Ojimadu's entrusted funds for
Griffin's own use and benefit, or at any time thereafter.
37.
Ojimadu had terminated Griffin's representation in August 2009. At the
time of the telmination ofthe representation, Griffin had earned no more than $202.50 in
fees.
38.
Griffin failed to deposit his own funds into his trust account to replace the
balance of Ojimadu's entrusted funds and failed to take any other measure to replenish
Ojimadu's entrusted funds.
39.
Griffin did not return the unearned fees to Ojimadu until after a deputy
counsel and an investigator from the State Bar met with Griffin in February 2012.

In addition to Griffin failing to notify Ojimadu that the hearing on June 15,
40.
2009 was proceeding, and then that it had occurred, Griffin failed on several occasions
throughout June and July 2009 to return calls from Ojimadu.
41.
At the time Griffin was retained by Ojimadu for negotiation services in
July 2009, Ojimadu's Industrial Commission case was still pending. The Deputy
Commissioner had not yet filed the final order in the case.
42.
While the Industrial Commission case was still pending, Griffin engaged
in ex parte communications with the Deputy Commissioner about substantive issues in
the case, including the issue of whether Ojimadu and his company had the requisite
insurance.

- 4-

43.
Griffin did not notify opposing counsel that he would be engaging in this
ex parte communication with the Deputy Commissioner.
44.
Griffin sent the Deputy Commissioner an ex parte e-mail by way of her
assistant, dated July 27,2009, stating that he had been retained to assist Ojimadu and his
company in a settlement of the case and asking her to hold off on the final order until the
parties reached an agreement on settlement.
45.
Griffin did not copy opposing counsel on this e-mail or otherwise
simultaneously provide him a copy of this communication.
46.
In November 2008, Otis Mims brought his mother, Julia Mims, to
Griffin's office.
47.
Otis Mims asked Griffin to prepare a deed by which Julia Mims would
give certain property to Otis Mims.
48.
Griffin, with the assistance of W.P., prepared a deed transferring the
property at issue from Julia Mims to Otis Mims and oversaw Julia Mims' execution of
the deed.
49.

The property at issue consisted of several acres of land.

50.
It was Griffin's understanding that Julia Mims was giving the subject
property to Otis Mims as a gift and that Otis Mims was not paying Julia Mims for the
property.
51.
Although Julia Mims signed the deed in November 2008, Griffin did not
record the deed until March 2010.
52.
At the time Griffin recorded the deed in 2010, he caused excise taxes in
the amount of $20.00 to be assessed and reflected on the deed.
53.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-228.30, an excise tax is levied on each
instrument by which any interest in real property is conveyed to another person at the rate
of $1.00 per $500.00 (or fraction thereot) of the consideration or value of the interest
conveyed.
54.
This tax is not assessed upon transfers of an interest in real property by
gift or if no consideration is due or paid by the transferee to the transferor, pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-228.29.
55.
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-228.32 requires that the person who presents an
instrument transferring an interest in property for registration must report to the Register
of Deeds the amount oftax due. N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-228.32 imposes a duty upon such
person to report the correct amount of tax due.

-5-

56.
$20.00 in excise taxes on the deed from Julia Mims to Otis Mims indicates
that Otis Mims had paid Julia Mims approximately $10,000.00 for the property.
No discussion of Otis Mims paying Julia Mims any money in exchange
57.
for the land occurred in Griffin's presence while Julia Mims was at his office for the
preparation and execution of the deed.
58.
Griffin did not receive or disburse funds for the transfer of the property
from Julia Mims to Otis Mims.
59.
Griffin did not have nor had he received any documentation or objective
evidence establishing that $10,000.00 was paid to Julia Mims for the property when he
recorded the deed.
60.
Griffin had the $20.00 of excise tax affixed on the deed as a result of the
instructions of Otis Mims. Griffin had no information or knowledge of whether Julia
Mims received consideration for the property conveyed to Otis Mims when he recorded
the deed.
61.
During the course of his law practice from at least 2007 through 2012,
Griffin failed to promptly remove earned fees from his trust account, including but not
limited to in the following clients' matters: Joseph Barnes; Charles Tharrington; Jagdeep
Dutta; Patricia Barnhouse; Mary Barnhouse; and Mary Barnhouse Trust.
62.
Instead of disbursing his full fee to himself, Griffin made disbursements
to himself in smaller amounts overtime, attributed as fees from these clients' cases.
63.
In the course of incrementally disbursing fees to himself from the Dutta
case, Griffin collected a total amount of fees that exceeded the fee to which he was
entitled.
64.
In his law practice from at least 2007 through 2012, Griffin deposited
mixed funds into his operating account instead of his trust account, including but not
limited to funds in domestic or civil cases that included money for future filing fees and
funds in traffic cases that included money for future court costs and fines.
65.
During the course of his law practice from at least 2007 through 2012,
Griffin failed to promptly deposit entrusted funds into his attorney trust account,.
66.
During the course of his law practice from at least 2007 through 2012,
Griffin failed to engage in actions required by the Rules of Professional Conduct to
properly maintain entrusted funds, including but not limited to the following;
a. Griffin did not maintain a general office ledger for his trust account;
b. Griffin did not compare the balance of a general office ledger for his hust
account with the bank statement balance each month; and

-6-

c. Griffin did not total individual client balances and compare that total with
the balance of a general office ledger for his trust account and with the
bank statement balance each quarter.
67.
During the course of his practice from at least 2007 through 2012, Griffin
delegated various trust account duties to W.P., including but not limited to the following:
creating and maintaining client ledgers; preparing trust account checks for disbursements;
preparing trust account checks to disburse attorney fees; depositing checks into the
appropriate account (operating or trust account); and reconciliations of the trust account.
68.
Griffin failed to adequately supervise W.P. in the performance of these
delegated duties. Griffin's failure to supervise W.P. in the performance of these duties is
reflected in various resulting deficiencies, including but not limited to the following:
a. No general office ledger was maintained;
b. The monthly and quarterly reconciliations were not performed in the
manner and with the frequency required by the Rules of Professional
Conduct;
c. W.P. deposited $1,500.00 in entrusted funds from Ojimadu into the
operating account instead of the trust account;
d. Griffin failed to realize Ojimadu's $1,500.00 was not deposited into the
trust account until counsel for Ojimadu requested deposit documentation
approximately a year later; and
e. An amount in excess of Griffin's fee was disbursed to Griffin for fees in
the Dutta case.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By failing to communicate to Ojimadu that the hearing was occurring on
June 15,2009, by failing to communicate to Ojimadu that the hearing had
been held on June 15,2009, and by failing to respond to multiple attempts
by Ojimadu to communicate with him, Griffin failed to keep the client
reasonably informed about the status of the matter in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3) and failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

-7-

b. By failing to notify the Deputy Commissioner, either directly or through
staff or through opposing counsel, that Ojimadu was not present at the
hearing because Griffin thought the hearing had been continued and his
office had so notified Ojimadu, and thus permitting the Deputy
Commissioner to proceed with a hearing with incomplete procedural and
substantive information and under circumstances likely to generate
subsequent litigation, Griffin engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
c. By failing, after notice that the hearing was proceeding and then after
notice that it had been held, to take any action to achieve the goal for
which he had been retained, to wit: obtaining a continuance for a future
date at which Ojimadu could present his defense, Griffin failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation
of Rule 1.3;
d. By failing to refund the unearned portion of the $1,500.00 of advance fees
provided to him by Ojimadu upon termination of the representation,
Griffin collected a clearly excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a) and
failed to take steps to protect his client's interests upon termination of the
representation in violation of Rule 1.l6(d);
e. By failing to deposit Ojimadu's $1,500.00 advance fee deposit into his
trust account, Griffin failed to hold and maintain entrusted funds separate
from his property in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and failed to deposit trust
funds into his trust account in violation of Rule 1.15-2(b);
f. By failing to reimburse to and maintain in his trust account the unearned
balance of Ojimadu's $1,500.00 after he realized the $1,500.00 had been
deposited into his operating account, Griffin failed to hold and maintain
entrusted funds separate from his property in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a)
and failed to deposit trust funds into his trust account in violation of Rule
1.15-2(b);
g. By expending, and allowing the expenditure of, Ojimadu's $1,500.00 from
Griffin's operating account for Griffin's own purposes and benefit during
a period of time when Griffin was not entitled to the entire $1,500.00,
Griffin used entrusted property for the benefit of himself and persons other
than the legal or beneficial owner of that property in violation of Rule
1.15-2(j);
h. By causing the public record to indicate that Otis Mims had paid Julia
Mims approximately $10,000.00 for the property transferred by the deed
Griffin recorded when Griffin had no knowledge, information, or
documents showing that Julia Mims received that amount in exchange for
the property, Griffin failed to fulfill his statutory duty to accurately report

-8-

the excise tax owed and thus ensure the accuracy of the public record and
thereby engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8A(d);

i. By failing to promptly disburse all earned fees to himself, Griffin failed to
segregate and maintain property belonging to Griffin separate from
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (f) and failed to
promptly pay entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);
j. By disbursing to himself as attorney's fees more than the amount to which
he was entitled to collect as an attorney's fee in the Dutta case, Griffin
collected a clearly excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a) and failed to
properly maintain and disburse entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.152(a) and (m);
k. By failing to deposit into the trust account amounts received that included
entrusted funds such as funds for future court filing fees or court costs and
fines, Griffin failed to deposit mixed funds intact into the trust account in
violation of Rule l.l5-2(g);

I. By failing to promptly deposit entrusted funds into his trust account, such
as entrusted funds received from Ojimadu, Griffin failed to properly
deposit and maintain entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and
(b);
m. By failing to supervise W.P. in the deposit and disbursement of entrusted
funds, such that Ojimadu's entrusted funds were deposited into the
operating account and Dutta's funds were improperly disbursed, Griffin
failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure his non-attorney assistant's
conduct was compatible with his professional obligations in violation of
Rule 5.3(b); and
n. By delegating to W.P. the responsibility to maintain required trust
accounting records, including delegating to W.P. the responsibility to
perform monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust account, and by
failing to adequately supervise W.P. therein, Defendant failed to conduct
the requisite monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust account in
violation of Rule l.l5-3(d) and failed to make reasonable enorts to ensure
his non-attorney assistant's conduct was compatible with his professional
obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(b).
Upon the consent of the pmties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
Defendant received an admonition in 1981 for failure to attend or advise
client to attend a hearing and failing to file a reply to a counterclaim.

-9-

2.
Defendant received a 6 month suspension in 1989 for arranging for the
execution and notarization of a client's signature at a time when the client was deceased
and settling a matter without the consent of the estate of the deceased client.
3.
Defendant received a reprimand in 2005 for failing to comply with the
result of binding fee arbitration and for trying to suggest he had not agreed to binding
arbitration when he had signed an agreement to participate in binding arbitration.
4.
Although the evidence in this case does not establish intentional
misappropriation, the failure to promptly disburse attorney fees in full and the failure to
conduct proper reconciliations created conditions under which the inadvertent
overdisbursement offees from Dutta's funds and the conversion of Ojimadu's funds were
foreseeable.
5.
Allowing client funds to be improperly maintained or disbursed, even if
inadvertent, places entrusted funds at risk and erodes the confidence clients place in
attorneys who handle their affairs. As a result, such conduct harms the profession as a
whole.
6.
Clients trust the attorneys they retain to act in their best interests. Griffin
betrayed this trust when he failed to take or direct any action to try to preserve Ojimadu's
opportunity to present his defense, including but not limited to alerting the Industrial
Commission of their understanding that their hearing had been continued or alerting
Ojimadu that the hearing was proceeding.
Ojimadu lost his opportunity to present his defense in his case before the
7.
Industrial Commission. This loss was the foreseeable result of Griffin's failure to act or
direct action to protect Ojimadu's interests upon learning that the hearing was
proceeding.
8.

Griffin cooperated with the State Bar's investigation.

9.
Griffin agreed to cease handling entrusted funds and consented to the
injunction filed in Wake County Superior Court on November 7, 2012 which enjoined
him from handling entrusted funds.
10.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this casco
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth

- 10 -

Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
a. Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
b. Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on his clients' and
the public's perception ofthe legal profession;
c. Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
d. Impairment of client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation;
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. 18 §.0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. 18 §.0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. Prior disciplinary offenses;
b. Remoteness of prior offenses;
c. Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
d. Indifference to making restitution;
e. Multiple offenses;
f. A pattern of misconduct;
g. Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;
h. Remorse;
i.

Vulnerability of the victims; and

j. Experience in the practice of law.
4.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.

- 11 -

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
suspension followed by a period of stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant
complies with necessary conditions to avoid significant harm or the potential for
significant harm to clients. For the protection of his clients and the public, it is necessary
to monitor his trust account management and his law practice for a period of time in the
form of a stayed suspension to ensure compliance with the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order of Discipline

1.
Defendant, Robert E. Griffin, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for three years.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. The State Bar will send Defendant a statement of costs and
fees to his address of record with the State Bar. Defendant shall pay the amount assessed
within thirty days of the date on the statement of costs and fees.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit certifying he has
complied with the wind down rule with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar
within 60 days of the effective date of this order.
4.
After serving six (6) months of the active suspension of his license,
Defendant may apply for a stay of the remaining period of suspension upon filing a
petition demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that, in addition to
complying with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules, Defendant has complied with the following conditions:
a. Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

- 12 -

b. Defendant kept the Membership Depaltment of the State Bar informed of
his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his
suspension;
c. Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period ofthe suspension;
d. Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his suspension;
e. Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding continuing
education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of his
petition for reinstatement;
f.

Defendant provided, with his petition, an accurate three-way reconciliation
as described in the State Bar Lawyer's TlUst Account Handbook for all
trust accounts maintained by him at the time his suspension was activated.
Defendant shall use the form prepared by the State Bar's TlUst Account
Compliance Counsel, which will be provided to him by the Office of
Counsel, for this purpose. Defendant shall provide the three-way
reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with funds in the trust
account(s), ledger for any personal funds maintained in the tlUst
account(s) for bank or credit card fees, his trust account ledger, and the
bank statements, cancelled checks, and deposit slips corresponding to the
reconciliation. The reconciliation will cover the 3 months immediately
preceding the activation of the suspension and will accurately reflect the
current status of funds and client funds in his trust account(s);

g. Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;
h. Defendant did not violate any laws of the State ofNOlth Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the suspension; and

i. Defendant paid all costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.
5.
If any part of the three-year suspension is stayed, the stay will remain in
effect only while Defendant complies with the following conditions:
a. Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's

- 13-

Trust Account Handbook for all trust accounts maintained by him.
Defendant shall use the fonn prepared by the State Bar's Trust Account
Compliance Counsel, which will be provided to him by the Office of
Counsel, for this purpose. Defendant shall provide the three-way
reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with funds in the trust
account(s) during that month, ledger for any personal funds maintained in
the trust account(s) for bank or credit card fees, his trust account ledger,
and the bank statements, cancelled checks, and deposit slips for each
month. These documents are due on the 15th day of the following month for example, the three-way reconciliation for the month of January is due
on February 15;
b. Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA audit his trust accounts and
operating accounts. Defendant will be responsible for any associated
costs. This audit shall assess whether Defendant has in his ttust account
the client funds he should be maintaining for his clients at that time, as
well as Defendant's compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The
CPA's audit shall include addressing the items on the Accountant
Checklist for Probation Cases which will be provided by the State Bar to
Defendant. The quarterly audit reports from the CPA are due no later than
30 days after the end of the quarter - for example, the CPA audit for the
first quarter ofthe calendar year (January, February, and March) is due on
April 30;
c. If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit
reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the
date of the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall
provide documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar
within 2 days of the date of the remedial action;
d. Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel to
provide any information regarding his trust accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to
obtain information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a
trust account, by the deadline stated in the request;
e. Within the first year of the stayed period of suspension, Defendant shall
complete four hours of continuing legal education in the area of trust
account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar.
At least one such session shall be taken before the end of the next calendar
quarter (Le., by March 30, June 30, etc.) following the entry of this order
and at least one such session shall be the Trust Accounting Rules
Continuing Legal Education Program taught by Peter Bolac, Trust
Account Compliance Counsel for The North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE
courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the courses. These

- 14-

four hours are in addition to the continuing legal education requirements
set out in 27 N.C.A.C. ID § .1518;
f.

Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel with a quatterly report that
includes the following information for each client matter that was pending
during the quarter: client name and contact information; the type of client
matter; the status of the client matter; all actions taken for the client during
the quarter. This report is due no later than 30 days after the end of the
quarter - for example, the client report for the first quarter of the calendar
year (January, February, and March) is due on April 30;

g. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current physical business address (not a Post
Office box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notify the Bar
of any change in address within ten (10) days of such change;
h. Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina
State Bar;

i. Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated
therein with full and complete responses and all requested documentation;
j. Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;
k. Defendant will pay all membership, Client Security Fund, and any other
related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable deadline;

I.

Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the stay;

m. Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the period ofthe stay; and
n. Defendant paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within thirty days of the date on the statement of costs and fees.
6.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to § .01l4(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC
retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a
motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the
stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would
otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of
the suspension and activate the three year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that

- 15 -

any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and
Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until
resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
7.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
8.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing a petition pursuant to § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein as well as the
following requirements by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
a. Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
b. Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of
his current infotmation for his physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his
suspension;
c. Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of the suspension;
d. Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his suspension;
e. Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding continuing
education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of his
petition for reinstatement;
f.

Defendant completed four hours of continuing legal education in the area
of trust account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar in the 12 months immediately preceding his petition for
reinstatement. These four hours are in addition to the continuing legal
education requirements set out in 27 N.C.A.C. ID § .1518. At least one
such session shall be the Trust Accounting Rules Continuing Legal
Education Program taught by Peter Bolac, Trust Account Compliance
Counsel for The North Carolina State Bar;

- 16 -

g. Defendant provided, with his petition, an accurate three-way reconciliation
as described in the State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook for all
trust accounts maintained by him at the time his suspension was activated.
Defendant shall use the form prepared by the State Bar's Trust Account
Compliance Counsel, which will be provided to him by the Office of
Counsel, for this purpose. Defendant shall provide the three-way
reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with funds in the trust
account(s), ledger for any personal funds maintained in the trust
account(s) for bank or credit card fees, his bust account ledger, and the
bank statements, cancelled checks, and deposit slips corresponding to the
reconciliation. The reconciliation will cover the 3 months immediately
preceding the activation of the suspension and will accurately reflect the
current status of funds and client funds in his trust account(s);
h. Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;

i. Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the suspension; and
j. Defendant paid all costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.
9.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay of
the suspension are satisfied.
/ ~-!2.igned byt~e Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the

dayofU-U.,[jus r

2014.

a W. Willey, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

- 17 -

Consent Order of Discipline, The North Carolina State Bar v. Robert E. Griffin
13 DHC 20
Agreed and consented to by:

Robert J. Lane, III
Attorney for Defendant

- 18 -

Date

