STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
V. LAMAR GUDGER, III, Attorney,
Defendant

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS AND
STAYING DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDING

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
(hereinafter "DHC") composed of Barbara B. Weyher, William O. King, and Randy A. Moreau.
Leanor Bailey Hodge represented the North Carolina State Bar. V. Lamar Gudger, III
represented himself. Both parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of
law recited in this consent order and to the transfer of Defendant to disability inactive status.
Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any right to appeal the entry of this consent order
transferring him to disability inactive status.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar") is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
V. Lamar Gudger, III (hereinafter "Gudger") was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar on 23 August 1986 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional
Conduct ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State of North Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Gudger was engaged in the practice oflaw in
the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Asheville, Buncombe County, North
Carolina.
4.

The Complaint in this action was filed on 19 January 2016.

5.

Gudger accepted service of the Summons and Complaint on 3 February 2016.

6.
On or about 6 October 2015, C. Pamela Lowe-Hoyt, M.D. of Hendersonville,
N.C. submitted a letter to the State Bar concerning Gudger's chronic mental and physical health
issues.

Page 1 of2

a.

The letter of Dr. Lowe-Hoyt asserts the following about Gudger's then
existing condition: Gudger suffers from major depressive disorder as
well as attention deficit disorder;

b.

Gudger's condition began to worsen in October 2014;

c.

Gudger has difficulty retaining information, sustaining attention,
relating to others, and is incapable oftolerating the stress associated
with day-to-day work related activities;

d.

Gudger's ability to manage his depression and attention deficit
disorder is compounded by poorly controlled diabetes;

e.

Gudger has not responded well to medication or therapy, making his
prognosis poor.

7.
On or about 18 September 2015, Gudger filed a disability claim with the Social
Security Administration due to diabetes, lack of stamina, memory loss, difficulty focusing,
ADHD, depression, anxiety, vision loss, forgetfulness and disorientation.
8.
On or about 5 January 2016, the Social Security Administration determined that
Gudger is disabled.
9.

Gudger is currently on disability status with the Social Security Administration.

10.
During the pendency of the disciplinary matter, additional documentation has
been submitted by Gudger and Dr. Lowe-Hoyt indicating Gudger's condition and prognosis have
not improved.
11.
Gudger's mental and physical condition significantly impair his performance and
competence as an attorney.
12.

Gudger requests and consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

13.

The State Bar consents to Gudger's transfer to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the DHC and the DHC has jurisdiction over
Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Gudger is disabled within the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0103(19)
and should be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.0118 and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g).
3.
Any proceeding pending before the Grievance Committee or before the DHC,
including this matter, should be stayed as long as Gudger remains in disability inactive status
NeSB v. Gudger, 16 DHC 7
Consent Order Transferring Member to Disability Inactive Status
Page 2 of3

pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0118(e). If Gudger is returned to active status by the
DHC, this disciplinary proceeding will be rescheduled by the Chair ofthe DHC.
ORDER
1.
V. Lamar Gudger, III is hereby transferred to disability inactive status in
accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g) and 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0118(d)(5).
2.
Gudger shall not practice law in North Carolina until he is no longer disabled and
has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to the
procedures set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125(c).
3.
AlI proceedings pending before the Disciplinary Heming Commission against
Gudger are stayed until such time as Gudger is reinstated to active status.
4.
This order shalI be effective immediately upon entry pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code lB § .0118(d)(5)(A).
ir with the consent of the other
Signed b
day of _ _----t~""'-+_--' 2016.

ing Panel members, this t h e ,

CONSENTED TO:

Leanor Bailey Hodge
Deputy Counsel

NeSB v. Gudgel', 16 DHC 7
Consent Order Transferring Member to Disability Inactive Status
Page 3 of3

Is}-

