'.

,

,

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
Fll-mll'fGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
ROYDERA D. HACKWORTH, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D. Michael, Chair, Walter E. Brock, Jr., and Bradley Lail
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114 ofthe Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina
State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian P.D. Oten and
Joshua T. Walthall. Defendant, Roydera D. Hackworth, was represented by John M. Kirby.
Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the
entry of this order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant waives any right to appeal this
consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel hereby makes, by clear, cogent
and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated therein.
2. Defendant, Roydera D. Hackworth ("Defendant" or "Hackworth"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on 22 March 1997 and is, and was at all times referred to herein,
subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar and the laws ofthe State of North Carolina.
3.
During a portion ofthe relevant periods referred to herein, Hackworth was actively
engaged in the private practice of law in the city of Greensboro, Guilford County, North
Carolina,

4.
During a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, Hackworth was
suspended from the practice of law pursuant to the Disciplinary Hearing Commission's Order of
Discipline in case no. 12 DHC 3.
5. In or around August 2011, Clint Aleong ("Aleong"), an Alabama resident, retained
Hackworth for representation in a personal injury liability claim resulting from an August 2011
car accident inAlabama.
6. Immediately after being retained by Aleong, Hackworth informed the opposing
party's insurance company that she represented Aleong in the personal injury liability claim.
7.
Alabama.

Hackworth was never and is not currently licensed to practice law in the State of

8.
Hackworth's representation of Aleong was not permissible under the provisions of
Rule 5.5 of the Alabama Rules of Professional Conduct that allow for certain limited
representations in Alabama by attorneys admitted and in good standing in jurisdictions other than
Alabama.
9.
On 17 and 18 May 2012, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the North
Carolina State Bar ("DHC") held a hearing in the case North Carolina State Bar v. Roydera D.
Hackworth, case no. 12 DHC 3.
10. At the conclusion of the May 2012 hearing, the DHC suspended Hackworth from
the practice of law in North Carolina for a period of four years, with the opportunity to apply for
a stay after serving one year of active suspension time.
11.

The suspension of Hackworth's license was effective on 17 August 2012.

12. Hackworth continued to represent Aleong in his personal injury liability claim after
being suspended from the practice of law in North Carolina.
13. Hackworth never informed the insurance company that she was suspended from the
practice oflaw.
14. Hackworth continued to hold herself out to all parties as being able to provide the
services of an actively licensed attorney after being suspended from the practice of law in North
Carolina.
15. On or about 1 February 2013, Hackworth resolved Aleong's personal injury
liability claim by negotiating a settlement between Aleong and the opposing party's insurance
company.
16. Hackworth's actions in continuing to represent Aleong after being suspended from
the practice oflaw in North Carolina gave the insurance company the impression that Hackworth
was a licensed attorney who was able to represent Aleong through the duration of the personal
injury liability claim.

, ,

17, On 27 February 2013, the State Bar opened a grievance against Hackworth
regarding her representation of Aleong, grievance file no. 13G0156.
18. On 6 June 2013, the State Bar sent Hackworth a Letter of Notice regarding
grievance file no. 13G0156. Hackworth responded to the State Bar's Letter of Notice regarding
13G0156 on or about 18 June 2013.
19. In her response to the State Bar's Letter of Notice in grievance file no. 13G0156,
Hackworth stated she had contacted the Alabama State Bar about her representation of Aleong,
and that the Alabama State Bar confirmed her eligibility to represent Aleong in the state of
Alabama regarding his personal inj ury liability claim.
20. Hackworth did not contact the Alabama State Bar about her representation of
Aleong prior to engaging in the representation.
21. Although Defendant contacted the Alabama State Bar after the representation had
concluded, the Alabama State Bar did not confirm Hackworth's eligibility to represent Aleong in
the state of Alabama regarding his personal injury liability claim.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Roydera D. Hackworth, and over the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By representing Aleong in a personal injury liability claim arising out of a car
accident in Alabama,. Hackworth engaged in the unauthorized practice of law
in violation of Rule 5.5(a);
b. By holding herself out as a licensed attorney and by continuing to represent
Aleong in his personal injury liability claim after being suspended from the
practice of law, Hackworth engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in
violation of Rules 5.5(a) and 5.5(b)(2);
c. By portraying herself to the opposing party's insurance company as a licensed
attorney able to represent Aleong in his personal injury liability claim through
resolution of the liability claim, Hackworth engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and
d. By falsely claiming in her response to the State Bar's Letter of Notice that she
had contacted the Alabama State Bar and confirmed her ability to represent
Aleong in his personal injury liability claim in Alabama, Hackworth made a
false statement of material fact in connection with a disciplinary matter in

violation of Rule 8.l(a) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant was previously suspended pursuant to the Order of Discipline issued
by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission in case no. 12 DHC 3 dated 22 June 2012. The basis
for discipline in the 2012 Order of Discipline consisted of mismanagement of entrusted funds.
The 2012 Order of Discipline suspended Defendant for four years, with Defendant being allowed
to apply for a stay of the remaining portion of the suspension after one year. Defendant has not
yet applied for a stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline in case no. 12 DHC
3.
2.
Defendant's client in the present case - Clint Aleong - is Defendant's nephew.
Defendant undertook the representation primarily to assist a family member and Defendant did
not receive any type of payment for the services she provided to Aleong. Although Defendant's
actions violated the Rules of Professional Conduct, Defendant did not have a selfish or dishonest
motive in undertaking the representation.
3.
Defendant misrepresented her professional status when she held herself out to the
insurance company as able to provide legal services in Aleong's personal injury liability claim.
4.
Defendant made a misrepresentation to the North Carolina State Bar when she
indicated that she sought and received the Alabama State Bar's approval of her representation of
Aleong.
5.
Defendant's conduct caused potential significant harm to Aleong as well as the
insurance company and other parties involved in the car accident by engaging in and facilitating
settlement negotiations that were improper and potentially ineffectual because she was not an
attorney licensed to practice law in Alabama or any other jurisdiction subsequent to the effective
date of the Order of Discipline in case no. 12 DHC 3.
6.
Defendant's conduct in the present action demonstrates Defendant's continued
disregard for and lack of respect for the Rules of Professional Conduct and the orders issued by
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. Such disregard interferes with the State Bar's ability to
regulate its members and protect the public. Moreover, it undermines the profession's privilege
to remain self-regulating.
7.
Defendant's conduct caused potential significant harm to the standing ofthe legal
profession in the eyes of the public in that such conduct by attorneys erodes the trust of the
public in the profession. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the
reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal
profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.

8.
Defendant, who was licensed to practice law in North Carolina in 1997, has
substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and determines the following factors are applicable:

a. Defendant's prior disciplinary offenses in North Carolina;
b. Defendant's lack of a dishonest or selfish motive regarding her representation of
Aleong;
c. Defendant's submission of false evidence, false statements, or other deceptive
practices during the disciplinary process; and
d. Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes that although acts ofdishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication are
present in this case, disbarment is not necessary in order to protect the public.
3.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0114(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and determines the following factors warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
a. Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
b. Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's perception
ofthe legal profession;
c. Defendant's conduct had a potential adverse affect on third parties; and
d. Defendant's conduct included acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or
fabrication.
4.
The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline and concludes that
any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses
committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the public, and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and to the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar.

5.
Due to the misrepresentations described in the present action as well as the
significant potential harm resulting from Defendant's conduct, the hearing panel concludes that
active suspension of Defendant's license for a significant and set period of time is the only
discipline that will adequately protect the public from future transgressions by Defendant, that
acknowledges the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed, and that sends a proper
message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of
this State. Such active suspension should run concurrently with the active suspension presently
imposed by the Order of Discipline in case no. 12 DHC 3.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of Defendant, Roydera D. Hackworth, is hereby suspended for 5
years. This Order shall be effective upon filing, and the suspension shall run concurrently with
the terms of the suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline in case no. 12 DHC 3.

2.
Defendant has already submitted her membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar. .Defendant has also complied with the wind down provisions
contained in Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located
at 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124.
3.
Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within 90 days of service of the statement of costs upon her.
4.
At the end of the 5 year active period of suspension, Defendant may apply for
reinstatement by filing a petition with the DHC in accordance with the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules and by showing by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that
she has complied with the following conditions for reinstatement:
a. That she has complied with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules;
b. That she satisfied the reinstatement requirements set forth in the Order of
Discipline in case no. 12 DHC 3 andlor any other subsequent order of this
Commission, the Court, or the State Bar Council;
c. That she completed twelve hours of ethics-related continuing legal education,
with such courses being approved in advance by the Office of Counsel;
d. That she obtain a passing grade on the Multistate Professional Responsibility
Exam (MPRE) within 6 months of her application for reinstatement;
e. That she has paid all membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments and
that there is no deficit in her fulfillment of any obligation of membership;

f. That she has kept the North Carolina State Bar membership department advised of
her cun'ent physical home and business addresses and telephone numbers (not a
P.O. box), and that she has accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina
State Bar and responded to all letters of notice and requests for infonnation from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or
within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such communication, whichever is sooner;
g. That she ha~ not violated any state or federal laws or any provisions of the Rules
of Professional Conduct; and
h. That she has timely paid all costs and administrative fees associated with this case
as assessed by the Secretary.
5.
Defendant may file a petition seeking reinstatement pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .0125 up to 30 days prior to the end of the 5 year period but shall not be reinstated
prior to the end ofthat 5 year period.
Signed by the Chair with the consent ofthe other hearing panel members, this the
day of
,2014.

ft,vc::...-.---:=

L._.~

t ven D. Michael, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Brian P.D. Oten
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Defendant

o
Counsel for Defendant

