NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
I I G0035

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

)
James E. Hairston, Jr.
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 26, 2012 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
ConU11ission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You are a principal of your law firm. Since 2006, you and your firnl have maintained a
professional relationship with disbarred attorney Craig McGannon. Over the course of this
relationship, McGannon has refelTed numerous clients to your firm. Additionally, your firm
significantly integrated McGannon into your firm's identity and daily operation by allowing
McGannon to work in your law office, by issuing business cards to McGannon under the fiml

name, and by providing McGannon with a firm-specific email address without verifying
McGannon's professional status. McGannon used these firm resources at his discretion and
without supervision.
In 2008, McGannon referred C.S. to your firm, and C.S. retained your firm for
representation in a domestic matter. You allowed McGannon to be significantly involved in
your firm's representation of C.S., including advising C.S. on her case. McGannon was
included in numerous email correspondence and in-person meetings between your firm and
C.S., and McGannon accompanied an associate of your firm to court for a hearing in C.S.'s
matter, wherein McGannon appeared before the court on C.S.'s behalf. Your relationship
with McGannon, as well as your integration of McGillillon into your firm's law office and
representation of C.S., gave C.S. and your associate the false impression that McGannon was
employed by your firm and licensed to practice law in North Carolina. By failing to take the
necessary steps to shield your client from a disbarred attorney and by failing to ensure
McGannon's professional status and role with your firm were abundantly clear to others, you
assisted McGannon in the unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.S(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimill1d by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in ilie amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

If tfG day of---'lJ;Guc..c..::::::.::...j-L_ _ _ _ _, 2012.
o

MargaredM. Hunt, Chair
Grievance Committee

MMH/lr

