NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G0406

W AK.E COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

James E. Hairston, Jr.
Attorney At Law

)

REPRIMAND

)
)

On January 14, 2010, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by R.H.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman ofthe Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In December 2006 R.H. retained you to represent her in an employment matter. R.H.

paid you $15,000 to prevent defendant from enforcing a $45,000 settlement. On January 3,2007
the court entered an Order to enforce settlement. You agreed to file a Motion to Reconsider.
You did not file the motion until February 13, 2008, more than thirteen months after the court
entered its order. On March 21, 2008 the court denied the motion because it was not timely filed.

Your failure to file the motion within a reasonable time constitutes neglect in violation of Rule
1.3. Although you were R.H.'s attorney of record, you delegated the filing of the motion to an
associate with your firm. The motion was filed without a supporting memorandum. You failed
to supervise the associate in violation of Rule 5.1(c). Between January 2007 and July 2008, R.H.
attempted to contact you for a status update. Although R.H. communicated with your staff, she
was not provided with substantive information about her employment matter. You did not
inform R.H. that you filed the Motion to Reconsider or that the court denied the motion until July
2008. Your failure to communicate with R.H. for more than a year is a violation of Rule 1.4(a).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Conunittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North

Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the e;2 ;l...,. day o·'C=~~::<::=~~=+L, 2010

RGBllr

