BEFORE THE
LlNARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

17DHC4

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.
JEANNE P. HALL, Attorney,

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS AND
STAYING DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDING

Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Richard V. Bennett, and Cindy L. Marrelli. Brian P.D.
Oten represented the North Carolina State Bar. Jeanne P. Hall represented herself. Both parties
stipulate and agree to the fmdings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and
to the transfer of Defendant to disability inactive status. Defendant freely and volnntarily waives
any right to appeal the entry of this consent order transferring her to disability inactive status.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The North Carolina State Bar is a body dnly organized under the laws of North
Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter
84 of the General Statutes ofNortb Carolina, and the roles and regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Jeanne p, Hall was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 31 Jnly 1986 and
is, and was at all 'times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the mIes, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina,
3.
Prior to 14 January 2014, HalI was engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of
North Carolina and maintained a law office in Brevard, Transylvania County, North Carolina.
On 14 January 2014, Hall transferred to inactive membersbip status with the State Bar.
4.

The Complaint in this action was filed on 24 January 2017.

5.
Hall accepted service of the Summons and Complaint on 6 February 2017 and
filed her Answer on 3 March 2017.
6,
On or about 7 April 2017, Linda Melrose, PhD, of Brevard, N,C. submitted.1I
letter to the State Bar concerning Hall's chronic mental and physical health issues. Dr.
Melrose's letter stated:
a.

Hall was diagnosed with and began treatment for post traumatic stress
disorder (PTSD) in 2007;

Page 1 of2

b.

Hall's PTSD was the result ofa series oftrawnatic events and assaults
related to experiences in her legal practice;

c.

Hall's disorder causes Hall to experience significant stress and anxiety
with regards to her legal practice;

d.

Hall has other physical medical conditions that, when paired with the
psychological disorder, significantly impact her ability to practice law;

e.

Hall transferred to inactive status with the State Bar in 2014 because of
her PTSD and her physical medical conditions; and

f.

Due to the impact ofHalI's stress and anxiety on her ability to practice
law, Dr. Melrose does not recommend that Hall return to legal
practice.

7.

Hall requests and consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

8.

The State Bar consents to Hall's transfer to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the DHC and the DHC has jurisdiction over
Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
attorney.

Hall's mental and physical conditions significantly impair her performance as an

3.
Hall is disabled within the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code IS § .0103(19) and
should be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118
and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g).
4.
Any proceeding pending before the Grievance Committee or before the DHC,
including this matter, should be stayed as long as Hall remains in disability inactive status
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118(e). IfHallis returned to active status by the DHC,
this disciplinary proceeding will be rescheduled by the Chair of the DHC
ORDER
1.
Jeanne P. Hall is hereby transferred to disability inactive status in accordance with
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g) and 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0118(d)(S).

2.
Hall shall not practice law in North Carolina until she is no longer disabled and
has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to the
procedures set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0125(c).

NCSB v. Hall, 17 DRC 4
Consent Order TransfelTing Member to Disability Inactive Status
Page 2 of3

3.
All proceedings pending before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission against
Hall are stayed until such time as Hall is reinstated to active status.
4.
This order shall be effective immediately upon entry pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code lB § .0118(d)(5)(A).
SigJl,ed by, the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day of .. 7iAI....:: D
,2017.

--4~

J!i.F

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO:

Jeann

.

&~
Brian P.O. Oten
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar

NCSB v. Hall, 17 DHC 4
Consent Order Transferring Member to Disability Inactive Status
Page30f3

