THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
JEANNE PLOWDEN I-IALL, Attomey,
Defendant

This matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinal'y Hearing Commission
composcd of C. Colon Willoughby, Jr., Chair, Steven D. Michael al1d Kmen B. Ray.
LeallOr Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff. Defendant was represented by Dudley A.
Witt and David Freedman. Defendant waives a formal hearing. The parties stipulate md
agree to the Endings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order. The
pal·ties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to entry of this
order, Defendant Imowingly, freely and voluntarily waives her right to appeal this
consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Heming Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. Plaintill the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules al1d Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. Defendant, Jealll1e Plowden Hall (hereinarter "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Cal'olina State Bm on July 31, 1986 and is, and was at all times refelTed to
herein, al1 Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North Cmolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. Dming the times releval1t herein, Defendal1t actively engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Brevard, Transylvania
County, North Carolina.

4. In or about January 2007, Defendant represented Ray and Cheryl
Ostrowski ("the Ostrowskis") in defense of breach of contract claims brought against
them by Cardinal Building Systems, LLC ("Cardinal Building") in a lawsuit in
Transylvania County entitled Cardinal Building Svstems. LLC v. Ostrowski (hereinafter
referred to as the "Lawsuit"l.
5. Cmdinal Building filed a complaint against the Ostrowskis on 6 February
2007. The complaint alleged that the Ostrowskis breached a residential construction
contract. The complaint consisted of 28 paragraphs of averments to which the
Ostrowskis were required to answer.
6. In response to the complaint filed by Cardinal Building, on 28 March 2007
Defendant filed on behalf of the Ostrowskis a 494 paragraph, 72 page document entitled
Answer, Motions, Afjjrmative Defenses, Counterclaims, Third Party Complaints
(hereinafter referred to as "the Ostrowski pleading").
7. All of the tort claims presented in the Ostrowski pleading were frivolous and
were signed, filed and interposed for improper reasons.
8. Defendant knowingly disregarded N. C. Rule of Civil Procedure 8 when she
filed the Ostrowski pleading.
9. Much of the Ostrowski pleading was non-responsive to the Complaint and
raised Ji'ivolous issues without basis in law and fact.
10. In the Ostrowski pleading, Defendant asserted the defense of express waiver
claiming that the arbitration clause ofthe contraet had been waived.
11. Defendant's assertion of the defense of express waiver was frivolous.
12. In the Ostrowski pleading, Defendant purported to assert the defense of
"uneonscionable" which upon information and belief Defendant intended as an assertion
that the building contraet was an unconseionable eontract.
13. Defendant's assertion of the defense of "uneonseionable" was frivolous.
14. Defendant asserted a "fraud" eounterclaim against Cardinal Building
claiming that Cardinal Building (i) "made false representations outside of eontraet, to
Defendants [the Ostrowskis] as to necessary expertise, competency, resourees and
abilities to properly perform the eonstruetion services for this large investment by
Defendants [the Ostrowskis] in this high-end 'AI Platt' home" and (ii) that these
representations "were reasonably calculated to deceive Defendants [the Ostrowskis]"
("Fraud Counterclaim No.2").
15. Fraud Counterclaim No.2 was dismissed by the arbitration panel pursuant to
N.C. Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6).

-2-

16. Defendant's asseliion of Fraud Counterclaim No.2 was without basis in fact
and was frivolous.
17. In the Ostrowski pleading, Defendant asserted a "fraud" counterclaim
alleging that Cardinal Building (i) "made false representations, outside of contract, to
Defendants [the Ostrowskis] as to the proper construction of all particular tasks and
phases of the project" and (ii) "intentionally provided such false information to
Defendants [the Ostrowskis] and were reasonably calculated to deceive Defendants [the
Ostrowskis]" ("Fraud Counterclaim No.3").
18. Fraud Counterclaim No.3 was dismissed by the arbitration panel pursuant to
N.C. Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6).
19. Defendant's assertion of Fraud Counterclaim No.3 was without basis in fact
and was frivolous.
20. In the Ostrowski pleading, Defendant asselied a "fi'aud" counterclaim
.alleging that Cardinal Building (i) "made false representations, outside of contract, to
Defendants [the Ostrowskis] as to the fact that, alter they stated that they would not
complete the project in or around May of 2006, they would put in place all proper
resources necessary to properly correct and construction [sic] the home and that they
would so properly correct and construct" and (ii) "intentionally provided such false
information to Defendants [the Ostrowskis] and were reasonably calculated to deceive
Defendants [the Ostrowskis]" ("Fraud Counterclaim No.4").
21. Fraud Counterclaim No.4 was dismissed by the arbitration panel pursuant to
N.C. Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6).
22. Defendant's asseliion of Fraud Counterclaim No.4 was without basis in fact
and was frivolous.
23. In the Ostrowski pleading, Defendant asserted a "fraud" counterclaim
alleging that Cardinal Building "made false representations, outside of contract, to
Defendants [the Ostrowskis] as to facts as to proper construction and other matters
related to the completion of the project" and (ii) "intentionally provided such false
information to Defendants [the Ostrowskis] and were reasonably calculated to deceive
Defendants [the Ostrowskis]" ("Fraud Counterclaim No.5").
24. Fraud Counterclaim No.5 was dismissed by the arbitration panel pursuant to
N.C. Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6).
25. Defendant's assertion of Fraud Counterclaim No.5 was without basis in fact
and was frivolous.

o

-~-

26. In the Ostrowski pleading, Defendant asserted purported claims of gross
negligence alleging that Cardinal Building "grossly breached these duties [of professional
care] by grossly, recklessly and/or intentionally performing significantly deficient
construction services as specifically stated herein and did so with gross, reckless andlor
intentional disregmd to Plaintiffs [sic] and their property."
27. Defendant claimed that "these gross breaches of duties, were each proximate
causes of significant damages to Defendants [the Ostrowskis] in an amount in excess of
$ I0,000 and entitle Defendants [the Ostrowskis] to punitive damages."
28. The arbitration panel concluded that the allegations of gross negligence as
pled did not support punitive damages and therefore treated tile allegations of gross
negligence as claims of simple negligence.
29. The evidence did not show that Cardinal Building was grossly negligent and
the evidence did not support the imposition of punitive damages on a gross negligence
theory.
30. Defendant's claim for punitive damages on a theory of gross negligence was
without basis in fact and was frivolous.
31. In the Ostrowski pleading, Defendant asserted a claim of slander of title by
liIing of statutory lien alleging in part that Cardinal Building maliciously served and filed
a false claim of lien against the Ostrowski property.
32. When Defendant asserted tllis purported claim, Defendant knew that the
evidence did not support a claim of slander of title by filing of statutory lien.
33. Defendant's counterclaim of slander of title by filing of statutory lien was
dismissed by the m'bitration panel pursuant to N.C. Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6).
34. Defendant's assertion of the counterclaim of slmlder of title by filing of
statutory lien was without basis in fact and was frivolous.
35. In the Ostrowski pleading, Defendant asserted a claim of abuse of process.
36. When Defendant asserted this purported claim, Defendmlt lmew that the
evidence did not support a claim of abuse of process.
37. Defendant's counterclaim of abuse of process was dismissed by the
arbitration pmlel pursuant to N.C. Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6).
38. Defendant's assertion of the counterclaim of abuse of process was without
basis in fact and was frivolous.

-4-

39. On 10 April 2007, Cmdinal Building responded to the Ostrowskis'
counterclaims with a motion to dismiss pursuant to Rule 12 of the North Carolina Rules
of Civil Procedure.
40. On 3 May 2007, Defendant filed on behalf of the Ostrowskis a Motion for
Default pursuant to Rule 55 of the North Cmolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
41. The 10 April 2007 motion to dismiss previously liled by Cardinal Building
changed the time period for Cardinal Building to file its answer. Pursuant to N.C. Rule
of Civil Procedure 12(a)(1), instead of having 30 days from service to file its answer to
the counterclaims, Cardinal Building had 20 days from notice of the court's action on its
motion to dismiss within which to file an answer.
42. At the time Defendant filed the Motion for Default, no action had yet been
taken on Cardinal Building's motion to dismiss and hence the time for Cardinal Building
to answer the counterclaims had not yet expired. Therefore, Cardinal Building had not
yet failed to plead in response to the counterclaims as required for default judgment under
Rule 55 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
43. Defendant's Motion for Default was frivolous and without basis in law and
fact.
44. Defendant lmowingly disregmded N. C. Rule of Civil Procedure 55 when she
liled the Motion for Default on behalf of the Ostrowskis.
45. In or about May 2007, Defendant informed the court and opposing counsel of
her need to restrict her court appearances for medical reasons.
46. After sending this initial communication, Defendant instructed her nonlawyer assistant to send to the court copies of letters from her medical providers in
support of her efforts to have cases removed or withheld from the upcoming trial
calendar. Defendant instructed her non-lawyer assistant to send these letters from
medical providers without copying opposing counsel on the transmittal letter to the court.
47. Defendant also instructed her non-lawyer assistant to contact the trial court
administrator on her behalf seeking to confirm that no hearings would be scheduled in the
Lawsuit (as well as other pending matters in which Defendant represented a party).
48. Defendant's ofJice had this email communication with the trial court
administrator without copying opposing counsel on this communication and therefore
without giving opposing counsel notice and oppOliunity to be heard on the issue of
scheduling in the Lawsuit.
49. On 20 Februmy 2007 Cardinal Building Jiled a motion for sanctions in
arbitration alleging that Cardinal Building had been unfairly prejudiced by the
Ostrowskis' failure to timely designate an arbitrator.

-5-

50. Cm'dinal Building's motion for sanctions in arbitration was denied.
51. On 21 May 2007, Cardinal Building filed a motion for sanctions against
Defendant and her clients under N.C. Rule of Civil Procedure 11 alleging that Defendant
frivolously filed a Motion for Default.
52. On 17 July 2007, Cm-dinal Building filed a motion for smlctions under N.C.
Rule of Civil Procedure 11 alleging that Defendant frivolously filed a Motion for More
Definitive Statcment.
53. Counsel for Cardinal Building informed Defendant that he would havc
Cardinal Building's motions for sanctions hem-d at the close of arbitration.
54. On 18 December 2007, Cardinal Building filed an "Objection and Motion for
Sanctions in Arbitration" with the arbitration panel.
55. Cardinal Building's Objection and Motion for Smlctions included a list of all
of the events that provided the bases for the motions for sanctions that Cardinal Building
had previously filed as well as those events that provided the bases for a motion for
sanctions that Cardinal Building had yet to file. Although this pleading included the list
of all of Defendant's conduct that Cardinal Building argued supported the imposition of
smlctions, Cardinal Building limited its sanction request in the Objection and Motion for
Sanctions to a request for sanctions for Defendant's failure to organize and index the
Ostrowskis' m-bitration hearing exhibits.
56. The arbitration panel denied Cardinal Building's Objection and Motion for
Sanctions in Arbitration.
57. The arbitration panel also ruled on other requests for sanctions and attorncys'
fees.
58. The arbitration panel denied all requests made to it for at10rneys' fees and
sanctions.
59. On 17 March 2008, Cardinal Building filed another motion for sanctions
against both Defendant and the Ostrowskis pursuant to N.C. Rule of Civil Procedure II
and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 1D-45 for: filing a frivolous pleading in response to the complaint,
making unfounded and frivolous objections to arbitration and m'bitrator, unfounded and
lJ'ivolous purported joinder of third party defendants, unfounded and frivolous motion for
entry of default, and unfounded and frivolous motion for more definitive statement.
60. Counsel for Cardinal Building requested hearing on its various motions for
sanctions.
61. Defendant Jilecl a brief in response to Cardinal Building's 17 March 2008
motion for sanctions.

-6-

62. In her brief, Defendant represented to the court that all of the issues raised by
Cardinal Building in its motions for sanctions had "already been heard and adjudicated
and denied." Defendant made similar representations at a 31 March 2008 hearing before
the Honorable J. Marlene Hyatt.
63. There was evidence to suppOli Defendant's statements that Cardinal
Building's motions for sanctions had already been heard and denied because the
arbitrators considered the issues that were raised in Cardinal Building's motions for
sanctions when they considered Cardinal Building's Objection and Motion for Sanctions
in Arbitration.
64. At the 31 March 2008 hearing on Cardinal Building's motions for sanctions,
Defendant bombarded the court with documents and arguments that did not address the
issue of which requests for sanctions had already been heard and denied by the arbitration
panel. Defendant failed to direct the cOUli to that evidence that showed that requests for
attorneys' fees and sanctions had been previously heard and denied by the arbitration
panel.
65. Defendant failed to provide the court with the evidence that showed that
requests for attorneys' fees and sanctions had been previously heard and denied by the
arbitration panel though this evidence existed and was Imown to Defendant at the time of
the hearing before Judge Hyatt.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, JeaIUle Plowden Hall, and over the subject matter.
2. Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-24(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a.

By representing to the court that certain motions for saIlctions had
already been "heard and adjudicated and denied" without
providing the court with any basis upon which to conclude that this
statement was true and instead bombarding the court with
documents and arguments that did not address this issue,
Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8A( d);

b.

By filing the Ostrowski pleading and by filing the 3 May 2007
Motion for Default, Defendant knowingly disobeyed all obligation
under the rules of the tribunal in violation of Rule 3 A( c) and
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8A(d);

-7-

c.

By asserting defenses and counterclaims without basis in fact and
by filing a Motion for Default, Defendant brought a proceeding
and asserted and controverted an issue therein that was frivolous
and without a basis in law and fact in violation of Rule 3.1; and

d.

By instructing her non-lawyer assistant to have written
communication with the court without simultaneously providing a
copy to opposing counsel and by causing the tlial court
administrator to be contacted on her behalf without copying
opposing counsel, Defendant commlll1icated ex parle with a judge
or other official in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(3), was responsible for
the conduct of her non-lawyer assistant in violation of Rule 5.3(c),
and failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that her non-lawyer
assistant's conduct was compatible with Defendant's professional
obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(b).

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant's clients' legal fees were needlessly increased by Defendant's
misconduct.
2. The length of time required to litigate the Lawsuit was needlessly extended by
Defendant's misconduct.
3. Defendant's misconduct resulted in court resources being diverted away from
hearing the disputes of the parties and those of pm-ties to other litigation matters so that
the issue of whether Defendant should be sanctioned could be heard.
4. Judge Hyatt entered an order against Defendant and her clients and awm-ded
Cardinal Building $30,000 in sanctions.
5. The Ostrowskis sold the house that was the subject of the Lawsuit. The
closing lawyer maintained in escrow a pOliion of the sales proceeds from the sale of the
Ostrowskis' house for use to satisfy the sanction award in order to protect the buyers of
the house 11·om any potential claim that the sanction award constituted a lien on the
housc. The closing lawyer paid the $30,000 sanction award from the funds he held in
escrow for the Ostrowskis.
6. Defendant did not reimburse the Ostrowskis for their payment of the sanction
award though she states that discounts that she gave the Ostrowskis on their legal fees
were given to offset their payment of sanctions.

-8-

7. At the conclusion of the Lawsuit, the Ostrowskis' faith in the legal system was
greatly diminished as a result of Defendant's misconduct.
8. Defendant's primary care physician diagnosed Defendant with post traumatic
stress disorder in May 2007. It is unclear whether Defendant still suffers from this
disorder.
9. Defendant has no prior discipline.
10. Dcfend,mt cooperated with the State Bar during its investigation and
prosecution of this case.

Bascd on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the dilIerent forms of

discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure and suspension. In
addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. lB
§ .01 14(w)(l) of the Rules mld Regulations of the State Bar and finds that the following
factors warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
a.

negative impact ofthe defendant's actions on clients' and
public's perception of the profession;

b.

impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;

c.

negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration
ofjustice; and

d.

efIect of defendmlt's conduct on third pm-ties.

2. The I-Iearing Panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. JB § .01 14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3. The Hearing Panel has also considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. lB § .01 14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar
and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

pattern of misconduct;

-9-

b. multiple offenses;
c. experience in the practice oflaw;
d. the absence of prior disciplinary offenses; and
e. full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings.
4. Defendant's conduct caused harm to her clients by needlessly increasing the
length and cost of her clients' defense ofthe Lawsuit.
5. Defendant's conduct caused harm to her clients because it provided a basis for
sanctions to be imposed against Defendant and her clients, which sanctions were paid by
her clients.
6. Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the legal profession in that her
actions bring the legal profession into disrepute.
7. The I-Iearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a censure,
reprimand or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the negative effect
of Defendant's misconduct on the administration of justice, the harm to Defendant's
clients and the potential harm to the legal profession caused by Defendant's conduct.
8. The I-Iearing Panel finds that discipline short of suspensIOn would not
adequately protect the public for the following reasons:
a.

Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the
administration of justice by diverting court resources away from
hearing her clients' matter and other litigants' matters so that
the issue of whether Defendant should be sanctioned could be
considered; and

b.

Entry of an order imposing less severe discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the misconduct and would send
the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the
conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.

9. The Hearing Panel finds and concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by suspension of Defendant's law license, stayed with conditions imposed upon
Defendant designed to ensure protection of the public and Defendant's continued
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.

-10-

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the I-Iearing Panel
hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The law license of Defendant, JeaJU1e Plowden Hall, is hereby suspended for
two (2) years effective from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon her. The
period of suspension is stayed for two (2) years as long as Defendant complies and
continues to comply with the following conditions:
a. Within forty-five (45) days of the date that this order is served upon
her, DefendaJlt shall obtain a complete psychological examination by a
licensed psychologist or psychiatrist approved by the Office of
Counsel of the State Bar. Defendant shall be solely responsible for the
cost of this psychological examination. Before undertaking this
psychological examination, Defendant shall first submit the name and
credentials of this proposed medical provider to the Office of Counsel
for approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
b. Defendant shall direct the medical provider who performs the
psychological examination to provide to the Office of Counsel a report
summarizing the results of his or her psychological examination of
Defendant. This report shall include the diagnosis, prognosis,
treatment recommendations and treatment plan for Defendant. The
report of Defendant's psychological eXaJuination shall be provided to
the Office of Counsel within thirty (30) days of completion of
Defendant's psychological examination. Defendant shall be solely
responsible for all costs associated with preparing this report.
c. Defendant shall comply with all treatment recommendations aJld any
treatment plan made by the medical provider who performs
Defendant's psychological examination.
d. Defendant shall direct her treating mental health care providers to
provide quarterly reports to the Office of Counsel describing in detail
Defendant's CUlTent treatment regimen, compliance with treatment
recommendations, aJld prognosis and treatment plan for the next three
months. The first such report shall be submitted to the Office of
Counsel ninety (90) days from the date that the report summaJ"izing the
results of Defendant's psychological examination is provided to the
Office of Counsel. Defendant's mental health care providers shall
submit subsequent reports on the first day of the first month of each
qumter thereaJ1er (January, April, July and October). Defendant shall
be solely responsible for all costs associated with the treatment aJld
preparation ofthe repOlis.

-11-

e. Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel with releases
authorizing and instructing psychological and mental health care
providers to provide the Office of Counsel all medical records relating
to her evaluation, prognosis, care or treatment, including psychological
and mental health evaluations, and authorizing and instructing such
providers to submit to interviews by the Office of Counsel.
f.

Defendant shall alTange for an active member of the North Carolina
State Bar who practices law in Transylvania County and who has been
approved by the Office of Counsel to serve as her law practice
monitor. Defendant shall submit the name of the proposed practice
monitor to the Office of Counsel within fifteen (15) days of service of
this order upon her. Defendant's failure to provide the name of a
proposed practice monitor to the Office of Counsel will not excuse any
failure to meet monthly with an approved practice monitor as required
by this order. Nor will Defendant's failure to provide the name of a
proposed practice monitor excuse an approved practice monitor's
failure to provide written quarterly reports to the Office of Counsel.
The selected practice monitor must indicate in writing his or her
agreement to serve. The selected practice monitor must meet with
Defendant monthly to review Defendant's cases. The first such
meeting between Defendant and the practice monitor must be held
wi thin fifteen (15) days of the date that Defendant submits the name of
the proposed practice monitor to the Office of Counsel. The practice
monitor must review all pleadings before they are filed by Defendant
to ensure that they comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct, the
North Cmolina Rules of Civil Procedure and the North Carolina
General Rules of Practice. The practice monitor will submit to the
Office of Counsel written quarterly reports summarizing his or her
supervision of Defendant. These reports shall be provided to the
Office of Counsel on January 30, April 30, July 30 and October 30.
Monitoring of Defendant's law practice as provided herein shall
continue for the duration of any stay of Defendant's suspension.
Defendant shall be solely responsible for any cost assessed by the
practice monitor for his or her monitoring of Defendant's law practice.
Defendant must supply the Office of Counsel with a letter from the
practice monitor confirming his or her willingness to serve as practice
monitor and to perform the duties outlined in this order. Defendant
must provide this confirmation within sixty (60) days of service of this
Order on Defendant.

g. Defendant shall meet at least once monthly with her practice monitor,
to whom she shall report the status of all CUlTent client matters and
provide copies of any pleadings filed on behalf of CUlTent clients.
Defendant shall provide any information the practice monitor deems

-12-

reasonably necessary to ensure that Defendant is handling all client
matters in accord with the requirements of the Rules of Professional
Conduct, the NOlih Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure and the North
Carolina General Rules of Practice.
h. Defendant shall ensure that the practice monitor sends to the Office of
Counsel a written report each quarter as described above.
J.

Should the need arise to find a replacement practice monitor during the
stay of Defendant's suspension, Defendant shall promptly provide to
the Office of Counsel the name of a proposed alternative practice
monitor. Defendant's failure to promptly provide the Office of
Counsel the name of an alternative practice monitor will not excuse
any failure to meet monthly with an approved practice monitor and
will not excuse failure of an approved practice monitor to provide
quarterly reports to the Office of Counsel.

J.

Defendant shall pay the Ostrowskis $15,000.00 as reimbursement for
50% of the $30,000.00 sanctions paid by the Ostrowskis. Defendant
shall make this payment in twenty-four (24) monthly installments of
$625.00 each. Defendant shall make each payment to the Ostrowskis
on the first (I S') day of each month beginning with the first (I S') day of
the month that next follows the month that this order is served on
Defendant.

k. Defendant shall keep the NOlih Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current business and home addresses and
notify the Bar of any change in address within ten (10) days of such
change. Her current business address must be a street address, not a
P.O. box or drawer.
I.

Defendant shall respond to all communications trom the North
Carolina State Bar, including communications ti'om the Attorney
Client Assistance Program, within thirty (30) days of receipt or by the
deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner, and shall
participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which she receives notice after the effective
date of this order.

m. Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements.
n. Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws of the United States or of any state or local government during
his suspension.

-13-

o. Defendant shall pay all administrative fees and costs assessed against
her in this disciplinary proceeding within thirty (30) days of service of
this order upon her.
2. If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed
suspension provided in paragraph I(a) - (0) above, the stay of the suspension may be
lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules.
3. If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is
activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law,
Defendant must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that she has complied
with each of the following conditions:
a.

Defendant submitted her license and membership card to the
Secretary of the NOlih Carolina State Bar within thirty (30) days
after the date of the order lifting the stay and/or activating the
suspension of his law license;

b.

Defendant complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. IB §
.0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following
the order lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension of her
law license;

c.

That Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs
assessed against her in this proceeding;

d.

That at the time of the petition Defendant is not suffering from
any disability that would impair her ability to practice law;

e.

Defendant has provided the Office of Counsel with releases
authorizing and instructing her psychological and mental health
care providers to provide the Office of Counsel all medical
records relating to her evaluation, prognosis, care or treatment,
including psychological and mental health evaluations, mld
authorizing and instructing such providers to submit to
interviews by the Office of Counsel;

f.

Defendant has paid the Ostrowskis $15,000.00 as partial
reimbursement for their payment of the $30,000.00 sanction
award.

g.

Defendant has kept the North Cm'olina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current business and home street
addresses (not P.O. box or drawer addresses) and notified the

-14-

Bar of any change in address within ten (10) days of such
change;
h.

Defendrult has responded to all communications from the NOlih
Carolina State Bar, including communications hom the
Attorney Client Assistrulce Progrrul1, within thirty (30) days of
receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner, ruld has participated in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition of
which she receives notice after the effective date of this Order;

l.

That at the time of her petition for stay, Defendrult is current in
payment of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all
Client Security Fund assessments ruld other charges or
surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from her, ruld
including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;

J.

That at the time of her petition for stay, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory Continuing Legal
Education (CLE) hours, in reporting of such hours or in
payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
progrill11S;

k.

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the laws of the United States or of any state or local government
during her suspension; and

l.

Defendant has paid the fees iU1d costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon her by the
Secretary of the State Bar.

4. Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary which Defendant pay within thirty (30) days of service of the
notice of costs upon the Defendant.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the fulllu,Qwledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Panel, this is the to day of j))(J?f"'>-t..., 29,10.
,

l'.

",--"~) //~""J

/(
,"

"'-.." . . . . .

~

)

1-~

//j

/ /,') {', -,/~lt J:~/ ",",,1 \ '\
fl_ r:[/ ,,/L~ ""./';""" ~w,,""'- : X'""Jh
\

(

C. Colon Willoughby, .J L, Chatr ~I-Iearing Prulel
"\

-15-

§

•

CONSENTED TO BY:

~Teill111~
DelendclI1t

David Freedman
Attorne'. ,. D~lendant

-16-

