NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G0777

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Tenika R. Hall,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 15,2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by K. K.
Pursuant to Section .01 I3(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance COlll.11littee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You were asked by a title insurance company that falsely held itself out as able to provide
closing services to perform the title search for the closing of property purchased by C. N. and S.
N. TIns title insurance company falsely represented to the lender that you were the closing
lawyer for this transaction and the lender sent the closing package and the loan proceeds to you.
Although you performed the title search for this transaction, you were not the closing lawyer.

Upon receipt of the closing package and the loan proceeds, you forwarded these documents to the
title insurance company in reliance upon the title insurance company representative's
representation that another lawyer would close tile loan for C. N. and S. N. Because you
forwarded the closing package and the loan proceeds to the title insurance company instead of
returning these documents to the lender, the title insurance company was able to close the loan
without the assistance of a lawyer thereby engaging in the unauthorized practice of law. Your
conduct violated Rule 1. I 5-2(b) which requires that all trust funds received by or placed under
the control of a lawyer be promptly deposited into a trust account of the lawyer and Rule 5.5(d)
which prohibits a lawyer from assisting another person in the unauthorized practice oflaw.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance witll tile policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North

Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

/2

day of-L-_9~"-

Ronald G. Baker, Sf., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

' 2010

