NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEYANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G0826

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Eric Alexander Halus,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRlMAND

On July 22,2010, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by S.c.
Pursuant to Section .01 I3(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential hanTI to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You reside and practice law in North Carolina. Ann Thomas is a New York lawyer. You
are "OfCounse!" with TIlOmas' firm. You regularly represent Thomas' clients in North Carolina
matters. You and Thomas represented Calvary SPY II, LLC ("Calvary") in a civil matter tiled
against G.S. Calvary obtained a $31,000 judgment on July 21, 2004 in Jefferson County,
Alabama. In November 2004, the Alabama court set the judgment aside. The Alabama Court

dismissed the case without prejudice in December 2004. On May 5, 2009, you filed an Abstract
of Judgment and registered a Foreign Judgment in New Hanover County, NC.
Thomas is not licensed to practice law in NC. Thomas therefore cannot represent clients
in North Carolina actions. Thomas cannot offer the ability to represent clients in NC actions. By
agreeing to represent Calvary, registering a foreign judgment in NC and pursuing G.S. for
payment, Thomas held herself out as able to provide legal services in NC. Thomas' conduct is
unauthorized practice oflaw pursuant to Rule 5.5(a) and (b). You serving as Of Counsel to
TIl0mas' firm does not cure the unauthorized practice oflaw. You cannot be Of Counsel to an
out of state law firm. To do so would allow the out of state law firm to create a regular and
systemic presence in NC in violation of Rule 5.5(b). Serving as Of Counsel to Thomas' firm and
participating in Thomas' representation of Calvary is assisting Thomas with unauthorized
practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the COlillcil of the North
Carolina State Bm regmding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

-d2~ day of-,L~,---=~~,,=,,~=-_, 2010
Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

