NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G 1447

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Chad W. Hammonds,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 23, 2009 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You agreed to represent C, M, G and P in a personal injury matter arising from a car
accident. C was the driver. M and P were passengers. G owned the car. You filed suit for C
alleging personal injuries. In the same suit you included a property damage claim for G. In a
companion suit, you made a claim for personal injuries for M and P and named C and Gas
defendants. Rule 1.7 prohibits you from asserting a claim by one client against another client in

the same matter. Your representation of C, M, G and P created an unwaivable conflict of interest
requiring you to withdraw representation from all of your clients. You withdrew representation
ofC and G, but continued to represent M and P. Your conduct is a violation ofRulc 1.7(a). You
also failed to communicate the conflict to your clients in violation of Rule 1.4(a) and (b).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

\1)

,2009

dayof¥

__

e~

Fox, Chair
~",,,,-,,........e Committee

JRF/lr

