,.

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12G0713

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

John F. Hanzel,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 18,2013 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by E. T.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a prelimimuy hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North CaTolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The Jules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fOlm of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration.ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
aud issues this reprimand to you. As chailman of the Grievance Committee of the North
CaTolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented E. T., J. A. and W. H. iu a lawsuit against an insurance company based
upon a claim that the insurance company denied payment of a policy because the policy had
allegedly lapsed for nonpayment (hereafter, "lawsuit"). Your pleaded in the lawsuit that the
insurance company improperly cancelled the policy because the company had not given notice
that the po licy was due to lapse.

You represented Mr. H. in an investigation by the NOlth Carolina Depattment of
Insurance (DOl) in a matter regarding the satne insurance policy at issue in the lawsuit. You
stated that the matter at the center of the lawsuit was "related tangentially to that investigation."
You admitted that your representation of Mr. H. in the DOl investigation overlapped with your
representation of Mr. T., Mr. A. and Mr. H. in the lawsuit. You never disclosed your
representation of Mr. H. in the DOl matter to Mr. T. Mr. T. learned of your representation ofMr.
H. at the mediation of the lawsuit. The Grievance Committee found that you had a conflict of
interest in your representation of Mr. H. in the DOl investigation and Mr. T. in the lawsuit, in
violation of Rule 1.7(a). The Grievance Committee concluded that you should have foreseen the
possibility that Mr. T.'s interests could be adverse to Mr. H's interests in the lawsuit. Mr. T. 's
interests could have involved the asseltion of a claim against Mr. H., but you represented both
patties in the lawsuit.
You stated in your response that you learned that Mr. H. "admitted to timely receiving the
insurance company's letter regarding reinstatement of the policy ... " when recordings were
played at the mediation of the lawsuit. You said that once you learned of the content of these
recordings, "it became clear that a conflict of interest was present." Mr. T. retained new counsel.
However, you continued to represent Mr. A. and Mr. H. "while sorting through the remaining
conflict of interest issues." The Grievance Committee found that you should have immediately
withdrawn from representation of Mr. A. and Mr. H. in the lawsuit once you learned of the
conflict of interest, and your failure to withdraw immediately violated Rule 8.4( d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bat· for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regat'ding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

/;!.. (JCdayof a~, 2013.

·tu.~Ad= 11/ . 1skuc(
Margaret . Hunt, Chair
Grievance Committee

MMH/lb

