STATE OF NORTH CAROII/lJNA

BEFORE THE
hj:)]SC:IPL.fNi4lR HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
N\)ll'IH CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

'13 DHC22

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W,
AND CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
EDWIN M. HARDY, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Ronald R. Davis, Chair, and members Barbara B. Weyher and
Patti Head, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .OI14(h). Plaintiff. was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant,
Edwin M. Hardy ("Hardy"), was represented by Dudley A. Witt. Both Plaintiff and
Detlmdant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this
consent order and to the discipline imposed. Hardy consents to entry of this order of
discipline and freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
order.
.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:

Findings of Fact
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
I.
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 ofthe North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Edwin M. Hardy ("Hardy"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1989 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.

4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Hardy was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Washington, Beaufort County, North Carolina.
5.
At various times over the course of his practice, Hardy failed to conduct
monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his attorney trust account, failed to maintain
ledgers for each client for whom funds were received in the trust account, failed to
accurately record the date of deposit on client ledgers, and failed to provide written
accountings to clients with funds in the trust account for more than twelve months.

6.
Occasionally in about 2009, Hardy failed to keep sufficient account
maintenance funds in his trust account to cover bank charges, resulting in situations
where entrusted funds would be consumed by bank charges and then subsequently
promptly reimbursed by Hardy.
7.
Occasionally in about 2009, Hardy failed to deposit mixed funds into his
trust account.
8.
Hardy failed to provide the requisite NSF directive to the bank at which he
maintained his attorney trust account as of November 2012.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following;
Conclusious Of Law
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows;
a.

By failing to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his attorney
trust account, failing to maintain ledgers for each client for whom funds
were received in the trust account, failing [0 accurately indicate the deposit
date on client ledgers, failing to provide written accountings to clients with
funds in the trust account for more than twelve months, and failing to
provide the requisite NSF notice to the bank at which he maintained his
attorney trust account, Defendant failed to follow appropriate trust account
recordkeeping procedures in violation of Rule I.IS-3(b), (d), (e) and Rule
\.IS-2(k);

b. By failing to keep sufficient account maintenance funds in the trust
account to cover bank charges withdrawn from the trust account,
Defendant failed to properly maintain entrusted funds in violation of Rule
\.I5-2(a) and allowed entrusted funds to be disbursed in a manner not
authorized by or for the benefit of the client in violation of Rule I.\S2(m); and
-2-

c. By failing to deposit funds comprised of his attorney fee and court costs
and fines into his trust account, Defendant failed to deposit mixed funds
intact in violation of Rule 1.15-2(g) and failed to properly maintain
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a).
Upon the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings Of Fact Regarding Discipline
I.
Defendant's trust account was the subject of random audits in 1991, 2009,
and 2012. Despite having been notified of deficiencies in his management of his trust
account after the 1991 and 2009 audits, several of the same deficiencies were found
during the 2012 audit.
2.
Defendant took an online CLE course regarding trust accounts in 200S and
intended to ensure he properly maintained his trust account, but did not subsequently take
sufficient time to fully ensure compliance with the applicable rules.
3.
Defendant has expressed remorse for his failure to properly maintain his
trust account and has described changes designed to ensure future compliance.
4.
5.
Defendant.

Defendant has no prior discipline;
There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of

6.
There is no evidence that any specific client of Defendant suffered harm
from Defendant inadvertently allowing entrusted funds to be withdrawn for bank charges,
from his failure to deposit mixed funds intact, or from the other violations of the trust
account rules.
7.
Allowing client funds to be improperly maintained or disbursed, even if
inadvertent, however, places entrusted funds at risk and erodes the confidence clients
place in attorneys who handle their affairs. As a result, such conduct harms the
profession as a whole.
S.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclnsions Witb Respect To Discipline
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North

-3-

Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
a. Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable, to wit: failing to take corrective action to ensure proper
maintenance of and accounting for entrusted funds; and
b. Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.01l4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
b. Absence ofa dishonest or selfish motive;
c. Timely good faith efforts to make restitution;
d. Multiple offenses;
e. A pattern of misconduct;
f.

Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings; and

g. Remorse.
4.
Defendant's conduct. if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.
5.
The Hearing Pancl has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members ofthe Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions
to avoid significant harm or the potential for significant harm to clients. Although

"4 "

Defendant is remorseful and committed to taking corrective action and properly
maintaining his trust account, in the past he has not followed through on similar good
intentions. Accordingly, for the protection of his clients and the pUblic, it is necessary to
monitor his trust account management for a period of time in the form of a stayed
suspension to ensure compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law licenses would not be
appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent ofthe parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order Of Discipline

1.
Defendant, Edwin M. Hardy, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for two years.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall each be served with a statement of costs and
fees. Defendant shall pay the amount assessed within thirty days of service of the
statement of costs and fees upon him.
3.
The two-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
said Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
a. Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's
Trust Account Handbook for all trust accounts maintained by him.
Defendant shall provide the three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers
for all clients with funds in the trust account(s) during that month, ledger
for any personal funds maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit
card fees, his trust account ledger, and the bank statements, cancelled
checks, and deposit slips for each month. These documents are due on the
th
15 day of the following month - for example, the three-way
reconciliation for the month of January is due on February 15;
b. Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA audit his trust accounts.
Defendant will be responsible for any associated costs. This audit shall
assess whether Defendant has in his trust account the client funds he
should be maintaining for his clients at that time, as well as Defendant's
compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The CPA's audit shall
include addressing the items on the Accountant Checklist for Probation
Cases which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendant. The
quarterly audit reports from the CPA are due no later than 30 days after

- 5-

the end of the quarter - for example, the CPA audit for the first quarter of
the calendar year (January, February, and March) is due on April 30;
c. If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit
reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule \.15-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the
date of the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall
provide documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar
within 2 days of the date of the remedial action;
d. Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel to
provide any information regarding his trust accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to
obtain information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a
trust account, by the deadline stated in the request;
e. Within the first year of the stayed period of suspension, Defendant shall
complete four hours of continuing legal education in the area of trust
account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar.
At least one such session shall be taken before the end of the next calendar
quarter (i.e., by March 30, June 30, etc.) following the entry of this order
and at least one such session shall be the Trust Accounting Rules
Continuing Legal Education Program taught by Peter Bolac, Trust
Account Compliance Counsel 'for The North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE
courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the courses. These
four hours are in addition to the continuing legal education requirements
set out in 27 N.C.A.C. lD § .1518;
f.

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current physical business address (not a Post
Office box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notify the Bar
of any change in address within ten (10) days of such change;'

g. Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina
State Bar;
h. Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated
therein with full and complete responses and all requested documentation;

i.

Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;

j.

Defendant will pay all membership, Client Security Fund, and any other
related dues, fees, andlor costs by the applicable deadline;

-6-

k. Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the stay;

I.

Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the period of the stay; and

m. Defendant paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within thirty days after the statement of costs and fees was
served upon them.
4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three 'years from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to § .01l4(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC
retains jurisdiction until all conditions. of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a
motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the
stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would
otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of
the suspension and activate the 2 year suspension in whole or in part ifit finds that any of
the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay ofthesuspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
5.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing a petition pursuant to § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein as well as the
following requirements by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
a. Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
b. Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of
his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his

suspension;
c. Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of the suspension;

-7-

d. Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his suspension;
e. Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding continuing
education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of his
petition for reinstatement;
f.

Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period oflhe suspension;

g. Defendant did not violate any laws of the Slate of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the suspension; and
h. Defendant paid all costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary by the dale of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay of
the suspension are satisfied.

:->/r..Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
""au""Q_dayof "Nollllhll${J1? 2013.

~
ROI1llidR.aV1S: oJ~~~,f,vt'~
'tI .
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed and consented to by:

{(((sin
Date

Date

Dat

.. 8 ..

(

