NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09GI428,09GI450,IOG0531

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Maynard A. Harrell, Jr.
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 20, 2011 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by 1. C., J. G. and T. W.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the N011h Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjustifJing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary I-Iearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential hann to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented three clients in different criminal cases. Each client was convicted of
criminal charges. Each client asked that you tum over their client files. You failed to promptly
turn over the files to the three clients.

In grievance file number 09G1428, 1. C.'s attorney wrote you on three occasions and
asked that you turn over the file. You did not respond to 1. C.'s attorney. You were also
contacted by a member of the State Bar's Attorney/Client Assistance Program (hereafter, ACAP)
relative to turning over 1. C.'s file to his attorney. You did not respond to the State Bar's ACAP
representative.
In grievance file number 09G1450, you finally turned over J. G.'s file to his new attorney.
Again, J. G. and a representative from ACAP had to write you before you turned over the file.
In grievance file number IOG053l, 1. W.'s new attorney wrote you on three occasions
about the client's file. Once she received no response from you, she contacted ACAP. A
representative from ACAP contacted you by letter and asked that you tum over the file to T. W.
You did not respond to the ACAP representative's request.
The Grievance Committee found that your failure to promptly turn over your clients' files
to them violated Rule 1.16(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee
notes that you did finally tum over files to 1. C. and T. W., but only after you had been
subpoenaed to the North Carolina State Bar.
The Committee was also concerned about your failure to respond timely to a State Bar
deputy counsel's questions. Another deputy counsel sent you a follow-up letter and asked that
you respond to her colleague's questions. You did not respond to the questions and you were
subpoenaed to the State Bar office for questioning. The Grievance Committee found that your
failure to respond to the State Bar staffs attorneys letters violated Rule 8.4(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance Witll tile policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding tile taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$100.00 is hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, tllis the

/'1

day

ofd~'
/-Jl

,201l.

//L-v~./{~

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

