IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DMSION

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF NEW HANOVER

IN THE MATTER OF:

)

WILLIAM B. HARRIS, a,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)

1
1

THIS CAUSE came on for hearing before the undersigned Superior Court Judge
upon Petitioner, WILLIAM B. HARRIS, a ' s , voluntary tender to this Court of his license
to practice law in the State of North Carolina because of incapacity. The Petitioner
represented through Affidavit filed with this Court that he has an diagnosed disability that
he acknowledges affects his capacity to practice law and that he considers this disability to
support his transfer from active to inactive status. The Petitioner hrther consented to the
Court's entering this Order accepting Petitioner's voluntary surrender of his license, finding
of disability and transfer of the Petitioner to inactive status until such time as Petitioner
presents to the Court evidence that satisfies the Court that he has regained his capacity of
practice law.
The Court having reviewed the Aadavit of Petitioner and such evidence as this
Court deems necessary to support this Order, the Court finds that there is a factual basis
for this determination that the Petitioner is now disabled and for the entry of this Order
finding Petitioner to be disabled and that there is further a factual basis for the exercise of
this Court's inherent power to transfer Petitioner to an inactive status because of his
disability.

IT IS THEREFORE, ORDERED, ADJLDGED AND DECREED that WILLIAM
B. HARRIS, 111, be and hereby is transferred to inactive status as a member of the North
Carolina Bar, and that this transfer is effective immediately. Upon the entry of this Order
the Court achowledges that Petitioner has surrendered to the Court his license to practice
law. Upon overcoming his disability and regaining capacity, Petitioner may petition a
Resident Superior Court Judge of the Fifth Judicial District for transfer to active status
and upon proof satisfactory to a Resident Superior Court Judge of the Fifth Judicial
District that Petitioner has regained his capacity to practice law, said judge may enter an
Order transfening Petitioner back to active status.

Pursuant to Rule 22 of the Rules of the The North Carolina State Bar,
John Richard Newton and Michael Murchison
3
being attorneys licensed to practice law in the State of North Carolina and who practice in
New ~ a n o v eCounty
i
in the Fifth Judicial District, are appointed to inventory the files of
Petitioner in order to determine the status of each case, notify clients of Petitioner's
disability and the need to take possession of their files, and to take such other action as
may be appropriate in order to protect the interest of Petitioner and his clients.

A copy of this Order shall be served upon the Petitioner and upon the Secretary of
The North Carolina State Bar.
This the

day of May, 1994

Senior Resident Superior Court Judge
Fifth Judicial District

I CONSENT:

A,L&*~+~L.

,453

.%22'~

WILLIAM B. HARRIS, 111

.m

