NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
DAVID H. HARRIS, Jr., Attorney,
Defendants

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of R. Lee Farmer, Chair, and members Richard V. Bennett and Michael S. Edwards
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code § IB.0114 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar. G. Patrick Murphy represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant,
David H. Harris, Jr., was represented by Dhamian Blue. Both parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1,
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
NOlih Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, David H. I-Iarris, Jr. (hereinafter "Defendant" or "Harris"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 22, 1981, and was at all times referred to
herein an attorney at law licensed to practice in NOlih Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
Marquis D. Street (hereinafter "Street"), was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar on August 12, 1972, and was at all times referred to herein an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, and the Rules of Professional Conduct. Street died
November 27,2016.

"

4,
During all Of part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Harris was engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Durham,
Durham County, North Carolina,
5,
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Street was engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Greensboro,
Guilford County, North Carolina,
6,
Harris and Street represented Mildred Cotton Council (hereinafter "Council" or
"client") in a lawsuit captioned Mildred Council v, Governors Club Development Corporation, et
aI" 09 CVS 1327 (Chatham County), The lawsuit was filed on December 31,2009, Council
signed a sworn verification of the complaint prior to its filing,
7,
The claims ofthe lawsuit involved approximately 9 acres of property (hereinafter
"Property" or "subject property") located in Chatham County,
8.
The subject property had been acquired by Sinie Jones in 1882 and Plaintiff, as an
heir of Jones, was owner of the subject property as a tenant in common with other Jones' heirs,
9.
In 1990, the subject property was purportedly conveyed to Governors Club
Development Corporation ("Governors Club") by a group of individuals named as defendants in
the Complaint ("Grantors"). The Complaint alleged that the transfer was through a false and
fictitious deed without Council's knowledge or consent.
10.
Council was more than 80 years-old at the time she engaged Defendant and Street
to pursue her legal rights related to the Property; however, during the relevant periods refen'ed to
herein Council was of good and sOlmd mind, Council tl'Usted and relied upon Defendant and
Street to determine the proper individuals and entities to commence a legal action against and to
be fully aware of the proper legal claims to pursue,
[ [,
The Complaint alleged that Council was entitled to quiet title, punitive damages,
attorney's fees and other relief from the named defendants,
[2,

Wade Barber, Esq. ("Barber") was a named defendant in the lawsuit.

13.
The claims asserted against Barber included: a claim to quiet title, slander of title,
violation of the Marketable Title Act, conspiracy, unfair and deceptive trade practices, fraudulent
acts by an attorney, violation ofN.C,G,S. § 84-13, and negligence by an attol'11ey,
14,
The Complaint alleged that Barbel' was the settlement agent for the 1990 transfer
of the Property from the Grantors to Governors Club and that Barber's conduct related to the
1990 transfer of the Property was fraudulent, willful and wanton, and that he acted with malice.
15,

Neither Defendant nor Street contacted Barber prior to filing the lawsuit.

16,

Barber was represented in the lawsuit by Walter E. Brock, Jr. ("Brock").
2

17.
After Barber was served with the lawsuit, and before answering, on March 10,
20 I 0, Brock met with Defendant and Street. At the meeting, Brock provided factual information
regarding the transactions alleged in the lawsuit, including facts of record that Brock cited
seeking to demonstrate the absence of any basis in fact or law for the claims against Barber.
18.
On March 11, 20 I 0, Brock sent a letter to Defendant and Street in which he
encouraged them to contact him should they have any other questions or require any additional
information.
19.
Brock's March 11,2010 lelter further stated that he looked forward to a favorable
response to his request that Barber be dismissed from the lawsuit. Brock concluded his letter by
stating that if Barber was required to litigate the claIms he would be left no choice but to pursue
any and all remedies available as a result of the filing and prosecution of the lawsuit.
20.
Defendant and Street did not dismiss the action against Barber in response to
Brock's March II, 2010 letter and continued pursuing the lawsuit claims.
2 J.
On March 23, 20 I 0, Barber filed his Answer to the Complaint. In so doing, he
did not notice for hearing any motion to dismiss or motion for sanctions at that time.
22.
Barber's Answer stated that contemporaneous with the 1990 deed from the
Grantors "a survey plat was recorded with specific notes referencing the tract of land that is the
subject of this action. The deed and plat are written documents that speak for themselves, and
had the effect of conveying such title and interest as may have been in the grantors."
23.
Barber's Answer further stated that he "caused to be recorded in the Chatham
County Registry a deed and a plat noting that any purported conveyance of the subject property
may be subject to adverse claims of the heirs of Sinie JoneS."
24.

Barber asserted the applicable statutes of limitations pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.

§§ 1-15(c), I-52, and 75-16.2.
25.
Barber's Fourth Defense in his Answer stated that he had affirmatively caused to
be recorded on the public records of Chatham COllnty notice that the heirs of Sinie Jones may
have an interest in the subject property.
26.
Barber's Fourth Defense further stated that "[b]ecause of the public record, and
what a minimal investigation of the circumstances ancllaw prior to suit would have established
with respect to Wade Barber, the claims against Wade Barber set forth in the Complaint were
made under circumstances indicating that the plaintiffs and their counsel knew, or should have
known, that the claims against him were false and malicious when made, and that as to certain
claims there was a complete absence of a justiciable issue of law or fact as to him."

3

27.
Barber's Fourth Defense also asserted that he was entitled to his attorney's fees
and costs pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 75-16.1,10-45,6-21.5, lA-I, Rule I I, and otherwise as
allowed by law.
28.
On April 22, 2010, Defendant and Street filed a Reply to Barber's Answer which
denied the allegations of Barber's Fourth Defense.
29.
On July 6, 2010, Defendant and Street deposed Grantors Joan Council Spencer
("Spencer") and Mildred Council ("Grantor Council").
30.
Spencer and Grantor Council both confirmed that they were represented by their
own attorneys in the transaction with Governors Club and they had no recollection of any
representation made by Barber in relation to that transaction, and were therefore unaware of any
purported statement by Barber that was not true.
31.
On July 23, 2010, Brock wrote Defendant and Street a letter in wbich Brock
reviewed some of tbe evidence in the case, including tbe depositions of Spencer and Grantor
Council, and noted that there was no basis in law or fact for the claims against Barber. Brock
also offered to answer any questions and to provide additional information as to Barber's actions
related to tbe subject property.
32.
Brock concluded bis July 23,2010 letter by informing Defendant and Street that
Brock was autborized to waive any claim for costs including attorney's fees if Barber was
dismissed from the lawsuit within ten (J 0) days. If Barber was not dismissed from the lawsuit,
Brock stated that his letter and the evidence tbat had been provided would be used to
demonstrate Defendant and Street were continuing to pursue unfounded claims against Barber in
a Rule 1 1 molion.
33.
Facts and evidence presented to Defendant and Street by Brock inclUded, but was
limited to, the following: 1) Barber represented Governors Club in the 1990 real estate
transaction to acquire all rights, title and interest in certain propClty in Chatham County
previously owned by the heirs of Ethel Council; 2) the Council heirs had a survey prepared tbat
was certified alld notarized by a surveying firm in 1985 and tbe survey reflected that the Ethel
Council Estate owned the subject property; 3) Barber caused the plat of survey of the Ethel
Council Estate to be revised prior to it being filed with the Chatham County Register of Deeds
on March 1, 1990, Plat 90 Slide 67, to indicate that Tract 26-D, the subject property, may be
subject to adverse claims and noted the Sinle Jones deed at DB.FW PG384.
110t

34.
Defendant and Street did not dismiss Barber !i'om tbe lawsuit within the time limit
of Brock's July 23, 2010 letter.
35.
On August 5, 2010, Brock tiled a motion to dismiss on behalf of Barber with a
calendar request for August 16, 20 I O.

4

36.
On August 16,2010, Defendant and Street filed a notice of voluntary dismissal
without prejudice pursuant to Rule 41(a) of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure with
respect to Barber.
37.
Defendant and Street deposed Barber on September 9, 2010. At the conclusion of
Defendant;s and Street's questioning of Barber, Brock stated to Defendant and Street that "in the
original complaint in this action, there were very serious allegations of fraud and
misrepresentation" asserted against Barber.
38.
At Barber's deposition Brock also advised Defendant and Street that Barber
intended to pursue Rule II sanctions and that Barber was present to answer any questions, not
protected by the attorney-client privilege, which Defendant and Street had related to alleged false
representations ot' deceptive conduct on Barber's part related to the subject property. The
deposition had already taken nearly eight hours.
39.
On October 19, 2010, Defendant and Street, with leave of the court, filed an
amended Complaint naming Aqua North Carolina, Inc., (hereinafter "Aqua"), the sale remaining
defendant.
40.
At court-ordered mediation in December 2010, Council, represented by
Defendant and Street, settled her lawsuit with Aqua.
41.
Defendant and Street drafted a Consent Judgment to be approved by the superior
court setting forth the terms of Council's agreement with Aqua.
On January 21, 2011, Street wrote a letter to Council in which he discussed the
42.
Consent Judgment. Street advised Council that Defendant and Street intended to ask the superior
court to approve reimbursement to Council of $72,275.40 which was advanced to litigate the
case and payment of the outstanding balances of attorney's fees owed. Street further stated that
"after the case is settled and you are reim bursed all of your money" Defendant and Street would
discuss with Council putting the Property up for sale.
43.
On April 1,2011, Brock served Defendants with a notice of hearing on Barber's
Verified Motion for Attorney's Fees and Costs.
.
44.
On April 10, 2011, Defendant recorded a charge of$525.00 on his billing records
with the activity for the charge indicated as: "researched fee issue."
45.
On April 12, 2011, Defendant recorded a charge 0[$700.00 on his billing records
with the activity for the charge indicated as: "researched fee issue - - prepared for meeting with
Walter Brock and Wade Barber."
46.
On April 13, 20 II, Defendant recorded a charge of $175.00 on his billing records
with the activity for the charge indicated as: "additional research and prepared for meeting with
Walter Brock and Wade Barber."

5

47.
On April 13, 2011, Defendant and Street met with Brock and negotiated a
settlement with Barber that called for the payment of $17,500 to Barber in exchange for the
release of Council from claims related to Barber's attorney's fees and costs. Neither Defendant
nor Street advised Council to consult with a third party attorney with respect to the settlement of
Barber's claim for attorney's fees and costs.
48.
Defendant and Street each charged Council $300.00 (total of $600.00) for
meeting with Brock on April 13,2011.
49.
Barber was never Conncil's attorney in the transactions that were the subject of
Council's lawsuit.
50.

Barber never claimed an interest in the subject property.

51.
Billing statements of Defendant and Street that were later provided to CowlCil do
not show that Council was consulted about Barber's motion for attorney's fees and costs prior to
their meeting with Brock, although no! all conversations were detailed.

On or about April 14, 2011, Defendant and Street received a proposed Mutual
52.
Release and Settlement Agreement (the "Release") from Brock related to Barber's claim for
attorney's fees and costs. Council ultimately reviewed and executed the Release.
On May 2, 2011, Council's lawsuit with Aqua was resolved by a Release and
53.
Settlement Agreement (the "Settlement") that was approved and executed by Council and
approved and executed by the court in a Consent Judgment.
One of the tenns of the settlement required Aqua to pay $95,000.00 to be
54.
deposited to Street's trust account and distributed as set out in paragraph 3 of the terms section of
the settlement. Additionally, Council received title to 6 of the 9 acres of land that was the
subject of the Council lawsuit.
55.
Paragraph 3 of the terms of the Settlement does not specifically reference the
payment to Barber for the release.
56.

Defendant and Street were obligated to comply with the terms of the settlement.

57.
On May 3, 2011, Street issued a check in the amount of $17,500.00 all his trust
account to Brock's law finn to pay Barber's attorney's fees and costs.
58.
Street signed an affidavit on June 8, 2011 setting forth the amount of attorney'S
fees that Defendant and Street billed to Council and expenses she paid.
59.
At the time Street signed his June 8, 2011 affidavit, he had already made
disbursements to pay all of Defendant's and Street's attorneys' fees from the Aqua settlement
funds.

6

60.

Street controlled all funds coming in and out of his trust account.

61.
Council did not give her informed consent to Defendant and Street to charge the
$17,500.00 to her in the final accounting of disbursements.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
The parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Hearing Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, David H. I-Iarris, Jr., and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated Chapter 84 of the General Statutes and the North Carolina the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:
(a) By filing a lawsuit against Barber alleging his conduct was fraudulent, willful,
wanton and that he acted with malice, Defendant asserted claims that were not
meritorious in violation of Rule 3.1;
(b) By failing to adequately research the allegations Defendant made in the lawsuit
against Barbel', Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness
in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
(c) By negotiating the Release without explaining to Council her right to acquire
third-party council to explain the basis for her having to pay $17,500.00 from her
p81i of the settlement with Aqua, Defendant violated of Rule 1.4(b);
(d) By representing Council in Barber's claim for attorney's fees and costs, and
negotiating the Release to settle Barber's claim from Council's settlement funds,
Defendant engaged in a conflict of interest in violation of Rule 1.7(a)(2);
(e) By charging attorney's fees and expenses to Council for Defendant's activity
related to researching and negotiating Barber's claim for attorney's fees and costs
when the research and negotiation were necessary solely as a result of
Defendant's failure to act as he should have on behalf of Council and were for
Defendant's benefit, Defendant charged and collected a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule 1.5(a); and
(t) By paying Barber's attorney's fees and costs from Council's settlement with
Aqua, when such expense was inculTed solely as a result of Defendant's failure to
act as he should have on Council's behalf, Defendant charged a clearly excessive
amount for an expense to Council in violation of Rule I.S(a).
Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, tile Hearing
Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
7

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

2.
Defendant, who was admitted to the N0!1h Carolina State Bar in 1981, has
substantial experience in the practice of law. More than half of Defendant's time in the practice
of law has involved cases and matters in which he collected no fee from clients. Defendant
continues to handle complex, high-impact cases with little hope of remuneration.
3.
Defendant has been cooperative in this disciplinary process. He has timely
responded to inquiries of the State Bar. Defendant has acknowledged his conduct, stipulated to
the violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct, and consented to this imposition of
discipline.
4.
Defendant has agreed to repay his client $17,500.00 fOf the expenses charged to
her for Barber's attorney's fees and costs.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOfms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure and suspension.
2.
In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors emnneratcd in 27
N.C. Admin. Code § IB.OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and determines the following factors are applicable:
a.

The absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and a cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;

c.

Absence of dishonest motive;

d.

Defendant's willingness, as evidenced by this Consent Order, to make
restitution to his client;

e,

Defendant's experience in the practice oflaw; and

f.

Defendant's character and reputation.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code § IB.OI14(w)(2) and concludes no factors are present that would warrant
disbarment.

8

4.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code § lB.0114(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and determines the following factors warrant suspension:
a.

Elevation of Defendant's own interest above that of the client;

b.

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the client's or public's
perception of the profession; and

c.

Impairment of the client's goals to achieve the goals of the representation.

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a cenSllre,
reprimand or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of the significant potential
harm to the legal profession caused by Defendant's conduct.
6.
Although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to warrant more than a censure it
does not warrant an active suspension of his license.
7.
A stayed suspension of Defendant's law license is warranted because entry of an
order imposing less severe discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the conduct
and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public about the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings and
Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The license of Defendant, David H. Harris, Jr., is hereby suspended for two years.
The suspension under this order shall be stayed for two years as long as Defendant complies and
continues to comply with the following conditions:
a.

Defendant shalll'epay his client, Mildred Council, the sum of $17,500.00, half of
this amount ($8,750.00) shall be paid within 90 days of the date this Order is filed
with the Clerk, and the remainder shall be paid within one year of the date this
order is filed with the Clerk;

b.

Defendant shall provide the Clerk and the State Bar's Office of Counsel written
confirmation of the repayment ordered in paragraph a. above within 7 days of the
repayment(s);

c.

Defendant shall complete two (2) hours of CLE in the area of ethics each of the
two years of the stayed suspension and shall provide written proof of the
successful completion of those courses to the Office of Counsel within 10 days of
completing each course. These CLE hours are in addition to the arumal CLE
requirements set out in 27 N.C.A.C. ID § .1518;
9

d.

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current contact information, including his current business and
home addresses (not a P.O. Box) as well as his current telephone number(s), and
shall notifY the Bar of <lny change in address or telephone number within 10 days
of such change;

e.

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
15 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and shall patticipate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;

f.

Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail sent to him by the
State Bar;

g.

Defendant shall not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina, of any state
within the United States, or of the United States;

h.

Defendant shall not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct;

i.

Defendant shall timely pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding
taxed to him as set out below; and

j.

Defendant shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis.

2.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action, including
deposition costs, as assessed by the Secretary, which Defendant shall pay within sixty days of
service of the notice of costs upon Defendant.
3.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this order end two years from the date the suspension
under this order goes into effect, provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of complim1ce with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant
to § .01 14(x) bfthe North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction
until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause
proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is
pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the
DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the two
year sllspension in whole or in part if it finds that mly of the conditions of the stay have not been
met. The stay of the sllspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the
stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion 01' show cause proceeding.

JO

4.
If during the stay of the two year suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph l(a) through l(j) above, then the stay of the
suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
5.
reason, Defendant must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he complied with
each of the follo,,~ng conditions before seeking reinstatement:
a.

Defendant repaid his client, Mildred Council, $17,500;

b.

Defendant submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the entry of the order lifting the
stay andlor activating the suspension of' his law license;

c.

Defendant complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code § IB.0124 of the
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules folIowing the order lifting the stay
and/or activating the suspension of his law license;

d.

Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Depat1ment advised of
his current business and home addresses, as well as his current telephone number,
and notified the Bar of any change in address or telephone number within 10 days
of such change;

e.

Defendant responded to all communications from the NOlth Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
15 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and has participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;

f.

Defendant promptly accepted all certified mail sent to him by the State Bar;

g.

That at the time of his petition forreinstatement, Defendant is current in payment
of all Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect
from him, and including all judicial district dues, fces and assessments;

h.

That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in reporting
of such hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;

1.

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during his suspension, including
Defendant's timely filing and payment of federal and state tax obligations;

11

J.

Defendant has paid the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the Secretary of the State
Bar; and

k.

Defendant has complied with any other conditions deemed necessary for
reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel pursuant to the order lifting the stay
of the suspension of Defendant's law license.

6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .01 14(x) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
I bTl, day of
f') ~
,2017.

R. Lee Farmer, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

G. Patrick Mmphy, DeputY Cou
Attorney for Plaintiff

~d-¥=---~,,---------­
~
Attorney for Defendant

12

