· ·.~~f{r89h
/"11;
~ 0'}\
'\I

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

01'

~

<Q/~l

'--;\

::> BEf'ORE THE

~~CIP.LlN~-:~~ HEARING COMMISSION
€

WAKE COUNTY

<.)"

"/ ~

01-{".

<c;;
Of'THE
OO~ ;'CAROI.INA STATE
~"17 DHC 9

&
',~C.0

BAR

\tp

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
STEVEN TROY HARRIS, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter came on for consideration by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Beverly T. Beal, Chair, Allison C. Tomberlin, and
Warren McDonald pumlant to Plaintiff's Motion for Default Order Imposing Discipline.
Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar. Defendant,
Steven Troy HaITis, did not appear in this matter. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code §
.0115(1)(4), the Hearing Panel decided this matter based upon the written Sllbmissions,
including Plaintiffs Motion for Default Order Imposing Discipline.
ESTABLISHED FACTS
Pursuant to the Entry of Default against Defendant, all allegations in the
compJaint are deemed admitted. Therefore, the following are the established facts:
1. Plainti ft~ the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of
North Carotina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Steven Troy Harris (hereafter "Defendant"), was admitted to the
State Bar on 18 August 2000 and is an attorney at law subject to the rules, regulations,
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the Jaws of the
State of North Carolina.
3. Defendant was actively engaged in the practice of law in the State of North
Carolina and maintained a law office in Durham, Durham County, North Carolina until
12 November 2015.
4.
On 12 October 2015, an Order of Administrative Suspension was issued to
Defendant which resulted in Defendant's license to practice law being suspended
effective 12 November 2015.
5. After the effective date ofh!s suspension, Defendant was not an active
member of the State Bar and thus was not permitted to hold himself out as competent

Pag~

1 of 17

or qualified to give legal advice, counselor furnish the services of a lawyer to another,
or collect a legal fee.
6. On or about 14 July 2014, M. Brewer retained Defendant to me a lawsuit on
his behalf in a civil matter.
7.

Defendant collected $15,000 from Brewer for his representation of him.

8.

As of May 2015, Defendant had not yetttled a complaint on behalf of Brewer.

9. On or about 18 June 2015, Brewer sent Defendant a text message inquiring
about the status of his legal matter and informing Defendant that Brewer was extremely
stressed about the situation.
10. Defendant did not respond to Brewer's June 18 th text message, nor did
Defendant respond to several text messages that Brewer sent after his June 18 th text
message.
II. On 17 August 2015, Defendant sent the following text message response to
Brewer: "Can we talk Monday at 11 am.[sic] I'm out of the office this week [sic]"
12. Between August 2015 and October 2015, Brewer sent Defendant several texl
messages inquiring about the status of Defendant's representation of Brewer.
13. Defendant only replied to Brewer's messages twice.
14. On 14 October 2015, Brewer sent the following text message to Defendant:
"Hey steve. [sic] Donna told me you are tIling Tuesday. Is this true?"
15. Defendant replied "that's the plan."
16. Defendant's last text message communication to Brewer was on 14 April
2016 in which he stated "Gol us rolling. Got to get service [sic]"
. 17. Defendant had not filed any civil action on Brewer's behalf as of Apri114"".
Therefore, there was no need to obtll-in service of the complaint.
18. Defendant never filed a civil action on Brewer's behalf.
19. Defendant sent the 14 April 2016 message to give the false impression that he
had filed a civil action on behalf of Brewer.
20. Defendant had not completed his representation of Brewer when he was
suspended from the practice of law.
21. Defendant did not eam the $15,000 fee he collected from Brewer.
22. Detendant did not refund the unearned fee.
23. Defendant failed to notify Brewer of his suspension, the reason for his
suspension, and his consequent inability to act as an attorney after the effective dale of
his suspen~ion.
NCSB v. Harris, 17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline
Page 2 of 17

24. Defendant failed to advise Brewer to seek legal advice elsewhere.
25. Defendant failed to withdraw from his representation of Brewer before the
effective date of his s~lsp"nsion,
26, On or about 5 January 2016, Brewer and his wife retained Defendant to
represent their son in a custody matter.
27, Defendant collected an additional $3,500 from the Brewers for his
representation of their son in the domestic matter,
28. Defendant collected the $3,500 fee from the Brewers while he was suspended
irom the practice of law.

29. Due to his suspension. Defendant was not an active member of the State Bar
and thus was not permitted to hold himself out as competent or qualified to give legal
advice, counselor furnish the services of a lawyer to another, or collect a legal fee.
30. On or about 16 September 2016, the State Bar opened a grievance file against
Defendant concerning his conduct in the Brewer matter,

31, Defendant personally accepted service of the Letter of Notice on 26
September 2016, after efforts to $erve Defendant by certified mail were unsuccessful.
32, The Letter of Notice informed Defendant that he was required to respond in
writing to the grievance within 15 days of service of the Letter of Notice.
33.

Defendant did not submit a written response to the grievance.

34. F. Fichem retained Det'(mdant to represent her in a domestic matter on or
about 15 December 2014.
35. Defendant collected $3,316 from l~ichera as partial payment of his $3,500
legal fee,
36, Defendant had not completed his representation of Fichera when he was
suspended from the practice of law.

37. Defendant did not earn the entire amount of the $3,316 fee he collected from
Fichera.
38. Defendant failed to refund the uneamedportion of the fee.
39. Defendant failed to notify Fichera of his suspension, the reason for his
suspension, and his consequent inability to act as all attorney after the effective date of
his suspension.
40,

Defendant failed to advise Fichera to seek legal advice elsewhere.

41. Defendant failed to withdraw from his representation of Fichera before the
effective date of his suspension.

N(:SB v. Hprri.'. 17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline
p"go 3 ort7

42. On or about 11 July 2016, the State Bar opened a grievance file against
Defendant concerning his conduct in the Fichera matter.
43. Defendant personally accepted service of the Letter of Notice on 26
September 2016.
44. The Letter of Notice informed Defendant that he was required to respond in
writing to the grievance within 15 days of service of the Letter of Notice.
45. Defendant did not submit a written response to the grievance,
46. On or about 31 July 2015, S. Travers retained Defendant to represent him in
defense of a claim for alienation of affection,
47. In July 2015, Defendant collected an initial payment of $5,000 from Travers,
This initial payment was for Defendant's representation of Travers in filing an answer
to the complaint, deposing the plaintift~ and deposing the plaintift's ex-wife.
48. Defendant talsely represented to Travers that he had deposed the plaintiff s
ex-wife in furtherance of his representation of Travers.
49. Defendant did not depose the plaintitTs ex-wife.
50, Det<mdant did not earn the entire amount of the initial $5,000 he collectcd
fTom Travers,
51. On or about 15 December 20]5, Defendant collected a second $5,000
payment from Travers. This payment was for Defendant's representation of Travers in
written discovery, Travers' deposition, and mediation.
52. On or about 5 January 2016, Defendant represented Travers at his deposition,
53, However, Defendant failed to prepare a response to discovery requests that
were served on Travers,
54. On 29 .IamJary 2016, Defendant falsely represented to Travers that he had
served discovery requests on his behalf.
55, Defendant had not prepared or served any discovery requests on behalf of
Travers.
56. Defendant did not eam the entire amount of the second $5,000 payment he
collected from Travers,
57, Defendant did not refund the ~U1eamed fee,
58. Defendant had not completed his representation of Travers when he was
suspended from the practice oflaw.
59. Defendant failed to notifY Travers of his suspension ilIltil February 2016,
which was after the effective date of his suspension.

Ness v, Harris,

17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline
Page 4 of 17

60. Although Defendant informed Travers of his suspension, Defendant failed to
infonn Travers of the reason for his suspension and his consequent inability to act as an
attorney after the effective date of his suspension.
61. Defendant failed to advise Travers to seek legal advice elsewhere.
62. Defendant failed to withdraw from his representation of Travers before the
effective date of his suspension.
63. On or about 23 August 2016, the Slate Bar opened a grievance tile against
Defendant concerning his conduct in the Travers matter.
64. Defendant personally accepted service of the Letter of Notice on 26
September 2016.
65. The letter of Notice informed Defendant that he was required to respond in
writing to the grievance within 15 days of service of the Letter of Notice.
66. Defendant did not submit a written response to the grievance.
67. On or about 6 January 2016, T. Roche retained Defendant to represent him in
a domestic matter.
68. Defendant collected $925 from Roche as his legal fee.
69. Defendant did not infonn Roche that he was suspended from the practice of
law in November 2015.
70. Defendant communicated with Roche using the following email address:
steven@stharrislaw.com.
71. By using the above listed email address, Defendant gave the false appearance
that Defendant was authorized to practice law.

n.

On 14 January 2016, Defendant communicated with Roche by email address
that ~Ised the following signature line: Steven T. Harris, Esq.
73. By using the above listed signature line on email communication with Roche,
Defendant gave the false appearance that Defendant was authorized to practice law.
74. Defendant held himself out as an attomey throughout his interactions with
Roche.
75. On or about 11 July 2016, the State Bar opened a grievance tile against
Defendall.t concerning his conduct in the Roche matter.
76. Defendant personally accepted service ofthe Letter of Notice on 26
September 2016.
77. The Letter of Notice informed Defendant that he was required to respond in
writing to the grievance within 15 days of service of the Letter of Notice.
NCSB v. HarriS, 17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline
Page S of 17

78. Defendant did not submit a written response to the grievlUwe.
79. On 26 January 2016, D. and K. Graves retained Defendant to represent their
daughter in defense of misdemeanor criminal charges,
80. On or about 26 January 2016, Defendant collected $1.500 trom the Graves in
partial payment of the legal fee.
8!. On or about 9 February 2016, Oefendant collected an additional $900 from
the Graves in payment of legal tees.
82. Defendant did not infOlm the Graves that he was suspended from the practice
of law in November 2015.
83. On 29 February 2016, Defendant appeared on behalf of the Graves' daughter
at a hearing for a civil domestic violence protective order (DVPO) that was related to
the criminal charges.
84. For subsequent hearing dates, Defendant provided false excuses for the reason
another attorney, D. Meier, would appeal' for the Graves' daughter in his stead.
85. On or about 7 March 2016, Defendant falsely intormed the Graves that Meier
would appear at the 8 March 2016 hearing date because Defendant had a conflict.
86. On or about 10 March 2016, Defendant falsely informed the Graves that
Meier would represent their daughter at the hearing for the civil DVPO because Meier
had a l;\ood relationship with the judge.
87. D<:1fendant failtld to respond to text messages from K. Graves sent to him on
21,23, and 31 March 2016 inquiring about the status of her daughter's case.
88. On or about 4 April 2016, Defendant sent a text message to the Grllves
informing them that he would see them in court the next day.
89. On or about 5 April 2016, Defendant sent the Graves a text message to infoml
them that Meier would get to court before Defendant. However, Defendant did not
inform the Graves that Meier would appear on behalfoftheir daughter at the hearing
on that date.
90. On or about 5 April 2016, Defendant and Meier met the Graves at the court
house.
91. Although Meier represented the Graves' daughter in the courtroom, Defendant
met with them outside of court to present a proposed plea agreement.
92. Defendant did not offer any explanation to the Graves for Meier's appearance
on behalf of their daughter at the April 5th hearing.
93. On or about 14 June 2016, the State Bar opened a grievance file against
Defendant concerning his conduct in the Graves matter.

NCSB v. Harris, 17 DHC 9
Order of Discipline

Page 6 007

94. Defendant personally accepted service of the LeIter of Notice on 26
September 2016.

95. The Letter of Notice informed Defenda.nt tha.t he was required to respond in
writing to the grievance within 15 days of service of the Letter of N otice_
96. Defendant did not submit a written response to the grievance.

97. On or about 2 February 2016, F. Graybeal retained Defendant to prepare wills
for Graybeal and his spouse.

98. Defendant collected a $1,500 legal fee from Graybeal.

99 _ Defendant did not inform Graybeal that he was suspended from the practice of
law in

Novemb~r

2015.

100. Graybeal made several attempts by email and text mess&ge to contact
Defendant in an effort to get an update on the status of Defendant's preparation of the
wills.
101. Defendant did not respond to Graybeal's attempts to contact him.
102. Defendant did not prepare a will for Graybeal or his spouse.
103. On or about 12 September 2016, Graybeal med a Petition for Resolution of
Disputed Fee against Defendant, petition no. 16 FD 0414.
104. Defendant accepted service of petition no. 16 FD 0414 on 26 September 2016.
105. Defendant was required to provide a written response to the tee dispute
petition within 15 day~ of his receipt of the petition, which was on II October 2016.
106. Defendant failed to provide a written response to the petition.
107. Defendant did not refund the $1,500 fee he collected from Graybeal.
108. On or about 18 January 2016, Defendant collected $2,000 from N. Ren as
payment for his representation of her at a hearing for a Motion for entry of a Domestic
Violence Protective Order.
.
109. On or about 10 February 2016, Defendant collected an additional $500 trom
Ren in furtherance of such representation.
110. Defendant did not inform Ren that he was suspended from the practice of law
in November 201 S.
111. Defendant obtained continuances for Ren's case throughout February 2016.
112. During this time period. Ron worked with Defendant to prepare her case for
hearing.
113. On or about 25 February 2016, Defendant was contacted by counsel for the
opposing party in the matter in which Defendant purported to represent Ren.
NCSB v. Harris. 17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline
Page 7 of 17

114. When opposing counsel asked Defendant if he was suspended trom the
practice of law, Defendant stated "it was not a problem" and "should have been fixed."
115. Defendant's statements to counsel for the opposing party that the suspension
of his law license was not a problem and should have been fixed were false and
misleading.
116. Ren first leamed that Defendant was not authorized \0 practice law on or
about 25 March 2016 when she appeared in court and was informed that Meier would
be handling her case.
117. Ren had not met Meier before March 25'h
118. Ren's case was continued again until 6 April 2016.
119. Between March 25 10 and April 610 , Ren attempted to contact Defendant and
Meier by telephone, email and text message to discuss her case.
120. Neither responded to Ren's attempts to communicate with them.
121. Meier appeared for Ren again at the 6 April 2016 hearing.
122. Defendant did not provide the information he had obtained about Ren's case
to Meier, including information about relevant evidence. This failure resulted in Meier
inadequately representing Ren at the April 6Ih hearing.
123. On or about 23 May 2016. the State Bar opened a grievance file against
Defendant concerning his conduct in the Ren matter.
124. Defendant personally accepted service of the Letter of Notice on
September 2016.

26

125. The Letter of Notice informed Defendant that he was required to respond in
writing to the grievance within 15 days of service of the Letter of Notice.
126. Defendant did not respond in writing to the grievance.
127. On or about 10 December 2015, Defendant collected $350 from A. WootenSheppard as payment of his legal fee for representation of her in a traffic matter.
128. Defendant did not inform Wooten-Sheppard that he was suspended from the
practice of law in November 2015.
129. Defendant did not appear on behalf of Wooten-Sheppard for the traffic matter.
130. Defendant did not refund to Wooten-Sheppard the $350 he collected from her
as a legal fee.
131. Defendant did not respond to calls from Wooten-Sheppard seeking an "pdate
on the status of her traffic matter.

NC-"'SB v. Harris, 17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline

Page ~ ofl7

132. On or about 3 March 2016, the State Bar opened a grievance file against
Defendant concerning his conduct in the Wooten-Sheppard matter.
133. Defendant personally accepted service of the Letter of Notice on 26
September 2016.
134. The Letter of Notice infonned Defendant that he was required to respond in
writing to the grievance within 15 days of service ofthe Letter of Notice.
135. Defendant was also required to produce bank: records and a client ledger for
Wooten-Sheppard.
136. Defendant did nol respond in writing to the grievance.
137. Defendant did no! produce bank records or a c1ienlledger for WootenSheppard.
Based on the foregoing Established Facts, the Hearing Panel enters the following;
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Steven Troy Harris.
2.

Entry of Default by the Secretary oftbe State Bar was proper.

3. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code § .0115(1)(4) Plaintiffs Motion for Default
Order Imposing Discipline may be decided based on the parties' written submissions.
4. Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Established Facts above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen, Stat. § 84-28(b)(3).
5. Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Established Facts above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84,28(b)(2) in tbat Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a) By failing to pertonn any meaningful work on Brewer's behalf between
14 July 2014 and 12 November 2015, Defendant failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
b) By failing to respond to Brewer's text message inquiries about the case.
Defendant failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests tor infonnation
in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4):
c) By providing f/llse status updates to Brewer about the status of his
representation of Brewer, Defendant failed to keep the client infonned of the
st~tus of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty. fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c);
d) By continuing to represent Brewer after his law license was suspended in
November 2015 and undertaking representation of Brewer's Son in a domestic
NCS8 v. Harris, 17 DHC 9

Order ofDi::ocipline

Page 901'17

matter in January 2016, Defendant engaged in the unauthorized practice of
law in violation of Rule 5.5(a);
e) By failing to inform Brewer of his suspension from the practice oflaw,
Defendant failed to keep the client reasonably informed about the status of the
matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to explain the matter to the extent
reasonably necessary to permit the client to make informed decisions
regarding the representation in violation of Rule l.4(b), and failed to take
steps to protect his client's interests in violation of Rule 1.16(d);
By collecting $15,000 from Brewer to file a civil lawsuit on his behalf and
then failing to file such lawsuit, Defendant collected a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule 1.5(a);
1')

g) By collecting $3,500 from Brewer to represent Brewer's son in a custody
action while Defendant was suspended from the practice oflaw, Defendant
collected an illegal fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a) and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c);
h) By failing to withdraw from Brewer', case before the effective date of his
suspension, Defendant failed to withdraw from representation ofa client
where the representation will result in a viDlation of the Rules of Professional
Conduct in violation Df Rule 1.16(a);
i) By failing to refund the unearned $15,000 fee he collected frDm Brewer
upon his suspension, Defendant failed to take steps to protect his client's
interests in violation of Rule l.16(d);

j) By failing to submit a written response to the Letter of Notice, Defendant
failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary
authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b);
k) By failing to inform Fichera of his suspension from the practice of law,
Defendant failed to keep the client reasDnably infDrmed abDut the status Df the
matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and 1'ailed to explain the matter tD the
extent reasonably necessary to permit the cHentto make informed decisions
regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
I) By failing to withdraw frDm his representation of Fichera betore the
effective date of his suspension, Defendant failed to withdraw from
representatiDn of a client where the representation will result in a violation of
the Rules of Professional CDnduct in violation of Rule 1.16(a);
m) By collecting a legal fee from Fichera and then failing to pertorm the legal
services for which he was paid, Defendant collected a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule 1.5(a);

NeSB v. Harris, 17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline
Page 10 01' 17

n) By failing to submit a written response to the Letter of Notice, Defendant
failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary
authority in violation of Rule B.I(b);

0) By failing until February 2016 to inform Travers of his suspension from
the practice of law and then failing to inform Travers of his consequent
inability to act his attorney, Defendant failed to keep the client reasonably
informed about the status ohhe matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and
failed to explain the matter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the
client to make informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of
Rule 1.4(b);
p) By failing to withdraw from his representation of Travers, Defendant
failed to withdraw from representation of a client where the representation
will result in a violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of
Rule 1.16(a);
q) By collecting a legal fee from Travers and then failing to perform the legal
services for which he was paid, Defendant collected a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule I.S(a);
r) By failing to refund upon his suspension the unearned fee he collected
from Travers, Defendant failed to take steps to protect his client's interests in
violation of Rule 1.16(d);
s) By failing to respond to discovery requests served on Travers' behalf,
Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to make a reasonably
diligent el1'ort (0 comply with a legally proper discovery request by an
opposing party in violation of Rule 3.4(d)(2), and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
By providing false information to Travers about the status of his
representation of Travers, Defendant failed to keep the client reasonably
informed of the status ofthe matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation ofRllle 8.4(c);
t)

u) By failing to submit a written response to the Letter of Notice, Defendant
failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary
authority in v;0latiol1 of Rule 8.1 (b);
v) By failing to inform Roche of his suspension from the practice of law,
Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d);
w) By collecting a legal fee from Roche while he was suspended from the
practice of law and thus unable to render legal services, Defendant collecled

NeSB v. Harris, 17 DHC 9
Order of Discipline
P.g~ II of!7

an illegal fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a) and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(e);
x) By undertaking representation of Roche in January 2016 after the effective
date of his suspension from the practice of law, Defendant engaged in the
unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(a);
y) By sending communications to Roche that gave the false appearance that
Defendant was authorized to practioe law, Defendant engaged in the
unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(b)(2) and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(e);
z) By failing to submit a written response to the Letter of Notice. Defendant
failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary
authority in violation of Rule S.I(b);

aa) By failing to inform the Graves of his suspension from the practice of law
and the true reason for Meier's involvement in the case. Defendant engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(c) and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

bb) By collecting a legal fee fTom the Graves while he was suspended from
the practice of the law, Defendant collected an illegal fee in violation of Rule
I.S(a) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

cc) By ~'ndertaking representation of the Graves' daughter in January 2016
after the effective date of his suspension from the practice oflaw, appearing
on her behalf in February 2016, and presenting a proposed plea agreement,
Defendant engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule
5.5(a);
dd) By sending communications to the Graves that gave the false appearance
that Defendant was authorized to practice law. Defendant engaged in the
unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule S.S(b)(2) and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(c);
ee) By failing to submit a written response (0 the Letter of Notice, Defendant
failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary
authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b);

ft) By failing 10 inform Graybeal of his suspension from the practice of law
and failing to respond to Graybeal's communications seeking an update on the
status of the representation, Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule SA(d);

NCSB v. Harris, 17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline
Page 12o!'17

gg) By collecting a legal fee from Graybeal while he was suspended from the
practice of the law, Defendant collected an illegal fee in violation of Rule
1.5(a) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violatioll of Rule 8.4(c);
hh)By undertaking representation of Graybeal in February 2016 after the
effective date of his suspension from the practice oflaw, Defendant engaged
in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(a);
ii) By failing to submit a written response to the fee dispute petition,
Defendant f>!iled to participate in good faith in the fee dispute resolution
process in violation of Rule 1.5(f)(2);

jj) By failing to inform Ren of his suspension from the practice of law, failing
to respond to Ren' s communications seeking an update on the status of her
case, and failing to provide relevant information about Ren's case to Meier,
Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d);
kk) By collecting a legal fee trom Ren while he was suspended from the
practice ol'the law, Defendant collected an iIleg1l1 fee in violation of Rule
1.5(a) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
II) By undertaking representation ofRen in January 2016 and holding himself
out to Ren, opposing counsel, and the court as authorized to practice law after
the effective date of his suspension from the practice oflaw, Defendant
engaged in the unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(a);
mOl)
By falsely suggesting to opposing counsel in the Ren matter that
his suspension from the practice of law was not a problem, Defendant
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);
nn) By failing to submit a written response to the Letter of Notice, Defendant
failed to respond to a lawtul demand for information from a disciplinary
authority in violation of Rule 8.I(h);
oo)By failing to inform Wooten-Sheppard of his suspension from the practice
of law and failing to respond to Wooten-Sheppard's communications seeking
an update on the status of her case, Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial
to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
pp) By collecting a legal fee from Wooten-Sheppard while he was suspended
irom the practice of the law, Defendant collected an illegal fee in violation of
Rule I.S(a) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, traud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
qq) By holding himself out as an attorney capable of undertaking
representation of Wooten-Sheppard in December 2015, after the el1'ective date

Ness v.

Harris, 17 DHC 9
Order of Discipline
Page 13 of17

of his suspension from the practice ofiaw, Defendant engaged in the
unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule S.S(a); and
rr) By failing to submit a written response to the Letter of Notice and failing
to produce bank records and a client ledger for Wooten-Sheppard, Defendant
failed to respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary
authority in violation of Rule 8.I(b).
Based on the foregoing Established Facts and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing Panel
enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I.

The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IS § .0116(t)(1) and concludes that the following factors
that warrant suspension or disbarment are present:
a,

Intent ofthe defendant to cause the resulting harm:

b. Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm is foreseeable;

c. Circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty,
trustworthiness, Of integrity;

d. Elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of tho client;
e. Negative impact oftbe defendant's actions on the administration of
justice;
f. Impairment of the client's ability
representation;

(0

achieve the goals oflhe

g. Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;

h. Multiple instances offailure to participate in the legal profession's
self"regulation process.

2.

The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27

N.C. Admin. Code IB § .OI16(t)(2) and concludes that the following factors
that warrant disbarment are present:
a.

3,

Acts of dishonesty. misrepresentation, deceit. or fabrication.

TIle Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factorS enumerated in 27

N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0 116(f)(3) and concludes that the following are
applicable in this matter:

a. Dishonest 01' sel fish motive;
NCSB v. Harris, 17 DI-IC 9

Order of Discipline
Page 14 of17

b. Indifference to making restitution;
c. Pattern of misconduct;
d. MUltiple offenses;
e. Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct; and

f.

Vulnerability of victims.

4. Defendant caused significant hann to his clients by failing to refund
the unearned portion of the legall'ees he collected from Brewer, Fichera, and
TJ'(:)vel's.

5. Defendant caused significant harm to the Brewers and Travers by
falsely leading them to believe he was pursuing litigation on their behalf.
6. Defendant caused significant harm to the administration of justice in
the cases of the Brewers and Travers.
7. Defendant c!msed significant harm to his clients by failing to notify
them of his suspension and failing to advise them to seek legal advice
elsewhere.
8. Defendant caused signitlcant harnl to Brewer, the Graves, Graybeal,
Ren, Roche, and Wooten-Sheppard by (i) collecting money from them in
payment of purported legal fees while he was suspended from the practice of
law and (ii) falsely leading them to believe that he was autllorized to represent
them in legal matters and was performing legal work on their behalf.
9. By falsely holding himself out as authorized to practice law while
suspended and collecting legal fees, Defendant has caused harm to the legal
profession in that his conduct reinforces the negative stereotype that lawyers are
selfish and out for personal gain thereby undennining the trust and conl'idence
lha\ the public has in the legal system.
10. Defendant's failure to respond to the State Bar and the disciplinary
complaint cau~ed hann to the profession by undemlining the privilege of
lawyers in this State to remain self~regulating.
1J. Defendant's conduct caused potential significant harm to the public,
the administration of justice and the legal profession in that his actions bring the
legal profession into disrepute.
12. The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including
suspension, censure, reprimand, and admonition and tlnds that discipline less
than disbamlent would not adequately protect the public from Defendant's
future misconduct for the following reasons:
NCSB v. Harris, J 7 DHC 9

Order of Disci pi in.

Page 15 of 17

a. Defendant demonstrated his disregard for attorney regulation by
continuing to hold himself out as authorized to practice law during his
administrative suspension, which shows that suspension from the practice of
law was insufficient to protect the public and the legal profession from
Defendant's misconduct;
b. Entry of an order imposing Jess serious discipline would fail to
ack.nowledge the seriousnesS of the offenses Defendant committed and
would send the wrong message to lawyers and the public regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State;
c. The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that
Defendant not be permitted to return to the practice of law until he
demonstrates the following by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence: (i)
that he has reformed, (ii) that he possesses the moral qualifications required
for admission to practice law in North Carolina, taki11g into account the
misconduct that is the subject of this order, (iii) that he understands the
current Rules of Professional Conduct, and (iv) that reinstatement will not be
detrimental to the public or the integrity and standing of the legal profession.
Disbarment is the only discipline that will require Defendant to make such a
showing before returning to the practice of law.
B~sed on the foregoing Established Facts, Conclusions of Law, and
Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I. Defendant, Steven Troy Harris, is hereby DISBARRED trom the
practice of law.
2. Defendant shall immediately surrender his law license and membership
card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar following service of this
order upon Defendant.
3. Defendant shall pay within 30 days of service of the statement of costs
upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar the administrative fees and costs of
this proceeding.
4. To the extent that Defendant has not previously complied with the
provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0128, Defendant shall immediately
comply with such provisions.
5. Defendant shall provide the following to the State Bar within 30 days
of the effective date of this Order: a physical address (not P.O. Box or Drawer)
and telephone number at which client:; seeking return of their files can
communicate with Defendant and obtain such files.
6.
Defendant shall return client mes to the client within 5 days of receipt
ofa request for return of the client file. Defendant will be deemed to have
received any such request 3 days after the date the request is sent to Defendant
NCSB v. Harris, 17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline
Page 16ofI7

if the request is SC;lnt to the address Defendant provided to the State Bar pursuant
to this Order.

+/// Signed &~the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
!l:-dayof

~

,2017.

~,.; IY:>OlT" .~ e=:,. , 1!r4'~><=_w-

-=-Be-v.....

O:f<ll?£;liEw:"'r

Disciplinary Hearing Panel

NCSB Y. Harri$, 17 DHC 9

Order of Discipline

I'nge 17 oft7

