NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)

v.

)
)

WENDELYN R. HARRIS, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)

ORDER CONTINUING
DEFENDANT'S DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

This matter was heard by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Richard V. Bennett, and Tyler B.
Morris. Margaret Cloutier represented Plaintiff. Defendant was represented by T. Greg
Doucette.
Based on the pleadings and the evidence presented, the Hearing Panel finds by
clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. Defendant, Wendelyn R. Harris, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar
in March 2009 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed
to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State of North Carolina.
3. The complaint in 18 DHC 14 was filed by the North Carolina State Bar on
January 26,2018. Defendant was properly served with process.
4. In her response to the Complaint, Defendant raised the issue of disability
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB, .0122(c)(3) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and

Disability Rules asserting that she was disabled within the meaning of .01 03(19) of said
Rules.
5. By Order filed April 26, 2018, Defendant was transferred to disability inactive
status and the hearing on the disciplinary action was stayed pending a hearing on the
issue of disability.
6. A hearing was held on August 24, 2018 during which evidence was presented
by Defendant regarding the current status of her health after suffering a stroke in April
2017.
7. The Hearing Panel carefully considered the evidence presented by Defendant
and her husband and mother regarding her cognitive abilities, her mobility issues. and the
effects of her various medications.
8. The Hearing Panel finds that Defendant's professional judgment. performance
and competence are presently impaired by the effects of the stroke and the effects of her
various medications.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact. the Panel enters the fonowing
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are preperly before the Hearing Pane). and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Defendant is disabled within the meaning of27 N.C.A.C. IB .0103(19), and
Defendant should be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
.0122.
ORDER
1. Defendant's disability inactive status is continued.

2. Defendant shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina until reinstated
to active status pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB .0129(c).
3. The disciplinary action filed by the State Bar in 18 DHC 14 is stayed until such
time as Defendant's disability inactive status is tenninated.
4. The North Carolina State Bar, pursuant to Rule .OI22(e), may continue to
investigate the allegations of misconduct against Defendant, including the taking of
whatever depositions it deems necessary to preserve evidence regarding the allegations

2

contained in the Complaint. No further orders ofthis Panel shall be necessary to take
such depositions unless sought by the Defendant.

3

