· 'f~).0,')
/.cl"\l~,' 'f,.~.~~ JVJ:/'I;

~v>

of.
OCT<OIJ
STATE

or NORTH CAROLI

F/I t-,..

~D.fia.'L

WAKE COUNTY

J?

,

u-.

BEFORE THE
RY HEARING COMMISSION
Q:,
OF THE
III CAROLINA STATE BAR
13 DHC 19
(J)

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS or FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

JOHN DAVID HAUSER, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MAlTER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Ronald R. Davis, Chair, IIarriet Smalls and Karen B. Ray
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .oJ 14 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Mary D.
Winstead. Defendant, John David Hauser, represented himself. Defendant waives a
formal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the findings offact,
conclusions of law, and to the discipline imposed. Defendant waives any right to appeal
this consent Order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency ofthe fIndings.
Based upon the pleadings, the parties' stipulated facts and with the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes, by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the
following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws ofN0l1h Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Rcgulations of the N0l1h Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, John David Hauser ("Defendant"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 2000 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws ofthe State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods refelTcd to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law oi11ee
in Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina.

-_...--.. _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

---

4.
The North Carolina Board of Continuing Legal Education (CLE Board)
mailed Defendant the annual CLE report form for 20 II.
5.
Defendant's 2011 annual report form was due to be signed and returned to
the State Bar or postmarked by February 29, 2012.
6:

Defendant failed to timely return the form.

7.

The CLE Board mailed Defendant a second notice on March 14,2012.

8.
On May 10,2012, the CLE Board issued a Notice to Show Cause to
Defendant regarding his failure to return the 2011 Annual Report Form. The Notice to
Show Cause required Defendant to submit his signed 20 II Annual Report Form and pay
$209 in fees ($75 late filing fee and $125 non-compliance fee) within thirty days of
receipt of the Notice.
9.
In a cover lctter dated May 31, 2012, Defendant infonned the CLE Board
that he had mailed the original CLE annual report form on February 27, 2012 and
enclosed a copy of the form he had purportedly signed and mailed on February 27, 2012.
10.
Defendant also enclosed a check for $209 stating he was "unsure how the
Board will treat this set of circumstances."
II.
The CLE report form that Defendant enclosed with his May 31, 2012
lettcr and which he rcpresented to be a copy of the original rcport form that hc had
returned by the February 29, 2012 deadline, was actually the second notice which had not
been mailed to Defendant until March 14,2012.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, John David Hauser, and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Hauser's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a.

By submitting to the CLE Board an annual repOlt form signed and dated
February 27, 2012 and representing that this form was a copy of the
original he had returned by the February 29, 2012 deadline when in fact
the report form he submitted had not been mailed to him until March 14,
2012, Defendant attempted to mislead the I30ard and to avoid paying the
late fees, and in so doing, Defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

2

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _.._----_._._. __ ._--_.-.

Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice of law.

2.

Defendant has been cooperative during the State Bar's investigation o[this

matter.
3.
Defendant accepts responsibility for his conduct and has expressed
genume remorse.
4.
Defendant has not previously been disciplined for violating the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
5.
It is vital to the integrity of the State Bar's CLE Program that attorneys be
honest and accurate in all aspects of their CLE reporting.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors arc applicable in this matter:
a.

Defendant has practiced law since 2000 and does not have a record of
prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Dishonest motive;

c.

Defendant has made full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel or has
demonstrated a cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;

d.

Acknowledgement of the wrongful nature of the conduct;

c.

De!endant is extremely remorseful for his conduct and for the impact of
his conduct on the protession and the public's perception of the
profession;

f.

De!endant has substantial experience in the practice of law; and

g.

Defendant has submitted letters from his pastor and other attorneys which
indicate that Defendant demonstrates integrity in the practice oflaw and in
his personal dealings.
3

2.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated
in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .OI14(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors warranting consideration of suspension
of Defendant's license:
a.

Circumstances retlecting the Defendant's lack of honesty,
trustworthiness, or integrity; and

b.

Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on the legal
profession and on the public's pcrception of the legal profession.

3.
The Hearing Panel has also carefully considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(2) of the Rulcs and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes that the only factor present in this instance that would
wan·ant consideration of disbannent is factor (B): Defendant's impulsive acts of
dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication without timely remedial efforts.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all other fonns of discipline available
and concludes that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, the potential significant harm to the
public and the legal profession, would not adequately protect the public, and would send
the wrong mcssage to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar.
5.
The Hearing Panel finds and concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by imposing a period of active suspension which is stayed upon Defendant's
compliance with conditions designed to ensure protection of the public and to ensure
Delendant's compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The license of Defendant, John David Hauser, is hereby suspended for one
year. This period of active suspension is stayed for one year upon Defendant's
compliance with the following conditions:
a.

Detendant must complete four hours of continuing legal education that
are accredited by the North Carolina State Bar CLE Department as
professional responsibility or professionalism education in addition to thc
two hours of professional responsibility or professionalism education
Defendant must complete to fulfill his annual CLE requirements;

b.

Defendant must pay the costs and administrative fees of this action as
described in paragraph 5 below;

4

c.

Defendant shall provide the North Carolina State Bar with a physical
mailing address whieh shall not be a post office box address and keep his
address of record with the North Carolina State Bar current. Defendant
shall accept all certified mail from the NOlth Carolina State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlincs stated in the communication or within
fifteen (15) days of receipt, whichever is later;

d.

Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and
continuing legal education requirements and pay all fees and costs
assessed by the applicable deadline;

e.

Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the fee dispute program
when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;

f.

Defendant shall not violate thc laws of any state or of the United States;
and

g.

Defendant shall not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

2.
[fDefendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated
in Paragraph I above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules. If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of
Defendant's license is activated for any reason, before a subsequent stay of the
suspension can be entered Defendant must show by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence that he has complied with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules and thc conditions set out in Paragraphs 1 (a) - (g) above for any subsequent stay
of the suspension.
3.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of any active period of suspension as
provided in Paragraph 2 above, Defendant must provide in his application for
reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of the following:
a.

Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code I B § .0125 of the NOIth Carolina State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules; and

b.

Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraphs 1 (a) - (g) above.

4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by tluther
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end one year from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
Pursuant to § .0114(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC
retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a
5

.,
motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the
stay of the snspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would
otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lin the stay of
(he suspension and acti vale the one year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any
of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and
Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until
resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
5. All costs and administrative fees of this action are taxed to Defendant.
Defendant must pay the costs of this action within 120 days of service upon his of the
statement of costs by the Secretary.
6. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules until all conditions of the stayed suspension are satisficd.
~ Signed

:3;0

by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel membcrs, this the
day of Oc..-t",B.r:fe.
, 2013.

f
7
~',
\..t;-",,<J.IA.

r?lJf'I£L (it/ltl .te.

Ronald R.
IS, C alr
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

.

CONSENTED TO BY:

~~!: . . *-~ n
Deputy Counsel
NOtih Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

6

-------

~----

..

----

