.j>.

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
SECRETARY AND THE
CIPLlNARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12BSR4&09DHC16

u,
Cl)

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
THE REINSTATEMENT OF:

RICHARD THOMAS HAYES, V, Attomey,

)
)
)
)
)

ORDER GRANTING
REINSTATEMENT

This maller came on to be heard on January 18,2013 before a panel or the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair; William M. Claytor and Patti
Head. After evidence was presented by the parties, the hearing was recessed until February 7,
2013 when the hearing was resumed by conference call. Based upon the evidence presented and
the arguments of counsel, the panel finds the following to be suppOlted by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. In a consent order filed November 4, 2009, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission suspended Richard Thomas Hayes, V ("Hayes") from the practice of law for five
years effective from the date of his administrative suspension, September 9, 2005.
2. On September 10,2012, Hayes filed a petition for reinstatement.
Requirements for Reinstatement contained in the Consent Order:
3. Pursuant to sub-paragraphs 2 (a), (b) and (0) of the consent order, to be eligible for
reinstatement upon completion of the period of suspension, Hayes had to prove that he had
complied with the followingconditions:
(a) Hayes shall, at his own expense and to the satisfaction of the Office of
Counsel, reconcile his trust account to determine the amount that is in the
account for each client and deten-nine, to the best of his ability, the propel'
recipients of the balances held for each clicnt.
(b) Upon approval by the Office of Counsel, Hayes shall distribute to the
proper recipients the amounts in his trust account that can be distributed
without his license first having been restorcd. If a title opinion or other
legal work is necessary to distributc trust funds held for any client, Hayes

must identify the client and be prepared to perform the legal work
necessary to get the client's matter concluded expeditiously upon a stay
being entered.
(c) Hayes shall undergo an initial assessment with the Lawyer Assistance
Program ("LAP"). If the initial LAP assessment requires a medical
assessment, thcn Hayes shall undergo the reconunended medical
assessment. If after the initial and medical assessments are completed, the
LAP program recommends that Hayes enter into a rehabilitation contract
to address any underlying problem, Hayes must demonstrate that he has
done so.
4. The State Bar objected to Hayes' reinstatement by the Secretary because, as Hayes
admitted in his petition, he had not been able to reconcile his trust account and there was still a
substantial sum of money in that aecount, plus he had not provided evidence that he had
undertaken a LAP assessment.
5. There was no evidence in the disciplinary case, or since, that Hayes had
misappropriated any funds entrusted to him.
6. Many of the records necessm'y for a formal reconciliation of Hayes' trust account were
no longer available as of the dat", of the entry of the consent order of discipline.
7. The records that were available were not sufficient to fully reconcile the trust account.
8. Hayes has not reconciled his trust account, but he has reconciled it to the best of his
ability.
9. Ownership of the $67,021.85 remaining in Hayes' trust account cannot now be
determined based upon available records.
10. The Office of Counsel acknowledges that there is no means available by which
Hayes can now distribute the funds on deposit in his tmst account.
. II. The majority of the funds remaining in the trust account represent title insurance
premiums for lenders' policies that were not issued. Those funds belong to the clients whose real
estate transactions Hayes closed.
12. There has been no general notice given to Hayes' former clients that they can make a
claim for funds that may have been in Hayes' trust account.
13. On December 3, 2012, Hayes had an assessment performed by a licensed
psychologist recommended by the LAP program, G. Lane Wagaman, Ed. D. Dr. Wagaman
concluded that Hayes had no impairment, but recommended that he may benefit from follow-up
with a trained behavioral health professional to ensure continued stability.

2

14. Hayes has contacted the LAP program about getting the follow-up care
recommended by Dr. Wagaman.
15. Hayes has not violated any state or federal laws during the period of his suspension.
16. Hayes had not violated any of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of
his suspension.
17. Hayes has responded to communications with the State Bar within the time required.
18. Hayes timely paid all dues, Client Security Fund assessments and CLE fees owed and
had no CLE deficit at the time of his suspension.
Requirements for Reinstatemel1!J>ursuant to 27 NCAC lli.ยง .0125(b)(3):
19. Although Hayes failed to file an affidavit showing how he wound down his practice,
Hayes was in substantial compliance with 27 NCAC 1B ยง .0124 because he had wound down his
practice well before entry of the consent order of discipline and there was no evidence that he
failed to properly wind down his practice.
20. There was no evidence that Hayes failed to comply with the consent order of
discipline by engaging in the unauthorized practice of law.
21. Hayes completed 17.75 hours of CLE in satisfaction of the post-suspension
requirements of27 NCAC IE ยง .0125(3)(1).
22. Hayes currently has a dues credit with the State Bar that can be applied to his 2013
dues which are not yet due.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Hayes has complied with all oftbe conditions of the consent order of discipline.
2. Hayes has complied with all of the conditions of27 NCAC lB ยง .0125(3).
3. Having complied with all oftbe conditions of the consent order and the rules regarding
reinstatement, Hayes should be reinstated to the practice of law in North Carolina upon certain
conditions set out below.
THEREFORE it is hereby ORDERED:
1. Hayes is reinstated to the practice of law in North Carolina as of the date of this order,
but subject to the following conditions:

3

(a) Hayes must transfer the $67,021. 85 currently in his trust account to the State
Bar [or those funds to be held for threc (3) years or such other shorler period of time
as may be required by law;
(b) Hayes must pay the expense incuned by the State Bar for the publication of a
public notice in a fonn intended 10 give Hayes' former clients notice of the
availability of the funds formerly held in Hayes' (rust account and inform them how
to make a claim for return of those funds;
(c) Hayes must pay the cost and expenses for any Trustee or Administrator
necessary (0 receive and evaluate claims for thc funds formerly held in Hayes' trust
account;
(d) By the 15"1 ofJai1Uary, April, July and Octobcr of each year, Hayes must
submit quaticrly reconciliations of any trust account he maintains to the Office of
Counsel ofthe State Bar for three years l1'om the date of this order;
(e) Of the 17.75 hours of post.. suspension CLE that Hayes has taken, only 2.75
hours Inay be included to satisfy his 2013 CLE requirement; and
(f) Hayes must enter into a contract with LAP as deemed appropriate by the LAP
Board's policies. Hayes must direct the LAP office to confirm when Hayes has
satisfied this requirement.
2. Hayes is taxed witl~tosts of this proceeding.

cJi5

day of February 2013 with thc tbll knowledge aJid consent of
Entered this is the
the other members of the panel.

~

Walter E. Brock, Jr.
Hearing Panel Chair

4

