. ~(/;:19<1
1t ~~
A

!/lOy

<'00 !

.......
N

~~O DI~IPL.
. Oijt;'

t..

. N tI
\,.

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BAR
16 DHC 317

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.
SHAUN L. HAYES, Attorney,

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, William O. King, and Jane B.
Weathers. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, Shaun L. Hayes was represented by Deanna Brocker. Defendant waives a
formal hearing in the above referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order. The parties consent
to the discipline imposed by this order. Defendant knowingly, freely, and voluntarily
waives his right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of
the findings by consenting to entry of this order.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Shaun L. Hayes (hereafter "Defendant"), was admitted to the State
Bar on 26 August 2003 and is an attorney at law subject to the mles, regulations, and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.
3. During the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was actively
engaged in the practice of law and maintained a law office in Asheboro, Randolph
County, North Carolina.
4. T. Lanc,aster retained Defendant on or about 23 September 2015 to represent
her in a civil dispute betwe.en Lancaster and her employee/landlord S. Wood.

Page 1 of8

5. Defendant charged and Lancaster paid Defendant $2,500 for the
representation.
6. On or about 25 September 2015, Lancaster leamed from Wood that Defendant
had previously represented Wood's ex-husband in an unrelated domestic matter against
Wood.
7. Although Defendant represented Wood's ex-husband in the domestic matter,
Wood and her ex-husband had since reconciled.
8. At the time of Defendant's representation of Lancaster, Lancaster considered
both Wood and Wood's ex-husband as her adversaries in the civil matter.
9. Lancaster ended Defendant's representation of her out of concems about his
ability to be loyal to his representation of her given his prior representation of Wood's
ex-husband.
10. On or about 17 October 2015, Lancaster filed a Petition for Resolution of
Disputed Fee ("Fee Dispute Petition").
11. Pursuant to the Fee Dispute Petition, Lancaster sought the retum of the $2,500
fee she had paid Defendant because she was concemed that Defendant's prior
representation of Wood's ex-husband negatively affected his loyalty to his
representation of Lancaster.
12. Defendant submitted his response to the Fee Dispute Petition on or about 29
October 2015.
13. In his response to the Fee Dispute Petition, Defendant denied engaging in
misconduct, stated that he had earned according to the written fee agreement the fee
Lancaster paid, and attached to his response a 23 September 2015 Hayes Law Firm
Agreement which he represented as the fee agreement between him and Lancaster ("the
agreement").
14. "T. Lancaster" is on the signature line at the bottom of the agreement
purporting to represent the signature of Lancaster.
15. Lancaster did not sign the agreement Defendant attached to his response to
the Fee Dispute Petition.
16. Defendant handwrote "T. Lancaster" on the agreement he submitted in
support of his response to the Fee Dispute Petition to falsely represent the signature as
Lancaster's.
17. Defendant was successful in his effort to have the Fee Dispute Petition
dismissed.
18. On 15 January 2016, a grievance file was opened against Defendant alleging
in part that Defendant handwrote Lancaster's signatnre on the agreement he provided
in support of his response to the Fee Dispute Petition.

NCSB v. Hayes
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 2 of8

19. In his response to the grievance, Defendant "adamantly denier d]" the
allegation that he handwrote Lancaster's signature on the agreement.
20. On or about 25 May 2016, Defendant was provided with the opinion of a
handwriting expert that Lancaster did not sign the agreement.
21. After being provided with the handwriting expert's opinion about the
signature on the agreement, Defendant admitted that he had written Lancaster's
signature on the agreement.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel, and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Shaun L. Hayes, and over the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a) By submitting the agreement bearing a false, handwritten signature in
support of his response to the Fee Dispute Petition, Defendant engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(c);
b) By handwriting "T. Lancaster" on the agreement with the intent to falsely
represent it as Lancaster's signature, Defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and
c) By denying in his response to the grievance complaint the allegation that
he handwrote Lancaster's signature, Defendant knowingly made a false
statement of material fact in connection with a disciplinary matter in violation
of Rule 8.1(a), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

One of the issues for which Lancaster sought Defendant's assistance was
2.
access to the property that was the subject of the dispute between Lancaster and her

NCSB v. Hayes
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of8

landlord. Lancaster obtained access to the property before she ended Defendant's
representation of her.
3.
The domestic matter in which Defendant represented Wood's ex-husband
was initiated in or about May 2006 and was concluded in or about June 2006.
4.

Defendant expressed remorse for his conduct and apologized to Lancaster.

5.
Defendant refunded the legal fee that he charged Lancaster for his
representation of her.
6.

Defendant paid Lancaster for the cost she incurred for the handwriting

expel1.
7.
Defendant has a good reputation in the community and among his
professional colleagues.

Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the
Additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the pal1ies, the
Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0114(w)(I) and concludes that the following factors that warrant
suspension or disbarment are present:
(a) Intent ofthe defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
(b) Circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustwolihiness,
or integrity;
(c) Elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of the client;
(d) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
of the profession;
(e) Negative impact ofthe defendant's actions on the administration of
justice; and
(f) Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication.

NCSB v. Hayes
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 of8

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .OI14(w)(2) and concludes that the following factor exists that
warrants consideration of disbarment:
(a) Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .OI14(w)(3) and concludes that the following are applicable in this
matter:
(a) Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Good character and reputation;
(c) Remorse; and
(d) Defendant has been licensed to practice law for approximately thirteen
years.
4.
By choosing to engage in dishonest conduct, Defendant caused significant
potential harm to the legal profession.

5.
By providing false documentation in support of his response to the fee
dispute petition, Defendant caused harm to Lancaster.

6.
By initially providing a false response to the grievance complaint,
Lancaster caused harm to the attorney self-regulation process and thus, the legal
profession and to Lancaster in that she had to incur the cost of a handwriting expert.
7.
The Hearing Panel considered disbarment, but determined that disbarment
is not warranted because: (i) Defendant has no prior discipline, (ii) his misconduct was
isolated, (iii) his misconduct did not cause significant harm, though it created the
potential for significant harm to the profession, and (iv) Defendant made restitution to
Lancaster for the harm caused to her by his misconduct.
8.
The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including: censure,
reprimand, and admonition, and finds that discipline less than suspension would not
adequately protect the public fi'om Defendant's future misconduct because of the harm
caused to his client and the gravity of potential significant harm Defendant's conduct
caused to the profession.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline,
and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

NCSB v. Hayes
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 of8

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant, Shann L. Hayes, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for 2 years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Hayes.
2.
Defendant shall submit his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the State Bar no later than 30 days following the effective date ofthis Order.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124 ("Obligations ofDisban'ed or Suspended Attorneys").
As provided in § .0 I 24(d), Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary ofthe State
Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this Order, certifying he has complied with the
wind down rule.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees for this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall pay, within 30 days of service of the
statement of fees and costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative
fees and costs ofthis proceeding.
5.
Within 30 days after service of this Order, Defendant shall provide the
State Bar's Office of Counsel with an address and telephone number at which clients
seeking their files can communicate with Defendant. Defendant shall promptly return all
files to his clients upon request.
6.
After serving no less than one year of the suspension, Defendant may
apply for a stay of the remaining period of suspension imposed by this Order by filing a
motion in the cause and demonstrating by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that in
addition to complying with the general provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0125
("Reinstatement"), Defendant has complied with the following:
(a) Defendant timely complied with paragraphs 2-5 ofthis section of the Order of
Discipline;
(b) Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his current
physical home and business addresses (addresses must be a street address, not
P.O. Box or Drawer);
(c) Defendant has accepted all certified mail from the State Bar and responded to
all letters of notice and requests for information from the State Bar - including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program - within 30
days of receipt or by the deadline state in the communication; whichever is

sooner;
(d) Defendant participated fully, timely and in good faith in the State Bar's fee
dispute resolution program when notified of any petitions for resolution of
disputed fees. This provision applies to any fee dispute petition pending at the

NCSB v. Hayes
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of8

time of entry of this Order or of which he receives notice after the effective
date of this Order;
(e) Defendant did not engage in the unauthorized practice of law during the
period of suspension;
(f) Defendant did not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
federal laws other than minor traffic violations during the period of active
suspension.
7.
Defendant may file a motion in the cause seeking a stay of the remainder
of the suspension up to 30 days prior to completing one year of active suspension, but
shall not be reinstated prior to the end of at least a one year suspension period.
8.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license
pursuant to this Order, the stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies
with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current physical home and business addresses (addresses shall be street
addresses, not P.O. Box or Drawer), telephone numbers, and email address,
and shall notify the membership department within 10 days of any change to
his contact information;
(b) Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar and respond to all
letters of notice and requests for information from the State Bar within 30
days or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner;
(c) Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements, and pay all fees and costs assessed by the State
Bar and the Client Security Fund by tbe applicable deadline;
(d) Defendant shall satisfy the CLE requirements for members in good standing;
(e) Defendant shall participate fully, timely, and in good faitb in the State Bar's
fee dispute resolution program when notified of any petitions for resolution of
disputed fees; and
(f) Defendant shall not violate tbe Rules of Professional Conduct or any state or
federal laws (including tbe revenue and tax laws of any jurisdiction) other
than minor traffic violations during tbe period of stayed suspension.
9.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated
in Paragraph 8 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(x) ("Stayed Suspensions").

NCSB v. Hayes
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 of8

10.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension, or if some part of the
suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must provide in his
application for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of the following:
(a) Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0125 ("Reinstatement"); and
(b) Compliance with the conditions set out in paragraph 6, above.
11.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01 14(x) ofthe North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the suspension, and any stay thereof, and until
all ofthe conditions in paragraph 6 above are satisfied.

Slgped by the

the~dayof

air with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members this
~~
,2016.

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
WE CONSENT:

77.7~
Shaun L. Hayes
Defendant

~

Deanna Brocker
Attorney for Defendant

eputy Counsel

NCSB v. Hayes
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8 of8

