NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

FILED
DHC

BEFORE THE
HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94 DHC 9

/

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

HARRY L. HEILIG,
Attorney

)

j
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT

f
)
)
)

AND
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Defendant
This matter was heard on August 26, 1994 by a hearing
committee composed of Stephen T. Smith, chairman; Richard L.
Doughton, and Frank L. Boushee. Fern E. Gunn represented the
North Carolina State Bar. The defendant, Harry L. Heilig, did
not file an answer to the State Bar's complaint. The defendant
did not appear at the hearing and he was not represented by
counsel. Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, the
hearing committee finds the following by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper
party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
1.

2. The defendant, Harry L. Heilig, was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1956, and is, and was at all times referred
to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice law in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws
of the State of North Carolina.
3. The defendant was actively engaged in the practice of law
in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Brunswick County, Sunset Beach, North Carolina.
4. On May 27, 1992, defendant pled guilty to one count of
conspiracy to commit wire fraud, a felony, in violation'of 18
U.S.C. Section 371. The offense for which defendant pled guilty
involved his offering to havs a client's prison sentence commuted
by bribing public officials in North Carolina and South Carolina
at a cost of $80,000. The United States District Court in South

Carolina found defendant guilty of the crime.
On November 9, 1992, defendant was sentenced to 3 0 months
imprisonment. He was also ordered to make restitution to the
United States government.
5.

6. Defendant served approximately 18 months of his sentence
and he is presently on supervised release in Phoenix, Arizona.

7. On November 2 5 , 1992, defendant filed a notice of intent
to appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit. The defendant appealed his sentence, but he did not
appeal the conviction.

The Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that defendant
was not entitled to a reduction of his sentence and the United
States District Court's sentence in defendant's case was
affirmed.
8.

9. On or about April 27, 1994, defendant filed a petition
for writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court.
Defendant raised the question of whether the United States
District Court imposed an improper sentence under the United
States Sentencing Guidelines. Defendant did not appeal his
conviction. The United States Supreme Court has not ruled on
defendant's petition for writ of certiorari.
lo. On July 6, 1994, defendant filed pro se a Motion to
Vacate, Set Aside or Correct Sentence by a Person in Federal
Custody under 2 8 U.S.C. Section 2 2 5 5 . The motion has not been
heard.

11. For purposes of Section 15 of Article IX of the
Discipline and Disbarment Procedures of the North Carolina State
Bar, the defendant's conviction is final. Defendant has
exhausted his appeal of right. Defendant's appeal to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and his petition
for writ of certiorari challenge his sentence and do not contest
his guilt or innocence of the offense to which he pled guilty.
Defendant's Section 2 2 5 5 motion filed on July 6, 1994 is a
collateral attack on his sentence and does not affect the
finality of his conviction.
12. Defendant was convicted of a criminal offense which is a
serious crime as defined in Section 3(UU) of Article IX of the
Discipline and Disbarment Procedures of the North Carolina State
Bar.
13. The crime that defendant was convicted of is a criminal
offense showing professional unfitness.
...

14. On June 13, 1994, defendant was personally served with
the North Carolina State Bar's complaint in this matter in
Phoenix, Arizona by APS International, process servers.
15.

On July 30, 1994, defendant received notice of the

hearing scheduled for August 26, 1 9 9 4 by certified mail,
restricted delivery. Defendant also received the order of
interim suspension entered on July 1 9 , 1 9 9 4 by Maureen Demarest
Murray, chairman of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, whereby
he was suspended from the practice of law pending the disposition
of this disciplinary proceeding.
16.
The hearing committee read defendant's letter of July 30,
1 9 9 4 addressed to L. Thomas Lunsford 11, executive director of

the North Carolina State Bar. In that letter, defendant
indicated that he suffered from cardiovascular problems and he
would not be able to attend the hearing on August 26, 1 9 9 4
without permission from his probation officer to travel outside
the state of Arizona.
17.
Counsel for the State Bar wrote defendant by letter dated
August 1 9 , 1 9 9 4 . Defendant was told that the chairman of the
hearing committee wanted a letter from defendant's doctor which
substantiated defendant's claim that his health problems
prevented his travelling to North Carolina for the hearing. This
letter was sent to defendant at his address in Arizona by Federal
Express on August 1 9 , 1 9 9 4 .

Counsel for the State Bar informed the hearing committee
that according to personnel at Federal Express, counsel's letter
of August 1 9 , 1 9 9 4 to defendant was left at his door on August
22, 1 9 9 4 at 3:28 p.m.
18.

19.
The hearing committee read a letter dated August 1 5 , 1 9 9 4
from the defendant to bar counsel which was received at the State
Bar office on August 26, 1 9 9 4 . Defendant stated that he would
not attend the hearing scheduled for August 26, 1 9 9 4 . He also
stated that he did not have permission from his probation officer
to travel to North Carolina.

Defendant did not state in the July 30 or August 15
letter that he had asked his probation officer for permission to
travel to North Carolina for the August 26, 1 9 9 4 hearing.
20.

21.
As of August 26, 1 9 9 4 , bar counsel had not received a
letter from defendant's doctor regarding his medical condition.

22. After reviewing documents and letters from defendant, the
hearing committee finds that defendant had sufficient notice of
this hearing. Defendant also had an opportunity to provide proof
to the hearing committee of his inability to attend the hearing
on August 26, 1 9 9 4 , but he did not do so. Defendant submitted
nothing to bar counsel or the hearing committee to suggest that
he had asked his probation officer for permission to travel to
North Carolina for the August 26, 1 9 9 4 hearing and that such
request had been denied.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing
committee makes the following:
LAW
CONCLUSIONS OF -

a) The defendant was convicted of a criminal offense showing
professional unfitness in violation of M.C. Gen. Stat. Section
84-28(b)(1) and such conviction reflects adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other
respects in violation of Rule 1.2(B) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
b) By engaging in criminal conduct, defendant has committed a
criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in
violation of Rule 1.2(B) and he has engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 1.2(C) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

Signed by the undersigned chairman with the knowledge and
consent of the other members of the l-ieariny comniittee, this the
7 day of
, 1994.

chairman
Hearing Committee

NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
94 DHC 9

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

)
)
)
I
)
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

HARRY L. HEILIG,
Attorney
Defendant
BASED UPON the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law
entered in this matter, the hearing committee enters the
following ORDER OF DISCIPLINE:
1. Defendant, Harry L. Heilig, is hereby DISBARRED from the
practice of law in North Carolina.
2. Defendant shall immediately submit his law license and
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.

3. Defendant shall violate no provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar during his
disbarment.

4. Defendant shall not violate the laws of any state or the
United States during his disbarment.
5.

Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding.

Signed by the undersigned chairman with the full knowledge
and consent cf the other members of the hearing committee, this
day of
, 1994.

chairman
Hearing Committee

