NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
07G0823

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Paul E.Hemphill
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRlMAND

)
)

On January 22, 2009 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Ms. Crawford.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You undertook representation ofMr. and Mrs. Crawford in a personal injury matter. You
filed two complaints, but failed to pursue either action resulting in both actions being dismissed.
You have therefore violated Rule 1.3: Diligence and Rule 8.4(d): Misconduct. Throughout the
representation, you failed to communicate with the Crawfords regarding the status of their matter
and failed to inform your clients about a settlement offer. You have therefore violated Rule

1.4(a) and (b): Communication. In November 2006 you stopped accepting calls from the
Crawfords and withdrew representation without notice to either your client or the court in
violation of Rule 1.16(c) and (d): Declining or Terminating Representation. Furthermore, you
failed to provide a written response to the Grievance Committee in violation of Rule 8.I(b): Bar
Admission and Disciplinary Matters.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$IOO.OO are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

JRF/lr

\'it-~

day

Of_\{l_~-,-=--=-,-{',<;:\..S

, 2009

