STATE OF NORTH
WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE

'-'''"~V4

HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
:£:Il-JJu.nCAROLINA STATE BAR

14DHC9
THE NORTH CAROLINA
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
KEITII R. IIENRY, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members Renny W. Deese and
Randy A. Moreau, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Barry S. McNeill, Deputy
Counsel. Defendant, Keith R Henry, appeared pro se. Both Plaintiff and Defendant
stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent
order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant has fi·eely and voluntarily stipulated to
the following fmdings of fact and consents to the conclusions oflaw and entJy of the
order of discipline. Defendant fi·eely and voluntarily waives any and allright to appeal
the entry of this consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the pmties' stipulations offact, and with
the consent of the pmties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact

1.
Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper pmty to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Keith R. Henry ("Henry" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1989, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws ofthe
State of North Cm·olina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all of the relevant periods referred to herein, Henry was engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Cm·olina and practiced in Asheville, Buncombe
County, NOlth Carolina.
-1-

4.
Beginning in1992 through 2011, Southern Financial Services of North
Carolina, Inc. ("SFSNC"), a business in Asheville, North Carolina, marketed estate and
tax planning services to potential clients, including potential clients in states adjoining
North Carolina.
5.
In January 1993, SFSNC initially retained Herny as its staff attorney,
paying him a monthly retainer for his legal services to SFSNC and SFSNC's clients, but
subsequently ceased utilizing the designation of Henry as its "staff attorney."
6.
In correspondence dated February 9, 1993 to the chairperson of the State
Bar's Unauthorized Practice Committee, Mr. J. W. ("Bill") Bailey, the President of
SFSNC, represented that SFSNC had "retained a full-time staff attorney to represent
Southern Financial Services in North Carolina as of January 1, 1993," and identified
Henry as "the staff attorney for Southern Financial Services."
7.
In cotTespondence dated February 9, 1993 to the chairperson of the State
Bar's Unauthorized Practice Committee, Henry identified himself as "the Staff Attorney
for Southern Financial Services."
8.
In its marketing of its services and communications with its clients
referenced in Paragraph 4 above, SFSNC identified Henry as its staff attorney who would
prepare the legal documents.
9.
SFSNC paid Henry a monthly retainer to prepare legal documents and
provide legal services to SFSNC's clients.
10.
SFSNC paid Henry additional compensation for meetings with its clients
and preparation of case-specific documents not nonnally included in SFSNC's service
fees.
11.
Katherine B. Smith ("Smith") and her husband, South Carolina residents,
were clients of SFSNC.
12.

Henry was not licensed to practice law in South Carolina.

13.
In Juue 1997, Henry, at the recommendation and referral of SFSNC,
performed legal services for Smith establishing a living trust for Smith and her husband.
14.
Like other SFSNC clients who were marketed such services as the
preparation of a living trust, Smith and her husband paid SFSNC a fee for the preparation
of the living trust referenced in Paragraph 13 above; SFSNC, in tum, paid Henry for his
preparation of the living trust and any related legal documents.
15.
Each year after the ttust was established for Smith and her husband, Smith
made a payment to SFSNC for an annual update service related to the living trust
referenced in Paragraph 13 above.
Under the annual update service agreement between SFSNC and SFSNC's
16.
clients (including Smith) who made yearly payments to SFSNC for such services, Henry
-2-

provided document review to insure the integrity of the clients' existing legal documents
and amended their legal documents when necessary or requested by the clients.
17.
From 1993 until early 2011, Henry prepared legal documents for SFSNC's
clients, including clients like the Smiths who were not residents of North Carolina, and
these legal documents were filed andlor utilized in these other states as if they had been
prepared by an attorney who was properly licensed in those states; Henry was not
licensed to practice law in those states.
SFSNC and its staff maintained custody of the files of its clients, like
18.
Smith, and Henry exercised no control over such files even when he performed legal
services for SFSNC's clients.
Henry utilized SFSNC's stafffor administrative support of the legal
19.
services he provided to SFSNC's clients.
20.
Henry never advised Smith or SFSNC's other clients of his monthly
retainer arrangement or additional compensation agreement with SFSNC referenced in
Paragraphs 9 and 10 above, and none ofSFSNC's clients consented in writing to any
potential conflict of interest created by Henry'S association with SFSNC.
21.
In October 2010, pursuant to her annual update service agreement with
SFSNC, Smith sent a letter requesting a meeting with Henry because she had several
questions and needed to execute a new trust-related affidavit.
22.
When Smith failed to receive a response from Henry, Smith called
Henry's office on December 1,2010.
Smith called SFSNC two more times before HeIllY returned her telephone
23.
call on January 19, 2011.
24.
In February 2011, federal authorities indicted SFSNC's founder on
criminal charges and later seized SFSNC's files, business records, and assets.
Henry promised to return Smith's file ifhe could gain access to it, but he
25.
was unable to do so because of the federal criminal investigation referenced in Paragraph
24 above.
26.
Henry failed to follow up the communication with Smith to let her know
that he had been unable to gain access to her file.
27.
After Henry failed to communicate with Smith, Smith unsuccessfully
continued to try to contact Henry by telephone.
28.
Smith sent a certified letter to Henry's office on February 14,2011, but
the letter was returned and marked, "refused-unable to forward."
29.
Following the arrest of SFSNC's founder and the closing of SFSNC's
offices, Henry closed his own office and ceased practicing law in late 2011.
-3-

30.
Neither the federal criminal investigation referenced in Paragraph 24
above nor the State Bar's investigation implicated Henry in connection with the federal
criminal charges against SFSNC's founder.
31.
On June 14,2011, the State Bar served Henry with a Letter of Notice
concerning the grievance filed by Smith in No. IIG0649.
32.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Ch. 1, Subchapter B, Rule .0112(c) of
the Discipline and Disability Rules of The North Carolina State Bar, Henry was required
to respond to the Letter of Notice referenced in Paragraph 31 above within 15 days of
service.
33.
Henry did not respond to the Letter of Notice referenced in Paragraph 31
above within 15 days of service, and did not contact the State Bar's staff counsel to
request an extension of time for doing so.
34.
By letter to Henry dated July 6, 2011, the State Bar's staff counsel
reminded Henry that he had failed to respond to the Letter of Notice referenced in
Paragraph 31 above, and that pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3), the failure to
answer any formal inquiry or complaint issued by or in the name of the State Bar is, in
and of itself, a ground for imposing discipline.
35.
In the July 6, 2011 letter referenced in Paragraph 34 above, the State Bar's
staff counsel encouraged Hemy to respond to the Letter of Notice no later than July 18,
2011.
36.
Henry filed a response to the Letter of Notice referenced in Paragraph 31
above on July 15, 2011.
37.
In his response to the State Bar referenced in Paragraph 36 above, Henry
provided no explanation of why he had failed to timely respond to the Letter of Notice
referenced in Paragraph 31 above.
38.
In the response to the State Bar referenced in Paragraph 36 above, Henry
denied that he had ever been an employee or staff attorney for SFSNC.
39.
Henry's statement to the State Bar referenced in Paragraph 38 above was
false and Henry lmew the statement was false at the time he made it.
Based upon the consent of the patties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law

1.
All patties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.

-4-

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (b)(3) as
follows:
a) By receiving a portion of the fee paid by Smith and other SFSNC clients
to SFSNC through his monthly retainer paid by SFSNC to Defendant,
Defendant shared legal fees with a non-lawyer in violation of Rule 5.4(a)
and accepted compensation for representing clients from a third party
without satisfying the conditions of Rule 1.8(f);
b) By failing to obtain Smith's and other SFSNC clients' informed consent to
the potential conflict of interest created by his ongoing relationship with
SFSNC, Defendant violated Rule 1.7(a);
c) By failing to respond to and communicate with Smith, Defendant failed to
promptly comply with a client's reasonable requests for information in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
d) By pennitting SFSNC, an outside entity over which he had no supervision
or control, to maintain his client files, and by relying on SFSNC's
employees for administrative support, Defendant permitted an entity that
paid him to render legal services for another to direct his professional
judgment in violation of Rule 5.4(c), and failed to act competently to
protect confidential information in violation of Rules 1.1 and 1.6;
e) By providing legal services to Smith and her husband, SFSNC clients who
lived in South Carolina, and to other SFSNC clients in states other than
NOlih Carolina where he was not licensed to practice law, Defendant
engaged in the unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(a) and
knowingly assisted SFSNC in the unauthorized practice oflaw in violation
of Rule 8.4(a), and by holding himself out as authorized to provide legal
services to a client, or clients, in other states, Defendant made misleading
communications about his services in violation of Rule 7.1(a);
f) By not timely responding to the Letter of Notice concerning the grievance
by Smith, Defendant knowingly failed to respond as required to a lawful
demand for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule
8.1(b) and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3); and,
g) By falsely stating in his response to the Letter of Notice that he had never
been a staff attorney for SFSNC, Defendant knowingly made a false
statement of material fact in connection with a disciplinary matter in
violation of Rule 8.1(a) and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3), and engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c).

-5-

Upon the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

I.
Defendant's affiliation and relationship with SFSNC created potential
significant harm to clients, who did not have the benefit of a true attorney-client
relationship.
2.
Defendant received a reprimand in 2006 for signing his clients' names to a
deed and falsely notarizing their signatures.
3.

Defendant was not cooperative with the State Bar's investigation.

4.
Defendant responded to the State Bar's inquiries, though not always in a
timely manner.
5.

Defendant has expressed remorse for his conduct.

6.
Defendant did not engage in the conduct described in the Findings of Fact
above with any selfish motive.
7.

Defendant has a favorable reputation among his peers and colleagues.

8.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant consideration of
suspension of Defendant's license:
(B)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;

(E)

Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession;

(F)

Defendant's actions had negative impact on the administration of justice;
and,

(I)

Defendant committed acts of misrepresentation.

-6-

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Ol14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factor warrants consideration of disbarment:
(A)

Defendant committed acts of misrepresentation.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Ol14(w)(3) ofthe Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(A)

Defendant's prior disciplinary offense;

(C)

Absence of a selfish motive;

(G)

Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;

(P)

Defendant's remorse;

(Q)

Defendant's good character and reputation; and

(S)

Defendant's degree of experience in the practice of law

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity ofthe misconduct at issue and the harm or potential harm Defendant's
misconduct caused to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal profession.
5.
The Hearing Panel also has considered the sole disbarment factor found
under 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Ol14(w)(2), but concludes that disbarment is not necessary to
protect the public in this case.
6.
The Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing discipline short of
suspension of Defendant's law license would not adequately protect the public, the legal
profession, or the administration of justice for the following reasons:
a) The factors under 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Ol14(w)(1) and (w)(3) that are
established by the evidence are of a nature that support imposition of
suspension as the appropriate discipline; and,
b) Entry of less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness
of the offenses Defendant committed and would send the wrong message
to other attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members ofthe Bar in this State.

-7-

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:

Order of Discipline
1.
Defendant, Keith R. Henry, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for two years, effective 30 days fi'om service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
At the conclusion of the two-year suspension, Defendant may petition for
reinstatement to active practice. In petitioning for reinstatement, Defendant must
demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he complied with each of the
following conditions:
a) Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary ofthe North
Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days fi'om the effective date of his
suspenSIOn;
b) Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules
on a timely basis;
c) Defendant shall timely submit his annual Continuing Legal Education
("CLE") report form to the CLE Department of the North Carolina State
Bar each year of the suspension and contemporaneously send a copy ofthe
CLE report form to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar to document
compliance with the above condition. "Timely" means by the date
specified by the CLE department as the date by which members must
submit their annual report fonns to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late
filing penalty. Defendant must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a
copy of his annual CLE report form no later than 15 days after it is due to
the CLE department of the State Bar each year;
d) Defendant shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and comply with all CLE requirements on a timely basis;
e) Defendant shall keep current his address of record with the North Carolina
State Bar, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
:f) Defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;

g) Defendant shall not violate any laws ofthe State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the period of the suspension; and
h) Defendant shall pay all costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within thirty (30) days after service ofthe notice
of costs on him.

-8-

3.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary, which shall be paid within ninety (90) days of service of the
notice of costs upon Defendant.
4.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofthis
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other
Hearing Panel men:9.ers.
~
This the f;-f'I'day of February 2015.

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed and consented to by:

-9-

