BEFORE THE
!NARY HEARING COMMISSION

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
PETER R. HENRY, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Joshua W. Willey, Chair, and members Allison C. Tomberliu and Christopher R.
Bruffey, pursuant to NOlth Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
§ .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Potter. Defendant, Peter R. Hemy
("Henry"), appeared pro se. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of
fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Henry
has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the
conclusions of law and entry of the order of discipline. Hemy freely and voluntarily waives any
and all right to appeal the entry ofthis consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the patties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the North Cat'olina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Cat'olina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bat· (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the NOlth Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Peter R. Hemy ("Hemy"), was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in 1996, and is, and was at all times refen-ed to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations
of the Notth Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter carne before the
Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Henry
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 10f12

4.
During all or part of the relevant periods refeI1'ed to herein, Henry was engaged in
the pmctice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Arden,
Buncombe County, North Carolina.
5.
Defendant has failed to respond to client inquiries and failed to communicate
accurate and necessary information to clients, including as follows:

R. Maas
a. Defendant undertook representation of R. Maas in Mr. 'Maas's purchase ofland
from the Rielses in 2012.
b. Defendant completed the work for the purchase of a seven acre parcel of land but
not for a second parcel of one acre.
c. Mr. Maas e-mailed Defendant regarding the status of the one acre parcel on
November 27, 2012, on December 10, 2012, and throughout 2013. Defendant
failed to respond to Mr. Maas's inquiries.
d. Defendant responded to e-mails sent to him by Mr. Maas and Mr. Riels in May
2014. Defendant stated he would check to see if a deed had been recorded and, if
not, would send Mr. Riels a deed bye-mail.
e. Mr'. Maas e-mailed Defendant in June and July 2014. Defendant responded once
and indicated he had been busy moving but would get the situation with the one
acre parcel resolved.
f. By June 2014, Defendant had moved office locations on two occasions during the
time Mr. Maas had been attempting to communicate with him regarding the one
acre parcel. On neither occasion did Defendant contemporaneously notifY
Mr. Maas that he was changing office locations.
g. Mr. Maas e-mailed Defendant on September 23, 2014 for the status of the one
acre parcel. Defendant responded to Mr'. Maas's e-mail on September 23, 2014
stating he had sent the deed to the Rielses a few weeks ago, and would record it as
soon as it was returned.
h. Defendant's September 23, 2014 e-mail indicates Defendant had prepared a deed
for the one acre parcel that could be recorded once executed by the seller, and that
he had prepared and e-mailed it a few weeks prior to September 23, 2014.

i. Mr. Maas e-mailed Defendant in November and December 2014, and in January
2015. Defendant responded to one e-mail in November 2014, stating the deed
had been sent months ago and he assumed the deed had been sent to Mr. Maas.
Defendant did not respond to any ofMr, Maas's other e-mailsduring this time.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Henry
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 2 of12

j. In a February 11, 2015 e-mail to Mr. Maas, Mr. Riels, and Mr. Maas's new
attorney George Saenger, Defendant said he provided Mr. Maas with the deed that
he had prepared in November 2014.
k. Defendant's February 11,2015 e-mail indicates Defendant had not prepared the
deed for the one acre parcel until November 2014.

1. On February 11, 2015, Mr. Saenger e-mailed Defendant and asked for the
property description to be attached to the deed for the one acre parcel. In
response, Defendant stated he did not have the necessary plats and other
information to prepare the description.
m. Contrary to Defendant's asseltion to Mr. Maas in Defendant's September 23,
2014 e-mail, Defendant could not have e-mailed the seller with a deed that
Defendant could record upon its return since Defendant lacked the necessary
information to prepare a propelty description for the one acre parcel.
n. Defendant has indicated to the State Bar that the transfer of the one acre parcel
was not part ofthe seven acre transaction for which he represented Mr. Maas. At
no time did Defendant indicate to Mr. Maas that his representation of Mr. Maas
did not include the transfer of the one acre parcel.
o. At no tinle prior to Defendant's e-mail in February 2015 did Defendant tell
Mr. Maas that Defendant did not know which acre was being conveyed and could
not complete the transaction without a survey.
S. Ronneburger
p. In June 2013, S. Ronneburger retained Defendant to pattition a pat·cel of real
propelty for her deceased daughter's estate.
q. Defendant filed a petition for partition for S. Ronnebnrger in August 2013.
r. The partition matter has been complicated and delayed dne to the actions of the
respondent party to the pattition as well as those of his son.
s. S. Ronneburger called Defendant and left messages for him to return her call on
multiple occasions from June 2013 through November 2015, to which Defendatlt
failed to respond.

t. On other occasions during that time period, Defendant would talk with
S. ROillleburger and promise to subsequently communicate with her, but would
fail to do so.
u. Defendant failed to communicate to S. ROillleburger about events that OCCUlTed in
the partition matter.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Henry
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 3 of12

v. S. Ronneburger asked Defendant to send her a copy of an order entered in the
partition matter in January 2014. Defendant stated he would but failed to do so.
S. Ronneburger did not get a copy of the order until she went to Defendant's
office personally in June 2014 and asked for a copy ofthe order.
w. When S. Ronneburger went to Defendant's office in June 2014;she discovered he
had moved his office. Defendant had not notified her he was moving his office .
location.
6.
The State Bar sent Defendant letters of notice conceming his representation .of
and communication with R. Maas and S. Ronneburger. The letters of notice also raised the
concern that Defendant was engaged in a pattem of failing to communicate with clients in light
of the number of grievances received in 2015 conceming lack of communication during the same
time period of2013 - 2015. Defendant responded to both letters of notice.
7.
In Defendant's October 26, 2015 response to the letter of notice sent concetning
R. Maas, Defendant admitted he had not been communicating as he should have with clients.
Defendant stated he had made efforts to improve, including contacting clients at least weekly
about their matters.
8.
In Defendant's December 15, 2015 response to the letter of notice sent concerning
S. Ronneburger, Defendant admitted he had been a poor communicator, including with
S. Ronneburger. Defendant stated he was endeavoring to communicate with each client every
week to two weeks.
9.
S. Ronneburger's legal matter was still pending and Defendant's representation of
her still ongoing in October and December 2015, when Defendant made the above
representations about increasing his communications with clients.
10.
As of February 23, 2016, however, Defendant had not communicated with
S. Ronneburger since October 2015.
Based upon the consent of the patties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:

Conclusions of Law
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to respond to the inquhies of R. Maas and S. Ronneburger and failing
to thnely provide S. Ronneburger with a copy of the order she requested,
Defendant failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for infonnation in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);

The North Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Hemy
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 4 of12

(b)

By failing to communicate to R. Maas any position that his representation did not
include the transfer of .the one acre parcel and/or that he did not have the
information necessary to prepare the property description for a deed to transfer the·
propelty and instead making statements suggesting he was doing. the work
necessary for the transfer, Defendant failed to explain a matter to the extent·
reasonably necessary to pClmit the client to make infOimed decisions regarding
the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b);

(c)

By making inaccurate and misleading statements peltaining to his work and
actions on the deed to transfer the one acre parcel fl.·om the Rielses to R. Maas,
Defendant failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of the
matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

(d)

By making inaccurate and misleading statements that misrepresented his work
and actions on the deed to transfer the one acre parcel from the Rielses to
R. Maas, Defendant engaged in conduct involving misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(c); and

(e)·

By failing to inform S. Ronneburger of events occmTing in the partition matter,
Respondent failed to keep his client reasonably infOimed about the status of the
matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3).

Upon the stipulation and consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

I.
Defendant's failure to properly and accurately communicate with R. Maas
urmecessarily delayed the completion of the transfer of the one acre parcel from the Rielses to
R. Maas. This delay complicated payment of property tax on the one acre parcel for the Rielses
and R. Maas. Additionally, due to Defendant's delay and lack of progress, R. Maas incmTed the
expense of retaining another attorney to complete the transfer of the one acre parcel.
2.
Defendant's failure to communicate with S. Ronneburger exasperated
S. Ronneburger and intensified the burden borne by S. Ronneburger as a result of the deaths of
her daughter and her husband and the delays and litigation in the estate matter. As a result of
Defendant's failure to communicate, S. ROimeburger had to retain new counsel.
3.
Prompt and accurate communication with clients is integral for an attorney to
establish and maintain the trust of clients, and for clients to participate meaningfully in the
representation and in their legal matters.
4.
When an attomey fails to communicate promptly and accurately with a client, he
betrays that client's trust, potentially impedes accomplishment of the client's goals, and
potentially harms the client's perception of the profession as a whole.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Henry
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 5 of12

5.
Defendant's failure to communicate with clients, including R. Maasand S.
Ronneburger, was ongoing for several years. FUlthennore, Defendaut persisted in his lack of
communication with clients despite his receipt of a letter of waming regarding his failure to
communicate with a client in December 2015 and despite his pledges to the State Bar to improve
his commUllication with clients.
6.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

7.
The Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar issued Defendant a
letter of waming concerning his failure to communicate with a client, which was serVed upon
Defendant in December 2015.
8.

There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of Defendant.

9.
Defendant has acknowledged the wrongfulness of his failure to communicate with
clients and has indicated his desire to remedy this conduct.
10.
After being served with the complaint in this DHC case, Defendant has taken
steps to improve his client communications, including making alTangements with another
attorney to check his progress, setting aside specific times each week to contact clients, and
logging client calls and making notes when he responds.
11.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbalTllent, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
12.
The Hearing Panel fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence any additional
facts that may be contained in the conclusions regarding discipline set out below.
Based on the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law above and the additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOlTIlS of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code § lB.01l4(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension:
a.
Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the halTll 01' potential harm is
foreseeable, to wit: failing to promptly and accurately communicate with clients resulting
in client frustration, lack of knowledge of their legal matters, delay in R. Maas's matter,
and ultimately retention of new counsel;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Henry
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 60f12

b.
Potential negative impact of Defendant's actions on clients'
perception of the profession; and

Of

the public's

c.
Impairment of client R. Maas's ability to achieve his goal of the transfer of
the one acre parcel.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code § IB.0114(w)(2) of the Rilles and Regulations of the NOIth Carolina State Bar and
concludes that the factor of acts of misrepresentation is present but does not warrant disbatment
.
in light of the totality of the evidence in this case.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code § lB.O 114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOIth Cat'olina State Bat· and
concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

A pattem of misconduct;

e.

Interim rehabilitation;

f.
Full atld free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;
g.

Remorse;

h.

Vulnerability of Defendant's clients;

1.

Degree of experience in the practice of law, to wit: 20 years; and

j.
Issuance of a letter of warning to Defendant within the three yeat·s
inunediately preceding the filing of the complaint.
4.
Defendant's failure to properly cOlumunicate with clients betrays a vital tmst that
clients and the public place in attomeys and the legal profession.
5.

Defendant's conduct caused significant hann to R. Maas and S. ROffileburger.

6.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses significant
potential harm to future clients and to the public's perception ofthe profession.

The NOlth Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Heury
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 7 of12

7.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or .censure
but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
potential hatm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant and send the wrong
message to attomeys regarding the conduct expected of members ofthe Bar in this State.
8.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser altematives and concludes that a stayed
suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant continues his recent effOlts to properly
communicate with clients and complies with necessary conditions to avoid significant harm or
the potential for significant harm to clients.
9.
Fot these reasons, this Hearing Panel fmds that an order imposing discipline short
of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Findings of
Fact illldConciusion Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of the patties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:

Order of Discipline
I.
Defendant, Peter R. Henry, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for three
years. This suspension is stayed fi'om its inception subject to the conditions stated below.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as assessed
by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and fees. Defendant shall
pay the costs within 30 days of service of the statement of costs upon him.
3.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following
conditions:
a.
Defendant shall establish a set of written client communication procedures
for his practice that he will follow to ensure compliance with his obligations under Rule
1.4. No later than 45 days from the effective date of this order, Defendant shall submit
these procedures to the Office of Counsel. Defendant shall make any adjustments
required by the Office of Counsel to ensure compliance with the Rules of Professional
Conduct;
b.
Defendant shall have an attorney monitoring whether he is properly
cOllffimnicating with his clients;
1) Within 30 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall malce
monitoring arrangements with an active member in good standing of the
North Carolina State Bar who practices law in the county in which
Defendant primarily practices;
2) Defendant must submit the name and contact infonnation of the proposed
monitor to the Office of Counsel for approval in advance. Approval from

The North Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Henry
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 8 of12

the Office of Counsel is required as pmt of compliance with the
preceding paragraph. Approval will not be umeasonably withheld;
3) The selected monitor must agree to so serve. The monitor must agree to
do the following: a) assist Defendant with development of the written
client communication procedures required above; b) meet monthly with
Defendant to review Defendant's communication with clients in all of
Defendant's active cases; c) communicate with Defendant during the
month regarding his client communications; d) provide the State Bar with
a qumterly repOlt regarding the monthly meetings with· Defendant,
Defendant's client communications and compliance with Defendant's
written client communication procedures; and e) be available to
coordinate client communication for any client of Defendant's who has
any difficulty receiving communication from Defendant dui'ing the
stayed suspension period;
4) Defendant must provide the Office of Counsel with the monitor's Wl'itten
agreement to provide the monitoring services described in the preceding
paragraph within 45 days of the effective date ofthis order;
5) TIle monitor's written quarterly reports are due to the Office of Counsel
of the State Bar on the following dates as they occur during the stay of
this suspension: Janumy 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15;
6) This monitoring must occur for the duration of the stay of this
suspension. Defendant will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor;
7) Defendant shall meet and communicate with the monitor and in all ways
cooperate fully with the above described monitoring;
8) Defendant shall ensure the Office of Counsel tinlely receives the
monitor's quarterly repotts;
9) Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make
appropr'iate arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed
during the stay ofthis suspension;
c.
Within 90 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall consult
with the NOlth Cm'olina State Bar's Lawyer Assistance Progrrun concerning impediments
to timely client communication and techniques for overcoming such impediments;
Defendant shall comply with any recommendations of the Lawyer Assistance Program.
If Defendant wishes to consult instead with a different organization, Defendant shall
obtain approval in advance from the Office of Counsel, and such approvalwiII not be
unreasonably withheld.
d.
Defendant must enter into a written fee agreement with every client and
the fee agreement must state with specificity the legal work DefendaIlt is undettaking to
pelform;

The NOlih Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Remy
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DRC 23

Page 9 of12

e.
Unless Defendant is on secure leave pursuant to. Rule 26 of the General
Rules of Practice forlhe Superior and District Courts, Defendant must personallyrespond
to communications fi'om his clients within 1 business day or direct a member of his staff
to provide clients a time when Defendant will respond and in that case, Defendant shall
respond within 2 business days and in no event shall Defendant fail to personally respond
within 2 business days;
f.
In the event Defendant is on secure leave, he must leave messages on all
of his voice mail boxes and e-mail accounts informing the .caller/correspondent when he .
will return fi'om secure leave and must retUlTI all calls and respond to all e-mails within
2 business days of his stated return;
g.
. Upon request of any client, Defendant must provide the client with his/her
ftle or any document from the client's file within 2 business days of the request;
h.
Defendant shall have paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within 30 days after service of the notice of costs on him;
i.
Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Depaltment advised of his current physical business address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notifY the Bar of any change in address
within ten days of such change;

j.
Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the NOith Carolina State Bar;

k.

Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
infOimation from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full and
complete responses and all requested documentation;

1.

Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;
m.
Defendant will pay all membership dues, Client Security Fund
assessments, and any other related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable deadline;
n.
Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the peliod of the stay;
o.
Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of NOIth Cal'olina or of
the United States, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the stay.
4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by fmfuer order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions or proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance with
the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to § .0114(x) of the NOIth Carolina
Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of
the suspension have been met. If a motion or proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the
conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension
The North Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Henry
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 10 of12

would otherwise have telminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability torift the stay of
the suspension and activate the three year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the
conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation
to comply with the conclitions for the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending·
motion or proceeding.

If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with anyone or
5.
more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of Defendant's suspension may be lifted as
provided in § .OI14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension, by filing a
petition with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission demonstrating compliance by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence WIth the requirements 27 N.C. Admin. Code § IB.OI25, any
requirements in the order activating the suspension, and the following requirements:
a.
Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
telms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules;
b.
Defendant has developed the written client communication procedures
described in paragraph 3.a. above and has engaged in the consultation regarding
impediments to client communication and techniques to overcome such impediments
described in paragraph 3.c. above.
c.
Defendant kept the Membership Depallment of the State Bar informed of
his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box), telephone
number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his suspension;
d.
Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the NOlth Carolina State. Bar throughout
the period ofthe suspension;
e.
Defendant responded to alliettel's of notice and requests for information
from the Nmth Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full and complete
responses and all requested documentation throughout the period of his suspension;
f.
Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding continuing
education Cir membership obligations at the time of the filing of his petition for
reinstatement;
g.
Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;
h.
Defendant did not violate any laws of the State ofNmth Carolina or of the
United States, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the suspension; and
The NOlth Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Henry
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 11 of12

i.
Defendant paid all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed snspensioh.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the _ __
2016.
.

dayod)()()CitJ~>
.;)
,
~

o
W:"Wh1ey;~Chair
D sciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed and consented to by:

("0 .

J~efA. POrter

31-

Ulb

Date

/iiliorney for Plaintiff

Peter ~e
Defendant·

Date
.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Peter R. Hemy
Consent Order of Discipline, 16 DHC 23

Page 12 of12

