NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

ORDER STAYING SUSPENSION

MICHELLE A HICKERSON,
DefendantlPetitioner
THIS MATIER is before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Shirley L. Fulton, and Bradley Lail
pursuant to a Petition for Stay filed by Petitioner Michelle A. Hickerson I on 22 February
2017.
Based upon a review of the records of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, the
Hearing Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
Pursuant to a consent Order of Discipline filed in this matter on 12
February 2016, Hickerson was suspended from the practice oflaw for five years.
I.

2.

The effective date of the Order of Discipline was 19 March 2016.

3.
The Order of Discipline provided that Hickerson would be eligible to seek
a stay of any remaining period of suspension after serving one year of active suspension
and upon compliance with conditions stated in the Order of Discipline.
4.

As ofl9 March 2017, Hickerson had served one year of active suspension.

5.
Hickerson filed a verified petition on 22 February 2017 requesting a stay
of the remaining period of her suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status
subject to conditions and requirements set forth in the Order of Discipline.
6.
The Order of Discipline requires that Hickerson be in compliance with
conditions set out therein to qualifY for a stay of the remaining period of suspension.

I AKA Michelle Caron Gay. For consistency with the original caption of this case, Ms. Gay will be
referred to herein as "Hi<:kerson.U

7.
In her verified petition, Hickerson certified that she has satisfied all of the
conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay of the remaining period of her suspension.
8.
After conducting an investigation of Hickerson's compliance with the
requirements set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0I25(b) and the conditions in the Order of
Discipline, counsel for the North Carolina State Bar did not file an objection to
Hickerson's petition for stay of the suspension.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Michelle A.
Hickerson, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Hickerson has satisfied the requirements set forth in Rule .0125(b) and the
conditions in the Order of Discipline for a stay of her suspension and reinstatement to
active status, subject to Hickerson's continued compliance with the conditions set forth in
paragraphs 7(d) through 7(h) 2 on pages 8-9 of the 12 February 2016 Order of Discipline.
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:

1.
Hickerson's 22 February 2017 Petition for Stay is ALLOWED, the
balance of the suspension of her law license is stayed, and she shall be permitted to
resume practicing law subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph 2, below.
2.
The remaining period of suspension of Hickerson's law license is stayed
as long as she continues to comply with the following conditions:
a. Hickerson shall keep her address of record current with the State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the State Bar
by the deadline stated in the communication;
b. Hickerson shall timely comply with her State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements and pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;
c. Hickerson shall participate fully and timely in the fee dispute resolution
process when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;
d. Hickerson shall not violate the laws of the United States or any state or local
goverument, other than minor traffic violations; and
'The conditions in parngmphs 7(a), (b), and (c) are no longer applicable, in that they related to compliance
with, and monitoring of, recommended mental health treatment: Hickerson panicipated in the evaluation
described in paragmph S(b) on page 7 of the Order of Discipline, and the evaluator did not recommend
ongoing treatment.
-2-

e. Hickerson shall not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
3.
If Hickerson fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated
in Paragraph 2 above, then the stay of the suspension of her law license may be lifted as
provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. If
the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Hickerson's license is activated for
any reason, before seeking reinstatement or a subsequent stay Hickerson must show by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that she is in compliance with 27 N.C.A.C. I B §
.0125 and has complied with the following conditions during the active suspension:
a. That she has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses and notified the State Bar
of any change in address within ten days of such change;
b. That she has accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar,
responded to all communications from the State Bar by the deadline stated in
the communication, and participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee
dispute resolution process for any petition received after the effective date of
this Order;
c. That she has not violated the Ru1es of Professional Conduct or the laws of the .
United States or any state or local govemment during his suspension, other
than minor traffic violations;
d. That she properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
requirements of §.0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
4.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to § .0 114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules throughout the period of stayed suspension.
5.
The stay of the remainder of Hickerson's suspension is effective
immediately upon the filing of this Order.
Signed by the undersigned Ch~ with the knowledge and consent of the other members
of the Hearing Panel, the

fJ!l of March, 2017.
Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-3-

