STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

< ;1'
!-T, '.."". ,. !5

70111 (,,-,.. '"
L

j

. (-,.'

;

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

I"

COUNTY OF WAKE

SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
"

,j!

'j

~

1'-/

J,,,). \.),

INRE:
ATTORNEY ISHAM FAISON HICKS
(NC STATE BAR NUMBER 10672)

)
)
)
)
)
)

M

If&7/)

ORDER OF ATTORNEY
DISCIPLINE
(PUBLIC REPRIMAND)

This matter is before the Court upon a referral from the North Carolina State Bar requesting
that this court exercise its inherent authority and concurrent jurisdiction over a grievance lodged
against Attorney Isham Faison Hicks alleging attorney misconduct.
Since Attorney Hicks has previously served as Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar in
cases pending in the Superior Court, this matter was referred for an independent review by the
Ethics Counsel for the State Bar of Georgia for a probable cause determination. Such review
having concluded in a finding of probable cause that Attorney Hicks violated Bar Rule 8.4, the
NOlih Carolina State Bar referred the matter to this court for futiher attorney disciplinary
proceedings. The Court has accepted this referral under its inherent authority.
Wake County Assistant District Attorney David Saacks has been appointed by the Court
as Prosecuting Counsel. Isham Faison Hicks is represented by Attorney Duncan McMillan.
Attorney Hicks consents to the attorney disciplinary jurisdiction of this court.
The parties have stipulated and the COUli finds that Attorney Hicks, on two occasions,
intentionally signed a verification of attendance at separate CLE programs claiming full credit for

In Re: Attorney Isham Faison Hicks (NC State Bar No, 10672)

such attendance, when in fact he had not attended all of such course hours to be entitled to the full
credit hours he claimed.
Specifically, in September of2013, Mr. Hicks attended the first hour and last hour of a 12hour CLE course and claimed 12 hours of CLE credit.
In September of2011, Mr. Hicks engaged in similar conduct for a CLE program in which
he claimed hours of CLE credit to which he was not entitled.
Rule 8.4 of the North Carolina State Bar provides, in pali: It is professional misconduct
for a lawyer to: "(c) engage in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation."
Attorney Hicks has no history of previous attorney misconduct resulting in disciplinary
action and has admitted and expressed remorse for this misconduct.
The Court finds and concludes that Attorney Hicks intentionally engaged in professional
misconduct and that such was willful and did not result from mistake, inadvertence or neglect.
The Court has considered all available sanctions and finds that a Public Reprimand should
be issued in this matter.
A Public Reprimand

IS

a senous form of attorney discipline and

IS

warranted for

professional misconduct of this nature.
WHEREFORE, Attorney Isham Faison Hicks is hereby publically reprimanded by this
cOUli for professional misconduct. This sanction shall serve as a strong reminder of the high ethical
standards of the legal profession.

In Re: Attorney Isham Faison Hicks (NC State Bar No. 10672)

This Public Reprimand shall be forwarded to the North Carolina State Bar and maintained
as a permanent record in the judgment book of the North Carolina State Bar and the Bar shall
forward a copy of this order to the complainant who originated the inquiry. The complainant, an
Attorney, is commended for bringing this matter to the attention ofthe Bar.
(IA
So ordered this, the pjday of September, 2014,;

(' 'J!. .
L/$1~it/ J4d~

It l/"

S

DONALD W. STEPHENS
SENIOR RESIDENT SUPERIOR COURT JUDGE

In Re: Attorney Isham Faison Hicks (NC State Bar No. 10672)

