NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09GOl68

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATIER OF
Randolph Hill,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 22, 2009 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance 'filed against you by Mr. Knowles.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing, After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justif)ring
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harmlo a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Mr. Knowles retained you to review his criminal file and determine whether he had
grounds to pursue a Motion for Appropriate Relief. Mr. Knowles paid you $3,500. Thereafter,
you did not communicate with Mr. Knowles in violation of Rule 1.4(a). You did not handle Mr.
Knowles' matter in violation of Rule 1.3. Mr. Knowles discharged you and requested a refund of
the attorney fee. You did not respond and did not refund the fee. Because you failed to perform

the legal services for which you were retained, you collected an excessive fee in violation of Rule
I.S(a). Mr. Knowles filed a fee dispute petition in order to resolve the fee dispute. You failed to
respond the fee dispute in violation of Rule I.S(f). Because you failed to participate in the fee
dispute process as required by the rules, a grievance file was opened. You received notice of the
grievance, but failed to provide a W1itten response in violation of Rule 8.I(b).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the "d 0 {j, day of

~

lafue*. Fox. Chair

~:je Co~mittee
JRF/lr

,2009

