STATE OF NORTH CAROLINf\
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
• cL}
FILE NO.: llCVS02618

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

v.

W. RICKERT HINNANT, Attorney,
Respondent

THIS MATTER was considered by the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court
of Wake County upon the tender of surrender of the law license ofW. Rickeli Hinnant.
The State Bar was represented by Jennifer A. POlier. W. Rickert Hinnant was
represented by Dudley A. Witt.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, W. Rickert Hill.l1ant (hereinafter "Hinnant"), and the consent of the parties,
the Court makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Hinnant was admitted to the NO1ih Carolina State Bar in 1989 and is, and
was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, a..fld Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
2.
During all of the periods relevant hereto, Hinnant was engaged in the
practice of law in Winston-Salem, Forsyth County, North Carolina.
3.
Hinnant is aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding
allegations that he failed to maintain entrusted funds in an appropriate trust account,
mishandled entrusted funds, and misappropriated at least $10,000.00 of client funds and
used those funds for his personal purposes without authorization to do so from the
beneficial owner of the funds.
4.
HilIDant desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in NOlih Carolina.

5.
Hinnant's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result
of coercion or duress. Hinnant is fully aware of the implication of submitting his
resignation.
6.
Hinnant aclmowledges that the material facts upon which the investigation
is predicated are true.
7.
Hinnant has submitted his resignation because he knows that if
disciplinary charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could
not successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
By failing to maintain entrusted ftmds in a trust account and not
appropriately disbursing entrusted funds, Hinnant violated Rule 1.15-2(a) and (m) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct. By misappropriating client funds, Hinnant engaged in
criminal acts that reflect adversely on his honesty, trustvvorthiness or fitness as a lawyer
in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(c) ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct
2.
Hilmant's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
3.
The cOUlis of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary
action against attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
4.
This COUli has jurisdiction over the person of W. Rickert Hinnant and of
the subject matter of this proceeding.
5.

Hinnant has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.
W. Rickert Hinnant is DISBARRED from the practice of law in NOlih
Carolina. This disbmment is effective 30 days from entry of this order by the court.
2.
Hinnant shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and shall suuender his license and permanent membership card to the
Secretary of the NOlih Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124.

3.
Hinnant shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license lmtil the
expiration of at least five (5) years from the date of entry of this order.
4.
Hinnant's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125.
5.

The costs of this action are taxed against Hinnant.
---p

Done and Ordered this

15~'- day of __,.J_lA_V\._e..--'.-.

~Q s.

, 2011.

1.:..--------,

Superior Court Judge Presiding

CONSENTED TO BY:

Jennifer A. P~
~._""",--···"""---Deputy Counsel, North Carolina State Bar
Attorney for Petitioner

W. Rickeli Hinnant
Respondent

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO.: llCVS02618

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner
v.

AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER OF
LAW LICENSE

W. RICKERT HINNANT, Attorney,
Respondent

W. Rickert Hinnant, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware ofthe implication of submitting my resignation.
3. I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations
that I failed to maintain entrusted fLmds in an appropriate trust account, mishandled
entrusted fLmds, and misappropriated at least $10,000.00 of client funds and used those
ftmds for my personal purposes without authorization to do so from the beneficial owner
ofthe fLmds.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfLllly defend
against them.
-:\\,"i\..,L

,til'

This the ~ day ofMcry-2011.

I, iJ...o...rL,-\
.\i'\lCtKVI...-W
, Notary Public of the County of 1\)fSL.~ , State of North
Carolina, celiify that W. Rickert Hinnant personally appeared before me this day, was sworn, attested that
the foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing
Affidavit.

b

This the tOday of

J

V

Y\-t...-

4~2.(~
Notary Publi
','
. ,

,2011.

'
. '" '?
My Commission Expires:'QL<..U'U Vif.. .t,Vtcl.f I 'Z-O! :7

