~-

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

-_. -- ------ - -

BEFOREUIE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
96G 1329(IV) & 96G 134S(IV)

NORTH CAROLINA

)

)
ROBERT W. ADAMS,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)

CENSURE

, On April 3, 1997, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
cOllsidered the grievances filed against you by Paula L. McLean and the State Bar.
Pursuant to section .OI13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the. North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, inclUding your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee round probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disdplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance COinmittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written fonn of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused Significant hann or potential significant hann to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession ot a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require
suspension of the attorney's license.

I

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Oisciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in these cases and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
I am certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is performed.
You agreed to represent Mr. and Mrs. McLean in a lawsuit. The opposing party gave
. you notice ()fhis intention to depose the McLeans. Neither you n()r the McLeans appeared at
their:deposition. According to Mr. and Mrs. McLean, you did not notify them of their
depo$ition.

I

The opposing party moved for sanctions for the McLeans' failure to appear for their
deposition. You did not notify the McLeans of that motion. The court entered sanctions
against Mr. and Mrs. McLeiul on July 29, 1996. Mr. and Mrs. McLean were ordered to pay a
total of$300.00 as sanctions. This amount was due in the Clerk of Superior Court's office on
August 28,1996. The court provided that the failure of the McL~,~ to p~ythe sanctions as
ordered would subject them to further sanctions, including striking their pleadings in the matter.
You did n,ot advise Mr. and Mrs. McLean of the order of sanctions entered against them.

I

Apparently a mediation hearing was held and you agreeq to settle the case on behalf of
the McLeahs for $1,500.00. You failed to tell them the date that this $1,500.00 had to be ,paid.
Mr. and Mrs. McLean were forced to consult anoth~r attorney who reviewed their file
and revealed to them the order for sanctions against them and that they had to pay the
$1,?00.00 in the mediatiori settlement agreement by a certain date. .
You failed to attend diligently to Mr. and Mrs. McLeans' case and you failed to keep
them notified of the developments in their case. Your conduct violated Rule 6(b)(1),(2)an.d
(3) and Rule 7.1 (a)(1),(2) ~d (3) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
In your response to the Grievance Committee, you indicated that the opposing counsel
never gave you notice of your clients' deposition. However, there was evidence that the
opposing counsel wrote you on June 7, 1996 and asked for your availability respecting taking
the McLeans' deposition. It appears that you did not respond to the opposing counsel's letter.
In letters dated February 20 and 21, 1997, the State Bar counsel asked you to respond to
follow-up questions regarding the McLeans' grievance. You failed to respond to those letters
as requested by State Bar counsel. Your failpre to respond to those letters violated Rule 1.1(b)
of the Rules of Professional Conduct. 'You are advised to respond promptly to any inquiry by
the North Carolina State Bar when there is an investigation of a grievaJlce against you.

I

In July 1996, the North Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee issued a reprimand to
you ill a grievance filed by Denise R. Queen. You accepted service of the reprimand and did
not rej ect it.
The Grievance Committee ordered you to pay the costs of $50.00 in the reprimand.
, Counsel for the State Bar wrote you on September 10 and September 30, 1996 regarding
payment ofthe costs. YOl,! did not respond to State Bar counsel's letters.
,
A grievance was established for your failure to pay the costs in the Denise It Queen
matter. You fmally paid the costs on February 6, 1997.
Your failure to comply with the orders of the Grievance Committee violatecJ Rule 1.2(d)
of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure,
r~cognize the error that you have made, and that you will never a~ain allow yourself to depart
from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve
~ a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility
t9 the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean
yourself as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon
without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October IS. 1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Committee. the costs of this action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.

I

v+-..

Done and orliered, this

,2()

day of

1997.

,

Ann Reed
Chair, Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bat

I

I
.(~.r ••" /
.,

/

