INRE:
REID G. HINSON, ATTORNEY

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

Thi:; matter is b~fore the undersigned -Chair ,Jfthe Gricvnncc Committee of the f!orth
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118(b). Leanor Bailey Hodge
represented the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"). Reid G. Hinson represented himself.
Based upon the information presented and with the consent of the member and of the Office of
Counsel, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
The State Bar is a body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is
the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the
General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
2.
Reid O. Hinson ("Hinson"), was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 23
August 1986 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules otProfessional Conduct of the State
Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
Hinson was transferred to inactive membership status with the State Bar on 30
October 2006.
4.
Hinson currently suffers from bipolar disorder which significantly impairs his
professional performance, judgment, and competence as an attorney.
5.

Hinson voluntarily consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

6.

The State Bar consents to Hinson's transfer to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LA W

1.
The proper parties pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0 118(b) have
consented to Hinson heing transferred to disability inactive status.
2.

Hinson is disabled within the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code I B §.O I 03( 19).

3.

Hinson should be transferred to disability inactive status with the State Bar.

THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:

1.

Reid G. Hinson is transferred to dis~bnit); inactive ;-;taltls.

2.
Hinson shall not practice law in N011h Carolina until he is no longer disabled and
has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to the
procedures set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125(c).
3.
Any pending or fiJture grievances against Hinson are hereby stayed during the
period of disability until such time as Hinson returns to active status. The State Bar may
continue to investigate allegations of misconduct and preserve evidence as necessary pursuant (0
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118(e).
This, the

U

day of,

A(lp...~L-

,2015.

Dh:q;1A,

~

John M. Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee
CONSENTED TO:

2

