WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

CONSENT ORDER

JOHN M. HOLMES, Attorrtey,
Defendant
Defendant, John M. Holmes, was ordered to appear and snow .cause why the stay
of the suspension imposed by the Order of Dis¢iplihe entered in.1his ·ease on 28 April
2016 should 110t be lift¢d and th~sU$pension activa4xl.This matter Was consic(ered by a
Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss,
Chair, Shirley L. Fulton, and Bradley Lailpursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.0114cx). Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Cannen H. Banhon.
Defendant was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Defendant waives a fomal hearing in
this ma,trer and both partillS stipulate ami· consent to the findings of fact and conclusions
oflaw recitedin.this order and toth!;). disposition imposed, .By consenting to the entry of
this order, Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent order Of to challenge in any
way the sllfficlency.ofthe findings.
.
Based upon the pleadings and the consent of the parties, the HearingPanel hereby
finds by the greater weight of the evidence the following
FINDINGS OF !lACT
1. On 28 April 2016, an Order of Dlsoipline waS entered in this matter. The
Order was served on Holmes on the same day.
2. The Order of Discipline imposed a three-year suspension of Holmes's law
license aIld stayed the suspension for a petiod of three years. The stay ofiliesuspension
was conditioftoo upon Holmes's compliance with the conditionssfatedin the Order,
3. The Ordet ofDiscipllne provided that Holmes was re<.Juired to abstain from
the consumption of any alcohol during the period of stay. To ensure compliance with this
conditio!!, paragraph 2(0) on page 5 of the Order of Discipline also required Holmes to
participate· in the Soberlink real-time alcohol monitoring system by SUbmitting to

State Bar v. Holmes, 16 DHC 5
Consent Order on Show Cause
Page 1 ofS

breathalyzer testingahandom intervals tbur times per day. (The conditions described in
paragraph2(c) are referred to hereafter as "the Soberlink requirement.")
4. The Order of DIscipline was effective on 29 May 2016. Holmes did not
submit to Soberllnkbteathillyzer testing on the following dates:

a. Jtu1e 4th through Jtu1e 8th;
b. June 11th andJune 12th;

c. July 5thtbroughJuly 13th; and
d. August2nd through August 31st.
5. In total, during the three and a half months after the Order of Di$cjpline was
effective, HoIme~ missed atleast 45 days' worth of Soberlink testing.
6. HoImeshas, however, been in compliance With the Soberlink requirement
throughout October, Novemher,and December 2016.

7. The Order of Discipline (at page 6, paragraphs 2(d) an<i (e»provided that
Holmes was required to .be independently evaluated bya clinician who specializes in
tteatmentof substance abuse and addiction, arid to followalltteatment reco1IUl1endations
of the evaluating.clinician.
8.

Holmes's evaluating clinician recommended the following tteatnient:
a. Psychiatric re-evaluation and ongoing medication management;
b. Ongoing individual psychotherapy;
c. Ongoing participation.in asupportgfoupJor recovery from an alcohol use
disorde.f (e.g., AlcohoHcsAnonymousor Smart:Recovery); and
d. Ongoing participation in a monitoring program (e.g.,Soherllnk).

Holmes has hot complied with the recolllmendation that he participate in a
suppOrt group fot recovery from an alcohol use disorder.
9.

10. The Ord(:l' of Di$cipJine (at page 6, paragraph 2(e))providedthat lIohnes
was required to subrnitto the Office of Counscl quarterly reports from all treatment
providers from whom he was receiving mental health .01' substance abuse tteatnient.
11. H()imes failed to timely submit the fIrst· quarterly reports, which were due on
15 October 2016. The reports were not slIbrnitted until 22 November 2016.

12. Holmes is not currently engaged in the praotioe of law, does not currently
have clients, and is not counsel ofrilcord in any open cases,

State Ban. Holmes, J6 J)HC 5
Consent Order on Show Cause
Page 2 ofS

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing.Panel ehters the following

CONCLUSIONS OFLAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction (lver Defendant,. John M. Holmes, and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.

2.
Holmes failed. t(l comply with the following conditions of the stay of his
suspension contained in the Order ofDiscipli!W:
a. That he submit to breathalyzer testing four times each day during the
period of the stay as provided in paragraph 2(c)on page 5;

b.. That he comply with all treatment recommendations of the evaluatil1g
clinician as provided in paragraph 2(e) on page 6; and
c.. Thilthe ensure his treatment providers timely submit quarterly reports to
the Office of Counsel as provided in paragraph 2(e) on page 6.
Holmes's non-compliance with the Soberlinkrequirement undermined the
lIbility of the State Bar to ensurethatheisllbstainhlgfrom alcoholuse.
3.

4.
These violations warrant lifting the stay and activating ofa portion of
Hohnes's suspension.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Pact and Conclusions of Law and the
consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel cntetsthe following
ORDER

1.
The stay of Defendant's suspension is lifted and three months of the three
year suspension previously hnposed is activated. This order and the suspension imposed
herein are effective immediately upon entry of the order.
All costs and administrative fees of this action are tllXed to Defendant,
Defendant must pay the ¢osts of this action within 30 dllYS of service upon him of the
2.

statement of costs by the SecretarY,

3.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolinll-State Bar no later than 30. days following the date that this Otderis
serVed upon him.
4,
As Defendant is not currently practicing law and does not presently have
clients, the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State

State Bar v, H()lmes, 16 DHC5
C()nsant Order on Show Cause
Page30f5

Bar .Discipline and Disability Rules are fiOt applicable, and Defendant is not required to
file the affidavit described therein.
5.
Mer no less than tltrl;le months ilf aotive suspension, Defendant may apply
to have the remainder ofthe three year suspension stayed by petitioning forreillstatement
as described in paragraph 4 on page 7 of the Order of Discipline. In seeking
reinstatement, Defendant must comply with the requirements of Rule.Oi25(b) of the
N0$ Carolina State Bar DiscipUne and Disability Rules and the. requirements for
reinstatementcont\lined in paragraph 4 (and its subparagraphs) on page 7 of the Order of
Discipline. In addition, prior to being reinstated, Defendant must show by clear, cogent
and convlnciJig evidence that dming the period ofactive suspension he:
a. Complied with the Soberlink requitementdesctibed in paragraph 2(0) on
page 5 of the Order of Discipline;
b. Participated regularly in a support groJlP for recovery from an.alcohol use
disorder;
c. Adhered to his current every-othet-weekschedule for individual
psychotherapy unless and until the therapist recommends a different
schedule; and
d. Submitted tirttelyquarterly repons from his treatment providers to the
Office of Counsel,lls delicriiJedin paragraph 2(e) on page 6 of the Order
ofDiscipJine.
If Defendant is reinstated to active status prior to the expiration of the
three year suspension period, Defendant's active status shall be subject to, and contingent
upon compliance with, the terms ofthe stayed suspension set forth In paragraph 2 and its
subparagraphs on pages 5.7 of the Order of Discipline.
6.

1.
. If Defendant js not reinstated to aoi:ive status prior to the elqJirationof the
three year suspelisioli period,. theli before Defendant may be reinstated· to active status
he must satisfy the requirements of Rcle .0125(b) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability RUles and all requirements for reinstatement contained in
paragraph 4 and its subparagraphs on page 1 'of the Order of Discipline.

Si~ed

/I

s=;,.A"~~
. ..

by the Chair with the consent of theotlier Hearing Panel members, this the
day of January, 2017.

~...
. ......
C.·.
.

.

•

Donald C.Prehtis$, Chair
DisclpJinsry Hearing Panel

State Bar v. Holmes, 16DHC 5
Consent Ordet on Show Cause
Page40f5

CONSENTED TO BY:

~{1~~~._,_
Bannon
John
~annenHoyme

Deputy Counsel

~'i':;;:;:'\: B~

0

Defen ant

~ /)1r

,1-

Alan M. Schneider
Counsel for Def~ndant

State Barv. Holmes, 16 DHC 5
Consent Order onShow Cause
PageS ofS

