NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12G0174

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Stephen C. Holton,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 16,2015 the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. The grievance was
assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results ofthe.State Bar staffs
investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Over a period of years, you failed to properly reconcile your trust account, did not render
written accountings to clients for entrusted funds, and maintained inadequate trust account
documentation in violation of Rule 1.15-3. You had delegated responsibility for the trust account

to a non-lawyer employee, whom you failed to adequately supervise in violation of Rule 5.3.
Due to your lack of supervision, that employee's embezzlement of entrusted funds went
undetected for several years.
Although your conduct created a significant risk ofharm to client funds, the Grievance
Committee determined that reprimand was the appropriate discipline for the following reasons:
(a) you have no prior discipline; (b) you were very cooperative with the State Bar; (c) you took
extensive corrective measures and appear to now fully appreciate your responsibilities in
handling entrusted funds; (d) you expressed credible intent to manage your trust account properly
going forward; and (e) based on your cmTent trust accounting practices, you appear to be at low
risk for jeopardizing client funds in the future.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the '1#\. day of Al..li.Q.U.S T

John . Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

'2015.

