THE SECRETARY

NORTH CAROLINA

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
01 BSR02

WAKE COUNTY

)
)
)
)
)

IN RE REINSTATEMENT OF
FREDJ.~LL~S,ATTORNEY

.
ORDER OF REINSTATEMENT
AND
STAY OF SUSPENSION

I

TIDS MATTER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant
to a Petition for Reinstatement filed by Fred J. Williamson February 19,2001.
,

;Based ~pon a review of the records of the North Carolina State Bar, the Secretary
makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

Pursuant to an Order of Interim Suspension entered on May 22, 2000 by
the Dis~iplinary Hearmg Commission of the North Carolina State Bar in matter 00 DHC
14, the ~icense of Fred J. Williams was suspended until the conclusion of all disciplinary
proceedings against Williams:
"

(

. 2~
At the conclusion ofall disciplinary proceedings, the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission suspended Williams' license for a period of three years, effective June 21,
2000.
~.

. The Order of Discipline provides that Williams would be eligible for
reinstatement of his license'and a stay oithe remaining three-year suspension on
Decerhb¢r 21, 2000, upon compliance With the disciplinary conditions set out in the
Order of Discipline.

I

4.
On February 19,2001, Williams filed a petition forreinstatemeiit, along
with a,i1 ~ccompanying affidavit attesting to his compliance with the conditions for
obtaining the reinstatement of his license and a stay of his suspension pursuant to the
" Order of:DisdpIlne. .
'
5~
After conducting an investigation of Williams' requirements set out in the
Order of Discipline and N.C. State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin.

1

"

,

'.'

...

01tt

".

~

I

<

'.

;

I

Code, Chapter. 1, Subchapter B, Section .0125, (hereafter "Discipline Rule .0125"),
CounseYfoi' the·N0i:th Carolina State Bar did not file a response' objecting' to the petition
for r e i n s t a t e m e n t . '
.
BASED UPO~ the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Secretary makes the
following:
.'
~ ...:..
.1.-

, ...

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I

1.
.The Petitioner, Fred J. Williams, has satisfied th~ requirements set out in
the Order ofDi~cipline' and Discipline Rule .0 125(b} for reinst~temenf of his licens¢ and
for the stay of his suspension.
.
. .Willimns must continue to comply with all of the conditions set forth in
2.
the Order of Discipline" for the stay of his suspension to remain in effect.

.

.

THERBORE,.pursuant to Discipline Rule .0125(b), iti~ hereby order~d that:
1.
Fred J. Willlams is reinstated to the active practice of1aw in North
remaining period of the suspension of Williams '. license is stayed a,s
Carolina and
long as he continues to meet all of the con4itions set forth in the Order ofDiscipiine
entered against-him by'llie Disciplinary HearIng Commission iri matter 00 DHC 14, A
copy of the Order of Discipline is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

the

2..
Pursuant to Discipline Rule .OI25(b)(2); th~ stay of Williams' suspension
shall be effective Oli.March 20,2001, which is 30 days from the filing of his .petition for
i:einstatement.

This the

~-3"')day of March, 20Q1. .

I

2

I

BEFORE THE
LINARY HEARING qOMMISSION

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PLAINTIFF,

v.
FRED J. WILLIAMS, ATTORNEY
DEFENDANT ..

)
}
)
))
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I

This matter was heard on the 14th day of July 2000, before a Hearing'
Committee ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of kenneth M. Smith,
Chair; Michael L. Bonfoey and Lorraine Stephens. The Defendant, Fred J. Williams,
Was represented by Irving Joyner. The .plaintiffwas represented by Larissa J.
Erlonan. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee. The Committee has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, Fred J. Williams, and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
Summary judgment was granted for the North Carolina State Bar on the issue
of whether Defendant is subject to diScipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(h)(1) and
Rule 8.4(b) of the Revised Rules ofPtofessional Conduct. ~he only iSsue to be
decided by the Hearing Committee is what discipline ought to be imposed.
Based upon the pleadings on file, including the Stipulations on Pretrial
Conference submitted by the parties, upon the evidence and arguments of the parties
concerning the appropriated1.scipline, atid upon the Findings of Fact recited in the
Order on Stimmary Judgment, the Hearing, Committee hereby makes the following
additional findings of fact:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I

1.
On May 22, 2000, an Order of Interim Suspension was entered by the
Discipliriary Hearing Commission against Defendant, whereby Defendant's license to
practice law was suspended until the cdhclusion of all disciplinary proceedings pending
before the North Carolina.State.Bar.· The Order of Interim Suspension became effective
30 days ~er entry of the orrl:er on June 21,2000.
'\

.':>-.

2.
the Defendant's misconduct, as described in the Findings of Fact contained in
the Order on Summary Juqgment, is aggravated by the following factor:

I
412

Substantial experienceii~' the· practice :~f l~w, Partichiad~ 1iC~inal
defense attorney, fonner Superior Court judge, and professor of law.

'ks

3.
The Defendant's nusconduct, as described in the Findings of Fact contained in
the Order on Summary Judgment, is mitigated by the following factors:
a)
b.)
c)
d)

e)

I

f)

4.

Absehce of a prior disciplinary record;
Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
Full and free dis9lmlure to the Hearing Cotpmittee and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings; .
.
Excellent character and reputation in the legal community -- Pefendant
presented compelling evidence of his exemplary ieput~tioii.as a law
professor and practicing attomeyin Durham, North Carolina.
hnposition of other penalties or sanctions, in the fonn of criminal
sanctions imposed by the Hart County Superior Court, including a 5-year .
probationary sentence and monetary penalties and fin~s; and
A showing of sincere remorse for his misconduct.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

Based upon the foregoing aggravating and mitigating factors and the
arguments of the parties, the Heanng Committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF D1SCIPLINE
1.
The license of the Defendant, Fred J. Williams, is hereby suspended for three
years. The suspension of Defendant's license shall be effective as of June 21, 2000, .
the effective date 9ftpe Interim Order ofSuspen,siop entered in tWs :Q1atter, and shall
continue thereafter for a period of six (6) consecutive months, 01' until De.cember 21,
2000.

2.
The suspension of Defendant's license is thereafter stayed and the'
Defendant's license to practice law is reinstated so long as Defendant complies with
the following terms and conditions
prior to anddurilig the period of the stay:
.
.

I

(a)

The Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws.

(b)

The Defendant shall not violate any provisions of the North
Carqlina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules or th~ ReVised
Rules of Professional Conduct.

(c)

The Defendant shall comp~y with all standard and special
conditions ofllis suspended sentence in the State of Georgia
under the First Offender's Program.

,I

2

'---'---'

I

'413

·
(d) The Defendant shall repo.rt to. the Office of the Secretary o.f the'
· North Caro.lina State Bar the name, address and telepho.ne ntunber o.f his
· pro.batio.n o.fficednDurham Co.unty.
(e)
The Defendant shall report to. the Office o.f the Secretary o.f the
· North Caro.lina State Bar any finding by any Co.urt ·or probatio.n o.fficer that he
has vio.lated the tenns o.fhis probatio.nary sentence under the First Offenders
,Program in the State o.f Geo.rgia, regardless o.f whether punishment is imposed
,fo.r said vio.latio.n.
Defendant shall no.t use, co.nsume, o.r Po.ssess any contro.lled
substances in violation o.fthe laws o.fthe State o.fNorth Carolina or the laws
o.f the United States o.f America.
(f)

(g) Defendant shall submit to. random drug testing and urinalysis within
Itwelve ho.urs after a telepho.ne request by the Office of Co.unsel o.f the No.rth
Caro.lina State Bar. The test shall be perfo.rmed at a testing facility designated
by the No.rth Caro.lina State Bar. A No.tice o.fRequest for a drug test shall be
:fi1ed with the Disciplinary Hearing Co.mmissio.n in this matter giving the date
'and time o.f the request and the locatio.n where the test ~s to. be perfo.rmed.
When filed, a copy ofthe No.tice o.fRequest shall be sent to. Defendant by
certified mail. . The Defendant shall file with the Disciplinary Hearing
Co.mmissio.n a No.tice ofCo.mpliance, alo.ng with a certified Co.Py o.fthe drug
test results, within ten (10) days o.f service UPo.n Defendant of the No.tice o.f
Request. Rando.m drug testing shall be perfo.nned at the expense o.f
:Defendant.

I

(h) Defendant shall file a No.tice o.f Co.mpliance with the Disciplinary
Hearing Co.mmissio.n fo.r each drug test that he undergo.es at the request o.fhis
probation o.fficer or any court pursuant to. the tenns of Defendant's suspended
sentence under the Georgia First Offender Pro.gram. The Notice of
Co.mpliance shall state the date that the drug test was requested; the party
iequesting the drug test; the date and Io.cation where the drug test was
perfo.nned; and shall attach> a certified Co.Py o.f the drug test results.

: (i) Except by o.rder o.f the Disciplinary Hearing Co.mmission fo.r goo.d
cause .sho.wn, the Office o.f Counsel shallrto.t request that Defendant undergo a
drug test within 30 days of any test perfo.nned on Defendant at the request o.f
:Qefendant's probatio.n o.fficer o.r any Co.urt pur,suant to. the terms o.f
Defendant's suspended sentence under the Geo.rgia First Offender Pro.gram.

I

(j) Within s~x mo.nths o.fthe effective date o.fthis Order, Defendant, at

his expense, shall o.bt~ih an addictio.n and mental health evaluatio.n by a
qualified-physician, approved by the Lawyer Assistant Pro.gram o.fthe North
Carolina State Bar and the State ~ar Office o.f Co.unsel. The evaluation shall
comply with the addictio.n/mental health evaluatio.n pro.to.co.I ado.pted by the

3

I

,

•

,J~

:

•

>.;~

"

~.~

",,'

'".' , ' , '

:'

'i'

• , '-'

~

Lawyer Assistance Program. The ev'aiu~tlngphysician sliall~,in,pait, consider'
whether Defendant suffers from an addiction to any legal qr ill~gal subst~ce
and/or suffers from any mental health problem, disorder or disease.

I

: (k) A copy of the physician's report on Defendant~s addiction and
mental healtlt evaluation shall be provided to the Lawyer Assistant Program
and to the State Bar Office of Counsel.

I

(1)
If upon receipt oftb,e physician's evalUation report the LaWyer
Assistance Program deems it reasonably necessary,then Defendartt shall enter'
into a consent order and rehabilitation contract with the Lawyer Assistance
Program regarding a medical treatment plan under ,such tenns and conditions
as the Lawyer Assistance Program deems appropriate. Defendant shall
comply with all tenns of the consent order and rehabilitation contract
throughout the period of the stayed suspension and shall cooperate fully with
the Lawyer Assistance Program.
.
(m) As part of any consent order and rehabilitation contract with the
Lawyer Assistance program, Defend~nt sh~ authorize the Lawyer Assistance
, Program and its representatives to release all records and infonnation
concerning his participation in the Program to the Office of Counsel and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission. Such infol.TQ,atiQn may inClude, but is not
limited to, records and infonnation conce.rning whether Defendant has
complied with the qonsent order and reh~bilitati9n contract and recorc:lS or
reports of medical treatments or evaluations that Defendant receives or
undergoes in c()njunction with his participation in the Program. Defendant .
shall also expressly waive any right which he may otherwise have to
confidential communications with persons acting on behalf of the Lawyer
Assistance Program to the extent it is necessary for such persons to
communicate to the Office,ofCounsel artd the Disciplinary'Hearing
Commission whether Defendant is cooperating and satisfactorily participating
in the agreed upon rehabilitation program or has completed that program.

I

(n)
J:)efendant has an interest in keeping confidential thos.e records
that are subject to the physician-patient privilege, which interest overrides any .
interest of the public in obtaining disclosure of those records. That overriding
interest cannot be protected by any measure short of sealing the records so
prodl,lced. Except 'purs\lartt to an order of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission, or other court of competent jurisdiction, the Office of Counsel
of the North Carolina State Bar shall keep confidential ali physician's reports
or other medical records obtained pursuant to' subparagraphs 2j-2rn above, and
shall not disclose those records to any person other thaP. officers, councilors
a.nd employees ofthe North Carolina State Bar 1)l1d members of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission. Defendant's consent to· an order and
rehabilitation contract with the Lawyer Assistance :Program shall not be .
deemed to be a waiver of the physician-patient privilege for any purpose other

4

I

, th~n for production of documents and infonnation to the LaWyer Assistance
, Program and to the Office of Counsel as required by. tIlls order.
(0)
Defendant shall be responsible for all costs associated with
"complying with this order and the above-:mentioned conditions. Under no
circumstances, shall the St~te Bar be responsible to Defendant or any third
'parties for the costs ofDefendant:s compliance with the conditions of this
:order.
(P)
Defendant shall pay all costs incUrred in this proceeding and
'taxed against him by the Secretary ofthe North Carolina State Bar within 180
:days of receiving, notice of slich costs.

I

"

, 3.

If during any period in which the three-year suspension is stayed the
Defend~t fails to comply with anyone or more conditions stated in paragraph 2,
then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in
§.0114(x) ofthe North Caroliila State Bar Discipline & Disabiljo/ Rules. "

I

4. Iftne stay of the suspension ofthe Defendap.t's law license is lifted, the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order providing for such conditions
as it deems necessary for reinstatement of the Def~ndant' s license at the e~d of the '
thfee-year suspension peri9d.
'

" 5.

The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Adnlin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §.0114(x) ofthe
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rliles tbr<?Ughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
S'igned by the undersigned Hearing Conunittee chair with the consent of the
other Hearing Committee members.
This the Z,I day of September, 2000.

I
I

KethKILSIIlith, 'Chainnan
DHC Hearing Committee

5

1

t

416

I

