BEFORE THE
HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BAR
18 DHC 6

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

CONSENT
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
LARRY G. HOYLE, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER came on for consideration before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Richard V. Bennett, Chair, and members Allison C.
Tomberlin and Tyler B. Morris. Maria J. Brown and Jennifer A. Porter represented Plaintiff, the
North Carolina State Bar. Alan M. Schneider represented Defendant, Larry G. Hoyle.
Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of
law recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Hoyle has freely and voluntarily
stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and entry of
the order of discipline. Hoyle freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry
of this consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina nnd is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Larry G. Hoyle (hereinafter "Defendant" or "Hoyle"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on 23 March 1990 and was at all times referred to herein an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina. the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina Slate Bar, and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Hoyle was engaged in
the practice of law in the State of N0l1h Carolina and maintained a law office in Gastonia,
Gaston County, North Carolina.
The North Carolina State Barv. LarryG. Hoyle
Consent Order of Discipline

Page I of7

4.
Defendant represented T. Robinson in State v. Robinson, Gaston County nos. 12
CR 52347 and 12 CR 12684.
5.
On 27 August 2013, Defendant requested that the court date in the Robinson case
be continued to 11 October 2013.
6.

The court date in the Robinson case was continued to 11 October 2013.

7.
On 19 September 2013, Defendant submitted a written Designation of Secured
Leave for the dates of 10 and 11 October 2013, pursuant to Rule 26 of the General Rules of
Practice for the Superior and District Comts.
8.
Rule 26 of the General Rules of Practice requires that secured leave designations
be filed before any trial, hearing, or other matter has been regularly scheduled or noticed for a
time during the designated secured leave period.
9.
Because Defendant was scheduled to appear at a hearing on Robinson's behalf on
11 October 2013, Defendant's designation of secured leave for that date was not in compliance
with Rule 26 of the General Rules of Practice.
10.
On his Designation of Secured Leave, Defendant represented that no action or
proceeding in which he had entered an appearance had been scheduled for hearing, trial, or other
proceeding during the designated leave period.
II.
The statement in Defendant's Designation of Secured Leave that no action or
proceeding in which he had entered an appearance had been scheduled for hearing, trial, or other
proceeding during the designated secured leave period was false, because the hearing in the
Robinson matter was set for 11 October 2013, one of the dates Defendant designated for secured
leave in the Designation of Secured Leave.

12.
When Defendant indicated in the Designation of Secured Leave that there were no
scheduled hearings, trials, or other proceedings in a case in which he had entered an appearance
during the period he was designating, he knew the statement was false.
13.
In a motion dated 9 October 2013 and filed 10 October 2013, Defendant moved to
continue the 11 October 2013 court date in the Robinson matter.
14.
Defendant's cited reason for filing the motion to continue was that he could not be
present due to his secured leave.
15.
N. Gomez ("Gomez") was the defendant in State v. Gomez, Gaston Co. file nos.
14 CR 060879 and 80.

to

16.
On or about 11 June 2015, Assistant Public Defender Holden Clark was assigned
represent Gomez on his pending charges.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Larry G. Hoyle
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 2 of7

17.
On or about 15 June 2015, Frederick M. Dow ("Dow"), a professional bondsman,
executed a surety appearance bond in the amount of $5,000.00 for Gomez in 14 CR 060879 and
80.
.
18.

A hearing was scheduled in 14 CR 060879 and 80 for 27 July 2015.

19.

Gomez failed to appear at the 27 July 2015 hearing.

20.

As a result of Gomez's failure to appear, an order for his arrest was issued.

21.
Gomez's failure to appear also resulted in the issuance of a Bond Forfeiture
Notice to Gomez and Dow on 21 August 2015.
22.
The notice indicated that, unless the fOlfeiture was set aside before 18 January
2016, it would become a final judgment enforceable against Gomez and Dow.
23.
At some point after Dow received the notice of forfeiture, Dow contacted
Defendant regarding Gomez.
24.
Dow asked Defendant to strike the Order for Arrest and Order of Forfeiture issued
against Gomez.
25.
N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 58-71-95 states a bail bondsman may not "suggest or advise the
employment ot: or name for employment any particular attomey to represent his principal."
26.
On or about 5 January 2016, Defendant prepared a Motion and Order Striking
Order for Arrest and Forfeiture & Rescheduling in 14 CR 060879 and 80.
27.

Defendant signed the Motion and Order as counsel for Gomez.

28.
Defendant presented the motion and proposed order to an Assistant District
Attomey for his or her concurrence and presented the form to the court.
29.

The court entered the order, thereby releasing Dow from the bond forfeiture.

30.
At the time Defendant undertook the actions described in paragraphs 26-28,
Defendant had not spoken to Gomez.
31.
At the time Defendant undertook the actions described in paragraphs 26-28,
Defendant did not represent Gomez.
32.
Gomez.

Defendant's actions caused a new court date of7 March 2016 to be set [or

33.

Defendant had no communication with Gomez about the new court date.

34.

Gomez failed to appear for the new court date.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Larry G. Hoyle
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 3 of7

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All the pal1ies are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, LaITY G. Hoyle, and the subject matter.

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, has engaged in
conduct constituting grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2), in that
Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as
follows:
(a) By asserting to the court in his Designation of Secured Leave form that he had no
matters with hearings scheduled during the designated period, Defendant knowingly
made a false statement of material fact to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(1) and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c);
(b) By improperly designating 11 October 2013 as secured leave when a hearing was
scheduled for that date, falsely certifying that no hearings had been scheduled, and
then using his designation of secured leave as the basis for a continuance of the
hearing, Defendant misused the designated leave process in a manner that was
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
(c) By taking action in Gomez's case at Dow's request when he lacked authority to act
on behalf of Gomez and in a manner incon.<;istent with ethical and legal
requirements, Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
(d) By signing the Motion and Order Striking Order for Arrest and Forfeiture &
Rescheduling as counsel for Gomez when he did not represent Gomez, Defendant
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c); and
(e) By failing to inform Gomez of the new court date, Defendant engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A( d).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Conclusions of Law, the parties' stipulations
of fact, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 34 above are reincorporated as if set f011h

herein.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Larry G. Hoyle
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 4 of7

2.

Defendant has been practicing law for over 28 years.

3.
In 2003, Defendant was admonished by the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar for failing to respond to a request for information from the State Bar.
4.
In 2009, Defendant was censured by the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar for engaging in improper ex parte communication and making a
misrepresentation to the COUlt about the other party's consent to the matter before the court.
5.

Defendant has not received any discipline in the intervening ten years.

6.
Defendant was unaware of the restriction upon bail bondsmen imposed in N.C.
Gen. Stat. ยง 58-71-95.
7.
Defendant's misuse of the secured leave process and his improper action in the
Gomez matter created potential significant harm to the administration of justice.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB.0116(f)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and determines the
following factors are applicable:

a.

Negative impact of the Defendant's actions on the administration of
justice; and

b.

Acts of misrepresentation.

2.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all the factors enumerated under
IB.Ol16(f)(2) and concludes that although acts of misrepresentation are present in this case,
disbarment is not necessary in order to protect the public in this case.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in IB.0116(f)(3)
and concludes that the following factors are applicable:
a.

Factor (A), Prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Factor (B), Remoteness of prior offenses;

c.

Factor (G), Multiple offenses;

d.

Factor (K), Cooperative attitude toward the disciplinary proceedings; and

e.

Factor (S), Substantial degree of experience in the practice oflaw.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Larry G. Hoyle
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 5 of7

4.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the disciplinary options available to it and, in
particular, carefully evaluated the factors relating to the imposition of a suspension or stayed
suspension. In light of all of the evidence, particularly the remoteness of Defendant's prior
offenses and the isolated incidents at issue, the Hearing Panel concluded the protection of the
public does not require suspension in this case and that a censure is the appropriate discipline.
5.
The Hearing Panel considered all lesser sanctions and concluded that discipline
short of a censure would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendant
committed and would send the wrong message to members of the Bar and the public regarding
the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant, Lany G. Hoyle, is hereby CENSURED.

2.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding, including
the costs of all depositions, as assessed by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant must pay the costs within 30 days of service upon him of the statement of costs by the
Secretary.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day Of-::S-~NU\'''Y('-2r-' 2019.
__ _

~

~~~~ .. ~
Richard V. Bennett, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

(continued on next page)

The North Carolina State Bar v. Larry G. Hoyle
Consent Order of Discipline

Page 6 of7

CONSENTED TO BY:

~
Counsel for Plaintiff

~
~~
:l,--~
~_
LarryG. ~~
Defenda

~
J1'1fifer A. Porter
Counsel for Plaintiff

The North Carolina Slate Bar v. Larry G. Hoyle
Consent Order of Discipline

Counsel for Defendant

Page 7 of7

