~,(S?~\~/',
' Q?""
~I:;
'}~pFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE
" \;V

WAKE COUNTY

.:2:::

Ocr <;'019

NORTH CAROLINA

'1!~RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

-'1'

~~
IN RE: TENDER OF SURREND/; PJ
) C6C:;J
LICENSE OF
~~p
(1

\...~

18 BCS 2

DtiC.-

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

TREVOR IV AN H U C K )
NCSB # 46898
)
THIS MATTER was heard by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27
N.C.A.C. IB .0121(a) of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules upon the affidavit of
surrender of license executed by Trevor Ivan Huck on October 12,2018 and filed in the offices
of the State Bar on October 18,2018.
Based on the affidavit, the Council finds that Trevor Ivan Huck pled guilty to one count
of receipt of child pornography in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section
2252A(a)(2)(A) and (b)(2) in United States v. Trevor Ivan Francis Huck, 1: 18CR239-1 (Middle
District of North Carolina) on September 5, 2018, a felony offense. This conduct constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28 (b)(1).
WHEREFORE, upon motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the following
Order:
1. The tender of surrender of the license of Trevor Ivan Huck is hereby accepted.

2. Trevor Ivan Huck is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina.
3. Trevor Ivan Huck shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB .0128 of the
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and shall surrender his license and
permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along
with the affidavit required by 27 N.C.A.C. IB .0128(d) of the State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against Trevor Ivan Huck.
5. Within 10 days of the date of this Order, Trevor Ivan Huck shall provide the State Bar
with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Trevor Ivan Huck and obtain such files, and Trevor Ivan Huck
shall promptly return all files to his clients upon request.
6. If Trevor Ivan Huck fails to fully comply with 27 N.C.A.C. IB .0128, he shall
reimburse the State Bar for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding down
his practice. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility fees,
rent payments, moving expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage
or other mailing expense, and compensation paid to a court-appointed trustee andlor

Page 1 of2

the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated with the trusteeship. The State
Bar shall send an invoice for wind-down expenses to Trevor Ivan Huck at his last
known address ofrecord with the North Carolina State Bar. Trevor Ivan Huck shall
not be eligible for reinstatement until he has reimbursed the State Bar for all winddown expenses incurred.
Done and ordered this the 26 th day of October 2018.

John M. Silverstein, President
The North Carolina State Bar

In re: Trevor Ivan Huck
Order of Disbarment
Page 2 of2

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
'I"

.,'

",

"

TREVOR IVAN HUCK, NeSB # 46898, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as
follows :
1.
I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to State Bar Discipline & Disability Rule 27 NCAC 1B §.O 121.
2.
My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered and is not the result of coercion
or duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.
3.
I am aware that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar into the
circumstances and factual basis that resulted in my entry of a guilty plea to one count of receipt
of child pornography in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 2252A(a)(2)(A) and
(b)(2) in United States v. Trevor Ivan Francis Huck, 1:18CR239-1 (Middle District of North
Carolina) on September 5, 2018. A copy of my plea agreement with the government is attached
and incorporated herein as Exhibit 1.
.

/

...

t

,:.

~'

,

.

4.
I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the State Bar's investigation is
predicated are true.
5.
I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary;charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them.
6.
I understand that the hearing by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar with
regard to the acceptance of the tender of surrender of my license to practice law will occur at the
regularly scheduled meeting of the Council of the North Carolina State Bar on Friday, October
26,2018 at the North Carolina State Bar Building, 217 E. Edenton Street, Raleigh, North Carolina
27601.
7.
I hereby waive any further notice of the hearing before the Council on my affidavit
of surrender. I waive any claim, argument, or assertion that I have not received proper or timely
notice of the hearing before the Council on my affidavit of surrender or any other defect in notice.
I further waive any and all right or privilege to appear before the Council at that hearing.

TREVOR IV AN HUCK, Affidavit of Surrender

Page 1 of2

8.
I affirm that I have had full opportunity to seek the advice and counsel of an attorney
in making the decision to file this affidavit of surrender and, to the extent I have consulted with
an attorney regarding this affidavit of surrender, I am fully satisfied with the services of my
attorney in this proceeding.
Respectfully submitted, this the

11-

Octobe("

day of Sef3tembet"£018.

TREVOR IVAN HUCK

Sworn to and subscribJ(d b~fore me
this the l'l- day of uC-tODer, 2018.

My commission expires:

feb C) '2, -:::?az:z

TREVOR IV AN HUCK, Affidavit of Surrender

Page 2 of2

.."\

r:: ,::' :'. 13 , :

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

AUG 2 ~ 2 U18

1. ' .

j<'OR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINAJ

....--.

,..~

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

l:18CR239-1

EXHIBIT

v.

TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK

PLEA AGREEMENT-------~

NOW COME the United States of America, by and through Matthew
G.T. Martin, United States Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina,
and the defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, in his own person and
through his attorneys, Locke T. Clifford and Daniel A. Harris, and state as
foHows:
1.

The defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, is presently

under Indictment in case number 1:18CR239-1, which charges him in Count
One with a violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 2252A(a)(2)U\)
and (b)(l), receipt of child pornography; and which charges him in Count Two
with a violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 2252A(a)(5)(B) and
(b)(2), possession of child pornography involving a prepubescent minor.
2.

The defendant, TREVOR IV

m.A :f:'LCI~HIICK ,-\vjJLl~nt Q-l~a, -----

voluntary plea of guilty to Count One of the Indictment herein . The nature of
this charge and the elements of this charge, which mus t be proved by the

Case 1:18-cr-00239-NCT Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 1 of 10

United States beyond a reasonable doubt before the defendant can be found
guilty thereof, have been explained to him by his attorney.
ct.

T.he

clefendant,

TREVOR

rVAN

FRANCIS

HUCK,

understands that as to Count One of the Indictment herein, he shall be
sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not less than five years nor more than
twenty years, and the maximum fine for Coun lOne of the Indictment herein

is $250,000. If any person derived pecuniary gain from the offense, or if the
offense resulted in pecuniary Joss to a person other than the defendant,
TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, the defendant may, in the alternative, be

fined not more than the greater of twice the gross gain

01'

twice the gross loss

unless the Court determines that imposition of a fine in this manner would
unduly complicate or prolong the sentencing process. The fine provisions are
subject to the provisions of Title 18, United States Code, Section 3571, entitled
"Sentence of Fine."

b.

The defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, also

understands that the Court may include as (] p8rt of the sentence a
requirement that the defendant be placed on a term of' supervised release of
any term of years not. less than five, or life. after imprisonment, p1.ll'snallt to
Title 18, United Statcs Code, Section 3583(k).

2

Case 1:18~cr~00239-NCT Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 2 of 10

c.

The defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, also

understands that the Court shall order, in addition to any other criminal
penalty authorized by law, that the defendant make restitution, pursuant to
Title 18, United States Code, Section 2259, to any victim of the offenses
charged in the Indictment herein. The defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRAl'l'CIS
HUCK, further agrees to pay restitution, as determined by the Court, to any
victims harmed by defendant's "relevant conduct," as defined by U.S.S.G. §
lB1.3, pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 3663A(a)(3).
d.

The defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, further

understands that the sentence to be imposed upon him is within the discretion
of the sentencing Court subject to the statutory maximum and mandatory
minimum penalties set forth above.

The sentencing Court is not bound by the

sentencing range prescribed by the United States Sentencing Guidelines.
Nevertheless, the sentencing Court is required to consult the Guidelines and
take them into ac('ount when sentencing.

In so doing, the sentencing Court

\-vill first calculate, after making the appropriate findings of fact., the
sentencing range prescribed by the Guidelines, and then will consider th(1t
range as well as other relevant iactors set forth in the Guidelines and t.hose
factors set forth in Ti tl(~ 18., TJ
. t 1 ,St.a t es C·)
.
3'553(a) before
l III ec
Que" SectlOn
imposing the sentence.

Case 1:18-cr-00239-NCT Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 3 of 10

e.

The

defendant,

TREVOR

IV AN

FRANCIS

HUCK,

undeTstands that ifhe is not a citizen of the United States that entering a plea
of guilty may have adverse consequences with respect to his immigration
status.

The defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, nevertheless

wishes to enter a voluntary plea of guilty regard1ess of any immigration
consequences his guilty plea might entail, even if such consequence might
include automatic removal and possibly permanent exclusion from the United
States.

The

defendant,

TREVOR

IVAN

FRANCIS

HUCK,

further

understands that in the event he is a naturalized citizen, entering a plea of
guilty may result in denaturalization proceedings being instituted against him
leading to his removal and possible permanent exclusion from the United
States.
f.

The

defendant,

TREVOR

IVAN

FRANCIS

lIUCK,

understands that, by entering a plea of guilty to Count One of the Indictment
herein, he may be required to register as a sex offender under the laws of the
United States and/or any state in which he resides, works, and or attends
school, and that it is the defendant's responsibility to comply with any
applicable registration requirements. See for example 34 U.S.C. § 20901-20962
and N.C.G.S. §§ 14-208.5 - 208.45.

11

Case 1:18-cr-00239-NCT Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 4 of 10

3.

By voluntarily pleading guilty to Count One of the Indictment

herein, the defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, knowingly waives
and gives up his constitutional rights to plead not guilty, to compel the United
States to prove his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, not to be compelled to
incriminate himself, to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him,
to have ajnry orjudge determine his guilt on the evidence presented, and other
constitutional rights which attend a defendant on trial in a criminal case.
4.

The defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, is going to plead

guilty to Count One of the Indictment herein because he is, in fact, guilty and
not because of any threats or promises.
5.

The extent of the plea bargaining in this case is as follows:
a.

Upon the acceptance by the Court of a guilty plea by the

defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, to Count One of the Indictment
herein, and at the conclusion of the sentencing hearing thereon, the United
States of America w111 not oppose

[1

maLion t.o dismiss the remaining count of

the Indictment as to the defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK. This
portion of the Plea Agreement is made pursuant to Rule l1(c)(1)(A) of the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
b.

It is understood t.hat if the Court determines at the time of

sentencing that the defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, qualifies for

5

Case

1:18-cr~00239-NCT

Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 5 of 10

a 2-point decrease in the of Tense le'vcl under Section 3El.l(a) of the Sentenc;lng
Guidelines and t.hat the offense level prior to the operation of Section 3El. 1(8)
is 16 or g.reater, then the United States will recommend a decrease in the
offense level by 1 additional level pursuant to Section 3El.1(b) of the
Sentencing Guidelines.

This portion of the PIca Agreement is made pursuant

to Rule l1(c)(1)(B) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
c.

In addition, the defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS

HUCK, agrees to and does hereby abandon any interest that he has in any
book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, computer, or storage media, that
contains child pornography as defined in Title 18, United States Code, Section
2256(8).

G.

\;\/ith regard to forfeiture, the United States and the defendant,

TREVOR IVAN Fl"{ANClS HUCK, agree as follows:
a.

The

defendant,

TREVOR

IVAN

FRANCIS

HUCK,

knowingly and voluntarily eonscnt.s and agrees to forfeit to the United Stat.es
all right, tit.le, and interest jn and to any and all visual depictions described in
Title J8, Unit.ed St.aLes Code; Sf:~ction 2252A, Rnd any and all property, real or
personal, used or intended to be used to commit or to promote the com.mission
of the offense to which he is pleading guilty.

The property to be forfejted

inchlcles, but is not limited to, the following:

G

Case 1:18-cr-00239~NCT Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 6 of 10

1.
2.

One white desktop eomput.er with t.hree hard drives;
and;
Two green 32GB SanDisk thumb drives.

The defendant acknowledges that his interest in the foregoing property is
subject t.o forfeiture based on the offense to which he is pleading guilty.
b.

The defendant further agrees to waive a11 interest in any

such asset in any administrative

01'

judicial forfeiture proceeding, whether

criminal or civil, state or federal. The defendant agrees to conRent to the entry
of orders offorfeiture for such property and waives the requirements of Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure 32.2 and 43(a) regarding notice of the forfeiture
in the charging instrument, announcement. oft-he forfeiture at sentencing, and

incorporation of the forfeiture in the judgment. Defendant aeknowledges that
he understands that. the forfeiture of assets is part onhe sen tencc tha t muy be
imposed in this case and waives any failure by the court t·o

i:.H.lvi1:j(-~

him of l:hif;,

pursuant to Rule 11(b)(1)(J), at the t.ime his guilty pJea is accepted.
c.

The defendant knowingly and voluntarily waives his right to

TIle defendant further knowingly and

a jury trial on the forfeiture of assets.

voluntarily waives all constitutional, legal and equitable claims, defl.:mws and
chal1enges to the forfeiture of assets in any proceeding, administrative,
criminal or civil, any jeopardy defense or cJnim of double jeopard\'. and any
"

•

7

Case 1:18-cr-00239-NCT Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 7 of 10

v

claim or defense under the Eighth Amendment to the United States
Constitution.
d.

The defendant agrees that the forfeiture provisions of this

plea agreement are intended to, and will, survive him, notwithstanding the
abatement of any underlying criminal conviction after the execution of this
agreement.

The forfeitab:ility of any particular property pursuant to this

agreement shall be determined as if the defendant had survived, and that
determination shall be binding upon the defendant's heirs, successors and
assigns until the agreed forfeiture, includ:ing any agreed money judgment
amount, is collected in ful1.
e.

The

defendant

agrees

and

understands

that

the

abandonment, civil aclministrabve forfeilure, civil judicial forfeiture, or
criminal forfeiture of any property sh811 not be treated as satisfaction of any
assessment, fine, restitution, cost of imprisonment,

01'

any other penalty this

Court may impose upon the defendant in addition to the forfeiture.
7.

The defendant, TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, agrees that

pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 3613, all monetary penalties,
including restitution imposed by the Court, shall be due immediately upon
judgment and subject to immediate enforcement. by the United States. The
defendant agrees that. if the Court imposes a schedule of payments, the

8

Case 1:18-cr-00239-NCT Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 8 of 10

schedule of payments shall be merely a schedule of minimum payments and
shall not be a limitation on the methods available to the United States to
enforce the judgment. The defendant further agrees that his debt resulting
from any crimin al monetary penalties due under the criminal judgment 'will be
submitted to the Treasury Offset Program, even if defendant debtor is current.
in his pa,yments under any Court-imposed payment schedule.
8.

It is further understood that the United States and the defendant,

TREVOR IVAN FRAl\ICIS HUCK, reserve the .right to bring to the Court's
attention any facts deemed relevant for purposes of sentencing.
9,

The defendant.,

TREVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, further

understands and agrees that pursuant to Title 18, United States Code,
Section 3013, he shall pay an assessment to the Court of $100 for each offense
to whieh he is pleading blllilty.

This payment shall be made at the time of'

sentencing by cash or money order made payable to the Clerk of the United
States District Court.

If' t.he defendant is indjgent and cannot make t.he

special aSs(,~ssment payment at the time of'sentencing, then the dc!iendant
agrees to

pal'ticipatt~

in the Inmate Financinl Rcspum,ibility Progl'am for

purposes of paying such special assessment.

Also, unless the Court finds the

defendant to be indigent, pursuant t.o Title 18, United St.ates Code, Section
3014, the defendant., TEEVOR IVAN FRANCIS HUCK, further understands

Case 1:18-cr-00239-NCT Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 9 of 10

and agrees that the Court is required to impose an additional mandatory
special assessment of $5,000.
10.

No agreements, representations, or understandings have been

made between the parties in this case other than those which are explicitly set
forth in this Plea Agreement, and none will be entered into unless executed in
writing and signed by all the parties.

Thisthe

a

1,r~dayofAugust,2018. ~J.

,J)

--.~~

. - , , - - - - - -. .

.~~ed_~S7_At.to_.

LOCKE T. CLIFFORD
Attorney for Defendant

-.. -- . . ~*k. .

...

ERIC L. IVERSON
NCSB # 46703
Assistant United States Attorney
101 S. Edgeworth St., 4th Floor
Greensboro, NC 27401
336/333/5351

Dl
!.L A. HARRIS .
Attorney for Defendant

". k _ /U__ _. ___

TREVOR IVA.N FRANCIS HUCK
Defendant

JO

Case 1:18-cr-00239-NCT Document 18 Filed 08/24/18 Paae 10 of 10

