BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
"-'
OF THE
-<RTI-I CAROLINA STATE BAR
IIDHC8

STATE OF NORTH CARO

WAKE COUNTY
," >

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATe =-u:r--r
PlaintitT

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
W. RAY HUDSON, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on September 30, 2011 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, Theodore C. Edwards, II, and
members Harriett Smalls and Patti I-lead. Willian1 N. Farrell represented Plaintiff, the
North Carolina State Bar. Defendant did not appear in person or by counsel. A default
judgment having been previously entered, the Hearing Panel addressed the discipline to
be imposed. The default judgment found facts and violations of the Rules of Professional
Conduct as follows:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, W. Ray Hudson ("Hudson" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the N0l1h Carolina State Bar in 1999, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Hudson was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Troy, Montgomery County, North Carolina.
4.
Hudson was the closing attorney for a real estate refinance transaction for
borrower Albert Lee Hudson ("A. Hudson") on October 2, 2008 for property located at
216 Pine Street, Biscoe, North Carolina.

5.
As the closing attorney, Defendant represented the borrower, A. Hudson,
and the lender, the State Employees Credit Union.
6.
The State Employees Credit Union, as part of its closing instructions,
required that the Defendant obtain title insurance for the refinance transaction.
7.
Defendant prepared a Hud-l Settlement Statement for the transaction
which showed a disbursement for title insurance in the amount of $192.50 to Beacon
Title Agency.
8.
Defendant collected the $192.50 for the title insurance as part of the
proceeds to close the loan but did not disburse said amount to the Beacon Title Agency,
as agent for Investors Title Insurance Company.
9.
As the closing attorney, Defendant was obligated to provide a final title
opinion and disburse the title insurance premium of $192.50 from that closing to Beacon
Title Agency, acting as agent for Investors Title fnsurance Company.
10.
Defendant did not provide a final title opinion to Investors Title and did
not disburse the $192.50 to Investors Title or to its agent, Beacon Title Agency.
11.
The funds for the title insurance were deposited in Defendant's trust
account at Fidelity Bank on or about October 1 and 2, 2008. Defendmlt should have
maintained $192.50 in his trust account from October 2, 2008 until said amount was
disbursed for the title insurance premium.
12.
Defendmlt failed to continuously maintain the title insurance premilll11
funds in his trust accOlmt at Fidelity Bank.
13.
On or about January 16,2009, the balance of Defendant's Fidelity Banl,
trust account fell to $26.68.
14.
On or about Mm'ch 25, 2009, the balance of Defendant's Fidelity Bank
trust account fell to $7.59.
15.
The funds in Defendant's Fidelity Bank trust account remained below
$192.50 from March 25, 2009 until May 15, 2009.
16.
On or about May 19,2009 the balance of Defendant's Fidelity Bank trust
account fell to $27.59.
17.
On or about June 5, 2009, the balance of Defendant's Fidelity BanJ, trust
account fell to $164.15.
18.
The funds in Defendant's Fidelity Bmuc trust account remained below
$192.50 from.Tune 5, 2009 through the last known balance on September 21,2010.

2

19.
From March to June 2009, Defendant wrote a series oftmst account
checks to himself for legal fees from his Fidelity Bank trust account.
20.
were drawn.

Defendant failed to identify the client balance against which the checks

21.
Defendant failed to produce the records and client ledgers requested by the
State Bar to determine whether any of these checks were for legitimate client fees.
By letter dated January I I, 2011 the State Bar requested documentation
regarding the property located at 216 Pine Street including, but not limited to, proof of
payment of the title insurance premium, documentation proving Defendant maintained
the premium's balance in his Fidelity Bank trust account, the client ledger card for the
transaction, and banle statements.
77

23.
Defendant failed to respond to the request or provide the requested
documents by the due date of February 12,2010.
24.
On or about May 4, 201 0 the State Bar served Defendant with a subpoena
requesting production oftrust account records, client ledgers, settlement statements,
disbursement summaries, HUD-I Settlement Statements, quarterly reconciliations, and
two client files.
25.
Defendant faxed an authorization allowing the State Bar to obtain his bank
records directly from Fidelity Bank.
26.
Although Defendant stated in his fax that the other requested material
would be placed in the mail to the Bar, no other documents were received and Defendant
failed to otherwise respond to the subpoena.
27.
On or about August 5, 2010, the State Bar served Defendant with a second
subpoena requesting additional records. This subpoena again demanded production of
trust account records, client ledgers, settlement statements, quarterly reconciliations, and
four client files.
28.
At the time the second subpoena was served, Defendant provided one
client file and a portion of his bank records but did not provide any client ledgers or
reconciliations.
29.
Upon Defendant's request he was given until August 27, 2010 to produce
the remaining documents that he had not provided.
30.
On August 25, 2010, Defendant called the Bar and requested additional
time to produce the documents demanded by the second subpoena.
31.

Thc deadline to produce the documents was extended to September 10,

2010.

3

32.
On September 10, 2010 Defendant called the Bar and requested additional
to produce the documents demanded by the second subpoena. Defendant indicated on
September 10, 1010 that he would put the subpoenaed docmnents in the mail on that date
and meet with the State Bar investigator on September 17, 2010, pursuant to the second
subpoena.
33.
Defendant failed to appear at the State Bar pursuant to the subpoena on
September 17,2010 and no documents were received by mail from him.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Pffilel enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, W. Ray Hudson, and the subject matter.
?
Defendffi1t's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuffi1t to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), for engaging in conduct
in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his actions as
follows:

(a)

By failing to maintain the funds for the title insurffi1ce and use it as
intended by the client, Defendant failed to hold ffild deliver entrusted
property in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (m);

(b)

By \\1'iting checks which failed to identify the client balances against
which the checks were drawn fi'om the trust account and by failing to
maintain a ledger for each person or entity with funds in the trust account,
Defendant failed to maintain the minimum record requirements for trust
accounts in violation of Rule 1.15-3(a)(2) and (5);

(c)

By failing to timely respond to subpoenas and other multiple inquiries by
the State Bar and, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a lawful
demand for information li'om a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule
8.1(b);

(d)

By failing to complete the linal title opinion, submit the title opinion with
the funds for the title insurance and by failing to obtain the title insurance,
Defendffilt failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3. ffild intentionally prejudiced
or damaged his client in violation of Rule 8.4(g);

(e)

By making the false statement to the Bar that he had sent tlle final title
opinion and the title insurance premium for the 216 Pine Street refinance
to Investors Title, Defendffilt made a false statement to the disciplinary

4

authority in connection with a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.1
and Rule 8.4(c); and
(t)

By misappropriating the title insurance hmds for the 216 Pine Street
refinance, Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments presented at tllis hearing, the I-Iearing Panel hereby finds by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant was deceptive in his response to the State Bar's letter of notice
in tllis matter. The Defendant indicated in his response to the letter of notice that "a final
opinion had been prepared and sent to Investors title. Along with the appropriate fee." In
fact Defendant had not sent a final title opinion to Investors Title and had not sent the
money for the title insurance premium to Investors Title.

2.
Investors Title and tlle State Employee's Credit Union were harmed by
Defendant's action in the refinance of the 216 Pine Street closing. Defendant did not
attach a property description to the deed of trust in favor of the State Employee's Credit
Union such that the Credit Union filed a claim with Investors Title which required
Investor's to have another attorney COlTect the deed of trust and complete the title work.
Investors incurred legal expenses in the amount of $2,000.00 in this regard. Defendant
failed to respond to the Credit Union or Investor's Title in their attempts to address issues
regarding the closing.
3.

Defendant's conduct involved misappropriation, misrepresentation and

deceit.
4.
Defendant, by engaging
untrustworthy.

such conduct, has shown himself to be

111

5.
Defendant failed to participate in this proceeding. He filed no Answer to
the Complaint, did not respond to the Plaintiff s Motion for a Default Order, and did not
appear at the hearing of this matter.
6.
Defendant was previously given a REPRIMAND by the Grievance
Committee of the State Bar in 09G1266 for failing to respond to supplemental requests
for information from the Bar and for failing to appear and respond to Bar subpoenas.
7.
Defendant's license to practice law was suspended in September 2010 for
failure to comply with mandatory continuing legal education requirements for 2009 and
was in a state of suspension during all proceedings in this matter.
8.
Defendant committed multiple violations of the Rules of Professional
Conduct governing entrusted funds for the reporting and accounting required for same.
5

9.
Defendant has refused to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct
and has refused to give any explanation for his conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and upon the evidence and arguments presented at
the heming concerning appropriate discipline, the I-leming Panel hereby enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fornls of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following suspension and disbarment factors are
applicable in this matter:
a.

intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;

b.

elevation ofthe defendant's own interest above that of the client;

c.

negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of
the profession;

d.

negative impact of the defendant's action on the administration of justice;

e.

impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;

f

eflect of defendant's conduct on third parties;

g.

acts of dishonestly, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and

h.

multiple instances of failure to participate in the legal profession's selfregulation process.

')
The Heming Panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes the following factors disbarment factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and

b.

misappropriation or conversion of assets to which the Defendant was not
entitled.

6

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. lB § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and concludes the following general factors are applicable in this matter:
a.
prior disciplinary offenses in this state or any other jurisdiction, or the
abscnce thereof;
b.

dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

indifference to making restitution;

d.

multiple offenses;

e.

bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by intentionally
failing to comply with rules or orders of the disciplinary agency;

f.

submission of false evidence, false statements, or other deceptive practices
during the disciplinary process;

g.

vulnerability of victim; and

h.

degree of experience in the practice oflaw.

4.
The I-Iearing Panel has considered all lesser forms of sanctions available to
it and finds that disbarment is the only appropriate discipline in this case, for the
following reasons:
a.

Defendant committed misconduct involving misappropriation and deceit.
Misconduct involving misappropriation and deceit is among the most
serious that an attorney can commit. Such misconduct demonstrates that
the offending attorney is not trustworthy. The public is entitled to have
trustworthy attorneys and should be able to assume that all lawyers are
trustworthy;

b.

Defendant has not participated in this disciplinary action and has been
previously disciplined for failure to pm·ticipate in the disciplinary process.
Self regulation of the legal profession requires that members of the
profession participate in the grievmlce and disciplinary processes of the
North Carolina State Bar;

c.

Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than disbarment would fail to
aclmowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant ,
would be inconsistent with discipline issued in other cases involving
similar misconduct, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and
the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the N0l1h
Carolina State Bar; and

7

d.

The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that
Defendant not be permitted to resume the practice of law until he
demonstrates the following: that he has reformed; that he understands his
obligations to his clients, the public, and the legal profession; and that
permitting him to practice law will not be detrimental to the public or the
integrity and standing of the legal profession or the administration of
justice. Disbannent requires an attorney to make such a showing before
he or she may be reinstated.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the I-Iearing Panel
hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant, W. Ray Hudson, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of
law in North Carolina.

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provIsIOns contained in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.
4.
The costs and all administrative fees of this action are taxed to Defendant.
Defendant must pay the costs and administrative fees within 30 days of service of the
statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other I-Iearing Panel members, this the
1'1"_ dayof O,bl,v
2011.

Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

8

