NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0901266

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
W. Ray Hudson,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 20, 2011 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by BW.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the NOlih Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the NOIih
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
BW complained that you failed to talce action in her case and failed to respond to her
requests for information. You were sent a letter of notice in this matter, to which you responded.
You were sent a supplemental inquiry in this file dated January 11,2010. You were asked to
produce the letter you referenced in your response stating you thought it was premature to file a
lawsuit at that time. You were asked to provide additional information about a January 2006

letter to the client stating you were not going to represent her and identifying the statute of
limitations. Last, you were asked to provide a copy of the client file. You failed to respond to
this letter. You were then served with a subpoena on May 4, 2010 which, among other things,
required production of the BW client file. You failed to produce BW's file by the date required
in the subpoena. You were served with a second subpoena on August 5, 2010 which also
required production ofBW's client file. You failed to appear on the date set for your appearance
and compliance and failed to produce the client file at that time. You eventually produced the
client file subject to the subpoenas after required by court order. Your failures to respond to the
State Bar's supplemental inquiry and the subpoenas were in violation of Rule 8. I(b) of the North
Carolina State Bar Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed tlus reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$ I 00.00 is hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the /

~day of--<:::;;:;;;:~./-::-;;=.(2==.=

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Conunittee

RGB/lr

' 20 I I.

