A5f{br7t~.,

~

AfAR ?o

STATE OF NORTH CARO ,,\
"h

FJLE

f":"

\!.

WAKE COUNTY

~

'.;)

'~.
~.

-

~~

':0"

BEFORE THE

12D1SC~~INARY HEARfNG COMMISSION
~4
OF THE

. DIJHC,~ORTH CAROLINA
STATE BAR
11 DIIC 19
.,~".
.~

Plaintiff

-

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

DEAN H. HUMPHREY. Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on February 10, 2012 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, Theodore C. Edwards, II, and
members William M. Claytor and Dr. Charles 1. Garrett, 1r. William N. Farrell
represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Dean H. Humphrey, was
present and represented by Alan M. Schneider. Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated
facts and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the hearing panel hereby finds by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACTi
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNOlih
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Dean H. Humphrey (hereinafter "Humplll'ey" or "Defendant"),
was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1995, and is, and was at all times referred
to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of
the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Humphrey was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina ,md maintained a law oftice
in Wilmington, New Hanover County, North Carolina.

I

Defendant stipulated to these facts prior to the introduction of evidence relevant to discipline.

I

4.
On or about January 7, 2010 Sherman Curry (hereinafter "Curry") was
operating a motor vehicle, owned by Geraldine Moore, (hereinafter "Moore") which was
involved in a tramc accident with another vehicle.
5.
the accident.

Moore was a passenger in the vehicle, operated by Curry, at the time of

6.
On or about January II, 2010 Defendant was retained to represent Cuny
and Moore regarding their injuries and damages arising out of the accident.
7.
Thereafter Defendant entered into settlement negotiations with Integon
National Insurance Company, a GMAC Insurance Company (hereinafter "Integon"), on
behalf of Curry and Moore. Integon was the insurer of the other vehicle involved in the
accident.
8.
On or about April 15, 2010 Integon and Defendant reached an agreement
to settle Curry's and Moore's claims.
9.
Defendant, on behalf of Moore, agreed with Integon on April 15, 2010 to
settle Moore's claim for $8,750.00.
10.
Defendant, on behalf of Cuny, agreed with Integon on April 15, 2010 to
settle Curry's claim for $8,000.00.
II.
At the time Defendant agreed on behalf of Curry and Moore to settle their
respective claims with Integon, Defendant did not have authorization f1'om them to settle
their claims.
12.
On or about April 16, 2010, the day after Defendant settled Curry's claim,
Defendant wrote to Curry and falsely represented to him that Integon's initial settlement
offer was only $4,000.00, when in fact Integon had actually offered $6,135.00.
13.
Defendant had already settled the case on April 15, 2010 when he wrote
Curry on April 16,2010.
14.
Defendant failed to disclose to Cuny that Defendant had already settled
Curry's claim with Integon on April 15, 2010 and that Defendant had already advised
Integon to send the settlement paperwork to his office.
IS.
On or about April 16, 2010 Defendant also wrote to Moore and falsely
advised her that Integon's initial settlement olTer was only $4,550.00 when in fact
Integon had actually offered $7,000.00.
16.
Defendant had already settled the case on April 15, 2010 when he wrote
Moore on April 16, 2010.

2

17.
Defendant failed to disclose to Moore that Defendant had already settled
Moore's claim with Integon on April 15,2010 and that Defendant had already advised
Integon to send the settlement paperwork to his office.
18.
Integon sent a settlement check to Defendant for Curry's claim in the
amount of $8,000.00, payable to Defendant and Cun·y.
Integon sent a settlement check to Defendant for Moore's claim in the
amount 01'$8,750.00, payable to Defendant and Moore.
19.

20.
Without their consent or Imowledge, Defendant forged Curry's and
Moore's signatures to their respective settlement checks.
21.

Defendmlt deposited both settlement checks into his trust account.

22.
Defendant gave Curry a trust account check for Cuny's portion of the
$8,000.00 settlement and disbursed checks on Cuny's behalf to medical providers.
23.
Moore refused to accept any money 11'om Defendant which Defendant had
received from lntegon on Moore's behalf.
24.

Moore later discharged Defendant and retained other counsel to pursue her

claim.
25.
When Moore's new counsel contacted Integon to inform the company that
Moore had retained him with respect to the traffic accident, Integon brought a
Declaratory Judgment action against Moore based upon Defendmlt's unauthorized
settlement of Moore's claim.
26.
Moore and Curry each filed a grievance with the North Carolina State Bar
against Defendant.
27.
The State Bar Grievance Committee sent to Defendant a Letter of Notice
in Moore's and Cuny's grievances. Each Letter of Notice required Defendant to provide
a written response.
28.
Defendant responded to the Letters of Notice in letters dated January 7,
2011, addressed to State Bar counsel mld signed by Defendant.
29.
Defendant's written responses to the Letters of Notice contained false and
misleading representations.
30.
Bar counsel sent a follow-up letter to Defendant specifically asking
Defendant whether he signed Curry's name to a $8,000.00 settlement check fi'om GMAC
Insurance. In his written response to the follow-up letter, Defendmlt falsely represented
that he had no recollection of endorsing Curry's nmne and that it was not his practice to
endorse settlement checks without the consent of his client. Defendant did, in fact,
endorse Curry's nan1e to the settlement check without the consent of Curry.
3

31.
knowledge.

Defendant settled both Moore's and Curry's claims without their

32.
In his responses to the Letters of Notice, Defendant falsely represented
that he called the insurance adjuster to send both settlement checks to him after he was
authorized by Moore and Curry to accept the settlement offers.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W 2
I.
All the pm'lies m'e properly before the Heming Pm1el and the Panel has
jurisdiction over the Defendant, Dem1 H. Humphrey, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursum1t to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), for engaging in conduct
in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his actions as
follows:
a.

By failing to advise CUlTY and Moore of the initial settlement offers by
Integon, by falsely representing to them the m11Dll11ts of the initial offers,
by settling their claims without their authorization, and by signing their
names to the settlement checks without their knowledge or authorization,
Defendant failed to properly inform CUlTY and Moore with respect to their
claims, failed to reasonably consult with his clients, Curry and Moore,
failed to keep Curry and Moore reasonably informed about the status of
their claims and failed to explain their matters to the extent reasonably
necessary to permit them to make informed decisions in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(l)(2) m1d (3) and Rule 1.4 (b);

b.

By making false representations to Curry m1d Moore regmding Integon' s
offers of settlement, Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

c.

By settling CUlTY's and Moore's claims without their consent, forging
their names on the settlement checks, and falsely representing to the
insurance company that he had authorization to settle the claims,
Defendant engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c),engaged in conduct that is
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) ,mll
committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on Defendant's honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule
8.4(b) and

, Defendant stipulated that he committed the Rule violations contained in the complaint prior 10 the
introduction of evidence relevant to discipline,

4

d.

By giving making false and misleading representations to the North
Carolina State Bar in connection with a disciplinary matter, Defendant
knowingly made false statements of material fact in violation of Rule
8.I(a) and (b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit
or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
evidence and arguments presented at this hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant was forthcoming with the hearing panel and expressed
profound remorse for his misconduct. The panel finds his expression of remorse sincere
and credible.
2.
Defendant presented extensive and substantial lmcontroverted evidence of
his excellent character among members of the New Hanover County Bar. Witnesses
testified regarding their opinions of Defendant's character and opined that the misconduct
at issue in this case was an abenation and an isolated occurrence in his legal career of
almost 17 years.
3.
Defendant presented over thirty character letters from members of his
community, including professional colleagues, attesting to his excellent character and
excellent reputation. All were aware of Defendanl's misconduct and continued to
support him.
4.

Defendant has no prior disciplinary history with the State Bar.

5.
Defendant exhibited a cooperative attitude toward the proceedings before
this panel, after his initial misrepresentations to the Grievance Committee. After fully
acknowledging his misconduct to the Grievance Committee, Defendant has thereafter
consistently admitted his misconduct by admitting and stipulating to all factual
allegations and rule violations alleged in the complaint.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and upon the evidence and arguments presented at the hearing
concerning appropriate discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated
in 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0114(w) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are present in this case:
a.

Intent of the defendant to cause the resulting harm or potential hal111;

5

b.

Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the ham1 or the potential
harm is foreseeable;

c.

Circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness
or integrity;

d.

Negative impacts of the defendant's actions on clients or public's
perception of the profession;

e.

Negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of
justice;

f.

Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;

g.

Effect ofthe defendant's conduct on third parties;

h.

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;

1.

Multiple offenses of failure to participate in the legal profession's selfregulation process.

J.

Impulsive acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit or fabrication;

k.

The absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

I.

The absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

Ill.

A pattern of misconduct;

n.

Multiple offenses;

o.
Full and jiee disclosure to the Hearing Panel and a cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;
p.
Bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by intentionally
failing to comply with rules or orders of the disciplinary agency;
q.
Submission of false evidence, ["lIse statements or other deceptive practices
during the disciplinary process;
r.

Remorse;

s.

Character and reputation;

1.

Vulnerability of the victim;
6

u.

The degree of experience in the practice of law; and

v.

Acknowledgement of wrongful nature of conduct.

2.
Notwithstanding significant mitigating circumstances, any sanction less
than suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant, would not adequately protect the public, and would send the wrong message
to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar.
3.
In light of the seriousness of Defendant's misconduct, the hearing panel
finds and concludes that the public and the profession will only be adequately protected
by imposing a period of active suspension of Defendant's law license.
4.
Defendant should be allowed the opportunity to apply for a stay of a
portion of the suspension imposed by this Order upon compliance with certain conditions
designed to ensure protection of the public and to ensure Defendant's compliance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The license of Defendant, Dean H. Humphrey, is hereby suspended for
one year. This order will be effective 30 days after this Order of Discipline is served
upon the Defendant.
2.
Six months from the effective date of this Order, Defendant may apply for
a stay of the remaining period of suspension imposed by this Order upon filing a petition
with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar demonstrating by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that, in addition to complying with the general provisions for
reinstatement listed in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
& Disability Rules, Defendant has complied with the following conditions:
a. Paid the applicable costs and administrative fees of this action prior to
petitioning for reinstatement;
b. Provided the North Carolina State Bar with a physical and/or mailing
address which shall not be a post office box address and kept this address
of record with the North Carolina State Bar current. Defendant shall
accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar and respond to
all letters of notice and requests for information from the North Carolina
State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
c. Did not violate the laws of any state or of the United States; and
d. Did not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

7

3.
Defendant may file a petition seeking a stay of the remaining suspension
and demonstrating compliance with the above requirements up to 30 days prior to the end
of the 6 month period but shall not be reinstated until the end of the 6 month period.
4.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license
pursuant to this Order, any stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies
with the following conditions:
a.

Defendant shall keep his address of record cun-ent with the State Bar and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the State
Bar by the deadline stated in the commnnication;

b.

Defendant shall timely comply with his State Bar membership and
continuing legal education requirements and pay all fees and costs
assessed by the applicable deadline;

c.

Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the fee dispute program
when notil1ed of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;

d.

Defendant shall not violate the laws of any state or of the United States;
and

e.

Defendant shall not violate any proVIsIOn of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

5.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated
in Paragraph 4 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules. If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's
license is activated for any reason, before a subsequent stay of the suspension can be
entered Defendant must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he has
complied with each of the conditions referenced in Paragraph 2.
6.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of
his law license or if some pmi of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must provide in his application for reinstatement clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence of the following:
a.

Compliance with the general proVIsIons for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C.A.C. lB § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules; and

b.

Compliance with the conditions set out in Paragraphs 2 (a) - (d) above.

8

7.
The Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar shall serve upon Defendant
a statement of costs. Defendant must pay the costs of this action prior to petitioning for
reinstatement or within six months of service of the statements of costs, whichever is
earlier.
8.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspension.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
-Z-tL- day of fY\GJ"- I'--___
2012.

-:J..Wo~ (, ~)~
Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

9

