BEFORE THE SECRETARY
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
11 DEC 19 & 12 BSR3
)

IN RE: THE MATTER OF THE PETITION)
FOR REINSTATEMENT OF
)
DEAN H. HUMPHREY

)
)
)
)

ORDER STAYING
SUSPENSION

------------------------~)-----------------------THIS MATTER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant
to a Petition for an Order Staying Suspension filed by Dean Humphrey on September 9,
2012.
Based upon the petition and a review of the records of the N0l1h Carolina State
Bar, the Secretary makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
On March 8, 2012, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DEC) entered an Order of Discipline in North Carolina State Bar v. Dean
Humphrey, II DEC 19 (hereinafter "the Order").

2.
The Order suspended Humphrey's license to practice law for a period of
one year, etlective April 8, 2012. The Order provided that, at any time after serving six
months of the active suspension of his license, Hwnphrey could file a petition seeking a
stay of the remaining period of his suspension upon compliance with the conditions
stated in the Order.
3.
On September 11,2012, Humphrey submitted a petition requesting a stay
of the remaining portion of his active suspension and seeking reinstatement to active
status subject to the continuing conditions and requirements set forth in the Order.
4.
The Order required that Humphrey be in compliance with a number of
conditions to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.
5.
In his petition, Humphrey described the actions he has taken to comply
with the conditions of the Order and provided supporting documentation.
6.
petition.

Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar does not object to HumphTey's

BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, and without any evidence
presented in opposition to the petition, the Secretary makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The petitioner, Dean Humphrey, has satisfied the conditions established in the
Order for a stay of his suspension and reinstatement to active status, subject to the
continuing conditions set forth in the Order.
2. Humphrey's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon
compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order.
BASED UPON the findings and conclusions stated herein, the Secretary hereby
enters the following:
.
ORDER
1. The remaining active suspension ofI-Iumphrey's license imposed by the Order
in 11 DHC 19 is hereby stayed and Humphrey is reinstated to the active practice oflaw in
North Carolina as of the date of this order.
2. The stay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions, and
requirements set forth in the Order.
3. Humphrey's status as an active member of the North Carolina State Bar is
contingent upon his compliance with all of the remaining conditions set forth in the
Order.
This the /$"'a'ay of (QH~ 2012.

1. Thomas Lunsford II, Seer
North Carolina State Bar

2

