BEFORE THE
RY HEARING COMMISSION

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
JONATHAN HOLMES HUNT, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter cane on for consideration before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ("DHC") composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members Maya Madura
Engle and Ronald C. Brinson, pursuant to 27 N. C. Admin. Code IB.0115(i). Plaintiff was
represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant, Jonathan Holmes Hunt, was represented by Alan
M. Schneider. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this Consent Order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant has
freely and voluntarily stipulated to the findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and
entry of the order of discipline. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the entry of this Consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Jonathan Holmes Hunt ("Hunt" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar in March 2008 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and was employed as an Assistant
Appellate Defender in Durham, Durham County, North Carolina.

NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 1 of 10

4.
On or about January 12,2016, Hunt was assigned to represent Rachel Sheri
Wilson-Angeles ("Wilson-Angeles") in the appeal of her criminal case.
5.
The brief for Wilson-Angeles was due to be filed and served on the State no later
than August 16,2016.
6.
Hunt signed the certificate of service accompanying the brief in State v. WilsonAngeles, COA 16-677, and the Appeal Information Statement (AIS), certifying that he had
served the brief and AIS on opposing counsel by mail on August 16, 2016.
7.
Hunt did not mail the brief or AIS to opposing counsel on August 16, 2016,
despite certifying that he had done so.
8.

Hunt mailed the brief and AIS to opposing counsel after August 16, 2016.

9.
On or about March 23,2016, Hunt was assigned to represent Layton Allen Waters
("Waters") in the appeal of his criminal case.
10.
The brief for Waters was due to be filed and served on the State no later than
January 5, 2017.
11.
Hunt signed the certificate of service accompanying the brief in State v. Waters,
COA 16-985, and the AIS, certifying that he had served the brief and AIS on opposing counsel
by mail on January 5, 2017.
12.
Hunt did not mail the brief or AIS to opposing counsel on January 5, 2017,
despite certifying that he had done so.
13.

Hunt mailed the brief and AIS to opposing counsel after January 5, 2017.

14.
Additionally, Hunt filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari in State v. Waters and
signed the accompanying certificate of service certifying service by mail on January 11,2017.
15.
done so.
16.

Hunt did not mail the petition on January 11,2017, despite certifying that he had
Hunt mailed the brief and AIS to opposing counsel after January 11, 2017.

17.
On or about June 15, 2016, Hunt was assigned to represent Tristan Vanhess
Wilson ("Wilson") in the appeal of his criminal case.
18.
The brief for Wilson was due to be filed and served on the State no later than
December 30,2016.
19.
Hunt signed the certificate of service accompanying the brief in State v. Wilson,
COA 16-1215, certifying that he had served the brief on opposing counsel by mail on December
30,2016.

NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 2 of 10

20.
done so.
21.

Hunt did not mail the brief on December 30, 2016, despite certifying that he had
Hunt mailed the brief to opposing counsel after December 30, 2016.

22.
Additionally, Hunt filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari in State v. Wilson and
signed the accompanying certificate of service that he had served the petition on opposing
counsel service by mail on January 3, 2017.
23.
Hunt did not mail the petition to opposing counsel on January 3, 2017, despite
certifying that he had done so.
24.

Hunt mailed the petition to opposing counsel after January 3, 2017.

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By signing the certificate of service certifying that he had mailed the Wilson-Angeles
brief and AIS to opposing counsel on August 16, 2016 when in fact he had not, Hunt
made a false statement of material fact or law to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(1);
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8A(c); and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8A(d);
(b) By signing the certificate of service certifying that he had mailed the Waters brief and
AIS to opposing counsel on January 5, 2017 and the petition for writ of certiorari to
opposing counsel on January 11, 2017 when in fact he had not, Hunt made false
statements of material fact or law to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(1); engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8A( c); and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of
Rule 8A(d);
(c) By signing the certificates of service certifying that he had mailed the Hunt brief to
opposing counsel on December 30, 2016 and had mailed the petition for writ of certiorari
to opposing counsel on January 3, 2017 when in fact he had not, Hunt made false
statements of material fact or law to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(I); engaged in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8A(c); and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of
Rule 8A(d); and

NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 3 of10

(d) By failing to timely file and serve the Wilson-Angeles, Waters, and Wilson briefs, Hunt
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation
of Rule 1.3.
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
When attorneys falsifY court filings, there is a potential for significant harm to the
legal profession, the administration of justice, and the public's perception of the profession.
2.
The clients Defendant represented while employed by the Appellate Defender's
Office were indigent and depended on Defendant to timely and competently pursue their
appellate matters.
3.
The Appellate Defender's Office filed motions requesting that the Court of
Appeals deem timely the filings in the three cases referred to in the above findings offact and
conclusions of law and requested that the certificates of service be corrected to reflect the correct
dates and the Court granted the motions.
4.
As a result of the prompt corrective action taken by the Appellate Defender's
Office, no client was actually harmed although the potential for harm to the clients was
significant.
5.
Defendant has voluntarily elected not to practice law since he resigned from the
Appellate Defender's Office on January 28,2017.
6.
During 2015 and 2016, Defendant experienced great stress in his personal life and
professionally.
7.
According to Defendant's psychiatrist, Defendant experienced a major depressive
episode and numerous side effects, including cognitive impairment, from the depression, the
medications and treatments therefor, which affected his work in 2015 and 2016.
8.
Defendant's psychiatrist opines that Defendant has fully recovered from these
problems and is capable of resuming the practice of law.
9.
When the misconduct described herein came to light, Defendant promptly and
voluntarily sought assistance from the Lawyer Assistance Program (LAP), participated in group
sessions through LAP, and has maintained contact with LAP.
10. Defendant also participated in individual psychotherapy sessions at Duke
University Medical Center from April 2017 through March 2018.
11.

Defendant has no prior professional discipline.

NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 4 of10

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional Findings
of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.Ol16(t)(1) and concludes that the following factors are applicable:

(a) intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
(b) circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or integrity;
(c) negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession;
(d) negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
(e) effect of defendant's conduct on third parties; and
(t) acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.
2.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.Ol16(t)(2) and concludes that the following factor is applicable:
(a) acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.
3.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code. 1B. 0 116(t)(3) and concludes the foIl owing factors are applicable:
(a) absence of prior disciplinary offenses in this state or any other jurisdiction;
(b) dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) a pattern of misconduct;
(d) multiple offenses;
(e) effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question and
Defendant's subsequent efforts to address those problems;
(t) effect of any physical or mental disability or impairment on the conduct in question;
(g) full and free disclosure to the hearing panel or cooperative attitude toward the
proceedings;
(h) vulnerability of victim; and

NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 5 of10

(i) degree of experience in the practice of law.
4.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the different forms of discipline available to
it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in considering the
appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
5.
The Hearing Panel concludes that discipline short of suspension would not
adequately protect the public for the following reasons:
a) Defendant's conduct reflects adversely on his trustworthiness and fitness as an
attorney;
b) Entry of an order imposing less severe discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the misconduct and would end the wrong message to attorneys
about conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.
6.
Ordinarily, the type of misconduct present here would warrant a period of active
suspension. However, the DHC has determined that a stayed suspension is appropriate given the
particular facts and circumstances of this case, to include lack of any prior disciplinary history,
lack of actual client harm, the Defendant's admission of wrongdoing and cooperation with the
proceedings, the emotional and personal problems that Defendant experienced, and his voluntary
decision not to engage in the practice of law for the past seventeen months while he addressed
his mental health issues and made significant strides in that regard.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
The law license of Defendant, Jonathan Holmes Hunt, is hereby suspended for
one year effective thirty days after service ofthis Order upon Defendant.
2.
The one year suspension is stayed for three years as long as Defendant complies,
and continues to comply with the following conditions each year the stay is in effect:
a) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses and notity the Bar of any
change in address within ten days of such change;
b) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program ("ACAP"), within
thirty days of Defendant's receipt of the communication or by the deadline stated
in the communication, whichever is sooner, and shall participate in good faith in
the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition filed with ACAP;

NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 6 of10

c) Defendant shall remain current in payment of all State Bar membership dues,
fees, and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges
or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from him, including all judicial
district dues, fees and assessments;
d) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during the stayed suspension;
e) Defendant shall continue his participation in the LAP program throughout the
period ofthe stayed suspension and shall comply with all LAP staff
recommendations for counseling and treatment, including, but not limited to,
attending monthly group therapy;

f) Defendant shall remain in psychiatric treatment and shall comply with all of his
psychiatrist's recommendations for counseling and treatment;
g) Defendant shall enroll in and regularly attend the fall 2018 adult ADD treatment
group program at Duke University or such other group program approved by the
State Bar;
h) Within ten days of entry of this order, Defendant shall provide written releases to
the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel, authorizing all providers from
whom he receives treatment for any psychological, emotional, or behavioral
condition to communicate with the Office of Counsel and to release to the Office
of Counsel records relating to his treatment and compliance with the provider's
treatment recommendations. Defendant shall not revoke these releases during the
period of the stayed suspension;
i) Defendant shall ensure that each mental health provider from whom he receives
treatment for any psychological, emotional, or behavioral condition sends
quarterly written reports (due January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30 each
year of the stayed suspension) on a timely basis to the State Bar confirming that
he is: in compliance with all treatment recommendations and is not suffering from
any physical or mental condition that significantly impairs his professional
judgment, performance, or competence as an attorney. Defendant shall be solely
responsible for the costs oftreatment and any additional charges assessed for
preparation of the quarterly reports;
j) If Defendant engages in the private practice oflaw, he must arrange for an active
member of the North Carolina State Bar to serve as his law practice monitor for
the duration of the stay of his suspension. Defendant's monitor shall be an
attorney in good standing who practices law in the judicial district in which
Defendant proposes to practice law and who has been approved by the Office of
Counsel. Defendant shall pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitoring attorney
for this supervision. Defendant must provide the Office of Counsel with a letter
from the approved monitoring attorney confirming his or her agreement to: (a)

NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 7 of10

meet with Defendant monthly to review Defendant's cases; (b) provide
supervision to ensure that Defendant timely and completely handles client
matters; and (c) provide written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office
of Counsel on the following dates as they occur during the duration of the stay of
the suspension: January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. Defendant will be
responsible for the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this supervision;
k) If Defendant is not engaged in the private practice of law, he must submit an
affidavit so stating to the State Bar by January 30, April 30, July 30, and October
30 each year of the stayed suspension;

1) Defendant shall timely comply with all Continuing Legal Education ("CLE")
requirements;
m) In addition to the CLE requirements set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code ID.1518,
Defendant shall, within six months of the effective date of this Order and each
year of the suspension thereafter, complete at his own expense, two hours of
Continuing Legal Education (CLE) in the area of substance abuse and mental
health. Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of the
substance abuse and mental health courses to the Office of Counsel within ten
days of completion of each course;
n) Defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the stayed suspension; and

0) Defendant shall not violate any law of the State of North Carolina or of the United
States during the period of the stayed suspension.

3.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with anyone or
more of the conditions stated in paragraphs 2 (a) through (0) above, the stay of the suspension of
his law license may be lifted as provided in Rule .0118(a) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
4.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, Defendant may petition for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension by filing
a petition pursuant to Rule .0129(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules (27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0129) demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein
as well as the following requirements by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
a) Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the terms of
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
b) Defendant submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order lifting the
stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;

NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 8 of10

c) Defendant has provided written releases to the Office of Counsel, authorizing all
mental health providers from whom he received treatment to communicate with
the Office of Counsel and to release to the Office of Counsel records relating to
his treatment and compliance with the provider's treatment recommendations;
d) Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding CLE or membership
obligations at the time of the filing of his petition for reinstatement;
e) Defendant successfully completed the CLE hours as set forth in paragraph l(m)
above;
f) Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar advised of his
physical address (not a Post Office box), telephone number, and e-mail address
throughout the period of his suspension;

g) Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address on
record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State Bar;
h) Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full and complete
responses and all requested documentation;
i) Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the suspension;

j) Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the United
States during the period of the suspension; and
k) Defendant paid all costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.
5.
If the stay of suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason, and
if Defendant fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0128 and the Court appoints a
trustee to wind down any portion of Defendant's practice, Defendant shall reimburse the State
Bar for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding down Defendant's practice. Such
expenses may include, but are not limited to, storage facility fees, rent payments, moving
expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files, postage or other mailing expenses, and
compensation paid to the trustee and/or the trustee's assistant for time and travel associated with
the trusteeship. After the Court has discharged the trustee, the State Bar shall send an invoice of
wind-down expenses to Defendant at Defendant's last known address of record with the NOlih
Carolina State Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he has reimbursed the
State Bar for all wind-down expenses incurred.
6.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code
1B.O 1I8(a) ofthe North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction
NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 9 of10

·

,

until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause
proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is
pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the
DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the two
year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been
met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for
the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
7.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar which shall be paid within thirty days of service
of the statement of costs upon Defendant.

Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other Hearing
Panel members.
This the ;t\ day of

~~

2018.

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Agre;d and c o n : :

01L~-

Alan M. Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

Defendant

nstead
Mary D.
Attorney for Plaintiff

NCSB v. Jonathan Holmes Hunt, 18 DHC 37
Consent Order
Page 10 of 10

