NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG0295

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Pamela A. Hunter,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On October 28,2010, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the gJievance filed against you by B. K.
Pursuant to section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the NOlth Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the info111lation
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing disciplinary action."
TIle rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detemline that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
GJievance Committee may issue an admonition, a repJimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more seJious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant hmm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attomey's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary I-leming Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
In July 2004, you filed a medical malpractice complaint on behalf of your client, B.K. You had
no factual basis for the allegation in the complaint that "as a direct and proximate result" ofthe
defendants' actions, B.K. was "totally incapacitated." Before you filed the complaint, no doctor agreed 10
testify that the defendants had not mel the applicable standard of care, as required by Rule 9U). By filing
a complaint without sufficient basis in fact to allege causation and dill11ages and without the required
commitment of an expert witness, you brought a claim without factual basis in violation of Rule 3.1. By
filing this frivolous lawsuit, you caused potential haml to the administration of justice.
Aclmowledging that you could be sanctioned for going forwmd with B.K.' s malpractice case, in
Februm)' 2007 you arranged to abandon the lawsuit and instead personally pay B.K. "$20,000.00 over 2

years to cut [your] losses." By July 2009, you had paid B.K approximately $22,500.00 of your personal
funds in at least five separate installments. You did not adequately explain or communicate in writing the
purpose of your payments to B.K., and as a result, RK. was under the impression that her medical
malpractice case had "settled." This demonstrates that you did not explain the matter to the extent
reasonably necessary to allow B.K. to malce an informed decision, in violation of Rule 1.4(b).
Your payments to B.K. constituted either financial assistance to a client in cOlUlection with
pending litigation in violation of Rule 1.8(e), settlement of a potential malpractice action in violation of
Rule 1.8(h), or some other kind of business transaction with a client in violation of Rule 1.8(a). It is not
clear which subsection of Rule 1.8 you violated because, as noted above, you did not adequately
document or memorialize the nature of your agreement with B.K. In light of your prior discipline, the
Grievance Committee found that your reCUlTent disregard for the Rules of Professional Conduct poses
potential significant harm to the public and the profession.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
elTor that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.

In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $1 00.00 is hereby taxed to
you.
Done and ordered, this

~

day of ~ , 2010.

Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

