A\\\1"2 r /1;.
Are - ~ 3'0'
I'D

STATE OF NORTH CAROLi!NA

~

09
~\
BEFORE THE
LktJ>ISCIP~ARYHEARING COMMISSION

Di...Jn

(Y"J

c-'"

\~

WAKE COUNTY

~

APR 20

F=:Z

0
OF THE
~ ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
C\,
08 DHC 21

81\;>

'~O?R)

s"0"

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE B1tR~""Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

RACHEL LEA HUNTER, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on March 20, 2009 before a hearing committee of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Tommy W. lalTett, Chair, M. H. Hood
Ellis, and Pamela U. Weis. Brian P.D. Oten and Leanor Bailey Hodge appeared on
behalf of Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar and losiall Neeley appeared on behalf of
Defendant, Rachel Lea Hunter. Based upon the pleadings, the evidence presented at the
hearing, and the stipulations of the parties, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "the State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding lUlder the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Rachel Lea Hunter CDefendant"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on January 25, 2002, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attomey at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.
3.
During all of the relevant periods refeITed to herein, defendant was
actively engaged in the private practice oflaw in the city of Durham, Durhanl COlUlty,
North Carolina.
4.
Begimung before December 2006 and up until November 2008, defendant
maintained a website on the intemet located at www.rachelforjustice.com ("the
website").

5.
The website served, among other things, as an internet-based
adveliisement supporting defendant's campaign to be elected as a Justice on the
Supreme COUli ofNolih Carolina in November 2006.
6.
The website also served as an internet-based advertisement
suppOliing defendant's campaign to be elected as a Judge on the North Carolina
Court of Appeals in November 2008.
7.
As of November 2008, the website also served as an internet-based
advertisement supporting defendant's canlpaign to be elected as a Justice on the
Supreme Comi ofNOlih Carolina by means of the election scheduled in 2010.
8.
0pullons.

The website contained defendant's political, personal, and legal

9.
From as early as March 10,2006, defendant referred to herself as
"Madame Justice" on the website.
10.
From as early as March 10, 2006, the website also contained a
fOlUm for visitors to ask questions of defendant entitled, "Ask Madame Justice."
11.
On or about FeblUary 27, 2006, the NOlih Carolina State Board of
Elections infonned defendant that it would not list her as a candidate on the ballot
for election to tlle Supreme Court of North Carolina under the nicknanle
"Madanle Justice," stating that to do so clearly implied that she was then a female
Justice of the Supreme Court.
12.
Defendant was not a female Justice oftlle Supreme COUli in
February of2006.
13.
The State Board of Elections notified defendant that it fOU11d
defendant's use of the ternl "Madame Justice" to be misleading to voters.
14.
On or before September 11,2006, the North Carolina State Bar
issued defendant a Letter of Warning informing defendant that tlle use of the term
"Madanle Justice" was misleading and constituted a violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
15.
Despite such notice, defendant continued to use the tenn "Madame
Justice" on her website in various ways between December 13, 2006 and JU11e 10,
2008, including but not limited to as follows:
a. The website contained a link to the section entitled "Ask Madame
Justice."
b. The website included references to "Madame Justice," and invited
visitors to submit questions and stated "[q]uestions submitted by

-2-

the campaign will be answered candidly here by 'Madame
Justice' ."

16.
On or about July 24, 2007, the website contained a red circle with
a line through it over the words "Ask Madame Justice" and contained the words
"[d]eleted by the North Carolina Bar In A [sic] Effort to Suppress the First
Amendment and Free Speech."
17.
The tenn "Madame Justice" has historically been used to refer to a
female member of the judiciaIY.
18.
The tenn "MadaIne Justice" is presently used to refer to a female
member of the judiciaIY.
19.
During tile time that defendant maintained the website referenced
in this complaint she was not a member of the judicimy.
20.

Defendant has never been a member of the judicimy.

21.
Rule 8.2(b) of tile Rules of Professional Conduct requires that a
lawyer who is a candidate for a judicial office comply with the applicable
provisions of the Code of Judicial Conduct.
The applicable provision of the Code of Judicial Conduct is Canon
7(C)(3), which prohibits ajudge or caIldidate from intentionally aIld knowingly
misrepresenting his or her identity or qualifications.
??

23.
The State of North Carolina has a compelling interest to preserve
the integrity, impartiality and independence of the judicimy, as well as the
integrity of the judicial election process.
Based on the record and tile foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing
Committee makes the following

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All the parties are properly before tile hearing committee and the
conmlittee has jurisdiction over Defendant, Rachel Lea Hunter, aIld the subject
matter.
2.
Canon 7(C)(3) of the North Carolina Code of Judicial Conduct is a
provision nalTowly tailored to protect tile State's compelling interest in preserving
the integrity of the judicimy and of the judicial election process. Therefore, its
prohibition of only intentional aIld Imowing misrepresentation(s) of a judge's or
caIldidate's identity or qualifications does not violate the First Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
-3-

3.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact listed above
and made upon clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, constitutes grounds for
discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
By referring to herself on the website as "Madame Justice" defendant
made an intentional and knowing misrepresentation of her identity and
qualifications in violation of Canon 7(C)(3) of the Code of Judicial
Conduct which is in violation of Rule 8.2(b) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
stipulations of the parties, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following additional

FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

2.

3.

Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Selfish motive;

b.

A pattern of misconduct;

c.

Refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct;

d.

Substantial experience in the practice of law which includes
defendant's practice oflaw in Pennsylvania since 1988 before
begirl11ing to practice law in North Carolina;

e.

Issuance of a letter of warning to the defendant addressing this
specific conduct within the three years immediately preceding the
filing of the complaint.

Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the fonowing factors:
a.

Absence of a prior disciplinary record;

b.

Full and free disclosure to the hearing conmlittee or cooperative
attitude toward proceedings;

c.

Physical impainnent.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.
Defendant's misconduct as set forth in the Findings of Fact caused
potential hann to both the public and the profession in that her misrepresentation of her

-4-

identity and qualifications while acting as a judicial candidate threatened the integrity of
North Carolina's judiciary as well as its electoral process.
5.
Since this action has been initiated, Defendant has removed most of the
references to "Madame Justice" from her website.
6.
The Hearing Committee finds and concludes that Defendant's conduct
constitutes more than a minor Rule violation. The Hearing Committee further finds and
concludes that under the circumstances of this case Defendant's conduct does not require
a Censure and that the public will be adequately protected by issuing a Reprimand to
Defendant.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby
enters the fo llowing

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
misconduct.

Defendant, Rachel Lea Hunter, is hereby REPRIMANDED for her

?
All costs of this action are taxed to Defendant. Defendant must pay the
costs of this action within 30 days of service of the statement of costs by the Secretary.

Signed by the Chair witl the consent of the other hearing committee members,
this the

$

r-

day

of_-+~7"-l'-'--+_ _"2009.

-5-

