STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

F

WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
~V e:n nuA"\ Q)
OF THE
¥t.Cu' Yn'-9
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
Cb
18 DHC 10

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER

v.
CINDY HUNTSBERRY, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
("DHC") composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, and members Stephanie N. Davis and Michael S.
Edwards, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §
.0115(i). Plaintiff was represented by Mary D. Winstead. Defendant, Cindy Huntsberry, was
represented by Michael J. Reece. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of
fact and conclusions of law recited in this Consent Order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant
has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law
and entry of the order of discipline. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the entry of this Consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the consent
of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 ofthe North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Cindy C. Huntsberry, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
August, 1979 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina, subject to the laws ofthe State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was engaged
in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Smithfield,
Johnston County, North Carolina.
4.
During the times mentioned herein, Defendant maintained an attorney trust account
ending in #4835 at First Citizens Banle
NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 1 of 11

5.
The State Bar conducted a random procedural audit of Defendant's trust account on
September 15, 2015 and found violations of the trust account record-keeping rules including the
following:
(a) Failure to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations;

(b) Failure to identify clients on trust account checks;
(c) Failure to maintain ledger of attorney funds to service trust account;
(d) Failure to escheat unidentified/abandoned funds; and
(e) Commingling of attorney and client funds.
6.
The State Bar had conducted a random procedural audit of Defendant's trust account
on February 21,2003 and identified the following violations of the trust account record-keeping
rules:
(a) Failure to conduct quarterly reconciliations;

(b) Failure to identify clients on deposit slips;
(c) Failure to provide written accountings to clients at completion of disbursement or at
least annually if funds held more than 12 months;
(d) Failure to maintain ledger of attorney funds to service trust account;
(e) Failure to provide the NSF directive to the bank; and
(f) Commingling of attorney and client funds.

7.
The State Bar opened a grievance file after the September 2015 audit and sent
Defendant a Letter of Notice.
8.

Defendant was required to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen days of

9.

The Letter of Notice was delivered to Defendant on January 25,2016.

receipt.

10.
Defendant requested an extension of time in which to respond to the Letter of Notice
and was granted until February 26,2016.
11.

Defendant did not respond to the Letter of Notice on or before February 26,2016.

12.
As a result of Defendant's failure to respond to the Letter of Notice, the Chair of the
Grievance Committee issued a subpoena for Defendant to appear at the State Bar on May 27,2016.
13.
On May 27,2016, Defendant produced bank and other records that had been
subpoenaed and met with Deputy Counsel and a State Bar Investigator.
NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 2 of 11

14.
At the May 27,2016 meeting, Defendant acknowledged that she had not been
operating her trust account in accordance with the Rules of Professional Conduct and specifically
acknowledged that she had not been performing the required trust account reconciliations.
15.
The State Bar conducted an investigative audit of Defendant's trust account for the
time period January 1,2012 through April 30, 2016.
16.
The investigative audit revealed several instances in which Defendant had deposited
personal funds into the trust account as follows:
(a) On July 10, 2014, Defendant deposited $45,000.00 from a personal annuity which
she disbursed for a personal expenditure on July 15, 2014.
(b) On December 8, 2014, Defendant deposited $492.45 of her deceased husband's
retirement funds and disbursed that amount to herself on December 19, 2014.
(c) On March 6, 2015, Defendant deposited $11,975.91 of her deceased husband's
retirement funds and did not remove those funds from the trust account until she
disbursed the funds to herself three days after the September 2015 audit.
17.

The investigative audit also revealed the following irregularities:
(a) A check in the amount of$11,551.88 drawn on Defendant's trust account in 2004
and made payable to Rex Healthcare on behalf of former client Belinda Ellis had not
been negotiated.
(b) Several clients had negative balances caused by Defendant disbursing more for those
clients than she had in trust for those clients, which included Defendant's issuance of
duplicate disbursements for fees to herself on two occasions.
(c) Defendant routinely deposited into her trust account checks from the United States
Treasury which were made payable to her for earned fees in social security disability
cases.

18.
Defendant did not follow up until 2016 to determine the reason the check referred to
in paragraph 17(a) had not been negotiated.
19.
Defendant did not provide Belinda Ellis with annual accountings of the funds held in
trust on her behalf since 2004.
20.
account.

Defendant has been unable to identify the beneficial owner(s) of$700.00 in her trust

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law

NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 3 of 11

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction over
Defendant and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a) By failing to reconcile the bank statement balance with the balance shown on
Defendant's records monthly and failing to quarterly total the individual client ledger
balances and reconcile those and the general ledger balances with the adjusted bank
statement balances for her trust account, Defendant failed to perform monthly and
quarterly reconciliations of the trust account in violation of Rule 1.lS-3(d);
(b) By failing to identify on trust account checks the client balances from which the
funds were drawn, Defendant failed to indicate on items drawn on the trust account
the client balances from which the items were drawn in violation of Rule 1.153(b)(2);
(c) By failing to maintain a ledger of attorney funds to service the trust account,
Defendant violated Rule 1.15-2(t)(1);
(d) By failing to escheat unidentified/abandoned funds, Defendant failed to escheat
unclaimed property in accord with N.C. Gen. Stat. §116-B53 in violation of Rule
1. 15-2(q)i;
(e) By depositing personal funds in her trust account, Defendant deposited and
maintained funds belonging to Defendant in a trust account in violation of Rule 1.152(t), and by commingling personal funds with entrusted funds, Defendant failed to
hold and maintain entrusted property separate from the property of Defendant in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(a);
(t) By failing to render to client Belinda Ellis an annual accounting of the funds
remaining in Defendant's trust account on behalf of Ms. Ellis, Defendant failed to
render annually to the client a written accounting of funds held for more than one
year in violation of Rule 1.15-3(e);
(g) By failing to promptly follow up on the check to Rex Healthcare that was not
negotiated, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing her client in violation of Rule 1.3, and failed to make due inquiry of her
personnel, records, and other sources of information to determine the identity and
location of the owner and/or promptly transfer the property to the entity or person to
whom it belonged in violation of Rule 1.15-2(q)ii;
(h) By disbursing from the trust account more funds for clients than she held in the
account on behalf ofthose clients, Defendant failed to properly maintain entrusted
funds in violation of Rule 1.lS-2(a), allowed one other than the beneficial owner to
benefit from entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j)iii, and failed to properly
payor deliver entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1. 15_2(m)iV; and
NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 4 of 11

(i) Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(3) in that Defendant knowingly failed to
answer the fonnal inquiry of the North Carolina State Bar in a disciplinary matter.
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
Additional Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 20 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
Maintaining a trust account in accordance with the Rules of Professional Conduct,
including perfonning the required quarterly reconciliations, is essential to the protection of
entrusted funds. Defendant failed to perfonn the reconciliations despite having her trust account
audited previously. This pattern of misconduct and disregard for the trust accounting rules placed
entrusted funds at risk and had the foreseeable potential to cause significant client hann to the
clients.
3.
This reckless disregard for the rules also had the potential to cause significant hann to
the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it demonstrates Defendant's
disregard for her duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully
the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal
profession is the foundation for public trust in the entire legal system.
4.
Once Defendant's attorney reconciled the trust account and discovered negative
balances for several clients, Defendant immediately replenished the trust account.
The overdisbursements appear to have been the result of trust account mismanagement and not
dishonest conduct on the part of Defendant.
5.
Defendant also reissued the check to Rex Healthcare and identified funds that needed
to be escheated.
6.
The legal profession is entrusted with the privilege of self-regulation. The Bar's
system of self-regulation relies upon attorneys to participate in the process and to provide full and
fair disclosure of the pertinent facts. Failure by an attorney to timely participate in the Bar's selfregulation process poses potential hann to the profession.
7.
In 1990, the Grievance Committee issued a Reprimand to Defendant for failure to file
fee petitions and obtain approval before taking fees in eight Social Security cases, and depositing
such fees in her personal account rather than the trust account.
8.
In 1991, the Grievance Committee issued a Censure to Defendant for failing to timely
file fee a petition in a Social Security case after being advised by the judge to do so, collecting her
fee prior to approval, and providing a dishonest or careless response to the State Bar.
9.
In 1995, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission ordered a 1 year suspension of
Defendant's law license, stayed for 2 years for failure to hold fees in trust until approved thereby
collecting an excessive/illegal fee, failure to adequately supervise staff and falsely claiming clients'
fees were being held in trust, and failure to promptly respond to inquiry of disciplinary authority.
NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 5 of 11

10. In 2006, the Grievance Committee issued a Reprimand to Defendant for failure to file
client's appeal and failure to keep client informed.
11.

Defendant has more than thirty-five years experience in the practice of law.

12. The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1B .0116(f)(1) and concludes that the following factors are present:
(a) intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
(b) negative impact of defendant's actions on clients' or public's perception of
profession; and
(c) effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B .0116(f)(2) and concludes no factors are present in this case that would warrant
disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code. 1B .0116(f)(3) and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) remoteness of prior offenses;
(c) a pattern of misconduct;
(d) multiple offenses; and
(e) degree of experience in the practice of law
4.

Defendant should be taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Panel enters the following:
NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 6 of 11

Order of Discipline

1.
Defendant's law license is hereby suspended for five years effective thirty days after
service of this Order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant shall surrender her law license and pennanent membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following the effective date of
this Order. If Defendant no longer has her membership card, she shall so state in the affidavit
referred to in paragraph 3 below.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0128 (a)
and (b) and shall timely file the affidavit required by §.0128(d).
4.
Within thirty days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Defendant and obtain such files.
5.
Defendant shall promptly return client files in her possession, custody, or control to
clients upon request, within five days of receipt of such request. Defendant will be deemed to have
received any such request three days after the date the request is sent to her if the request is sent to
the address Defendant provided to the State Bar pursuant to this Order.
6.
Within thirty days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall disburse the
remaining funds in her trust account to the rightful owners pursuant to the Rules of Professional
Conduct and initiate the escheatment process for any funds require to be escheated and provide
documentation to the Office of Counsel showing that the disbursements and escheatments have
been made.
7.
Within thirty days after the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall make
arrangements through the Lawyer Assistance Program (LAP) to undergo a mental health evaluation.
Defendant shall comply with the evaluator's recommendations for counseling and treatment.
8.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as assessed
by the Secretary of the State Bar within thirty days of service upon her of the statement of
administrative fees and costs.
9.
After no less than one year of active suspension, Defendant may apply for a stay of
the balance ofthe suspension by filing a motion in the cause demonstrating by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that, in addition to complying with the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2
through 8 above, she has complied with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of
her current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change;
(b) Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days of
Defendant's receipt of the communication or by the deadline stated in the
NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 7 of 11

communication, whichever is sooner, and has participated in good faith in the State
Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition which was pending during the
period of suspension;
(c) That at the time of her petition for stay, Defendant is current in payment of all
Membership dues, fees, and costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments
and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect from her,
including all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;
(d) That at the time of her petition for stay, there is no deficit in Defendant's completion
of mandatory Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours, in reporting such hours or in
payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;
(e) That during the active suspension that preceded the petition for stay, Defendant
completed two hours of CLE in the area of trust accounting at least one hour of
which shall be a course taught by the Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the
North Carolina State Bar;
(f) Defendant has provided an affidavit to the State Bar verifying that she has complied
with paragraph 6 above and that all funds required to be escheated have escheated;
(g) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during her suspension;
(h) Defendant properly wound down her law practice and complied with the
requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0128;
(i) Defendant has paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as reflected on the statement
of costs served upon Defendant by the Secretary of the State Bar within thirty days
of service of that statement upon Defendant; and
(j) Defendant has provided an affidavit stating that she has complied with all treatment
recommendations of LAP.

10.
If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay of all or any portion of her suspension,
the applicable suspension of her law license shall be stayed as long as she complies and continues to
comply with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant is current in payment of all Membership dues, fees, assessments and
costs, including all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges
that the State Bar is authorized to collect from Defendant, including all judicial
district dues, fees and assessments;
(b) That there is no deficit in Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE hours, in
reporting of such hours, or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
programs;

NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 8 of 11

(c) Within the first year of the stayed suspension, Defendant shall complete three hours
of CLE in the area of trust accounting approved in advance by the Office of Counsel
of the State Bar. At least one hour shall be the Trust Accounting Rules course taught
by the Trust Account Compliance Counsel (TACC) for the North Carolina State Bar
unless Defendant has already taken all courses taught by TACC. Defendant shall
provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE courses to the State Bar
within ten days of completing the courses. These three hours are in addition to the
CLE requirements set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code ID .1518;
(d) During the stayed suspension, Defendant shall personally perform the three-way
reconciliations of all bank accounts into which are deposited any funds which
Defendant is required to hold in trust for the benefit of any client or third party using
the reconciliation method described in the State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account
Handbook using the reconciliation form provided therein. Defendant shall provide
(i) the three-way reconciliation report, (ii) client ledgers for all clients with funds in
the trust account(s) during that quarter, (iii) ledger for any personal funds maintained
in the trust account(s) for bank or credit card fees, (iv) trust account general ledger,
(v) multiple balance ledger report (report listing balance of funds maintained in trust
for each client during reporting period), (vi) the bank statements, (vii) cancelled
checks, and (viii) deposit slips and copies of deposited items for each quarter.
(e) The three way reconciliation reports are due no later than thirty days after the end of
each quarter (each January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30 during the period of
stay);
(t) On or before June 30 each year the stay is in effect, Defendant shall submit an
affidavit certifying to the North Carolina State Bar that all general trust accounts,
dedicated trust accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by Defendant or her law
firm are administered, to the best of her knowledge, in compliance with the
requirements of Rule 1.15 (including all subparts) or that she is exempt from this
provision because Defendant does not maintain any trust or fiduciary accounts for
North Carolina client funds;
(g) Defendant shall arrange for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar to
serve as her law practice monitor. Defendant's practice monitor shall be an attorney
in good standing who practices law in Defendant's judicial district and who has been
approved in advance by the Office of Counsel. Defendant must make the
arrangements for this monitoring attorney and supply the Office of Counsel with a
letter from the monitoring attorney confirming his or her agreement to perform the
duties listed above within thirty days of the effective date of any order returning her
to active status. The monitor will supervise all client matters and will ensure that
Defendant timely handles all client matters and promptly responds to her clients.
Defendant shall meet once a month with her monitoring attorney, report the status of
all current client matters to the monitor, cooperate with the monitoring attorney, and
provide any information the monitoring attorney deems reasonably necessary to
ensure that Defendant is properly and timely handling all client matters. The monitor
will submit written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel and
confirming that Defendant is following the recommendations ofthe practice monitor.
NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 9 of 11

The practice monitor reports are due in the Office of Counsel each January 30, April
30, July 30, and October 30 during the period of stay. Defendant bears the
responsibility of ensuring the monitoring attorney sends a written report each quarter
to the Office of Counsel as described above. This monitoring will occur for the
duration of the stay. Defendant will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for
this supervision.
(h) Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel and make appropriate
arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed during this stay.
(i) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during her stay;
(j) Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of her current
business address. Defendant shall notify the State Bar of any change of address
within ten days of such change. Her current business address must be a street
address, not a post office box or drawer;

(k) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days of
receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner; and

(1) Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition which is pending during any stay of the suspension.
11.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions of the stay of
suspension provided in paragraphs 10 (a) - (1) above, the stay of suspension may be lifted in
accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0118(a).
12.
If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay of her suspension, Defendant's
obligations governing the stay under this Order end after the applicable period of the stay provided
there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance with the
conditions ofthe stay ofthe suspension. Pursuant to § .0118(a) of the North Carolina Discipline
and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension
have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the
conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension
would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay ofthe
suspension and activate the remaining portion of the suspension in whole or in part if it finds that
any of the conditions ofthe stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any such
pending motion or show cause proceeding.
13.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of her law license or if some part
of the suspension is stayed and thereafter revoked, Defendant must comply with the conditions set
out in paragraphs 2 through 8 above and the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB .0129 before
seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law, and must provide in the petition for
reinstatement clear, cogent and convincing evidence showing compliance therewith.
NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 10 of 11

Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel
members.
This the

:21

day of

¥

2018.

~C-2~k;;
Donald C. Prentiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Agreed and consented to by:

Michael J. Reece
Attorney for Defendant

Defendant

.

~.LUv-hJ
MaryD. mstead
Attorney for Plaintiff

Now codified as Rule 1.15-2(r)
Now codified as Rule 1.15-2(r)
iii Now codified as Rule 1.15-2(k)
iv Now codified as Rule 1.15-2(n)
i

ii

NCSB v. Cindy Huntsberry, 18 DHC 10
Consent Order
Page 11 of 11

