~.....,

\'2. 34 5 6 ,

. 1l'

It's"'lJ~
rileS
-'"

NORTH CAROLINA

CO Dlte

.I

BEFORE THE

Dl§g;PLTNARY HEARING COMMISSION
.;;;.)" .
OF THE
,>\.(;:,•• ' NORTH CAROLlNA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

t\,.' •

08 mlc 16

THE NORTH CAROLlNA STATE BAR.
PlaintitT

CONSENT
ORDER

v.
SUSAN E, HYATT, Attorney.
Defendant

Defendant, Susan E. Hyatt ("Hyatt" or "Defendanf') was ordered to appear and show
cause why the stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of Discipline entered in this case on
December 8. 2008 should not be lifted and thc suspension activated. This matter was considered
by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of C. Colon Willoughby.
Jr.. Chair. and members William M, Claytor and Michael J. Houser pursuant to North Carolina
Administrative Code. Title 27. Chapter 1. Subchapter B. § .0114(x). Plaintitlwas represented hy
Jennifer A. Poncr. Defendnu! was represented by Dudley A, Witt. Based upon the pleadings
and the consent of the parties. the Hearing Panel hereby tinds by the greater weight ofthe
evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
On December 8. 2008, an Order of Discipline (hereinafter "the Order") was
entered in this matter. The Order was served on Defendant on December 16. 2008,
2.
The Order imposed a three year suspension stayed for three years. The stay of the
suspension was conditioned upon compliance with the conditions stated in the Order.
3,
The Order. at paragraph 2,a. on page 6, required Defendant to have her trust
accounts audited within 90 days of service of the order and to provide the audit report to the
State Bar within ten days of receipt. The 90 day deadline was Marehl6. 2009. On March 6.
2009, Defendant's CPA requested a 120 day extension. The State Bar informed Defendant's
counsel that it was not willing to set an extended deadline and the CPA was instructed to provide
what he had as soon as possible. Nothing was provided to the Statc Bar from the CPA until
September 25, 2009. ailer the State Bar sent a letter to Delendant on August 24. 2009 calling her
attention 10 this lack of compliance with the Order.
4.
The Ordcr. at paragraph 2,b. on page 6. required Dcfclldnnt to med the following
condition lhroughout the stay of the suspension:

Hyatt will have a CPA audit her trust account(s) on a quarterly basis. This audit will
occur no later than twenty-live (25) days after the last day of each quarter (April 25, July
25. October 25, and January 25) and the CPA will submit the audit report to Hyatt and
the Office of Counsel no later than fifteen (J 5) days after conducting the audit. All
evaluations, repolis, and services of the CPA will be at Hyatt's expense.
5.
Defendant failed to timely comply with this requirement for seven quarters during
the stayed suspension, including the two quarters for which repOJis had come due immediately
preceding the filing of this motion.
6.
The documents Defendant has provided regarding her trust account evidence
ongoing trust account violations, including as follows:
a.

One of the reports provided li'om Defendant's CPA on September 25,
2009 showed that Defendant's real estate trust account was short
$6,494.88 of the funds she should have been maintaining for clients and
her general trust account was short $1,410.63 of the funds she should have
been maintaining for clients, in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (m). Jt
appears most of the overdisbursements resulting in the deficit were due to
the employee misappropriation that predated the Order, but a $300.00
deficit was caused by an improper disbursement from the trust account in
a client matter on December 23, 2008.

b.

Comparison of the lists of client balances provided in the reconci liation
reports shows that Defendant has held the same amount of money in trust
lor several clients for over two years with no disbursement for the client.
Defendant failed to diligently complete these representations and disburse
these client funds in violation of Rule 1.3 and Rule 1.15-2(m). Defendant
also failed to provide these clients with the annual accounting required by
Rule 1.15-3(e).

c.

At some point during the third quarter of201', Defendant deposited
$430.00 into the operating account that should have been deposited into
the general trust account, resulting in a deficit in the funds she should have
been maintaining for clients in that account in violation of Rule 1.1S-2(a)
and (m). Defendant was not conducting monthly reconciliations and did
not realize this error until the CPA quarterly reconciliations were
completed in November 20 II. She did not deposit funds to rectify this
deficiency lIntil December 2, 20 11, the date on which she provided the
reconciliations for the second and third quarter of20 II to the State Bar.

d.

Defendant allowed clients to pay her fees with credit cards. The credit
card processing company deducted processing fees directly from
DerendanCs trust account. Defendant did not maintain suflicient funds in
the trust account for these processing fees, resulting in a shortage in the
trust account in violation of Rule I .15-2(m). Defendant subsequently
2

reimbursed the trust account on a quarterly basis. DefendnntlVas uncler
the mistaken impressinn that thc subsequcnt reimburselllent was a
permissible method tor addressing the credit card transaction fees. When

Derendant was made mvare this \V;1S not a permissible nrrangemelrl, she
appri)priately changed her process.
7.
Defendant" s ongoing trust account issues v iolate the condition of the Orcler to not
violate the Rules of Professional Coneluct during the stay orthe suspension (paragraph 2.k. pg 8).
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over the Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding .

.,
Defendant failed to comply with the following conditions of the stay of her
suspension contained in the Order:

a.

That she have a CPA audit hcr trust account within 90 days of service of
the Order:

b.

That she have a CPA audit her trust account quarterly and provide the
audit repOJi to the State Bar by the deadlines set out therein: and

c.

Thatshe not viollile nny of the Rule!; ofProkssiolllll Conduct
period orlhe slay.

dur;n~

lhe

3.
The conduct at issue in the Order nfDiseq.lin_, entered in this case stemmed li·Olll
Defendant's inattention to her trust account and her lililure to hlilill her trust account obligations.
The evidence shows that Defendant"s attention to her Irust aCCllunt and her compliance wilh her
Irust account obligations is still dellcienl. This poses Ihe sallie risk 01 significant potential harm
as was posed by her original conduct. The trust a client places in ail allorney 10 approprialely
handle his or her entrusted funds should be inviolable and an attorney·s failure [0 comply with
the tmst account requirements set out in Rule 1.15-2 and I. J 5-3 to _'nslire appropriate hanelling
or entrusted funds is unacceptable.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions oC Lm\ and the I\dditional
Findings ancl Conclusion. the Hearing Panel enters the following:

ORDER
I.
The stay ofDdendant"s three year suspension is lifted and the suspension i,:
acliv'lteci. Pursuant to Rule .OI24(c) orthe North Carolina Stak Bar Discipline and Disabilil)
Rules. this order and the three-year slispension imposed herein arc ",rreclive 30 days afte,· service
of thi s order upon Defendant.

2.
Defendant must comply with the obligations of a suspended attorney under Rule
.0124 of tile North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and the requirements of the
Order of Discipline.
3.
After serving six months of her activated suspension, Defendant may apply to
have the remainder ofthe three year suspension stayed by petitioning for reinstatement to active
status. Tn seeking reinstatement. Defendant must show by clear, cogent. and convincing
evidence:
n.

b.

That she has complied with the requirements of Rule .0 125(b) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and the requirements
for reinstatement contained in paragraph 4 and its subparagraphs on pages
8 and 9 of the Order of Discipline.
That she has disbursed all funds held in trust, to the extent permitted by
law. Defendant must provide trust account records and client records
showing that all funds in any and all trust accounts have been disbursed.
If funds must be escheated but this cannot be accomplished with the six
month period. then documentation showing why escheatment is
appropriate, any actions taken toward escheatment, and a timeline for
when the process will be complete will suffice as to those funds. If funds
cannot be disbursed due to a Medicaid, Medicare, or other valid and
enforceable claim or lien. documentation of said claim or lien and of at
least monthly efforts to resolve the claim or lien during the six month
period will suffice for such tllllds. If funds cannot he disbursed for any
other reason, Defendant shall provide the legal authority showing why the
funds could not be disbursed and shall descl'ibe when and how the funds
will be disbursed. Any and all actions necessary to disburse the funds
shall be at Defendant's expense and shall not be charged to the clients.

c.

That she paid any costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within 30 days after service of the statement of
costs upon her.

d.

That she has been evaluated by a behavioral health provider and is ill
compliance with all treatment recommendations.

4.
1f Defendant is granted a stay of any portion of the activated three-year
suspension. Defendant's active status shall be subject to, and contingent upon, compliance with
the following conditions throughout the stayed suspension:
a.

Each month Defendant shall provide the State Bar with the three-way
'reconciliation of her trust account described in the State Bar Lawyer' s
Trust Account Handbook on pages 35-40. Defendant shall provide the
three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with funds in
her trust account during that month, ledger for any personal funds
4

maintained in the !i'ust account lor lon,," or crcdit card fees. her trust
account ledger. and the bank statement. cancelled checks. and deposit slips
for each month. These documents arc due on the IS lh day of the following
month - for example. the three-way reconciliation lor the month of'
January is due on February IS:
b.

Each quarter. Defendant shall haw a CPA auelit her trust account This
audit shall assess whether Delenciant has in her trllst account the client
funds she should be maintaining for her clients at that time. as well as
Defendant's compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1. J5-3. The CPA's
audit shall include addressing the items on thc Accountant Checklist for
Probation Cases provided by the State Bar to Defendant"s counsel. The
quarterly audit reports rrom the CPA nre due no Inter than 30 days after
the end uf:.he quarter -- -t~_H' C'X'i111;Jl,~~. th.: CP/\ mldit fi..H" the first ql.lartt..:r cd~
the calendar year (January. Fclxu",-y. ancit\1archi is due on April 30:

c.

If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit
reveals any cieviation ti'Ulll Ddendant's I)bligations under Rule I. I 5-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Defendant shall take rCIl1<cclial action within J iJ days of the
date (Trthe three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall
provide documentation shO\ving the remedial action to the State Bar
within 2 days of the date of the remedial acti'.>n:

d.

Defendant sholl pro\' ide the Slult' Btlr \\ illl any annual accoulllings
pru\:"iJe,j 10 L:lients pUf.'=l!i:nH !lJ Ru':.:' (. j 5-3(e):

e.

Uct"':'ndant will provide the Stale Bar with any additional records it
requests within 10 days llf the request:

r.

Delendant will provide the State Bar with written authorization lor her
behavioral health provider to cOITIJ11unicatewith the State Bar regarding
her assessment and treatt11ent. and will nilt revoke this authoriz<ltion
during the ciuration of the stay:

!!...

D(:J~; i1ddl1t \\

ir1 n ;'.:C: Lji.,,-p-{crl y \'. illi !H::r beil;::\y iOI ::l!

;1t~8lt! ~ PI\)\ id~r. :md

\\'ill provide the SHite Bar with a report horn the provider no later thun 15
days after the end of each quarter (January J 5./\ pril 15. July I 5. October
15);
h.

I.

Defendant will comply ,vith all treatment recommendations and
requirements of her bchavi(l['al health provider:
Delendant shallnoi1iolale any ol'the Rules or Prntessional Coneluel in

effect during the IK:rlod ufhl2!'

~;t<.ly· alltl

J.

Defendant shaJl not violate any of the laws of the State of North Carolina
or of the United States during the period of the stay.

5,
If Defendant is not granted a stay of any portion of the three-year activated
suspension, then before Defenciant may be reinstated to active status she must satisfy the
requil'ements of Rule .0 125(b) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules
and all requirements for reinstatement contained in paragraph 3 of this order.
Signed by the undersigned Chair ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Panel with the consent of
the other Hearing Panel members,
This the - ' day of

t:e.b£.vO"1

20]2

C. Colon Willoughby, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

=l'--.'-.'-._=-_____ .__

_-=='?,,'
••.

_/

JenniG A. POI:t~~-'
Deputy Counsel
Attorney for Plaintiff

Defendant

6

