r q&

s

-t232425,?6

BEFORE THE

NORTH CAR.OLIN w -

n'DISCIPLINARY HEARINGCOMMISSION
9p-f4

WAKE`COUNTY

N

OF THE

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
05 DHC_50

THE NORTH CAROLINA
Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER

OF DISCIPLINE
ROBERT D. FLOYD, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of T. Richard Kane, Chair, and members John M. May and
DonaldG. Willhoit. Jennifer A. Porter represented the Plaintiff, the North Carolina State
Bar. The Defendant, Robert D. Floyd, represented himself. Both parties stipulate and
agree to,the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to
the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to
appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations of fact
and the consent of the parties, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

The Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under

the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the

Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

C

2.
Defendant, Robert D. Floyd ("Floyd"), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1983 and is,, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law
licensed to practice iii North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina,
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.

During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Floyd was

engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Shallotte, Brunswick County, North Carolina. .
4.

Floyd' was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set,

and the matter came before the hearing committee with due notice to all parties.

it
P

1

,.:2
,34

5.
Floyd unlawfully and willfully failed to file his federal
individual income
tax returnfor 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 when tax
such
returns were due, as
requiredby 26 U.S.C. § 6012.
6.
Floyd unlawfully and willfully failed to pay his federal individual income
taxes for 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 when such payment was due, as required by
26 U.S.C. § 6012.
7.

Willful failure to file or pay a federal income tax when due is a

misdemeanor punishable by either a fine, imprisonment, or both under 26 U.S.C. § 7203.

S.
Floyd unlawfully and willfully failed to file his state individual income tax
return for 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 when such tax returns were due, as required
by N.C. Gen.•Stat. §§ 105-152 and 105-157.

9.
Floyd unlawfully and willfully failed to pay his state individual income
taxes for 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002,, and 2003 when such payment was .due, as required by
N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 105-152 and 105-157.
10.
Willful failure tofile or pay a state income tax when due is a Class 1
misdemeanor'underN
.C. Gen.Stat. §,105-236 (9).

11.
Floyd was charged in Wake County, North. Carolina with willful failure to
file his state individual income tax returns for the years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and
2003.
12.

On or about April 22, 2005 Floyd pled guilty to willful failure to file his

state individual income tax return for the years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003.

13.
Floyd was sentenced on or about August 8, 2005, by which time Floyd,
had filed all- outstanding federal and state tax returns and had paid all outstanding amounts owed.
14.
Floyd 'was sentenced to 45 days in jail and ordered to pay $100.00 ,fine and
court costs. The period of incarceration was suspended and Floyd was placed on
unsupervised probation for twelve months.
15.
Willful failureto file a tax returnis a criminaloffense showing
professionalunfitness as defined
by 27 N.C.A:C. lB § .0103' (17).

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties areproperly beforethe hearing committee and the
committeehas jurisdiction
over the Defendant, Robert D. Floyd,
and the subjectmatter.

-2-

2.

The Defendant's

conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,

constitutes grounds for discipline as follows:
a. Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1), for conviction for failure to
file state individual income tax returns for years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and
,2003 when such returns were due, a criminal offense showing professional
unfitness; and
b. Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2), for engaging in conduct in
violation of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct, in effect at the time of his
actions as follows:
i.

By unlawfully and willfully failing to timely file and/or pay
state income taxes for years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003,

Floyd committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on his
honesty,, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in
violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c); and
ii. By unlawfully and willfully failing to timely file and/or pay
federal income taxes for years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and
2003, Floyd committed criminal acts that reflect adversely on
his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other respects in
violation of Rule 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving

dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c).
Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

2.

Floyd's misconduct is aggravated
by the following
factors:
a.

Patternof misconduct;

b.

Multiple offenses; and

c.

Substantialexperiencein the practice of law.

The Defendant
's misconductis mitigated by the following factors:
a.

Timely good faith effort
to make restitution
or to rectify the

-3-

o23

consequences
, including having paid the North Carolina
Department of Revenue his overdue
state taxes;

b.

Full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

C.

Imposition of other penalties or sanctions, to wit: court costs and
fine as described above;

d.

Floyd suffered from health related difficulties at the time of the
misconduct that led to neglect of personal matters;

e.

Floyd has taken significant steps to rehabilitate himself and tend to
his personal affairs;

3.

f.

No prior discipline; and

g.

Remorse.

The mitigating factors outweigh the aggravating factors.

Based upon the foregoing factors and with the consent of the parties, the hearing
committee hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The license of the Defendant, Robert D. Floyd, is hereby suspended for
two (2) years and that suspension is stayed for two (2) years upon the following terms
and conditions. During the stayed suspension, the Floyd shall:
a.
Comply with the terms of all agreements with the Internal Revenue
Service and the North Carolina Department of Revenue in existence during the
stay;

b.
Provide the State Bar with documentation from the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) showing compliance with the terms of any agreements
with the IRS, documenting compliance from the date of the entry of this order
through sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the two year stay and filed with
the State Bar no later than fifteen (15) days prior to expiration of-the two year
stay;

c.
manner;

File and pay all future state and federal
income taxes
in a timely

-4-

4

cP39

d.
Provide-the State Bar with copies of all state and federal income
tax returns filed-during the stay and proof of payment of income taxes due during
the stay. Such returns and/or any requests for, extensions or other documents
related to the filing and/or payment of Floyd's state or federal individual income
tax shall be provided to the State Bar within ten (10) days of the filing of such
document(s) with the Internal Revenue Service or the North Carolina Department

of Revenue;
e.
Not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States;
f.
Conduct;

Not violate any provision of the Revised Rules of Professional

g.
Pay the costs of this proceeding
as assessed
by the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within 30 days of notice of the costs being served upon
him;
h.
Pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis;
and
i.

Keep his address of record with the North Carolina State Bar

current, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and
j.
Respond to all letters of notice and,requests for information from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication.
2.
If during the stay of the two (2) year suspension Floyd fails to comply
with any one or more of the conditions stated in Paragraph 1(a) through 1(j) above,' then
the stay of
the suspension
of hislaw licensemay be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Floyd must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he complied
with each of the following conditions before seeking reinstatement:
a.

Submittedhis license and membership cardto the Secretaryof the

North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date of the order
activatinghis suspension;

b.
Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules on a
timely basis;
c.

Not violated any of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct;

-5-

4

aVo

d.
Not violated any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States;
e.

Paid all costs of this proceeding
as assessed
by the Secretary;,

f
Show he has complied with the terms of any payment agreements.
with the Internal Revenue Service and the North Carolina Department of Revenue
in effect during the suspension period;
g.
Provided the State Bar with documentation from the Internal
Revenue Service and the North Carolina Department of Revenue showing
compliance with the terms of any payment agreements with these entities-during,
the suspension period;
h.
Timely filed and paid any state or federal income taxes coming due
during the period of the suspension;
i.
Provided the State Bar with copies of all income tax returns filed
during the suspension, and proof of payment of any income taxes coming due
during the suspension, filed with the State Bar-within ten (10) days of filing with
the Internal Revenue Service or the North Carolina Department of Revenue;
j.
If the suspension was activated for Floyd's failure to timely file
and/or pay state and/or federal individual income tax, Floyd will have rectified the
deficiency by filing and/or paying as appropriate the income tax(es) at issue and

will have provided proof of such to the State Bar;
k.
Paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments
and complied with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis
as if still in practice during the suspension;
1.

Kept his address of record with the North Carolina State Bar

current;

M.

Accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and

n.
Responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from
the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in communications to him
from the State Bar.
4.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina StateBar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

-6-

Signedby the Chair ith the consent of thehearing
other committee members,,
this the

00

day of

52005.

T. Richard Kane
Chair, Disciplinary
Hearing Committee

D

CONSENTED TO BY:

J
er A. Porter
Deputy Counsel

Attorney,for Plaintiff

obert D. F oy
Defendant

-7-

