NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G1266

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
MOIDLIBBY,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 26, 2018, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by K S. The grievance was assigned to a Subcommittee, which
thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Subcommittee found
probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of
the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
In September 2012, KS. paid you a $4,000.00 flat fee to investigate whether it was possible to
delay the entry of absolute divorce in her pending domestic case, and to file a Form 1-360 petition (for
adjustment of immigration status) under the Violence Against Women Act (V AWA). KS.'s divorce
decree was entered on 6 November 2012. In order to be eligible for an adjustment of status, a petitioner
under VAWA must file within two years after her marriage to a U.S. citizen was terminated.
You did not communicate with KS. for the better part of the ensuing year, and in 2013, she filed
a fee dispute against you that was resolved via a settlement agreement. In the settlement, you agreed to
refund $1,200.00 to K.S. and to "timely and properly complete" the immigration services for which you
had originally been hired. Your failure to diligently tend to KS.'s matter during the first year after you
were hired was in violation of Rule 1.3.

You did not file K.S.'s 1-360 petition until 14 November 2014, eight days after her eligibility
lapsed. This error caused significant harm, effectively depriving K.S. of her right to the immigration
relief she sought. Accordingly, you were required pursuant to Rule 1.4 to report your error to the
client. See 2015 FEO 4. The letter you purportedly sent to K.S. notifying her that the petition had been
denied did not explain that the untimeliness was your fault.
You instructed your staff to mail K.S.'s petition by overnight mail approximately a month before
it was actually received by USCIS. Your staff had no explanation for the delay, and neglected to
maintain any tracking information for this mailing. This reflects that you do not have adequate policies
in place to ensure that the actions of your non-lawyer staff are consistent with your professional
obligations, in violation of Rule 5.3(a) & (b).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

DM/lb

~ day of -Lj '"' ,\

