1(Qf\513
ti~.路
IN Tm?ijB:NE1o.li, (!(lIUJrfl~F JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
'-;/.'.,'.~,,- Cf)SpC.S . .r::.

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
COUNTY OF WAKE
)

INRE:

)

!EUOMA IGBOANUGO

CONSENT ORDER OF REPRIMAND

)
)
)

The Court, having conducted aninquU:y illto theitHeged rel'lloval of a flled document from
"

the files of the Wake County Ch;rk of Superior COUlt by Attomey lb:uoma Igboanugo, Nol.i:b
Carolina State Bar #46618, and having reviewed the court file and havillg obtained statements
from the Assistant Clerk of COU1t fur Wake County and路 from lhuoma Igboal1ugo, lUld having
advised Thuoma IgbolUlugo of her due process rigltts to notice and ahearing and Ihuoma 19boanugo
having lOlPwillgly and voluntarily waived her rights to notice lUld il hearing, and having consented
to the entry of this' Order of Discipline, the lUldersigned Resident SUpel路jot路 Court Judge for the
County of Wake does hereby make the following:

.~.,

1.

011 Februa)'y 26, 2016, Ihuoma Igboanugo checked outflle number lS.CVS-14953,

with the permissioll of the Clerk of Superior CoU!i's 8taff~

2.

III an effoxt to correct an affidflvit that, as :flled, contained a typographical enol', Ms.

Igboanugo removed the first page of the affidavit and replaced it with II. corc('.cted first page. Ms..
Igboanugo did not ,etufll. the page she removed from the file to the file.

3.

Ms. Igboanngo is inexpc.rienced hI the pl'actice oflaw.

4.

Ms, Xg);lOiUlugO ~iid not act with any dishonest motive and did not groll anythin.g of

value by her actions.
5.

Ms. Igboanugo has admitted her mistakes and has apologized for them.

6.

Ms. Igboanugo (J,ow uuderstiUlds that she should have left the first affidavit intact.

Ul the file iUld should have filed a1l amended affidavit.

mtf{:LUSIQNS OF ~AW
1.

The Superior Court hasiDh"reJ),t authority to discipline attomeys.

2.

The actions of Ms. IgboiUlugo wexe i.lt violatiol1 oftM rules established by the Wake

County Clerk of Supedor Com:t f't)X the handling of files.
3.

The actions of Ms. IgboiUlugo are III vioh\tion ofE-ule 8.4(d) ofthe No:cth. Carolina

Rules of Profe$$iOllal Conduct in that they constifute conduct that is prejudicial to the
administration of justice.

4.

Ms. Igboanugo' s conduct is mitigated by her inexperience, het lack of dishonest

motive, and hel;' lack of personal gain.
5.

The most appropriate discipline under the ciroumstances is a Public Reprhnand.

THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED. ADJUDGED AND DECREED;
1.

Ihuoma IgboiUlugo is hereby publioly repxh:wmded by the Court.

2,

Ihuoma Igboanugo is hel;eby forbidden llom checking out or otherwise bemg in

unsupervised possession of any court fIle under the control afthe Wake County Clerk of Superior
Court ulliess given pe(mi~sionill wliting by the 'Wake County Clerk of Superior COUlt.

3,

A copy of this Consent Ol'der ofReprlmand shall be transmitted to the Secretary of

the North Carolina State Bar who will record the Consent Order of Reprimand on the judgment
dock.et of the North Carolina State Bar,

This, the

;yrl h. day Of~ja~, 2016.

IHUOlYIA IGBOANUGO, ES

