'0<?l \11 1112 1h;
l\
4» /,f
STATE OF NO~TH CAROL~
JAN 20r1l ~,.

it>!-

.

WAKE COUNTY

..

W'I"c·
..; .•.. ,

\,~

,;~.

THE NORTH CAROLINA ST A

FILE£) O~.
!~

BEFORE THE
D ~ PLINARY HEARING COMMISSION

..f? ORTH CAROLINA
OF THE STATE BAR
.:-:::

%'

16 DHC 32

i~~2 ~IS i\:
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

ANDREW C. JACKSON, JR., Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members William O. King and Jane B. Weathers,
pursuant to North Carolina Adminish'ative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(h).
Plaintiff was represented by Brian P.D. Oten. Defendant, Andrew C. Jackson, Jr., was
represented by Alan M. Schneider. Defendant waives a fonnal hearing in this matter. The
parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this order, and
consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry of this order,
Defendant knowingly, ji'eely, and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the fmdings and conclusions herein.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipUlations of fact, and with the
consent of the patties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following
Findings of Fact

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Andrew C. Jackson, Jr. (hereafter "Defendant" or "Jackson"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 27 August 2010 and is an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State ofNOlth Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Jackson was actively engaged in the
practice oflaw in West Jefferson, Ashe County, NOith Carolina.
4.

Jackson was properly served witll the summons and complaint in this matter.

5.
Jackson maintained a hust account in connection with his law practice at First
Citizens Banle, account number ending in 9327 ("hust account").

Page 1 of 11

6.

Jackson used his trust account as a general trust account.

7.
In or aronnd December 2011, Jackson employed nonlawyer assistant Pamela Roark
("Roark") as a paralegal and office manager.
8.
Jackson had managerial and direct supervisory authority over Roark during her
employment with his firm.
9.
While employed with Jackson's finn, Roark's job duties included bookkeeping and
monitoring the firm's handling of entrusted funds deposited in the trust account.
10. Jackson also gave Roark access to the trust account checkbook and online access to
the trust account.
11. Jackson failed to review his trust account's bank statements, failed to reconcile his
account, and otherwise failed to monitor his trust account.
12. Jackson also failed to review Roark's handling and monitoring of entrusted funds
deposited in the hust acconnt.
13. In June 2012, Jackson discovered that Roark had misappropriated money from the
trust account.
14.
acconnt.

Upon discovering the theft, Jackson failed to undertake a full review of the hust

15.

Jackson failed to report the theft of funds from the trust account to the State Bar.

16.

Jackson did not telminate Roark's employment after discovering the theft in Jnne

2012.
17. Instead, after discovering the theft by Roark, Jackson continued to employ Roark at
the firm and continued to delegate the firm's handling and monitoring of entrusted ftmds to
Roark.
18. Jackson again failed to review his trust account's ban1e statements, failed to
reconcile his account, and otherwise failed to monitor his trust account.
19. Jackson again failed to review Roark's handling and monitoring of entrusted funds
deposited in the hust account.
20. In August 2013, Jackson discovered additional theft by Roark of entrusted funds
from the trust account.
21.

Jackson terminated Roark's employment with the finn in August 2013.

22. Jackson failed to promptly report the second theft of funds from the trust account to
the State Bar.
NCSB v. Jackson, 16 DHC 32
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 2 of 11

23. On 6 August 2014, the State Bar conducted a random procedural audit of Jackson's
hust account.
24.
The audit revealed numerous failures by Jackson to properly monitor and
maintain required records for his hust account. Specifically, the audit revealed that Jackson
engaged in the following conduct:
(a) Jackson failed to conduct the required monthly and quarterly
reconciliations;
(b) Jackson failed to always identifY the source of funds on deposit
slips;
(c) On occasion, Jackson advanced funds to clients using funds
belonging to other clients, resulting in negative client balances
within the hust account and funds being used for the benefit of
someone other than the beneficiary owner of the funds;
(d) Jackson failed to provide a copy of an amended directive to the
banle; and
(e) Jackson failed to obtain legible and appropriately sized copies of
check images (front and back).
25. On 17 October 2014, after completing the random audit process, Jackson reported
to the State Bar that Roark had misappropriated money from his tmst account. Jackson also
reported the theft to law enforcement.
26. Jackson's failure to review Roark's work and failure to reconcile and review his
tmst accOlmt as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct enabled Roa1"le's theft.
27. In total, Roark misappropriated approximately $79,000 in entmsted funds from
Jackson's tmst account.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel makes the following
Conclusions of Law
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the DHC has jUlisdiction over
Defendant, Andrew C. Jackson, Jr., and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional COndl)ct as follows:
(a) By failing to review his nonlawyer assistant's handling and record-keeping
of enhusted funds, thereby enabling the nonlawyer assistant to engage in
continued theft of entrusted funds over a period of approximately 18
months, Jackson failed to supervise his nonlawyer assistant to the extent
NeSB v. Jackson, 16 DHC 32
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of 11

necessary to ensure that her conduct was compatible with Jackson's
professional obligations in violation of Rule S.3(b);
(b) By failing to report Roark's initial theft to the State Bar and by failing to
report Roark's additional theft to the State Bar upon discovelY in August
2013 for over one year, Jackson failed to immediately report his discovery
of misappropriation to the State Bar in violation of Rule 1.IS-2(0) (presently
.
codified as Rule 1.1S-2(p»;
(c) By failing to reconcile his trust accounts on a monthly and qumterly basis,
Jackson failed to conduct the requisite reconciliations of his trust accounts in
violation of Rules 1.1S-3(d)(I) and (2);
(d) By failing to identify the client on all deposit slips and electronic wire
transfers, Jackson violated Rule l.1S-3(b)(1);
(e) By advancing funds for a client from funds belonging to another client who
was not the beneficimy of iliose funds, Jackson used or pledged entmsted
property for the personal benefit of a person other than the legal or
beneficial owner of that property in violation of Rule 1.1S-2(a) and Rule
1.1S-20) (presently codified as Rule l.1S-2(k»;
(f) By not providing the bank with a copy of the amended directive concerning
his trust account, Jackson failed to file with the bank a written directive
requiring the bank to repOlt to ilie executive director of the NOlth Carolina
State Bar when an instrument drawn on the account is presented for
payment against insufficient funds in violation of Rule l.1S-2(k) (presently
codified as Rule 1.1S-2(1»; and
(g) By failing to obtain appropriate digital images of canceled checks drawn on
the tmst account, Defendant failed to maintain minimum records for tmst
accounts in violation of Rule 1.1S-3(b)(2)(A).
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
Roark was the sole source of criminal conduct in this case. There is no evidence
indicating that Jackson participated in Roark's ongoing misappropriation or that he was aware of
Roark's misappropriation at the time it occun-ed, and there is no evidence that Jackson received
any benefit from Roark's misappropriation. There is no evidence that Jackson acted with a
selfish or dishonest motive in neglecting his tJust account or in failing to adequately supervise
Roark.
2.
Although Roark committed criminal acts in misappropriating funds from Jackson's
tmst account independent of Jackson, Jackson's excessive delegation coupled with his failure to
NCSB v. Jackson, 16 DHC 32
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 of 11

supervise and failure to conduct the required quarterly reconciliations created the circumstances
that enabled Roark to embezzle entrusted funds. Conducting quarterly reconciliations of the oust
account is the lynchpin of proper maintenance and protection of entrusted funds. Jackson
repeatedly failed to monitor the activity in his trust account and othelwise failed to make
reasonable efforts to ensure that the client funds entrusted to his care remained protected.
Jackson also failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that his non-lawyer assistant's conduct
was compatible with his professional obligations in the handling of entrusted funds in the oust
account, and Jackson displayed poor judgment by retaining Roark and continuing to delegate his
trust account responsibilities to Roark after discoveling Roark's embezzlement in June 2012.
Jackson's conduct demonstrates a pattern of misconduct and demonso'ates his intent to commit
acts where the potential hmm was foreseeable.
3.
Jackson's conduct placed entrusted funds at risk and has the potential to cause
significant haml to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows his
disregard for his duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to
sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the
legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
4.
Jackson's lack of experience at the time of his misconduct significantly contributed
to his misconduct and poor judgment in responding to Roark's actions. Jackson, who was
licensed in 2010, hired Roark in 2011 after opening his law practice. Jackson hired Roark, at
least in part, due to her plior employment with a reputable law firm. Upon discovering Roark's
conduct in June 2012, Roark pled for another oppOltunity; in light of her plea as well as her prior
employment, Jackson naively afforded Roark the benefit of the doubt and allowed her to remain
with his office. Jackson is genuinely remorseful for his own misconduct and his unfortunate
judgment, acknowledges the seriousness of his misconduct, and accepts responsibility for his
misconduct.
5.
Jackson fully cooperated with the State Bar throughout the disciplinary process and
took steps to rectity the consequences of his misconduct. Following his discovelY of Roark's
theft in August 2013, Jackson took the following action:
(a) Jackson retained an accountant to properly reconcile his oust account and
fully investigate the extent of Roark's embezzlement;
(b) Jackson fully reimbursed his trust account in the amount misappropriated by
Roark; and
(c) Jackson terminated Roark and reported her embezzlement to law
enforcement, resulting in Roark's conviction of multiple felonies in March
2016.
6.

Jackson has no prior disciplinmy record concerning his license to practice law.

7.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, replimand, censure, snspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

Ness v. Jackson,

16 DHC 32

Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 oft 1

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the
following
Conclusions Regarding Discipline

I.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B §.OlI4(w) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
(b) Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on his clients' and the
public's perception of the legal profession.
3.
The hearing panel concludes that none of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar are present
in this case.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B §.0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a) Defendant's lack ofp110r disciplinary offenses;
(b) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
(c) Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectity the consequences
of the misconduct;
(d) Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct; and
(e) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses.
5.
Defendant's failure to properly safeguard entrusted client funds and properly
supervise his non-lawyer assistant caused significant harm to his clients whose funds were used
for a purpose other than that which was intended by the clients.
6.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses significant
potential harm to future clients and to the profession.
7.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprinland or censure but
concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the
potential harm to the clients. The Panel fnrther concludes that such discipline would fail to
NCSB v. Jackson, 16 DHC 32
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of 11

acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant and send the wrong
message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
8.
The Hearing Panel concludes that Defendant's conduct wan-ants and can only be
addressed through imposition of a suspension on Defendant's law license. The Hearing Panel
further concludes that such suspension should be stayed upon Defendant's compliance with
conditions outlined below that will ensure the public is protected from future transgressions by
Defendant as well as ensure Defendant's continued adherence to the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
9.
Under other circumstances, the misconduct in this case would warrant more serious
discipline. However, the unique circumstances surrounding this case justify lesser discipline
than would otherwise be appropriate. The factors that patiicularly W31Tant lesser discipline
include: Defendant's complete cooperation during the disciplin31Y process; Defendant's efforts
to rectify the consequences of his misconduct; Defendant's lack of experience at the time of the
misconduct; Defendant's acceptance of personal responsibility for his actions; Defendant's
acknowledgment of the wrongfulness and seriousness of his misconduct; and Defendant's
remorse.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings of fact
and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the patiies, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
Order of Discipline

1.
Defendant, Andrew C. Jackson, Jr., is hereby suspended fi'om the practice of law
for three years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.

2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action. Defendant
shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within
30 days of service of the statement of costs and administrative fees upon him.
3.
The three year suspension is stayed for a period of four years as long as Defendant
complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall continue to employ an accountant approved in advance by
the Office of Counsel to assist Defendant in monitoring and reconciling his
trust account(s) as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct.
(b) Defendant shall provide the State Bar with reports of all quatierly
reconciliations as required by Rule 1.15-3 for all trust accounts and
fiduciary accounts to which Defendant has access and/or in which
Defendant deposits entrusted funds as follows:
i. In addition to the three-way reconciliation reports, for the months
covered by the submitted report, Defendant shall provide: (i) client
ledgers for each client whose funds are held in the hust account
NCSB v. Jackson, 16 DHC 32
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 of 11

during the stay, (ii) any ledger for any personal funds maintained
in the tLUSt account(s) for banle or credit card fees, (iii) general
ledger(s) for each tLUst account to which Defendant has access, and
(iv) the banle statements, cancelled checks, deposit slips, and
deposit items associated with the reports;
ii.

The reports are due no later than 30 days after the end of
each quarter (first quarter's report due April 30, second quarter's
repOlt due July 30, third quarter's report due October 30, and
fourth quarter's repOlt due January 30);
Defendant shall certify with each quarterly report that he
has personally reviewed the reconciliation report(s) and all
relevant ledgers, banle statements, cancelled checks, deposit slips,
and deposit items associated with the report(s);

111.

iv.
If any of the quarterly reports referenced above note any
ilTegularities or deficiencies, Defendant shall promptly take all
remedial action necessmy to bring the hllst account(s) into
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct and shall
provide proof of the remedial action and compliance to the Office
of Counsel of the State Bar within 30 days of the date of the report;
v.All reconciliations and reports refelTed to herein will be completed
and submitted at Defendant's sole expense; and
vi.
Failure of the Defendant to timely submit any repOlt
required by this Order shall be grounds to lift the stay and activate
the suspension.
(c) Defendant shall certify aunually on or before June 30 to the North Carolina
State Bar that all general tLUSt accounts, dedicated hllSt accounts, and
fiduciary accounts maintained by Defendant or his law firm are
administered, to the best of his knowledge, in compliance with the
requirements of Rule 1.15 (including all subparts) or that he is exempt from
this provision because Defendant does not maintain any tLUSt or fiducimy
accounts for North Carolina client funds;
(d) Defendant shall successfully complete two hours of continuing legal
education (CLE) in the area of trust account management within the first
year after the effective date of this order, one hour of which must be a tLUSt
account CLE taught by Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant shall also successfully complete two hours of
CLE in the area of tLUSt account management within the fourth year of this
suspension, one hour of which must be a hllst account CLE taught by TLUst
Account Compliance Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant

NeSB v. Jackson, 16 DHC 32
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8 of 11

shall provide written proof of successful completion of these CLE courses to
the State Bar within ten days of completing the course;
(e) Defendant shall have sole signatory authority on all general trust accounts,
dedicated hust accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by Defendant
and shall not allow the use of signature stamps, or electronic signature in
lieu of his hand affixed signature;
(f) Defendant shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund

assessments and comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements
on a timely basis;
(g) Defendant shall keep his physical address of record (not a Post Office box)
with the North Carolina State Bar current, accept all certified mail from the
North Carolina State Bar, and respond to all letters of notice and requests for
infoffi1ation from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the
communication;
(h) Defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the stay;
(i) Defendant shall not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the stay excluding minor traffic
infractions; and

G) Defendant shall timely comply with paragraph 2 above in paying all costs
and fees of this action as assessed by the Secretary within thirty (30) days
after service of the statement of costs on him.
4.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more
of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason,
Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension by filing a petition
pursuant to Rule .0125 of the NOlih Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules (27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0125) demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein as well as the
following requirements by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
(a) Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules;
(b) Defendant successfully completed the CLE hours as set forth in paragraph
3(d) above;
(c) Defendant kept the Membership Depaliment of the State Bar informed of
his cun'ent information for his physical address (not a Post Office box),
NCSB v. Jackson, 16 DHC 32
Consent Order of DiscipIinc
Page 9 of 11

telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his
suspenSIOn;
(d) Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Deprutment of the NOlih Carolina State Bru'
throughout the period ofthe suspension;
(e) Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his suspension;
(f) Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding CLE or
membership obligations at the time of the filing of his petition for
reinstatement;
(g) Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the suspension;
(h) Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States dming the period of the suspension; and
(i) Defendant paid all costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretruy by the date of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.
6.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end four years fi'om the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to § .OI14(x) ofthe NOlih
Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the
stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the
stay of the suspension would otherwise have temlinated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and
ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the three year suspension in whole or in part
if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension
and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue nntil
resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
Signed by the Disciplinary Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other hearing
panel members, this the IL~ day of ~ , Z6tU. ;;1.017

~

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

NeSB v. Jackson, 16 DHC 32
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 10 of11

Brian Oten, Deputy Counsel
Attorney for the Plaintiff

AudrewL ',Jackson, JL
Defendant

Alan M, Sclmeider
Attorney for the Defendant

NCSB v, Jackson, 16 DHC 32
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 11 of11

