:

i

~,-):

?()

, IN'THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

f\[

WAKE COUNTY

SUPERIOR COURT D1VISION
18 CVS

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE- BAR,
Petitioner

v.
ORDER OF DISBARMENT
ANDREW CRAIG JACKSON, Jr.,
Attorney,
Respondent

THIS MATIER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of Wake
County upon the tender of surrender of the law license of Andrew Craig Jackson, Jr.
Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Carmen Hoyme Bannon.
Respondent, Andrew Craig Jackson, Jr., was represented by Stacy Clyde Eggers IV.
Based upon the Mfidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Andrew Craig Jackson, Jr. and the consent of the parties, the court makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

Jackson was licensed to practice law on 27 August 2010.

2.
During all periods relevant hereto, Jackson was actively engaged in the practice
of law in Ashe County, North Carolina.
3.
In January 2017, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission of the State Bar found
that Jackson engaged in significant professional misconduct related to his handling of entrusted
funds and entered an Order of Discipline suspending Jackson's law license for three years, but
staying that suspension so long as Jackson complied with various conditions for a period of
four years.
4.
In 2018, while his law license was still subject to the Order of Discipline
referenced above, Jackson installed a video camera in the bathroom of his law office for the
purpose of secretly recording individuals using the bathroom without their knowledge or
consent.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Court makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
1.

This court has jurisdiction over Jackson and over the subject matter of this

proceeding.

North Carolilla State Bar v. Alldrew C. Jacksoll, Jr.
COllsellt Order ofDisbarment

10f3

,\

2.
The courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary action
against attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
3.
By installing a video camera in the bathroom of his law office for the purpose of
secretly recording individuals using the bathroom without their knowledge or consent, Jackson
committed criminal acts reflecting adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a
lawyer in violation of Rule of Professional Conduct 8 .4(b) and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation that reflects adversely on his fitness as a lawyer in
violation of Rule 8.4(c) .
. 4.
Jackson's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
5.

Jackson has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:

1.

The surrender of the license of Andrew Craig Jackson, Jr. is hereby accepted.

2.
Andrew Craig Jackson, Jr. is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North
Carolina effective upon entry of this Order.
3.
Jackson shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §.0128
and shall surrender his law license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by Rule .0128.
4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order Jackson shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with Jackson and obtain such files.
5.
Jackson shall promptly return client files in his possession, custody, or control
to clients upon request, within five days of receipt of such request. Jackson will be deemed to
have received any such request three days after the date the request is sent to him if the request
is sent to the address Jackson provided to the State Bar pursuant to this Order.
6.
Jackson shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
expiration of at least five years from the date of entry of this order.
7.
Jackson's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §§ .0128 and .0129(a).
8.

The costs of this action are taxed against Andrew Craig Jackson, Jr.

Done and Ordered this

1-t(

day of

North Carolina State Bar v. Andrew C. Jacksqn, Jr.
Consent Order of Disbarment

Ot!ob-...

,2018.

20f3

I

Consented to:

~tf. cen OD 4fY\ )

Carmen Hoyme Bannon, Deputy Counsel
Attorney for Petitioner

~~~®J
Stacy Clyde Eggers IV
Counsel for espon nt

Andrew Craig Jackson, Jr.
Respondent

,

I
I·
I

I
!

I
I

. i!

North Carolina State Bar v. Andrew C. Jackson, Jr.
Consent Order ofDisbarment

30f3

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
18 CVS

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner
v.

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LAW LICENSE

ANDREW CRAIG JACKSON, Jr.,
Attorney,
Respondent

Andrew Craig Jackson, Jr., being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1.

I desire to surrender and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2. My surrender is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my surrender.

3. I am aware that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar regarding allegations
that I installed a video camera in the bathroom of my law office for the purpose of secretly
recording individuals using the bathroom without their knowledge or consent. I have been
charged with two felony offenses in connection with this conduct, which occurred while my
law license was subject to a stayed suspension pursuant to the Order of Discipline in 16 DHC
32.
4.
true.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are

5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.
This the :22~ay of October, 2018.

I, &i~/" £t:t~ Ie (.V;~ ?, Notary Public of the County of
VVtJr +4 ("('3 0....
, State of North Carolina, certify that Andrew Craig Jackson, Jr.
personally appeared before me this day, was sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit is
true and accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.

.:::<·~·\~~~~~,~~d subscribed before me, this the 22n,;/ day of October, 2018.

,_-::~;f.~
;-.,//\-J.- /J~~
.~. -\',.. ,,'. ,) (f0}4M!.'i4f-~
~

.-!.'..

,_.No~ary Pu~h~ I'

.

'.: .;:; /':.••.I\1,X ~3mmiSSlOn Expues: /6 - 7-1-- / q
,":, 'j,

U ,'J L I

.:"

':::":::':::;;;1,,;;,~:< <~:;~:.;<.

