.COUNTY 0F wAKE

piaintiff,
vs.

MEMORANDUM AND ORDER ON
DEfENDANTS' MOTIONS TO DISMISS

I

I

SCOTT BREWER and KENNETH
HONEYCUTT, Attorneys,
I

Defendants .
.THIS MATTER was considered at a hearing on January 5, 2006, and continuing on
January 20, 2006, by a hearing committee composed ofF. Lane Williamson,Chafr, and members
Carlyn G. pbole and Donald Willhoit. Carolin Bakewell and Katherme E. JeR!l represented the
Pl~ntiff, Th~ North Carolina State Bar. James B. Maxwell represented Defendant Scott Brewer.

Charles B. Brooks· IT represented Defendant Kenneth Honeycutt.
The hearing addressed the motions to dismiss the State Bar's complaint conta:iil.ed in the
Defendants' 'responsive pleadings. For the reasons
•

~et

out below, the hearing committee grants

the Defendants' first motion to dismiss, treating it as a motion for. partial summary judgment,
1

based upon ~
analysis of the State Bar's rule oflhnitations, 27 N .C.A.C. lB, Sec ..Olll(e),
and
I
.
dismisses the first and second claims for relief as time-batted. The hearing comtnittee also grants
in part the Defendants' fourth motion to dismiss, based upon the failure of the third Claim fat relief
to state a claim. upon which relief can be granted, and dismisses the third claim for relief. The
result is a final order of dismissal of the State Bar's complaint. Although the other grounds for
the Defendal).ts' motions are In effect rendered moot, the hearing committee nevertheless has ruled

I

','

.

.

upon the remaining grounds for the Defendants.' motions, and denies .each of them.
·NATURE OF THE COMPLAINT

The State Bar filed its complaint on August 30, 2005. The allegations of the compl$t
re1ate to the conduct of Honeycutt as District Attorney and Brewer as Assistant District Attorney

I

during ~d after the prosecution, of Jona~an Gregory Hoffman in 1996 for first degre¢ murder
in connection with the shotgun slaying of Danny Cook, a Marshville jew¢liy store owner. The

detailed allegations of the State Bar's complaint allege a course of conduct by the Defendants to
conceal from Hoffman's defense counsel and from the trial cowt the full extent of concessions
made to Johnell Portet, a cousin of Hoffman's, who testified at Hoffman's trial that Hoffman h8d
. confessed to robbing and murdering Cook.
. the terniS of the alleged deal with Porter were:
1.

Assistance in Federal Sentencing Heating: In exchange for Porter's truthful testimony in
the first degree murder trial of Hoffman, Honeycutt agreed to ~akecertain tMtthe federal
judge sentencing Porter. on his federal bank: robbery guilty plea would know of Porter's
assistance in the Hoffman trial.

2.

Fedetal Immunity: In exchange for Porter's truthful testimony in the first degree Dl1,lrder .
trial of Hoffman, the United States Attorney's Office would give Porter immunity for aU
fe4eral crimes except murder that he l;Iiight have co~tte4 w~the:r he had been chru.:ged
or not prior to Novexnber 7, 1995, the date on which the bank robbery fOr which he had
pled guilty occurred.
.

3.

Assistance with South Carolina sentencing: In exchange for Porter's tJ;Uthful testimony in
the first degree murder trial of Hoffman, Porter would receive assistance from various law
enfor¢ement officers or district attorneys in having an unserved$entence arisiJ,lg out of the
state court iIJ. South Catolina run ~oncurrently with any sentence he might receive on llis
federal bank robbery charges to which he had pled guilty in A:pril of 1996.

4.

State immlinit:y: In exchange fQr Portee s truthful testimony in$e fIrst degree murder ,trial
of Hoffman, Port~t would receive immunity from any and all criminal charges pending or
not yet charged in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.

I

2

I

t./Sf

','

5.

Reward FUnd: In exchange for Porter's truthful testimony in the frrst degree murder trial
of Hoffman, Honeycutt would assist Porter in his efforts to benefit fml;Ulcially from the
re~~d fund that bad been. established by friends and relatives of the victim, Danny Cook.
The: complaint alleges that. Honeycutt and Brewer revealed oruy the first condition of the

agreement ~o Hoffman's counsel, that they concealed from Hoffman's counSel and the trial court
the reJ.llain4tg terms of the deal~ that they concealed notes relating to interviews with Porter, that
they falsely: represented to the trial judge that they had revealed all concessions made to Porter,

I

that they produced ali. altered copy of a to-do list that folloWed a typ~d set of notes regarding a
meeting with Porter, that they allowed Porter to testify falsely at trial concerning 'the concessions
made to hiIh and that they falsely represented to the jury in closing argument that the only
concession made to Porter in exchange for his testimony was the agreement to report his
substantial assistance to the federal court. The complaint further alleges that Honeycutt and
,

Brewer violated both direct orders of the trial judge to tum over statements of and notes relating
to Porter anq the general dUty of prosecutors under the United States Supreme Court c~se of Brady

v. Maryland; 373 U.S. 83 (1963), and its progeny to disclose to Hoffman's attorneys all
exculpatory and impeachment mateiial in their files and the files of their investigat41g agents.
The complamt alleges in the fIrst claim for relief that the actions of the Defendants
constitute gtounds for discipline pursuant to N.t.G.S. § 84-28(b)(2) and numerous rWes of the

I

former Rules of Ptofessionai Conduct in effect as of 1996 (now superseded by the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct}l, proscribPtg dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation (Rule

ISee the correlation tables at pp. 150-55 of the North Carolina State Bar Lawyer's Handbook
(2005) comp~ring the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the matters alleged in the
complaint wiiP the 1997 and 2003 versions of the Revised Rilles of Professional Conduct.

3

I

','

1.2(c», conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice (RuIe 1.2(d», failure to disclose'
potentially excuipatory andlor miti~at1ng evidence (Rule 7.3(4», fraud Qn the tribunal (Ru1e
7.2(b)(2», knowmgly making a false statement of fact (~llle 7.2(a)(4», concealmg or knowingly
failing to disclose that 'which an attorney, is required by law. to .reve,a1 (Rule 7~2(a)(3)} and
disregarding a ruling of a tribunal (Rule 7.6(a».
The seconcl claim for relief in the State

Bar~ s

complaint alleges tllat the Defendants
"

deliberately avoided inquiring into whether Porter had been grante~ any conce$sion or inlinunity·
by the federal government, and that such deliberate avoidance of inquiry violated Rules 7.3 and

1.2(d) of the former Rules of Professional Conduct.
The third and final claim ~ the complaint alleges that the Defendants, despite having
knowledge of immunity given to Porter by the federal ~overimlent by virtue of the attendance by
Honeycutt at Portet's fe4eral sentencing hearing in November 2S, 1996 and the ~eceipt by the,
Defendants no later than February 2001 of an immuility letter from the fedetal prosecutor to
Porter's attorney Aaton Michel dated October 21, 1996, continued to oppose Hof{mail's motion

.1

for appropriate relief andfaUed to ackn~wledge that Floffinan was entitled to a1l,ew trial pur$ttant
to Brady v. Mqryland 1iIlIil April 2004, w~ Honeycutt coru:eded at a court hearing that II.BTtuiy

violation had occurred and that Hoffman was entitled toa new trial. The third claim for relief
alleges that these actions constituted a violation of Revised Rules. of Professional Conquct 3.1 anCi
8.4(d).

NATURE OF THE DEFENDANTS' MOTtoNS TO DISMISS
"Each of the Defendants included four motions to' dis~s with his answer. The motions
. r

of each Defendant are substa.ntially identical. The grounds ·forthe motions are as follows:
4

.':

.

','

.. First Motion to Dismiss - that the first and second' claims for relief in the complaint ate timebarred by virtue of the application of the State Bar's.1imitations rule, 27 N.C.A.C. IB, Sec.
:0111(e) .
.. Second Motion to Dismiss - that portions of the first claim for relief and all of the second and
third claimS for relief are barred based Upon certain findings of fact and one of the conclusions
of law in an order by Superior Court Judge W. Erwin Spainhour granting Hoffman's postconviction Inotion for appropriate relief.
"'Third M6tion to Dismiss - that the second claim for relief fails to state a claim upon which
relief cap b~ granted in that, even if the allegations of deliberately avoiding inquiry are true, the
allegations do not constitute a, violation of the State Bar's ethical rules .

I

.. Fourth Motion to Dismiss - (1) that the second and third claims for relief are procedurally
deficient and violate the DefendantS' procedural due process rights in that the allegations of the
claims were: not contained in either the "letter of,notice;' or "substance or grievance" sent to each
Defendant; and (2) that the third claim for relief fails to state a claim upon which relief can be
granted in $at, eVen if the allegations of continuing to oppose Hoffman's MAR after having
knowledge of Porter's federal inunumty deal are true, the allegations do not constitute a violation
of the State Bar's ethical rules.
'
The hearing committee addresses the grotmds for each motion below.
DISCUSSION

FIRST MOTtO~ TO DISMISS
State Bar Rille .Ol11(e), 27 N.t.A.C. IB, Sec..Ol11(e) (hereafter "Ru1e .0111(e)")
establishes a. lilnitations period for the filing of grievances, and presently reads as follows:
Grievances must be instituted by the filing of a written or oral
, grievance with the North Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee
or a district bar Gqev~ce Cominittee within six years from the
accrual of the offense, prQvided that grievances allegingftaud bya
lawyer or an offense the discovery of which bas been prevented by
concealment' by the accused lawyer shaU not be barred 'Phtil six
years from the accrual of the offense or one year after ~iscovery of
the offense by the aggrieved party or by the No~ Carolina State
I
Bar counsel, whichever is later. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
grieVances which allege felonious criminal ~conduct,may be filed
'
with the Gri~vance Committee at any time.

I

I'

5

I
. ..... "

· -." ..

...

,-:.

.

~

...:....

'

This rule is in the nature of a statute of limitations in that it s~rves to limit the time withiil which

a grievance Illay be conunenc~d after the accrual of the alleged ·offense. -It is diStinct from a
statute of repo~e, which sets a fixed time limit after the commission of an act beyond which a
claim will not be recognized. See Boudreau v. Baughman, 322 N. C. 3~ 1, 368 S.E.2d 849 (1988);
concerning this distinction.
Rule .0111(e) establishes limitation periods for three classes of grievances:
(1)

A presumptive period of six. years from tile accrual of the offense;

(2)

"Six years from the accrual of the offense or one year after discovery .of the .

offense by the aggrieved party Or by the North Carolina State Bar counsel,
whichever is later," for grievances alleging fraud oy the lawyer or an offense the
discovery of which has been prevented by concealmellt by the lawyer; and
(3)

no limitation for grievances which allege feloniouscriminat conduct.

For the purpose of their motions, Defendants aclrnowledge that the grievances against them fall

Within class. (2). In a memorandum submitted following the january 5, 2006 hearing in thi~
matter, the State Bar contended for the fIrst time that the cIaiIns in the complaint allege "felonious .
criminal conduct," and therefore should be considered as claims of the third class subject to no

I

ljrnitations pe:riod..
The consideration of the lin;rltatiQns tul¢ necessarily entails a review of matters outside the
scope of the bare' allegations ofthe complaint. We therefore treat the first motion to dismiss a~
a motion for partial summary judgment under N .C.R.C.P. 56(c) rather than as a motionto dismiss
under N.C.R.C.P. 12(b)«i).2 The parties have submitted various materials to the hearing
2Rule .o114(n) , 27 N.C.A.C. lB, Sec.. 0114(n), ptovides that pleading~ and proceedings
before a Disciplinary Hearing Comfnission hearing committee will conform as nearly as practicable
with requirements of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
6

I
.......

"

.....

committee~

and .have stipulated that we may consider them for purposes of the pending motions

without the necessity for further authentication Or proof. These include affidavits prepared
specifically for this hearing and affidavits, pleadhigs, transcripts, correspondence and other
documents lansing from the trial and post-conviction proceeding in the criminal case against Mr.
,

Hoffman, State ojNo11h ~arolina v. Jonathan Gregory Hoffman, 95-CRS-15695 (Union County).

The! following is a timeline of events relevant t6 the limitations issue~
I

I

November 1995
Danny Cook is murdered.
~

December 1995
Hoffman is charged with the murder of Danny Cook.

~

Octdbet 21. 1996 through Noyember 13~ 1996
Hoffnlan .~s tried and convicted of ftrst degree murder ~
AugUst 2.. 1999
Hoffman's post-conviction attorneys I~e a motion for appropriate relief ("MAR") seeking
to set aside his convic~on. Among the grounds cited are an alleged failure to disclose the
extet,tt of concessions made to Porter.
December 6. 2000
Horifnan's post-conviction attorneys file aIi amendInent to the MAR containing additional
allegations and evidence concerning the alleged failure to disclose the extent of concessions
made to Porter.
February 13. 2001
Hofflnan's post-conviction attorneys fIle a second amendment to the MAR containing
additional allega:tions and evidence concerning the alleged failure to disclose the extent of
concessions made to Porter, including the itnniunity letter dated October 21, 1996, from
Assistant United "States Attorney Brian Whisler to AarQn Michel, Porter's attorney on the
feder~ bank robbery charge. The letter is attached as EXhibit 1 to the affidavit of Michel
submitted with the ~endment~ Michel's affidavit also recounts a meetiilg on October 17,
1996: with Porter, Whisler, Iloneycutt, Brewer and others where Port~r's desire for
imm1.lnity was discussed. A second affidavit of Michel dated September 12, 2003
sub~tted with the third ame~dInent to the MAR describes this meeting in more detail.

I

7

I

','

lanumy 29.2002
.
One gfHoffnian's post-conviction attorneys, RoberfHale, makes a phone call to the State
Bar and speaks with Dea.nna Brocker, Assistant Ethics Counsel. Ms. Brocket's affidavit
does not set forth the subsUplce of her conversation with Mr. Hale, but she does state that
Mr. Hale did not mention the names of the other attorneys involved in the situation and
she did not treat the call as a report ofnusconduct. She further states in het affidavit that
she treated the conversation with Mr. Hale as confidential pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. ID.
Sec ... Ol03(b), and did not report it to anyone empioye.d by the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar.

I

October 9; 2003
Hoffman's post·conviction attorneys file a t:h4'4' amendment to the MAR cont:aiDll:).g
.additional allegatioll$ and evidence concerning alleged failure to disclose the extent of
concessions ma4e to Porter, and also containing additional allegations that. the, State.
presented false evidence at trial by failing to 'correct Porter's false testimony concerning .
concessions promised to him in exchange for his testimony, and arguing the false evjdence
.
during closing argUment to thejury.
..

November 3.2003
.
Donald Fr. Jones, Director of Investigation oflhe State Bar,. reads an article' regarding the .
Hoffman case publish~d in the November .2, 2003 Raleigh News and ObserVer, and opens
a grievance file on Honeycutt.
December 18. 2003
Jones opens a grievance ~e on Brewer.
April 26. 20Q4

Superior Court Judge W. Erwin Spainhour holds ~ hearing on Hoffmants MAR.
April 30, 2004

I

.

Judge Spainhour enters an order granting the MAR based upon the non-disclosure of
Porterts federal immunity agreement, vacating HOffman;s conviction and granting, him a
new trial.
.
.
August 30. 2005
.
The State Bar files its complaint agahtst Brewer and Honeycutt before the Disciplinary
Hearing Copnnission. '
',(he contentions of the parties and the undisputed facts in connection with the application
of Rule .Ol11(e) to the allegations of the ·first and" second, claims for relief may be su~rized. as;
follows:
8

I
.. '

:',

..

..... ','

In~isPlitablY, Rule :OU1(e) prbvid~s th~t there are three possible deadlines for the
expiration of the limitations p~riod for grievances alleging fraud or concealment: (1) six
years after the acc~al of the offense; (2) one year from discovery by the aggrieved party;
(~) ',one year from dIScovery by the State Bar counsel. Disagte~ent arises concerning the
phr~se in the rule "whichever is later." The Defendants interpret the phrase to refer to
either "six years from the accrual of the offense" or. "one year after discovery of the
offense," by either the aggrieyed party or by the State Bar counsel so .that the discovery
by either triggers the one-year extension. The State Bar in its initial response argued that
in cases involving fraud or concealment by the accused attorney, the aggriev~d party must
file ,a grievance within 6 years of the misconduct or within one year after discovery of the
misconduct, whichever is later, while the State Bar counsel has one year from the date she
learps of the misconduct in which to file a grievance. After the hearing committee
informed the parties that it was rejecting the State Bar's argument, the State Bar counsel
1nad~ the alternative argument that grievances involving fraud or concealment are not
barr~d until the latest of (1) sb!: years after accrual of the offense or (2) one year from
discovery by the aggrieved party or (3) one year from discovery by the State Bar counsel.

I

I

•

There is no genuine dispute that the offenses alleged in the grievances insofar as they
encohlpass the first and second claim for reliefaccrued no later than November 13. 1996.
the d;ate of the conclusion of the Hoff:mantrial.
There is' no genuine dispute that the aggrieved party Hof:fu1an through his post-conviction
discovered the alleged offenses no later than February 13. 2001. the date of the
seco~d amendment to the MAR setting forth all of the alleged' non-di~closures. Even if
some additioilal evidence came to the attention of Hofftnail's post-conviction counsel
between then and October 9, 2003, the date of the third< amendment to the MAR,.
documentary evidence relating to the third amendment to the MAR demonstrates
conclusively that all of the evidence in the third amendment Was known to Hoffman's postconvittion counsei by at least September 12, 2004, the date they took the deposition of
Brian Whisler, the Assistant United States Attorney who had written the imJ,nuIiity letter
to Porter's attorney. The third amendment to the MAR recites at page 4 that" (t)bis third
Amendment is based prlniarily upon information obtained by counsel pursuant to Judge
HeIms' May 1,2001 Discovery Order and the September 12, 2002 deposition of AUSA
BrianL. Whisler." An affidavit f.tIed in the. Hoffman criminal case by Robert Hale, dated
September 29, 2003, states that he reviewed documents purSUl!l1t to Judge HelmS' May I,
2001 discovery order on May 7, 2001. These documents include the notes of
convetsations and meetings referred to in the State Bar's complaint and ~ttached to it as,
Exhibits 1 through 4. Therefore, the absolutely latest date that can be considered for
discovery of the offe:Pses by lloffman's counsel is September 12, 2002, the date of
Whisler's deposition. almost fourteen months before the State Bar opened its grievance file
on Honeycutt. While We conclude that Ho~'s post-conviction counsel had sufficient.
knowledge of the alleged ethical offenses by Brewer and Honeycutt at least by the time of
the f.ding of the second amendment to the MAR on February 13, 2001, even if we deem

co~el

I

,

9

I

','

of

the date of accrual from the standpoint di~covery by the aggneved party to be the "ate
of Whisler's deposition, this date still does not fall within o~ year 'of. the filing of either
of the griev~ces.
. .
.

I

There is no genuine dispute that State Bar counsel Carolin Bakewell through her agent
Donald H. Jones discovered tbe alleged offenses on November 3. 2003. and not before,
The .D~fendants originally contended that the State Bar received notice of the allegef;t
offenses through the phone call by Robert Hale to Assistant Ethics Counsel peaima
.Btocker referred· to in the timeline, but acknowledged 'at the he'aring that Ms~ Brocker's
affidavit conclusively rebutted ~is contention. bl addition, as a matter of law, notice to
Ms. Brocker would not be imputed to Carolin Bakewell, who hoids the office of the
counsel of the North Carolina State Bar referred ,to in Rule .0111(e). State Bar Rule
·~0102(5). 27 N.C.A.C. IB, Sec.. 0102(15) (defining "Co1!iisel" as "the counsel of the
North Carolina State Bar appointed by the Council" and Rule .0104 (referring to "a" .
counsel) make it clear that the word "counsel" in Rule .Oill(e) ·referssp-ecificaliy to the
one person who has been appointed as ~ State Bar counsel, a,nd not generally to attorneys
employed by the State ~ar.
.
Consequently, the three possible deadlines for the expiration of the limitations period for
grievances underlying the first and second claims for relief are:: November 12, 2002 <s~
years from accrual); Febru~ry 12, 2002 (one year front discovery by (heaggrieyedparty);
and November 2, 4004 (one year from discovery by the State B~r counsel).
A. The Ambiguity of Rule .011 He)

Under either interpretation of the rule by the State Bar, the deadline c:late would be November 2,
2004, one year from discovery by the State Bar counSel. We must agree witb the State Bar's
,

I

,

construction of the phrase "whichever is later" to, conclude that the grievances were ~ely filed:
on November 3, 2003 and Decemher 18, 2003. We cannot do so without either edi~ the text
of the rule to substitute the word "latest" for "later" (alternatively. "'and" for "or") or else hold,
'that the limitations ,period may run in less than the presumptive'six years; that is, we must either
rewrite the rule or embrace an anomaly.
At the hearing on January S, 2006, each side in the spirit of adyocacy argued that jts
interpretation reflects the clear meaning of the rule. Ina post-hearin$ memorandum, the StateJ;:lar
10

I
"

,

..

".

',t'

,'0'

now "conc~des that the Rule is not a model of ciarity .." The hearing .cpmmittee finds that the rule
is a model 'of amb~guity; See Employment Security Commission v. Blue Ridge Broadcasting

Corporation, 42 N.C. App. 702, 705-06, 257 S.E.2d 640,642, cert. denied, 298 N.C. 805,262
S.E.2d 4 (1'979)
("Petitioner has argued that tIie diffiCUlty in interpreting this statute derives from
I
its technical natlite;. We are of the opinion that the difIlcillty derives from poor draftsmanship . •

I

.. "). The phrase ~whichever is later" in Rule .0111(e) may be inte~reted in two ways: the task
of the hearlrtg collimittee is to determine which interpretation more likely reflects the intent of
the State Bat in adopting the rtIle.
Where a rule is ambiguous, we must -interpret it to give effect to the intent of the
rUleJ.ilaking body. E.g .• Frye Regional Medical Center, Inc. v. Hunt ,350 N.C. 39, 45, 510
S.E.2d. 159,. 163 (1999). There is no "legislative history" relating to the enactment of Rule
.OU1(e) reflecting the intent of the State Bar.

As noted in 'the State Bar's supplemental

memorandum, prior to the adoption of Rule .0111(e) in 1994 there was no time limit for th~ filing
of a grievance. It is reasonabl~ to assume that the State Bar adopted a limitations rule for the
same purpos~ the legislature has enacted statu~es of limitations - "to afford security against stale
ClaimS."

Tr~lerv. Pollock, 135 N.C. App. 601,607,522 S.B. 2d 84,88'(1999), review denied,

351 N.C. 480, 543 S.B. 2d 510 (2000). Even if we assume Stich was the general intent of the

I

State Bar, thi~ is of little help in resolving the specific issue of construction.
Cotmse~ for the Defendants have argued that the State Bar's interpretation.is flawed as a

. matter of poli<:y because it could result in some grievances alleging fraUdulent concealment never
beihg barred, ~o long as they do not come to the attention of the State :5arcounsel. The. State Bar
has~ however" clearly expressed an intent in the last sentence of Rule .0111(e) that no limim.tions

11

I
.....
..

-l'enod. applies to grievances alleging "felonio~s crimiruu miSconduct. »3. Therefore, the argUment
that the State Bar must not have intended to .exempt certain grievances from the IirrUtations rule .
is not persuasive.
A policy argument in favor of the State Bar's position is that the State Bar as the regulatory .

I

body charged With the protection of the public $hould be afforded the oppo;rttlnity to pursue a .'
.grievance against a lawYer even where the aggrieved party chooses not to do so, so that the State
nar must have meant tl~at ~e limitations period would not run 'unW the State Bar colinsel has .
.' notice of the conduct an~ an opportunity to decide whether to pursue a grievance. 4 This reasoning
applies equally well to' all potential lawyer grievances, however, and it seems iilcongruousthat
the Stare Bar would have made a distinction on tbis basis for some types of grievances,

bl,lt not

for others.
The State Bar in its supplemental memorandum has urged. the hem:Jrtg committee to give.
"great consideration" to the State Bar's own construction of the disputed rule, citing the. principle
that the interpretation adopted by those who administer the law in question is relevant, ~nd indeed
may be entitled to ~great weight.» Frye, supra; MacPherson v. Asheville, 283 N.C. 299, 307,

I

196 S.E~2d 200,206 (1973). Here, however, couns,el for.the State Bar admitted at the hearing
on January 20, ~()06 tbat this is the only case before the Disciplmary Hearing Commission whe~e
3As discussed below, we cO'nclude that the amendme~t to Rule .0111(e) adding this 'sentence
was not properlyadopte~. Nevertheless, it stands as an expression of the State .Bar's intent.
4

Indeed, the circumstances of this case illustrate tltis point. Michael Howell, one of Hoffnian's'

po~t-cOl1Viction atto1?leY$, has been quoted in a Raleigh News & Opserver article, dated January 12t

2006 t to -the effect
that
Hoffman's
counsel did not complaill
to the State Bar prior to a ruling
on•
__
_
_
_
•

Hoffman's MAR out of concern that it would not be in Hoffman's interest to pursue a gnevance aga~t
Honeycutt with the~tate Bar while they Were trying to secure his agreement. to the relief requested.:in
the MAR.

12

..... :..::

..

......

this issue has ever ~risen, although the limitationS question has arisen on several occasions at the
Grievance Committee level.
I

established~.

Therefore, no custollialY interpretation of the rule has been

and this argument amoUrtt$ to little more than saying the State Bar's interpretation is

correct mer¢ly because it says so. See Bowen v. Georgetown University Hospital, 488 U.S. 204,
i

212-13

(l9~8),

declining to give deference under Chevron U.S.A. Inc. v. Natural Resources

Defense Council# Inc., 467 U.S. 837 (1984), "to what appears to be nothing

mo~e than an

I

agency's convenient litigating position."
In th~ absence of any djrect indication of the State Bar's intent in adopting the rule, or of
anY'compeI1¥tg policy argument favoring one interpretation over the other, the hearing committee
must focus on the text of the rule its~lf. The State Bar has cited in its supplemental memorandum
a case from Pennsylyatrla interpreting a similarly-worded limitations- rule for the proposition that
tl;te word" laier" in the qualifying phrase "whichever is later" should be interpreted as meaning
"latest" where, as here, there are three possibl~ trig-geting events for ~e commencement period.
In Commonwealth v. Hiljiger, 419 Pat Super. .450, 615 A.2d 452 (1992), the court construed 42.

Pat Cons.

stat. Ann.

§ S53(a):

. (a)
General
rule - Except as provided in subsection (b) or (c),
.
.
: proceedings for suJl1Iliary offenses under Title 7S .(relating to
. vehicles) must be cODllllenced within 30 days after the commission
, of the alleged offense or within 30 days after the discovery of the
: commission of the offense or the identity of the offender, whichever
is later~ and pot thereafter.

I

I

In a footnote, ;the Pennsylvania. court held as follows:
•Subsection (a) is somewhat poorly drafted. .The initial clause
describes three optional happenstances which cause the statute to
,begin to run. Unfortunately, the modifying cause, "whichever is
.later," is comparative in form. With three or more options, the

13

I
.

..

..

','
"

superlative form, "whichever is latest," should more properly have

be~n employed. Tlle use of the comparative is confusing because'
it implies a choice betwe~n two options rather than among three.

Nevertheless. we have previously considered tlris section to present
tbtee happenstances from which ~e limitation period could begin
to run rather than two. See Commonwealth v. Larson, 299 Pa.
Super~ 25~, 445 A.2d 550 (1982).

I

419 Pa. Super. at 455, 615 A.2d at 454, n.3.
The hearing committee does not find Hilfiger to be persuasive. In effect, the opinion:
rewrites the Pennsylvania statute to substitute the superlative form "latest" for th~ comparative.
form "later." Nejther lIilfiger nor the Larson opinion cited in the footnote provide any rationale·
for doing so. We are called upon to interpret a disputed rule - not to rewrite it. Lex scripta est..
The State Bar deijberately used the word "later.'~ 'Yhich can refer only to two occurrences: we
must decide which two they are.

Hilfiger is the ~nly case brought to' our attention involving the interpretation of'sta,tutory
lang:nage similar to Rule .0111(e). There is also a more ~eneral principle of construction referred
to in Case law as "the doctiine of the l~st antecedent" that appears on initial review to support the
State Bar's interpretation. In HCA Crossroads R~siden#al Center~, In~, v. N. C. Department of

I

Human Resources., 327 N.C. 573, 575, 398 S.E.2d 466,469 (1990), the North Carolina Supreme
Court noted that:
By what is known as the doctrin~ of the last antecedent, relative and
qualifying words. phrase~. and clauses ordinarily are to 'be applied
to the Word or phrase i1llQlediat~ly preceding and, unless the context
intlicates a contrary intent, are not to be construed as extending to
or including others more remote.

See also State v. Jernigan, 7 N.C. 12, 18 (1819)(" As a rule·of legal construction, it stands thlls,
Proximo antece4enti fiat relatio, nisi impediatur sehtentia

14

I

!

•••

to); Novant Health. Inc. v. Aetna

0

','

U.S. Healt~care Corp., '2001 N.C.B.C. 4, NCBC Leiis (N.C.Bus.Ct. 2001). Under this
principle, "whichever is later" should be deemed' to apply to the last antecedent phrase preceding

. ,

it; i.e.• "one year·after discovery of the offense by the ~ggrieved party or by the North Carolina

State Bar cOlinsel. "
I

.

As noted in HeA, however, the doctrine "is not an absolute rule, ... but merely one aid
to the discovery of legislative intent.» ;'27 N.C. at 578. 398 S.E.2d ~t 469. The application of
I

the rule her~ leads to the anomalous result of the six year limitations period being

I

shortened

should both the aggrieved party and the State Bar counsel discover the offense less than five years
from the acsrual of the offense. It appears to the hearing committee iliat whatever the State Bar
meant to say, the intent of the discovery provision of Rule .OIU(e) was to extend under certain
circumstances
the six-year limitations period, but in 'no event to shqrten it. For this teason. we
,
hold that the :disputed language of Rule·. 0111 (e) should be interpreted to mean that for grievances
where .the discovery provision .applies, the limit~tions period expires upon the later of six years

.

from the accrual of the offense or one year from the discovery of the offense by

either the

aggrieved party or the State Bar counsel. The limitations period thus expired no later than
November 12, 2002, six years folIowing the conclusion of the Hoffman trial and approximately
one year prior to tn.e filing of the grievances against the Defendants.

I

B; The Exception for FelonioUs Criminal Misconduct .

The ~tate Bar made the contention for the fIrst time fu its supplemental memorandUili

foll~wmg th~ January 5·, 2006 hearing that portions of its compl~t allege felonious criminal
misconduct ~ specifically tlle crimes' of obsttucti9n of justice and subornation of perjury - for
which there

is no limitations period. The h,earing committee concludes that it cannot consider this
,

15

I

','

argumelitt for the reason that the sentence of

Rule .Oli"1(e) relied upon by the Statel3arwas never

properly enacted according to tQe dictates of N.C.G.~. § 84-21, tile ~nabling statute governing

the State Bar's rulemaking authority.
The fipal sentence of Rule .OlU(e) as it app~rs in the 2005 edition of the

I

Lawyer's.

Handbook published by the State Bar states that "(n)otwithstanding" the foregoing. grievances'

which allege felonious criminal misconduct may be filled with the Grievance COmmittee at.any
time." 01'1 its face, this sentence exemp!S a grievance that alleges the commission of a felony fro~
any Iiinitatio~s :period.
The State Bar's complaint does not expressly charge that the alleged conduct of the

Defendant~ constitutes "felonious criminal conduct." Customarily, when the State Bat contends
that conduct by a lawyer constitutes a crime, cOUnsel for the State Bar specifically allege the
essential elements of the' crillle in a" manner that would pass sc~tiny as a criminal indictment.
Furthermore, Rule 8.4{b) of the Revised Rule~ of Professional Conduct (Rule 1.2 of the
superseded Rules of Professional Conduct) defines the commission by, a lawyer of "8, crintiDal act
.

.

that reflects adversely on the lawyer's honesty, trustworthines.s or fitness.as it lawyer in other.
respects" as "professional misconduct.". Againt the State Bar customarily cites this lille in: .
disciplinary complaints alleging criminal misconduct. The complaint in this ac;tion, however ;-is .
devoid of any such allegations.
Nevertheless, the test of the sufficiency of the complaint under a Rule 12{b)(6) motion to
dismiss is not Whether a claim is properly labeled. Rather, it is whether the factual allegations

0

tateen as true state a claim upon which relief can be granted under some legal tbeory. whether or
not the complaint explicitly references the name of the legal theory.

Arroyo v.

Scotti~~s

16·

I

.

,

Pro)~ssional

Window Cleaning. Inc., 120

N.C.

App. 154,461 S.E.2d 13 (199$),

review

dismfssed.343 N.C. 118, 468 S.E. 2d58 (1996); Hatrisv. NCNB National Bank, 85 N.C. App.
I

,

669, :355
S:E.2d
838 (1997). Therefore, the issue is not whether the complaint specifically pleads
!
,
felonlousctiminal miscondUct by the Defendants; It does not. The issue under the RUle .0111 (e)
exception is whether the complaint contains allegations that describe what may be characterized'
I

as "f~lonioUs criminal misconduct." Arguably, it does? This issue is rendered moot, however,
I

I

by o~r
threshold
conclusion that the last sentence of Rule .0111(e) was never properly el)acted
. I
'
accoiding to the procedure mandated by the Legislature in·N.C.G.S. § 84-21, and therefore the
,:

f

amen~en~

no .effect.

purportedly adopting the exception for "felonious criminal conduct" is void and of

I

The North Carolina State Bar is an agency of the State of~orth Carolina, created by the
.

.

Legislature 'in 1933. N.C.O.S. § '84..-15. As a state agency, the State Barbas such powers as the
Legislature has granted to it in Article 4 of Chapter 84 of the General Statutes. N.C.G.S. § 8415, etlseq. lThe govertunent of the State Bar.is v~sted in an elected State Bat CoUncil. N.C.O.S.
'.

I . .

.

§ 84-17.
The
Council has the general power to regulate the professional conduct of licensed
I
.

iawyefs, N.C.O.S.§ 84-23(a), and specifically to exercise disciplinary jurisdiction "under such
I

rules and
I
I

I

p~ocedures

•

•

•

as the Council shall adopt as provided in G.S. 84-23."
.

N.C.G.~. §

84-

I

28(a).!

!

1

•

Although the hearing committee need not make a conclusion in tIlls regard in light of our
holdink that the amendment to Rule .0111(e) adding the last sentence was never properly enacted, we
notettiat in fairness to the Defendan~ we would require that the State Bar amend its complaint to set
forth specifically the "felonious criminal conduct" it relies upon before ruling on this aspect of the
Defenqants' motion to dismiss.
: S

17

I
'.':."

.,.

The procedure for the adoption and amenc'l:ment of rules and'regulations by the State Bar
Council is set forth inN.C.O.S. § 84-21, which t~ads

mits entirety as follows:

The rules and regulations adopted by the COUIicil under this Article
lllay be amenqed 'Qy the Council from time to time in any manner
not inconsistent with this Article. Copies of all rules and
regUlations and of all amen~nts adopted by the Council shall be
certified to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina, entered by the No11l1 Carolina Supre:q1e Court upon its
minutes, and published in the next ensuing number of the North
Carolina Reports and in the North Carolina Administrative Code:
Provided, that the court may decline to have so entered upon its
minutes any rules, regulations cmd amendments which in the
opinion of the Chief Justice ate inconsistent with this Article.

I

The statute mandates that in addition to being adopted by the Council, an amen4lIieiit to
a State Bar :rule must be:
(1) certified to the Chief Justice of the North Carol~ Supreme Court;

(2) enterec;l by the Supreme Court in its minutes;
.

.

(3) published in the next ensuing number of the North CaroliIia Repo;rts; and
(4) published in the North Carolina Ac:lIilinistrative Code.

All of the required steps to enact the amendment to Rule .OlU(e) passed by the Council in 1998

I

were followed, with the exception that it was never published in the North Carolina Reports.
Thougb the failure to publish was an oversight, it is an oversight that renders the amendment
. ineffective. 6

6The following describes ~ow this si~tiotl came to the attention Qf the hearing cortnnittee: '.
During the first hearing on' January 5, 2006, counsel for IIoneycutt mentioned that the exception fQt
"felonious criminal conduct" was not part of Rul~ .0111(e) in 1996 when Hoffman was tried, but was
added later by an amendment to Rule .OI11(e)~ Upon receivijig the State Bat's supplemental
memorandum on January 11, 2006 setting forth tb.e argument based upon the last sen~ence of Rule
;0111(e), tbe chair of the bearing committee &earcbed the North Carolina Reports inap attempt to
determine the. date of the amendment to verify that it Was passed prior to the eXpiration of the

18

I
.

":,:

....

\'

-

':'-1 {, !

According t~ the affidavit Of Christie Spefr Carrietoil, Clerk of theNorth Carolina Supreme
CO'ijrt, ~eamendmeilt to Rille .0111(e) adding the last sentence was approved by the Supreme

.Court by order dated December 30. 1998 and ordered published in the North Carolina Reports,
but that

"[~]he

amendment ... was not published in the North Carolina Reports, owing to an

unintentional oversight. "
It is axiomatic tliat a governmental agency only has such powers as the legislative body

I

has granted! to it through enabling legislation. and· in performing its rulemaking function an agency
must follow the procedure prescribed by statute.· The United Stares Supreme Court affmned this
I

principle recently in Gonzales v. Oregon, 126 S.Ct. 904,916 (2006).
Counsel for the State Bar at the continued heating on January 20, 2006 argued that the
limitations period that the hearing committee had determine applied to this action; i.e., prior to
. November 12, 2002. Once an action is barred by a statute of limitations. it canrtot be revived by repeal
or amendment of the statute, but a limitations period ~y be extended for an already existing claim so'
long as it is *ot already barred prior to the effective'date of the extension. Jewell v. Price. 264 N.C.
459, 142 S.~.2d 1 (1965). The history note to Ru1e .0111(e) appearing in the North Carolina. State Bar
Lawyer's Handbook indicates that the only such amendment was on October 1, 2003, which would
have been too late to apply to this case. The North Carolina Administrative Code does list the
purported amendment of December 30, 1998, see 27 N.C.A.C. 1B, Sec .. 0111, which if effective
w01114 apply here, since as of that date the limitations period had not run. On January 11, Dottie
Miani. the Clerk of the Disciplinary Hearing Cotnmission, faxed to the 'chair a copy of a page from the
State Bar's gjIarterly magazine indicating that the North Catolina Supreme Court had approved the
~endnlent to rule .Oill(e) on December 30, 1998, as well as other amendments to State Bar Rules
.not at issue here. The hearing committee chair still cou1d not locate any publication of the rUle in the
North Carolma Reports, and asked counsel for the State Bar to investigate ·further. On January 12
counsel for the State Bar wrote a letter to the hearing committee chair stating that they had contacted
f,::hristie Speir Cameron, the Clerk of the North Carolina Supreme Court, and that Ms. Cameron had
"determined that none of the rule amendments approved by the Court on December 30,.1998 were sent
to the printer for publication. owing to a clerical oversight at the Court." On Janua,ry 13, Ms.
Cameron exe~Uted an affidav~t reciting these facts and indicating that tIle amenQment wou1d be
published in t~e next North Carolina Reports with an. expl~tory note. The chair of the hearing
committee th~n ordered th~t the hearing be reconvened on January 20. 2006, primarily for the purpose
of considering the Sblte Bar's argument regarping the amendment to Rille .0111(e).

I~

19

I
.

I

','

hearing cointnittee should find the amendmen.t to be v~lid because the statutory procedure had

,

i

beell substantially complied with. citing N.C.G.S. § 15013-18, a provision of the North Caroljna'

Administrative Procedure Act which states that a rule of an administrative agency "is not valid
unless it is adopted in substantial compliance with this Article." The Administratiye Proced1.JIe, .

I

Act, Chapter 150B of tQe North Carolina General Statutes, sets forth the ~eneral statutory
rramework for administrative rulemaking and adjudicatory procedures for North Carolina state
:.agencies. Although· the State Bar is not expressly exempted from the A~strative :procedure
Act,? N.C.G.S. § 84-21 establishes a separate rulemaking pro~edure for the State:Bat than that
set forth in tb.e Administrative Procedure Act.

The Administrative Procedure Act itself

acknowledges the unique nature ofthe State Bar's rUlemaking. N.C.G.S. § 150B-21.21(a). The
North Caroiina Supreme Court has held that the directions of N.~.G.S. § 84-21 "IIlust govern
over the general rule-making provisions of the APA." Bring v. State Bar, 348 N.C. 655, 660, .
501 S.E.2d907, 910 (1998).

N.C.O.S.§ 84-21 says nothing about the validity of the adoption of a rule in ."substantial
compliance" with its mandate. Bring, supra the only reported case dealing wi~ the validity of
l

I

a State Bar Rule, appears to hold that publication in the North Carolina Reports is necessary fot
prqper adoption of a State Bar rule. In response to a challenge to

~

rule of the Board of Law

Examiners requiring that an applicant for admission to practice must graduate from ~ Council•.
approved law school, the ·Court stated:
The Board's rules, including Rule .0702, were submitted to this

'Agencies listed iIi N.C.O.S. § 150B-l(c) are fully exempt from the Administrative Procedure
Act, and those listed in lS0B-l(d) are exempt frOin the Act's rulemaking proviSions.
.

20

I
... :.... '.

.

.... ",

;;

,
","

Court as required by N.C.G.S.' § 84-2i and published ai volume
326, page 810 of the North Carolina Reports. This complies with
the statutory requirement. Rule" 0702 was properly adopted.
This holdili~ implies that if the disputed rule had not been published in the North Carolina Reports
, then the statutory requirelI:\ent would not have been complied with, and the rule would no~ have
been properly adopted. See American Standard. Inc. v. U.S., 220 Ct. Cl. 411, 602 F .2d 256, 267
.

,

(Ct. Cl. 1979) (Under the federal Administrative Procedure Act, a substantive rule is invalid if

I

notice of proposed rulemaIcing is not- published iIi the Federal Register in accordance with the
notice requifements of the Act.)
Even. if the hearing coInmittee were inclined to consider "substantial compliance" with the
statute to be Isufficient for valid adoption of the rule, it does not necessarily follow that we should
find such su1;>stantiaI compliance to be present here. We do not see a compelling basis to conclude
that the publication requirement is aJlY less

~damental

than any of the other requirements

enumerated jn N.C.G.S. § 84-21. While an innocent failure to publish the amendment.itl the
North Carolina Reports ~Y seem like a mere technicality, it is no more so than the requirement
in Article TI, Sectiol:l22 of the North Carolina Constitution, that ho legislative bill shall become .
law unless it "shall be read three times in each b,ouse."
The :Legislature has established the procedure for the rulemaking by the State Bar and the

I

Supreme Court has held that the procedure must be followed: there is no authority- for a hearing
C?mmittee o~ the Disciplinary Hearing Commission to disregard these directions and ignore what
we must cortclude was a fatal error in the adoption of the purported '1998 amendment to Rule
.Ol1l(e).

Having concluded that the application of Rule .0111(e) time-bars the State Bar's first and
21

I

l.( 70

','

second claims for relief, the Defendants' first motion to dismiss is granteq, an,d the flI'st $1d
second claims for relief in the complafut are dismissed with prejudice.

, SECOND MOTION TO DISMISS
The Defendants" second motion to dismiss is directed toward the first, second and a .

I

portion of the third claim for relief in the State 1.lar's complaint. The motion is predi~ated upon
the alleged preclusive effect of certain fIndings of fact ,and one conclusion of law in an order dated
April 30, 2004, entered by the Honorable W. "Erwin Spainhour arising out of a hearing on
Ho:ffroan's MAR on April 26, 2004, to theeffe~t that the Defendants had no 10l0wleqge of
Porter's federal immunity deal.

Since c011$ideration of this motion necessarily entails

an

exanlination o( materials from the Hoffman criminal case that do 'not appear on the face of the
complaint, the hearing committee treats this motion as one tor partial summary judgment unde),'
,

,

.

Rule 56(c). We conf;lude that .tudge Spainhour's findings are not binding upon us either as a
matter of subject m~tter jurisdiction or through application of the preclusion doctrines of

res judicata or collateral estoppel, and therefore deny thiS motion.
Defendants contend that 1:b.e following findings of faf;t and conclusion of law contained in

I

Jud~e

Spainhour's order are bineting upon the Disciplihary Hearing Commission, and bat

prosecution, by the State Bar of the Defendants on any claims of professional misconduct atisittg
from allegations relating to the grant of federalinununity given to Porter itt exchange for his
testimony against :Hoffman as containeg in the letter of October 21, 1996, frOin Assistant l,Jriited
States Attorney Brian Whisler to ~orter's attorney Aaron Michel:
(Findings ,of Fact)
10.

Neither District Attorney HOlieycjJtt nor Assistant District
22

I

.... : .

","

Attorney Brewer sought, requested.ot participated in any
discussion regarding the federal immunity agreement.

11.

AUSA Whisler did not inform District Attorney Honeycutt
or AS$istant District Attorney Brewer of the" fact of the
federal immunity agreement.

21.

AUSA Whisler did not inform District Attorney Honeycutt,
Assistant District Attorney Brewer, or any other State
official, of the existence of the federal immunity letter, and
that Whisler has stated, under oath, that he believed he had
no reason to inform them.

I

(Conclusion of Law)

4.

Based upon the agency relationship existing between the
federal government and. the State, knowledge of the federal
immunity agreement, entered into by AUSA Whisler and
Porter's attorney i\aroh Michel is, as a Il.1atter of law,
imputed to tlle District Attorney and Assistant District
Attorney who prosecuted this case even though. AUSA
Whisler did not inform the State of the agreement or involve
the State in any as.pect of the negotiation process . (emphasis
add~d)

.

,

The Defendants acknowledge that the State Bar and the courts of North Carolina have
concurr<?nt jurisdiction over ~ttorney discipline. The jurisdiction of the State Bar is statutory (see
the discussion relating to N.C.O.S. § 84-23, supra), whereas the courts have the inher~nt poWer
,
.
to discipline:attomeys who appear before them. Gardner v. State Bar, 316 N.C. 285, 287-88.
341 S.E. 2d 517, 519 (1986).

I

TIle State Bar Council has adopted 27 N.C.A.C. lB, Sec.

.Oi02(c)(5), a rule that states explicitly:

I

It is the position of the North Carolina State Bar that no trial court
haS the authority to preempt a North Carolina State Bar disciplinary
proceeding with a pending civil or crimirtal court proceeding
involving attorney conduct, or to dismiss a disciplinary proceeding
23

I
........

.......

pending before the North Carolina "State Bar.

In State Bar v. Randolph, 325 N.C. 699,

386 S.B. 2d 185 (19S9), the Supreme Court held that

a superior court judge had no jurisdiction to disttliss agrievan~e pending before the State Bar.
Judge Spainhbur's order therefore cannot preempt the jurisdiction of the State Bar to bring :this
diSciplinary proceeding. His order should be given preclusive effect here if ~d only if the
,

'

requirements of either res judicata or collateral estoppel are satlsfied.

Res judicata and col1ateral estoppel are closely related doctrines, and have been the subject
of general discussion in numerous North Carolina appellate court cases.

See. e.g., Whitacre

Partnership v.1Jio~ignia. Inc., 358 N.C. I, 15-16, 591 S.E.2d 870, 818-880 (2004); Thomas
McInnis & Associates. Inc. v. Hall, 318 N.C. 42i, 421-35, 349 S.E.2d 552,556-60 (1986). Res
judicata is often referred to as "claim preclusion," while collateral. estoppel is often referred to
as "issue preclusioIi." Whitacre Partnership. supra.
The essential elements for the application of res judicata are as follows:
(1) a final judgment on the merits in an earlier suit, (2) an identity
of the Causes of action in both the earlier and the later suits, and (3)
all identity of the parties or tlleir privies in the two suits.

I

H~gan v. Cone Mills Corporation; 315 N.C. 127, 135,337 S.E.2d 477,482 (1985); Caswell

Realty Associates I. L.P. v. ArtdrewsCompany. Inc., 128 N.C. App. 716, 720, 496 S.E.2d 601,
611 (1998).
None of the elements for res judicata are present here~' The order of Judge Spainhour is
not a final judgIilent in State v. Hoffman, and indeed as ?f the entry ofthis order Hoffman is still.
'awaiting retrial. The caUses of action and the parties are clearly not identi,cal. the oIle being a
criminal prosecution and the other being ~ diSCiplinary action against the erstwhile prosecutors of.
24,

"":'

','

the crimi~l defendant.
The consideration of collateral estoppel requires more discussion. The elements necessary
for application of collateral estoppel are as follows:
The requirement for the identity of issues to which collateral
estoppel may be applied have' been established by
court as
follows: (1) the issues must. be the same as those involved in the
prior action; (2) the issues must have been raised and actually
litigated in the prior action; (3) the issues must have been material
and relevant to the disposition of the prior action, and (4) the
detennination of the issues in. tlle prior action must have been
necessary and essential to the resulting judgment.

this

I

State v. Summers, 351 N.C. 620, 623, 528 S.E.2d 17, 20 (2001)8
I

As ifot res judicata, none of the. elements of collateral estoppel are satisfied ·here.
Fundamenrally, the reason is because the duty of a prosecutor under Brady to disclose exculpatory
and impeachment evidence in a criminal case applies without regard ~o whether the prosecutor has
personal knowledge of the existence of the evidence, whereas a violation of ethical rules generally
.
,
requires proof of such knowledge.
I

Suppression of favorable evidence violates Brady even if done inadvertently and without
the knowledge of the prosecutor. Giglio v. U.S., 405 U.S. 150, 154 (1972). See generally.
I

.Monroe v. Angelone, 323 F.3d 286 (4th Cit. 2003). Rule 7.2(4) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct (now Rule 3.8(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct) cited by the State Bar

I

in the complaint provides that the prosecutor in it :criIilinal case shall:
:
8Cas'es also ~tate that. there must be a final judgment in the prior action. ChaplaiiJ v. Chaplain,
101 N.C. App. 557,559, 400S.E.2d 121,122, review dented, 328 N.C. 570,403 S.B. 2d 508 (1991);
Phipps v. Paley, 90 N.C. App 170, 173,368 S.B. 2d 21,24, review denied, 323 N.C. 175,373
S.E.2d 114 (1988). Although technjcally there is ~ot yet Ii fmal judgment in the lIoftinan criminal
case, we de~m Judge Spainhour's MAR order to be a final order in regard to those matters at issue
here for purposes of analyzing the collateral estoppeJ issue.

25

I
.. ':."

make timely disclosure to the defem~ of ail evidence or information
known to the prosecutor that tends to negate the guilt of the accused
or mitigate the offense .... (emphasis added)
The ethical rule is thilS narrower in scop-e in this respect than the due process rules of Brady and
its progeny. See R. Rosen, "Disciplinary Sanctions Against Prosecutors for Brady Violation; A

I

Paper Tiger, "65 N.C.L. Rev. 693, 712-15--(1987). Bm see, State Ba'rv. David Hoke and Debra
Graves, 04 DHC 15, ~nding a violation of Rule 3.8(d) basecl upon a nondelegabie legal duty of
a prosecutor to know the cont~nts of hisfil~, rather than actual knowledge. 9

The parties t6 the Hoftjnan MAR hearing - and even Judge Spainhour himself _
explicitly. recognized that whether the prosecutors knew of the Whisler letter was inuna~ri~l to
the inquiry of wb,ether a Brady violation entitling Hoffman to a new trial had occurred.
The transcript of the hearing reflects that Honeycutt stated to the court:
it is illy opinion that justice demands and an fairness requires that
Jonathan Gregory Hoffman be awarded a new trial based on the
Brady violation, which. as you know, does not require a prooiof
fault on behalf of _anyone.

I
9The ethical duty to disclose is broader than the Brady due process standard in that ethical nil~$
- including Rule 3.8(d) - do not include a materiality requifement. See R. Rosen, supra, 65 N.C.L.
Rev. at 714. Materiality in the Brady context means that the uncUsclosecl evidence might haye affected
1:he outcome of the trial. U.S. v. AgurS, 427 U.S. 97, 104 (1976); U.S.- v. Bagley, 473 U.S. 667, 6~2
(1985). "The evidence ~s material only if there is a reasonabie probability that. had the evidence been
disclosed t6 the defense; the resUlt of the proceeding would have been different." Therefore, an
immaterial - but intentional -nondisclosure of excuipatory evidenc~ by a prosecutor could t:>e founei
to be a violation of the ethical rule and still not violate Brady. "If the_ suppression of evidence results in
constitutional error, it is because of the cllatacter of the evidence, not the character of the prosecutor."
Agurs, supra, 427 U.S. at 110.

26

I

(Tr. of April 26, 2004 MAR hearing, p.. 5)(emphasis added)10
.Following the hearmg, Robert Hale, one of H9ffman~s post-conviction attorneys, sent a cover
letter to Judge Spainhour enclosing a proposed order and noting that the prosecution had conceded
that a new trial was requited under Brady "based on imputed knO'wledge, specifically the agency
relationship between the state and federal govermnents."· The letter further states:
ln .tight of the parties' position that imputed knowledge O'f the
federal immunity deal is suffiCient to satisfy the demands of Brady,
we believe that it would be unnecessary and inapprO'Priate for the
order to address tile issue of whether or no~ the District Attorney's
office had actual knowledge of the implunjty deal. . This issue
remains controverted between the parties.

i

I

Judge spainhour's conclusion of law number 3 in his April 30, 2004 order following the MAR
hearing state~ that "(r)elief under Brady does nO't require actual knowledge by the government."

It is thus apparent that the knO'wledge of Brewer and HO'neycutt of the Whisler letter was
•

I

nOt actually litigated in connection with the Hoffman MAR hearing, that the issue of their

knowledge was neither material not relevant to the granting· of a new trial to Hoffman, and that
the

concede~. agency

relationship between the federal and state prosecutors rendered Judge

SpainhO'ur's qetermination that Brewer and Honeycutt had not been infotnied of Porter's federal
I

immunity deal Iieithernecessary nor essential to his O'rder.

I

In shon, Judge Spainhour's findings and conclusiO'ns bearing upon Honeycutt and Brewer's

knowledge ofthe federal immunity agreement cannot be the basis for collateral estoppel, and. are
IOThe April 26, 2004 MAR hearing transcript also reveals that the issue of what the prosecUtors
hew and whe~ they hew of the WhiSler letter was not "actually litigated" in any meaningful sense.
The transcript is all of' ten pages long, the bulk of which cOilsists of Honeycutt addressing the court.
He was not under oath and was not subject to cross-e~irtation by Hoffman's counsel. Brewer was
not present at the hearing. havitlg long since departed the diStrict attorney's office to bec~e a district
court judge.
27·

I

not binding here. The Defendants' second m:~tioIi to diSini$s is therefore denied.

THIRD MOTION TO. DISMISS
The Defendants' third ~otion to dismiss i$ directed toward the second claim for relief in
.

the complaint. The thrust of the second claim for relief is set forth in paragraph S5,

I

,

al1~ging that

"Brewer and Honeycutt deliberately avoided inquiring into whether Porter had been ~anted
concessions or imm~nity agreements by the United States .government." The hel!.ring coiiunittee' .
treats this motion as a' pure Rule 12(b)(6) motion, and concludes that this allegation, deemed to
be true, is sufficientto,aIlege a violation'offormer Rulel,~(d) (presentRule 8.4(d», and _ baSed
upon Disciplinary Heating Commission precedent - a violation offormerRule 7.3(4) (now Rule
3.8(d».
While the specific ethical rule relat~g to the disclosure of exclilpatory evidence by a
. prosecutor (t'orinerly Rule 7.3(4). now Rule 3.8(d), addressed in 1:Jle discussion above relating to .
Defendants' second motioh to dis~iss) literally applies only to evidence or information "moWn
to the prosecutor, " there are cases interpreting a ptosecutor's duty under Brady to encompass an
obligation to make a reasonably diligent inquirjr to determine whether exculpatory or impeac~ent

I

evidence exists. See, e.g.• U.S. v. Perdomo, 929 F.2d 967 (3d Cll'. 1991); U.S. v. OSorio, 929
F. 2d 753 (lst Cir. 1991), U.S. v. Auten,.632 F.2d 478 (5 th Cit'. 1980); U.S. v. Bumside,824 F.

Supp. 1216 (N.D. Ill'. 1993). As stated in Auten, "(i)f disclosure was excused In instances
. where the prosecution has not sougbt out information readily available to it, we would be inyiting
and placIng a premiUlll on conduct unworthy ofrepresentatives of the United States Government."
Furthermore, the Disciplinary Hearing COrnrrPssion iri the case of State B~r v. David Hoke tl~d
Debra Graves, 04 DHC 1~, .collcluded that prosecutors violatecl their disclosure duty under Rille

28

I
"':'.:'

'.

'

','

3 .8(d) in f~i1ing to produce exculpatory witness ~te~iew reports based upon a legal duty to mow
the contents of the investigative files, even in the absence of sufficient proof that the prosecutors
had actual 'knowledg~ of the inteview reports. We are persuaded that the adoption by a prosecutor
of.a "headjn the sand" attitude toward his Brady obligation, as is alleged in the second claim for
relief, wouid violate the ethical rules cited by the State Bar. We therefore deny Defendants' third
motion to dismiss.

I

FOURTH MOTION TO DISMtS$
The Defenqants' foprth motion to dismiss is

.bi substance two motions. The first is. a

procedural due procesS attack based upon the assertion that the allegations of the second and third
,

claims for rel~ef in the State Bar complaint were not contained in either the Letter of Notice or the
Substance of Grievance sent to each Defendant by the Grievance Committee of the State Bar
Council. the second motion - though not expressly framed as such - challenges the legal
.sufficiency: of the· allegations of the third clain1 for relief asserting that the Defendants violated
Ru1es 3.1 and 8A(d) "(b)y continuing to·oppose Hoffman's motion for appropriate relief after
~ebmary 2001" and "(b)y failhl:g to.concede that Hoffman was entitled to a new trial pursuantto

Brady until!Apri12004." The hearing committee treats these as two separate motions. We deny
the first and grant the second, with the result that the third claim for relief is dismissed with
I

I

prejudice.
A.

Procedural Due Process
Counsel for the Defendants at the hearing in this matter indicated that they did not wish

to argue th¢ procedural due process issue, although they were not fonnally withdrawing the
,

motion based .upon it. Indeed, the argument is meritless. In State Bar v. Braswell, 67 N.C.
29

I

'.'

.

.

App. 456, ~58, 313 S.E.2d 272, 274, reviewdeni~4, 311 N~C. 305, 317, S.B. 2d 681 (19~4),the
North Catolina Court of Appeals held that there is. no requrrementtIUtt a letter of notice' even be
sent to an attorney prior to ftling a complaint ag~inst the attorney before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission, 'and that " (t)he filing of a formal compiaint satisfies defendant's right to be informed

I

of and respond to the charges against him." The Defendants bere thus have no basis to complain
that their due process rights were violated: ll The Statel3ar's complaint is sufficient notice,oithe
charges against them. . .
B.

The Legal Sufficiency of the Third Claim for Relief
The third claim for relief is based upon the proposition that the fail~e of the Defen~ts

to concede that Hoffinan was entitled toa new trial after they indisputably became aware of the
Whisler immunity letter constitute!; an independent violation of Rule 3.1, even if the Defenda.nts

.

.

were l,lDaware of the letter at the time oithe Hoffman trial in November of 1996. In relevant part.
Rule 3.1 states that:
A lawyer shall not bring or defend a proceeding, or assert OJ:
controvert an issue therein, unless there is a basis in law and fact
for doing so that is not frivolous" which includes a good faith
argumentfor an extension, modification or reversal of existing la~.

I

Implicit in this claim is the notion that

revers~

of Hoffinan's conviction was inevitable, and;

conseque~t1y the Defendants had a continuing duty after theHoffinan trial to refrain fr?m res~ting

Hoffman's claim in the MAR that he was entitled to a new trial. While we Cantlot inquire ona .

11 A letter of notice is a letter from the chairperson .of the Grievance Commi~e to a reSi?onde~t
attorney in connection with the initial investigation of a grievance directing the attorney to respond to
the grievance. 27 N.C.A;C. lB, Sec..0l12(c). A "substance of grievance" is a sWiUnary of the
grievance that typically accompanies the letter. of notice.

30

','

........ -

motion to dismiss into the question of whether a reversal was "inevitable," the hearing co:mnrlttee
can make a :determination of whether the Defendants had a legal duty to refraili from opposing
i

.

,

Hoffman's MAR.
I

Rule: 3.1 applies to an attorney in the role as advocate. Comment [1] to Rule 3.1 expressly
refers to

th~

"advocate." Paragraph 59 of the State Bar's complaint explicitly alleges that 1:he

Defendants i,through counsel" contin~ed to oppose Hoffman's motions for appropriate relief. The

I

con:tplaint d~es not allege that the Defendants as counsel continued to oppose Hoffman's MAR.
The Defend~111ts' attack on the third claim for relief is based in part on the fact that they did not
,

act as advocates in theHoftihan post-conviction proceedings. AJ; is customary in state court postconviction ~rol:eedings in capital cases, the State was represented by the Office of the North

,

Carolina Au:orney General, specifically Special Deputy Attorney General Jill Cheek. She alone
signed the State's answer to Hoffman's third amendment to his MAR.

12

While Honeycu~

appeared for the State in a "second chair" role, Brewer did not participate in the MAR
proceedings at all. If the third claim for relief sufficiently states an ethical violation against
Honeycutt and Brewer, then logically Ms. Cheek - and even the Attorney General himself - are
equally culpable.
The allegation in paragraph 59 of the co~p~~t that Brewer and Honeycutt continued to

I

oppose Ho:ffP1an's MAR "through counsel" (presumably Ms. Cheek) and the Defendants' "advice
i

of counsel" 'defense in response to this allegation are both off 1:he mark. Ms. Cheek did not

12whlle we decide this motion on the basis ofRu1e 12(b)(6) and do not consider these matters
outside the plbadings as essential to the hearing committee's ruling, We pOrnt them out to give context
to our reasoning.

31

I

.,.

represent Brewer and Honeycutt: she represented the State of North Carolina. Brewer and
Honeycutt were not her clients. The real que$tion'is whether Rule 3.1 imposes vicarious ethical
liability upon Brewer and Honeycutt for the State's conduct of the defense of the MAR
proceedings. We do-not see a basis ror sUch a holding.

I

The success of this gambit depends upon whether the Claim can be analogized to ~e
continuing profes$ional duty concept first formUlated in medical malpractice c~ses~ and later,
recognized as at leastpoten~l1y applicable to attorney malpractice claims by theNorth Carolina
Supreme Cou,rt in Hargett v. Holland, 337 N.C. 651, 447 S.E.2d 784 (1994). Under this,
.

,

doctrine, if a lawyer has a continuing contractual4uty to a client in connection with a matter, then
the statute of limitations will not be deemed to run for a completed act of m81practice so long as,
the lawyer is under a contractual duty to rectify the mistake. While discussed in the: case law, it
has never actually been applied to extend the statute of liInitations in any reported case involVing.
legal malpractice, as recently noted in an unpublished opinion of the North Carolina Court, of
Appeals. NormanHomeFumishings, Inc. v. Mayo, 2006 N.C. App. Lexis241 (N.C. App.,~eb.
7 f 2006). Neither has there been any suggestion that it could apply outside the attorney-client

I

relationship, and of course there was no such relationship between Hoffman and the Defenaants
.here.

The 'complaint must stap,d or fallon whether the State Bar can avoid tbebar of its

limitations rule for an alleged ethical violation that accrued no later than Hoffman's trial ill
November of 1996 - not whether some new and distinct ethical duty devolved. upon the
1;)efendants when the full extent of Porterts federal immunity deal carne to light as a matter of
PUblic recprQ by at least February of 2001.
Having concluded that the third claim for relief fails to state a claim upon which teliefcan
32

I

,.

.,.

be granted, we grant the Defendants' fourth motion for r~lief directed toward the legal sufficiency
of this claim, and dismiss the third claim for relief with prejudice.

CONCLUSION
The dismissal of the first and second claims for relief on limitations grounds and the
dismissal of the third claim for relief for failure to state a claim" mea.,l that qIe State Bar's
complaint is dismissed in its entirety

w~thout

reachirtg the merits. Thehearihg committee is

I

acutely aw~e that this result pleases no one - including the Defend~nts. who have forcefully
denied any: wrongdoing but nevertheless remain under a clolld of unresolved charges against
them. The allegations of the first two claims in the complaint describe serious prosecutorial
misconduct, which ifprovert through the clear. cogent and convincing evidentiary standard applied

in ciisciplinary proceedings would undOUbtedly merit severe sanctiol).S. That such misconduct may
'go 'undiscip,lined is difficult to accept.
We ;are also mindful of the negative consequences dismissal without a full evidentiaIy
"hearing may have on the public's confidence and that of lawyers themselves in the capacity of the
legal profession to regulate itself, especially in light of the controversy' surrounding another recent
Disciplinar)' Hearing Connnlssion decision involVing allegations of prosecutorla1 misconduct,

I

State Bar v. David Hoke and Debra Graves. 04 DHC 15.
Nevertheless, we cannot allow these concerns to dissuade us from reaching the conclusion
that the applicable law compels dismisSal of $e State Bar's complaint. As Justice Bobbitt wrote
in Sheatin v. Lloyd, 246 N.C. 363, 370, 98 S.E.2d 508, 514 (1957), limitations rules "are
inflexible ahd unyielding. They operate inexorably without reference to the merits of plaintiff's
cause of action." As strong as the urge may be to find an e~ception to the bar of RUle .0111(e)
33

I

"."

and proceed to a hearing on the merits, to do so withol1t legal justification wouid be a failure. to .
. carry out faithfully the adjudicatory function entrusted to us.

NOW, tHERBFORE, based upon the foregoing, it is HEREBY ORDERED .that the
Defendants' first motion'to dismiss is granted, tbeir second iUld third motions to dismiss are
denied, their fourth motion to dismiss is granted in part and denied in part, and the State Bat's
cOPlplaint is dismissed with prejudice.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members, thi~, the4th
day of April, 2006.

b~
'.

.

-'. .,..

~

~
....
.

Lane W iaII;lSon
Chair, Disciplinaty Hearing Committee

F~

I

34

I

:,

~-.~,

