A.("f45

6;

a

",\.Iv'
...
~~'

• i.,

..

" , .<.9~;
""R llll!)1
,;;...<
..'
:;...--: .

k'S'
--f?

\~Ln

,. (GJtJ

R~_0;.i

'. . . '

--" ~

STATEOFNORTHCARO~A f\tfiJ,~ ~
{tf&

WAKE COUNTY

DISCI
~

,tl; ,

'~tL> JJ't\V:>
'~'i.[202~\

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14DHC20

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

PAUL T. JACKSON, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D, Michael, Chair, arid members Joshua W. Willey, Jr.
and Bradley Lail, pursuant to North Carolina' Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1,
SUbchapter B, § .OI14(h). Plaintiff was represented by Barry S. McNeill, Deputy
Counsel. Defendant, Paul T. Jackson, was represented by Douglas J. Brocker and K.
Brooke Ottesen of The Brocker Law Firm, p.A. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate
and agree to the findings offae! and conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order and
to the discipline imposed. Defendant has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the
foregoing findings offaet and consents to the conclusions oflaw and entry of the order of
discipline. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry
of this consent order of discipline. '
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact

I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 oflhe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 .of the North Carolina Administrative Code). .
2.
Defendant, Paul T. Jacks.on O,'jaol,<:son" or "Defendant"}, was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on August 29,'1998, !lnd'is, and Was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice, in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the
State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regl,llations of the North Carolina State Bar and
the Rules of Profess,ional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Jackson was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina as an Assistant District
Attorney in Proseeutorial District II B in Smithfield, Johnston County, North Carolina.

4.
On JUlle 12, 2011; Elio Santos De La Cruz ("De La Cruz") was arrested on
charges of felony possession of cocaine, felonious restraint, and second degree rape of a
mentally disabled woman ("N S·C"), in State v. De La Cruz, Nos. II CRS 53550 and
53562 (Johnston C o u n t y ) . "
.:; \~. '-!!-'F

;,

,

5.
A rape kit collected from N SeQm!!s sellt to the North Carolina State
Crime Laboratory ("Crime Lab") for DNA testing on or about J1me 17,2011.
6.
On July 11,2011, a Johnston County Grand Jury returned true bills of
indictment against De La Cruz charging him with the felonies referenced in Paragraph 4
above.
7.
Pursuant to local rules for docket management, the court declared De La
Cruz's case as "Exceptional," resulting in the case receiving specialized scheduling
orders as deemed "appropriate and just" by the Senior Resident Superior Court Judge.
8.
On July 14, 2011, De La Cruz's attorney filed a request for voluntary
discovery pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § I5A-903(a), and alternative motion for discovery
seeking, among other things, the results of the DNA testing referenced in Paragraph 5
above, as well as any exculpatory evidence.
9.
De La Cruz remained in pretrial confinement pending the felony charges
referenced in Paragraphs 4 and 6 above.
10.
Jackson was assigned to prosecutethe'charges against De La Cruz
referenced in Paragraphs 4 and 6 above. .:: ;,\ .. ;""., ..
. ,.I .•

,

II.
Jackson initially responded 0:;' iuly 26, 2011 to the request for voluntary
discovery filed by De La Cruz's attorney and provided supplemental discovery responses
to him on the following dates: August 24, September 2, September 7, and October 3,
2011 and on March 6, June 20, and August 3,'2012.
12.
On February 28,2012, Jackson forwarded a facsimile letter to the Crime
Lab requesting that the DNA testing be expedited; noting that De La Cruz had been in
custody since June 2011 and that "[t]he Court continues to question the State regarding
the pending analysis because tbe results oftbe· analysis are critical to tbe defend.nt's
decision regarding whether or not to plead gtiilfy." .
13.
De L. Cruz's attorney filed motions to dismiss based on speedy trial
grounds on May 8, 2012, October 30, 2012, and December 5, 2012.
14.
In all three motions to dismiss, De La Cruz cited the Crime Lab's
"unnecessary delay in processing the DNA fi'om the 'Rape Kit''' as the cause for the
delay of his trial.
.

".

(I

'

15.
At a November. 9, 2012 heafi#~{~p;De La Cruz's motion to dismiss,
Jackson advised the court that he had· sent tlJc:.Grime.Lab a letter requesting the DNA

analysis ofthe rape kit referenced in Paragraph 5 above be expedited, but that he was still
awaiting the Crime Lab's report.
16.
At a December 6, 2012 hearing in De La Cruz's case, the DNA issue was
again raised and at the conclusion of the hearing"t~~ foHowing colloquy took place:
.

I

.U'::l ..

THE COURT:

All right. Let's scheduLejtfor Jaimary 7[, 2013]. We'll hear the
defendant's speedy trial. motion then. That will give you a few
weeks to make some .inquiry of the lab and see exactly where they
'
are with the analysis. riley may have it done.

MR. JACKSON:

Should I subpoena somebody from the lab?

THE COURT:

That's up to you.

17.
Crime Lab communication logs show that in December of2012, Jackson's
assistant contacted the Crime Lab about the status of the test results in other pending
criminal cases, but did not make inquiry about the status of the DNA testing in De La'
Cruz's case.
18.
On January 8, 2013, Jackson also personally contacted the Crime Lab
about the status of DNA testing in another pending criminal case, but did not make
inquiry about the status cifthe DNA testing in De La Cruz's case.
19.
On January 10, 2013, during a hearing on De La Cruz's motion to dismiss,
the following colloquy took place regarding \hd, stlitus 6f the DNA report and De La
Cruz's motion to dismiss:
' , .,.: ,,' '
;'r; ;··i·.:~

THE COURT:

How long has he been in custody now?

MR. WALKER:

Five hundred eighty:days:

THE COURT:

When was the last time you talked to the lab?

MR. JACKSON:

Probably after the last time we were on, last month.

THE COURT:

Did they give you any idea?
.
:
,
"

MR. JACKSON:

",

I'm hoping it will be sooh. Right now, when you talk to the
molecular genetic[sJ section, they're saying we're retooling. They
are substituting better equipment, more enhanced. I'm hoping
soon. It seems like they should get it imy day. I can't answer your
question when it's going to be returned.

20.
At the conclusion of the January 10,2013 hearing, the Superior Court
judge entered an order directing the Crime La~,t!' .complete the DNA analysis in De La
Cruz's case by February 4,2013 or produc~"~lepres~niiltive at De La Cruz's
,
'

"': :1\,'

~3-

administrative setting in February 2013 to "eltp:IitiQ:tptlie Court why the analysis has yet
to be completed."
' , , '", ",'

21.
Jackson had not made inquiry of the Crime Lab or its counsel about the
status of the DNA analysis in De La Cruz's case prior to the January 10, 2013 hearing.
22.
Neither Jackson's assistant nor anyone in his office had made inquiry of
the Crime Lab or its counsel about the status of the DNA analysis in De La Cruz's case
prior to the January 10, 2013 hearing.
23.
Jackson's response to the court: "Right now, when you talk to the
molecular genetic[s] section, they're saying wen) 'retooling. They are substituting better
equipment, more enhanced," referenced in Paragraph 19 above, was made in reference to
his and his, office's contacting the Crime Lab about other cases.
24.
Jackson's response to the court, referenced in Paragraph 19 above, that he
had "[p]robably" talked to the Crime Lab about De'La Cruz's case after the December
2012 hearing was not accurate in that Jackson had not contacted the Crime Lab about the
De La Cruz case or when the DNA report in the De La Cruz case would be forthcoming.
25.
Jackson's statement to the CO"LJrt,re[erenced in Paragraph 19 above, in
response to the court's question whether t1Je,Ctirif~'ta1}had given any indication of when
the DNA report in De La Cruz's case would be forthcoming, that "when you talk to the
molecular genetic[s] section, they're saying we're retooling," was not accurate in that
Jackson had not contacted the SBI Crime Lab about the De La Cruz case or when the
DNA report in the De La Cruz caSe would be forthcoming.
26.
Jackson had not made a reasonably diligent inquiry under the
circumstances to confirm the accuracy of his statements in Paragraph 19 and created the
misapprehension that he had contacted the Crime Lab about De La Cruz's case between
the December 6, 2012 and January 10,2013 hearings.
27.
The presiding judge at the Ja;,u:a~yJO: 2013 hearing referenced in
Paragraph 19 above does 110t believe Jacks~i1;s 'statements were materially false or
misleading.
'
28.
On January 23,2013, Jackson received infornlBtion from the Crime Lab's
counsel that the Crime Lab had completed the DNA analysis of the rape kit for N S-C on
or about September 12,2012, and had uploaded its report to its secure electronic
infonnation management system, the Case Object Repository, on or about that date.

.
29.
Jackson~s office had instiM~?'J~r:9Qed~~e to download an~ notity th~
aSSIgned prosecutors of the reports ava!lable '011 the Cnme Lab's Case Object RepOSItory,
referenced in Paragraph 28 above, but Jack~<ii1: did not receive notice of the September
12, 2012 report concerning De La Cruz's case' under his office's then-existing procedure.

30.
The Crime Lab's September 12, 2012 DNA report excluded De La Cruz
as the contributor ofthe spenn fraction from the vaginal swabs ofN S-C.
-4-

f;

"

"

"

;

31.
On January 24,2013, Jackson received a copy of the Crime Lab's DNA
report in De La Cruz's case, referenced in Paragraph 28 above, and delivered a copy of
the report to De La Cruz's attorney.
32.
On that same date referenced'in Paragraph 31 above, Jackson dismissed
citing the fact the sperm fraction from
the rape and restraint charges against De La'
the vaginal swabs of N SoC did not matcli De La Cruz.,

cruz,

33.
Jackson dismissed the cocaine possession charge against De La Cruz on
January 28, 2013, citing the DNA finding and the f'lCt De La Cruz had served more time
awaiting trial than he could receive for conviction on the cocaine possession charge.
34.
De La Cruz remained in custody under a deportation hold order by the
United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).
: : " , : 1"

,. "

1',.,' .'

: i;.

''

35.
Given that Jackson could have:tiinely inquired about or accessed the
Crime Lab's September 12,2012 DNA report exculpating De La Cruz, De La Cruz
unnecessarily spent over four months in confinement awaiting trial on the criminal
charges.
36.
Due to Jackson's and his office's failure to make a reasonably diligent
inquiry of the Crime Lab about the status of the DNA testing in De La Cruz's case, the
court uilnecessarily spent COUlt time conducting hearings on De La Cruz's speedy trial
motions and the status of the case.
Based upon the consent of the parti~s ~n'd the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Filct, the Hearing Panel enters the following: .

Conclusions of Law
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set outin the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen .. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
/", :"..
,.
"

, !'r':'" ,"

:

a) By failing to make reasonably,(iiligeni inquiry to learn of the availability
of the Crime Lab's September\'2;~O 12 DNA report, and by failing to
contact the Crime Lab between the December 6, 2012 hearing and the
January 10,2013 hearing to verify the status of the DNA analysis in De La
Cruz's case, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in representing the State of North Carolina in violation of Rule
1.3, failed to make a reasonably diligent effort to comply with a legal1y
proper discovery request in violation of Rule 3A(d)(2), failed to make a
reasonably diligent inquiry for and timely disclosure of exculpatory
evidence to De La Cruz's attorney in violation Rtlle 3.8(d), and, engaged
in conduct that was prejudicial to. the a~millistratioll of justice in violation
of Rule 8A(d); and, "
.•.,,"
-5-

b) By making inaccurate statemel\ts of material fact io a tribunal without
making a reasonably diligent inquiry to confirm the accuracy of his
statements, thereby creating the misapprehension that he had contacted the
Crime Lab about the De La cruz c'ase between the December 6,2012 and
January 10, 2013 hearings, Defendant engaged in conduct that was
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).
3,
The alleged violations of Rule 3.3(a)(I) and Rule 8.4(c) are dismissed
pursuant to this Consent Order.
.

Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline
I.
Defendant has no prior disciplinary record concerning his license to
practice law.

2.
Defendant fully cooperated with the Stat~ Bar's investigation and has been
'
'...:. '
responsive to the State Bar's inquiries.
,'-.

1"·

Although Defendant's and his office's inaction resulted in De La Cruz
unnecessarily spending over fOl!r months in 90nfinement on the pending criminal ,
charges, De La Cruz nevertheless would have remained in custody under a deportation
hold order by ICE.
3.

4.

Defendant has expressed genuine remorse for his conduct.

5.
Defendant did not engage in the conduct described in the Findings of Fact
above with any dishonest or selfish motive.
6.
Defendant has the reputation, among his peers and colleagues, of being
'
honest and fair.

7.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admoniiion, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions WithR~SjJ~~tTo:Discipllne
j, ~l"f .:" ; ' ,

•

I.
The Hearing Panel has carefu.IIy considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. lB §.OI14(w)(.l) ofthe Rules and Regulations ofthe North
Carolina Stale Bar and concludes the following factors warrant consideration of
suspension of Defendant's license:
(B)

Defendant committed acts or omissions where tbe harm or potential harm
was foreseeable;
-6-

(E)

Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception ofthe legal professi'on; and '

(F)

Defendant's actions had negative impact on the administration of justice.

2,
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N,C.A,C, I B §.OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors exist warranting consideration of disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Ol14(w)(3) of the Rules tllid.Reillllatjons of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors ar<i·\lppl!e~bre in this matter:
(A)

Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;

(C)

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

(0)

Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;

(K)

Defendant's full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

(P)

Defendant's remorse;

(Q)

Defendant's good character and reputation; and

(S)

Defendant's degree of e((perience in the practice oflaw.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the misconduct at issue and th~ h~rm, or potential harm Defendant's
misconduct caused to the public, the administrati,oit qf justice, and the legal profession.
.

'. ,'I

"~.

,':'

>.1 . '

, '

5.
The Hearing Panel also has considered the disbarment factors under 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(2), finds no such factors, and concludes that disbarment is not
necessary to protect the public in this case.
6,
The Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing discipline short of
suspension of Defendant's law license would not adequately protect the public, the legal
profession, or the administration of justice for the following reasons:
a) The factors under 27 N.C.A.C. I B §.OlI4(w)(1) and (w)(3) that are
established by the evidence are of a nature that support imposition of
suspension as the appropriate discipline; and,
b) Entry of less serious discipline' would fail to acknowledge the seriousness
of the offenses Defendant committed and would send the wrong message
-7-

to prosecutors, attorneys, and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
:i' . . \',,':

;i )

Order of Discipline

1.
Defendant, Paul T. Jackson, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for one year, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
The one-year suspension is stayed for a period oftwo years as long as
Defendant complies, and oontinues to comply during the period ofthe stay, with the
following conditions:
a) Defendant shall timely submit his annual Continuing Legal Education
("CLE") report form to the CLE Department of the North Carolina State
Bar each year of the stay and col)temporaneously send a copy of the CLE
report form to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar to document
compliance with the above conditions of the stay. "Timely" means by the
date specified by the CLE department as the date by which members must
submit their annual report forms to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late
filing penalty. Defendant must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a
copy of his annual CLE report form no later than 15 days after it is due to
the CLE department of the State Bar each year;
b) In addition to his annual requirement of.12 hours ofCLE and within the
next 12 months following the'effeo(iv.e date of his Sllspension, Defendant
shall complete an additional' gi~ (6)'hoUfs of CLE, approved in advance by
the Office of Counsel, related t~ ethios and professionalism;
c) Defendant shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and comply with all CLE requirements on a timely basis;
d) Defendant shall keep current his address of record with the North Carolina
State Bar, accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and
respond to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
; ..
e) Defendant shall not :violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the stay;
f) Defendant shall not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of
the United States. during the period of the stay; and

g) Defendant shall pay all costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within thirty (30) days after service of the notice
of costs on him.

3.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the following conditions are pl,c,ed upon Defendant's reinstatement to active
status. With any petition Defendant files for.'reinstatement to active practice, Defendant
must demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evid'mce that he complied with each
of the following conditions:
a) Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date of the
order activating his suspension;

b) Complied with all provisions of 27 N,C. Admin, Code Chapter 1, .
Subchapter B, § .0[24 of the N,C, State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules
on a timely basis;
c) Timely completed the additiciiiai'six (6) hours ofCLE related to ethics and
professionalism referenced iil Paragraph 2(b) above;
d) Not have violated any of the Ru[es of Professional Conduct;
e) Not have violated any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the United
States; and
f) Paid all costs ofthis proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within thirty

(30) days of service of the notice brcosts upon him,
;.

it' ':';')f,.' ': :~ "

4,
Defendant is taxed with the aillhini~ti:ative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary, which shall be paid 'within tliirty (30) days of service of the
notice of costs upon Defendant.
5.
The Disciplinary Hearing Cominission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N,C. Admin, Code Chaptet 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Ru[es throughout the period ofthe
stayed and/or activated suspension,
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other
Hearing Panel me,ers,
(YL,.,J......- . I . . ' .

Thisthe5"':dayof~2015,

>c:W)

~

(2,£._-

~2)~~
Steven D. Michael, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

I.,'

r Plaintiff

-9-

i,.',

.":,

. 'J

.

'.

~

.

·.

.'=:!2~Attorney for Defendant

Defendant

,
)

~ , oI",'~

.:,'

.. ,r"

,',"

,.'

I"

,"

,""

, \

