STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKBCOUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
REID C. JAMES, Attmney,
Defendant

TIDS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel ofilie Disciplinary Hearing
Connnission composed of M.H. Hood Ellis, Chair, Halliett T. Smalls, and Karen B. Ray
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114 ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian
P .D. Oten. Defendant, Reid C. James, represented himself. Defendant waives a fOllnal
hearing in this matter and boili parties stipulate and consent to the entry of this Order and
to the discipline imposed. Defendant waives any right to appealfuis consent Order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon ilie pleadings in this matter, ilie parties' stipulations offacts, and wiili
ilie consent of the parties, ilie hearing panel enters by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence ilie following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, ilie North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' 01' "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized noder the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring iliis
proceeding noder ilie authority granted it in Chapter 84 of ilie General Statutes of North
Carolina, and ilie mles and regulations of ilie North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Reid C. James ("Defendant" or "James"), was admitted to ilie
North Carolina State Bar on 11 Febmary 1982 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to pmctice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws ofilie State ofNotth Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, James actively engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Gastonia, Gaston
County, North Carolina.

1

4.
On or about 4 June 2008, James received $17,250.00 in entrusted funds to
hold for the benefit of Brian Robinson ("Robinson") in connection with a business
transaction between Robinson and a third party. The agreement between Robinson and
the third party provided that Robinson was entitled to receive the entirety of the entrusted
funds provided to James upon conclusion of Robinson's business transaction.
5.
James did not deposit the $17,250.00 in entrusted funds into his attorney
trust account or any other fiduciary account. Instead, James's office manager deposited
the entl'Usted funds into his operating account.
6.
During June 2008, James made no disbursement from his operating account
for Robinson's benefit or for the third p1l11y's benefit.
7.
At the end of June 2008, James's operating account should have maintained
a balance of at least $17,250.00.
8.
At the end of June 2008, the balance of James's operating account was
$14,274.23.
9.
In July 2008, Robinson's transaction concluded and Robinson became
entitled to receive the entire $17,250.00 of entrusted funds held by James as described
above. James was insttucted to disburse the enttusted funds to Robinson pursuant to the
te1ms of the agreement between Robinson and the third party.
10. In July 2008, James made one disbursement from his operating account for
Robinson's benefit, to wit: by check no. 09880 dated 17 July 2008, Jll1lles paid Robinson
$7,000.00.
11. At the end of July 2008, James's operating account should have maintained
a balance of at least $10,250.00.
12.
$1,158.86.

At the end of July 2008, the balance of Jll1lles's operating account was

13. Jll1lles used the entrusted funds for his personal and/or business expenses
without authorization ii'om Robinson or ilie third party to Robinson's business
tt·ansaction. Jll1nes's use ofilie entrusted funds was for his personal benefit and did not
benefit Robinson, the third party to Robinson's business transaction, 01' any other
individual at the direction of Robinson 01' ilie third plU1y.
14. Jll1lles did not provide Robinson with the remainder of ilie enttusted funds
held for Robinson's benefit until April 2009.
15. From at lea,st December 2006 to May 2012, James maintained au attorney
trust account at Wachovia Bank bearing account number ending in 0436 (formerly an
attOlney trust account at SouthTl'Ust Bllllk bell1'ing account number ending in 043)
(hereinafter "ilie Wachovia account" or "James's tl'Ust account") into which James
deposited entrusted client funds.

2

16. James did not perfonn all quarterly 01' monthly reconciliations of the
Wachovia account as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct.
17. James did not maintain propel' client ledgers which accurately tracked the
deposit and withdrawal of all clients' funds in the Wachovia account.
18. On 01' about 30 December 2008, Wachovia Bank automatically transfelTed
$229.99 from James's trust account to James's lawyer operating account bearing acconnt
nmnber ending in 0326 (hereinafter "James's operating account") to cover an overdraft in
James's operating account.
19. James did not reimburse his trust account for the $229.99 removed to cover
an overdraft on his operating account until November 2011.
20. On multiple occasions, James did not deposit entrusted client funds into the
Wachovia account. Rather, James placed these funds in a safe.
21. On 01' about 16 June 2010, James deposited $17,000.00 belonging to
Heather Warner into his trust account.
22. James 01' James's office manager made the following disbursements of
Warner's funds from his trust account:
a. On or about 16 June 2010, check #1623 in the amount of $1,000.00
payable to Reid C. James;
b. On or about 17 June 2010, check #1625 in the amount of $1,500.00
payable to Reid C. James;
c. On 01' about 29 June 2010, check #1627 in the amount of $6,222.98
payable to Heather Watner;
d. On 01' about 2 July 2010, check #1630 in the amount of $4,192.92 payable
to Reid C. James;
e. On 01' about 13 August 2010, check #1637 in the amount of $2,084.10
payable to Heather Warner;
f.

On or about 8 September 2010, check #1635 in the amount of $1,500.00
payable to Carolina Physical Medicine & Rehab; and

g. On 01' about 23 September 2010, check #1636 in the amount of $1,500.00
payable to RS Medical.
23.

James disbursed a total of $18,000.00 fl:om his trust account for Warner's

benefit.

3

24. James failed to accurately track the amounts disbursed fi'om his trust
account for Warner's benefit, resulting in James disbursing $1,000.00 beyond the sum
retained in James's trust account belonging to Warner.
25. James used other clients' funds on deposit in his trust account to covel' the
$1,000.00 over-disbUl'sement attributed to Warner's settlement.
26. On multiple occasions between January 2007 and May 2012, James
disbursed funds from his trust account beyond the sum retained in his trust account for a
particular client. These over-disbursements totaled at least $2,777.38.
27. By over-disbursing funds fi'om his trust account as described above, James
used other clients' funds on deposit in his trust account without the pennission of his
clients 01' the beneficial owner of the funds to cover the various over-disbUl'sements for
the benefit of a third party who was not the beneficial owner of the funds.
28. On at least two occasions between January 2007 and May 2012, James
commingled his personal funds with entrusted client funds by failing to promptly
withdraw earned fees from his tlUst account.
29. James did not identifY the client(s) associated with at least two checks
drawn on the Wachovia account.
30. James gave his office manager signatUl'e authority for his trust account and
allowed his office manager to issue checks dmwn on the trust account without James's
supervision or approval, many of which resulted in the over-disbursements and
commingling of personal funds with entrusted client funds noted above.
31. James delegated his responsibility to create, maintain, and review the trust
account records required by the Rules of Professional Conduct and his responsibility to
review his operating account records to his office manager. James's office manager
failed to can'y out her assigned duties and James failed to take reasonable steps to review
his office manager's conduct.
32.
account.

In November 2009, the State Bar' conducted a random audit of James's trust

33. DUl'ing the State Bar's random audit, the State Bar requested further
information fi'om James concerning his trust account. James was required to provide the
requested information to the State Bar by 21 January 2010.
34,

James did not timely provide the requested information to the State Bar'.

35. On 8 February 2010, 15 March 2010, and 9 April 2010, the State Bar
notified James of his failure to provide the requested infOlmation and again requested
ftnther infOlmation concenling his trust account.

4

36. James received the State Bar's 9 April 2010 communication by facsimile on
9 April 2010 and was required to provide the requested information within ten (10) days
of receiving the State Bar's communication.
37.

James did not timely provide the requested information to the State Bal'.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Reid C. James, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
James's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) & (3) as folloWS:
(a)

By depositing entrusted funds into his law firm's operating account,
James failed to hold entrusted propelty separate fi'om his own or his law
film's own propelty in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and failed to deposit
entr'usted funds in a fiduciary account or general trust account in
violation of Rule 1.1 5-2(c); and

(b)

By using entrusted funds for his personal and business expenses without
authorization from the legal or beneficial owner of the funds, James used
entrusted funds for his personal benefit and the benefit of a person other
than the legal 01' beneficial owner of the funds in violation of Ru1e 1.1S20);

(c)

By failing to maintain propel' client ledgers and by failing to pelform
monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust accounts, James failed
to adequately monitor and maintain his attomey trust account in
violation ofRu1e l.1S-3(b)(S) and Rules 1.1S-3(d)(1) and (2);

(d)

By allowing his attorney trust account to serve as overdraft protection
for his operating account such that entrusted funds were automatically
debited fi'om the trust account when there was a shortfall in the
operating account, James failed to hold entrusted propeliy separate from
his property in violation of Ru1e 1.1S-2(a) and used entrusted funds for
his personal benefit 01' a person other than the beneficial owner of the
funds in violation of Rule 1.1S-20);

(e)

By failing to deposit entrusted funds received from his clients into his
tr'ust account, James failed to properly maintain entrusted client funds in
violation of Rules 1.I5-2(a) & (b);

(f)

By disbursing funds from his tr'ust account without the pelmission of the
beneficial owner(s) of the funds and for the benefit of individuals other
than the beneficial owner(s) of the funds, James failed to preserve

5

entrusted funds provided to him in violation of Rules 1.15-2(a) and (b)
and used entrusted funds for the benefit of someone other than the
beneficial owner(s) of the funds in violation of Rule 1.15-20);
(g)

By failing to promptly remove eamed fees from his tlUst account, James
failed to segregate funds belonging to himself fi'om entmsted client
funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(f);

(h)

By failing to identity the clients associated with at least two withdrawals
from his Wachovia trust account, James failed to properly maintain
enhusted funds in his attomey hust account in violation of Rule 1.152(a) and Rule 1.l5-3(b)(2);

(i)

By failing to supervise and review his office manager's disbursements of
enh'usted funds fi'om his h'ust account, James failed to make reasonable
effolis to ensure a nonlawyer's conduct was compatible with his
professional obligations in violation of Rule 5.3(b); and

0)

By failing to timely provide the infol1nation requested by the State Bar,
James knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for information
from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1(b).

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel also finds by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence the following

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.

There is an absence of any evidence that Defendant intended to harm his

clients.
3.
Defendant's office manager deposited Brian Robinson's funds in
Defendant's operating account without Defendant's Imowledge or consent. Defendant's
subsequent use of Robinson's funds for personal and business expenses, while
inappropriate and preventable had Defendant exercised proper supervision of his staff
and his bank accounts, was unintentional. Nevertheless, Defendant's failure to supervise
his office's handling of enhusted funds caused significant harm to Brian Robinson, who
was unnecessarily deprived of his eamed funds for a peliod of nine months.
4.
Defendant's conduct in over-disbursing entrusted funds fi'om his tmst
account caused significant halm to his clients whose entmsted funds were used for the
benefit of someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds without their Imowledge
or consent. Defendant's conduct also created a significant risk of impairing his clients'
ability to achieve the goals of their respective representations by compromising their
financial ability to do so.

6

5.
Conducting quarterly reconciliations of the trust account is the lynchpin of
propel' maintenance and protection of entrusted funds. Defendant's continued failure to
reconcile his tlUst account, failure to maintain propel' tlUst account records, and failure to
supervise his office manager's handling of funds and drafting of checks on his trust
account demonstrates a pattern of misconduct and demonstrates Defendant's intent to
commit acts where the potential harm is foreseeable.
6.
Defendant's conduct has the potential to cause significant halm to the
standing of the profession in the eyes ofthe public because it shows his disregard for his
duties as an attomey. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the
reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the
legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
7.
Defendant failed to exercise any amount of supervision and failed to
review the acts of his office manger, S.J., after delegating nearly all of his responsibilities
in safeguarding entlUsted client funds to S.J. S.J. failed to properly receive and disburse
enuusted client funds and failed to maintain proper uust account records in accOl'dance
with the Rules of Professional Conduct. S.J. failed to alert Defendant of the deficiencies
in Defendant's U'ust account and took steps to limit Defendant's knowledge of the status
of his trust account. Nevertheless, Defendant is solely responsible for safeguarding client
funds entlUsted to him and for maintaining proper tlUst account records as required by the
Rules of Professional Conduct. Defendant's complete failure to supervise and review
S.J. 's efforts demonstrates Defendant's intent to commit acts where the potential harm is
foreseeable, and Defendant's conduct impaired his clients' ability to achieve the goals of
their respective representations.
8.

Defendant has no prior disciplinary offenses.

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different fOlms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(w)(3) ofthe Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. Defendant's lack ofpl'ior disciplinary offenses;
b. Defendant pattem of misconduct; and
c. Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .Ol14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes that although acts of unintentional misappropriation are
present in this case, disbmment is not necessary in order to protect the public.

7

3.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations oftheNOlth
Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors wmTant suspension of Defendant's
license:
a. Defendant's intent to commit acts where the harm or potential harm was
foreseeable;
b. Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on his clients' and the
public's perception of the legal profession;
c. Defendant's conduct impaired his clients' ability to achieve the goals of
their respective representations; and
d. Defendant failed on multiple occasions to pmticipate in the legal
profession's self-regulation process by failing to timely respond to the
State Bar's 8 Februm'y 2010,15 March 2010, and 9 April 2010 requests
for information.
4.
The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline available
and concludes that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the
public, and would send the wrong message to attollleys and the public regardiug the
conduct expected of members of the Bal'.
5.
Due to Defendant's gross failure to adequately create, maintain, and
review the trust account records required by the Rules of Professional Conduct,
Defendant's complete failure to supervise his office manager's conduct, the significant
harm suffered by Defendant's clients as a result of Defendant's conduct, and the
significant potential hann resulting fi'om Defendant's conduct, the hearing panel
concludes that active suspension of Defendant's license for a set period oftime is the
only discipline that wiII adequately protect the public fi'om future transgressions by
Defendant, that acknowledges the seriousness ofthe offenses Defendant committed, and
that sends a proper message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar ofthis State. Defendant should, however, be allowed to petition for
a stay of a portion of the active suspension imposed herein, upon Defendant's compliance
with celtain conditions designed to C0l1'ect Defendant's handling of entl'Usted funds and
designed to protect the public from future transgressions by Defendant.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regm'ding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
The license of Defendant, Reid C. James, is hereby suspended for five
yem·s. This Order is effective 30 days after service of the Order upon Defendant.

8

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following fue date of this Order.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0124 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .0124.

3.
Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary, including the costs of all depositions and transcriptions of
depositions taken in this case, within 60 days of service of fue statement of costs and
administrative fees upon him.
4.
Three years after the effective date of this Order, Defendant may seek a
stay offue remaining period of suspension imposed by this Order by filing a petition with
the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. In order to be eligible for a stay of fue
remaining period of suspension, Defendant must demonstl'ate by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that, in addition to complying wifu fue general provisions for
reinstatement listed in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules, he has complied with the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant is presently enj oined from handling entrusted funds by the Wake
County Superior Comt (case no. 12 CVS 6619). Within 90 days of this
Order's effective date, Defendant must petition the Wake County Superior.
Court seeking permission to reimburse to his trust account all funds
identified by the State Bar as missing from his trust account and disburse
all identified client ftmds existing in his trust account to the beneficial
owner(s) of the funds pursuant to the order of the comt. Defendant shall
diligently pursue fue petition and comply wifu any subsequent order of the
Court;
Defendant must retain a CPA, approved in advance by fue Office of
Counsel, who is willing and able to render the services required by
paragraph 6(d) below. Any costs associated with retaining a CPA for
purposes of this Order shall be at Defendant's sole expense;
Defendant must complete: six hom's of continuing legal education focused
on hust account practices and methods and compliance with fue
requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct related to entrusted
funds, and six hours of continuing legal education focused on law office
management Such courses must be approved in advance by the Office of
Counsel. Defendant must provide the Office of Counsel wifu proof of
completion within ten days of completion of the course. Any costs
associated wifu these additional hours of continuing legal education shall
be at Defendant's sole expense; and

(d)

Defendant must pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary, including fue costs of all depositions and

9

transcriptions of depositions taken in this case, as reflected in paragraph 3
above.
5.
Defendant may file a petition seeking a stay of the remaining period of
suspension and setting forth the above requirements up to 30 days prior to the end of the
three year period but shall not be reinstated prior to the end of that three year period.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license
6.
pursuant to this Order, the stay will continue in fOl'ce only as long as Defendant complies
with the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant shall be the sole person in his office to create, maintain, and
review all trust account records required by the Rules of Professional
COllduct. With the exception of receiving limited assistance from a CPA as
required by this Order, Defendant shall not delegate any oust account
record-keeping responsibilities to his staff;

(b)

Defendant shall not allow his present office manager, S.J., to:

i. Receive, disburse, or otherwise handle any funds received by
Defendant's office;
ii. Pmticipate in any way in the creation, maintenance, and/or review
of oust account records required by the Rules of Professional
Conduct; and

iii. Participate in the operation of his law practice or law office in any
way;
(c)

Each quarter Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel with the threeway reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's Trust Account
Handbook for all trust accounts maintained by him. Defendant shall
provide the three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients
with funds in the O'ust account(s) during that qualter, ledger for ally
personal funds maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit cmu
fees, his trust account ledger, alld the bank statements, callcelled checks,
and deposit slips for each qumier. These documents are due no later than
15 days after the end of the qumter- for eXalUpIe, the three-way
reconciliation repOli for the first quarter oftbe calendar year (January,
February, alld March) is due on April 15;

(d)

Each quarter, Defendmlt shall have a CPA audit his oust account(s) and
provide a quarterly audit repOlt to the State Bar. This audit shall assess
whether Defendant has in his trust account the client funds he should be
maintaining for his clients at that time, shall assess Defendant's compliance
with Rule 1.15-2 alld Rule 1.15-3, and shall note any deficiencies

1

-- '
-1
-

-::1

-:~-::::::

~l

===~

~I

····1

10

\

discovered while reviewing Defendant's tlUst account. The CPA's audit
shall include addressing the items on the Accountant Checldist for
Probation Cases which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendant.
The CPA shall provide the audit reports to the Office of Counsel no later
than 30 days after the end of the quarter - for example, the CPA audit for
the first quarter of the calendar year (January, February, and March) is due
on April 30. Defendant shall ensure the CPA timely submits the quarterly
audit reports to the Office of Counsel as described herein;
(e)

If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit
reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Defendant shall take appropriate remedial action within 10
days of the date of the three-way reconciliation report 01' the CPA audit and
shall provide documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar
within 2 days of the date of the remedial action;

(f)

All evaluations, reports, and services of the CPA will be completed and
submitted at Defendant's sole expense;

(g)

Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel to
provide any infOlmation regarding his tlUst accounts or to sign and provide
any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to obtain
information directly from any bank in which Defendant has deposited
entrusted funds by the deadline stated in the request;

(h)

Defendant shall keep the North Cal'Olina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his cunent physical business address (not a Post
Office box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notifY the Bar
of any change in address, telephone nU1l1ber, or e-mail address within ten
(10) days of such change;

(i)

Defendant shall accept all celtified mail from the NOlth Carolina State Bar
and respond to all leiters of notice and requests for infotmation fi'om the
North Cal'Olina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication or
within fifteen (15) days of receipt, whichever is later;

(j)

Defendant shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and comply with all Continuing Legal Education requirements
on a timely basis;

(k)

Defendant shall participate fully and timely in the fee dispute program
when notified of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;

(1)

Defendant shall not violate the laws of any state or of the United States;
and

11

\

No.2200
No. 1.104

LAW OFFICE OF RIED JAMES

Jun.12.2013 3:09PM
~un. 12. 2013 3:19PM

p. 2

P. 13

em) Defendtult shall not violate 3.n}'.pl."ovision ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct.

.

7.
fi'an order staying any Pvriod of this suspension is entered and Defendant
fmIs to cqmply with anyone or more of the conditions referenced: in Paragraph 6, then
stay of the suspension of~s law license may be lifted as proVided in: § .0114()() of the
North. Carolina State Bar OisciFline and Disability Rules.

the

. 8.
lfDefendant d,~es not seek a stay of the suspellsion 0:1.' his law iicense odt
some part of the ~uspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is reVOked, Defendant must,
provid\l in his application for r..instatement cl~r, cogent, and convincing evidence of the
follow:ing:
(a)

Compliilnce w:ith the general pI'ovisions for r()instatement listc;d in 27 N.C.
Adrnlli. Code lB § ,0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipfu).e &
Disability Rules;

(b)

Comp~ance with the conditiollS set out in paragraph 4 (a) -

Cd) above; and

(0) . Assurance of compliance with,the conditions Bet out in paragraph 6 (a) &
(b).

.

9,
Nothing i.n this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating an(l, if
, ., necess;tty;"pursuing"dis'ciFlmary action' agamst 'Def6noant' 10£ 'additlonai'i:iriSconduct
dj~covered or reported which occurred during the sarne time period ffS 1he conduct
addrossed in this Order.
.
The Disoiplin(1f.Y. ...Hl"l)l'ing Commission. .. wiU retain jurisdiction of this
27 N.C. Adm.in. Code IB § :01l.4(x) of the North Carolina State'11ar
Discipline and Disability Rules tbrou@l.outthe period of any stayed suspension..
10,

matt~· puriii'iant

,

~

to

'

,

Signed by~with the comemt pfthe other h~aring panel membeJ's. this the
\.9-: ~ day of_.
,2013,

M.B:. Hood Ellis. Chair
Disoiplinary Relating Panel
C0i.(SETliD TO By:
"

~

BrianP.D. Oten
Deputy Counsel
Nm'th. Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff
12

.. ,

