STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

REID C. JAMES, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATIER came on for hearing and was heard by a hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Barbara B.'Weyher, Chair, Donald C.
Prentiss, and Michael S. Edwards pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114 of the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina
State Bar, was represented by Deputy Counsel Brian P.D. Oten and Lauren P. Suber, a
legal intern certified to practice pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1C § .0200 et seq.
Defendant, Reid C. James, was not present at the hearing and was not represented by
counsel.
On Plaintiffs motion, judgment by default was granted as to the findings of fact
and conclusions of law by Order dated 24 February 2015. The findings of fact and
conclusions of law as established by the 24 February 2015 order of default judgment are
recited herein (through paragraph (n) below).
Based upon the pleadings and admissions pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.01 14(f), and the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing panel hereby finds by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Reid C. James ("Defendant" or "James"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on 11 February 1982 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws ofthe State of North Carolina.
1

3.
During part of the relevant period referred to herein, James was actively
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of NOIth Carolina and maintained a law office
in Gastonia, Gaston County, North Carolina.
4.
As of 26 July 2013, James was suspended from the practice of law in the
State of North Carolina pursuant to the Order of Discipline issued by the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission in case number 12 DHC 4 dated 12 June 2013 (hereinafter "12
DHC 4").
5.
Defendant was properly served with process and received due notice of
the hearing in this matter.
.
6.
In or al'olmd January 2007, James represented Dana Peeler's ("Peeler")
estranged husband in a domestic action.
7.
On or about 2 February 2007, James agreed to prepare the Qualified
Domestic Relations Order ("QDRO") pursuant to a consent order filed in Gaston COlmty
District Court, file no. 06 CVD 486.
8.

James failed to prepare and failed to file the QDRO.

9.
Over the next years, Peeler made numerous inquiries with James requesting
an update on the status of the QDRO and requesting James prepare and file the QDRO.
10.

James never prepared and never filed the QDRO.

11. On or about 26 April 2013, Peeler filed a grievance against James with the
State Bar, grievance file no. 13G0373.
12. On or about 22 August 2013, the State Bar sent James a Letter of Notice by
certified mail regarding grievance file no. 13G0373. James received this Letter of Notice
on or about 24 August 2013.
13.

James was required to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen days of

14.

James failed to respond to the Letter of Notice as required.

receipt.

15. In or around January 2013, Donald Sebastian ("Sebastian") retained James
for representation in an adoption case. Sebastian paid James $1,000.00.
16. Throughout the representation, Sebastian made numerous inquiries with
James requesting an update on the status of his case.
17.

James did not respond to Sebastian's inquiries.

2

18. Sebastian eventually located James at James's office and inquired about the
status of his case. James told Sebastian that he was working on Sebastian's case.
19.
Sebastian.

James misrepresented the extent of his efforts on Sebastian's case to

20. James failed to take any action on Sebastian's behalf and failed to resolve
the matter for which he was retained.
21. On 26 July 2013, James was actively suspended from the practice of law in
North Carolina pursuant to the Order of Discipline in 12 DHC 4.
22.

James failed to notify Sebastian of his suspension from the practice oflaw.

23. James failed to return any unearned portion of James's fee in Sebastian's
matter prior to or after being suspended from the practice of law.
24. James failed to surrender Sebastian's client file prior to or after being
suspended from the practice of law.
25.
assistance.

Sebastian obtained his client file from James's law office without James's

26. On or about 8 August 2013, Sebastian filed a grievance against James with
the State Bar, grievance file no. 1300682.
27. On or about 22 August 2013, the State Bar sent James a Letter of Notice by
certified mail regarding grievance file uo. 1300682. James received this Letter of Notice
on24 August 2013.
28.

James was required to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen days of

29.

James failed to respond to the Letter of Notice as required.

receipt.

30. In or around March 2013, Ashley Fraley ("Fraley") retained James to
modify a parenting agreement. Fraley paid James $500.00.
31. James failed to take any action on Fraley's behalf and failed to resolve the
matter for which he was retained.
32. Beginning in or around June 2013, Fraley and Fraley's mother made
multiple inquiries with James requesting a status update on the parenting agreement.
33.

James did not respond to Fraley's or Fraley's mother's inquiries.

3

34. James failed to notify Fraley of his suspension from the practice of law
pursuant to the Order of Discipline in 12 DHC 4.
35. James failed to return any unearned portion of James's fee in Fraley's matter
prior to or after being suspended from the practice oflaw.
36. James failed to surrender Fraley's client file prior to or after being
suspended from the practice of law.
37.
assistance.

Fraley obtained her client file from James's law office without James's

38. On or about 4 September 2013, Fraley filed a grievance against James with
the State Bar, grievance file no. 13G0793.
39. On or about 13 September 2013, the State Bar sent James a Letter of Notice
by certified mail regarding grievance file no. 13G0793. James received this Letter of
Notice on 18 September 2013.
40.

James was required to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen days of

41.

James failed to respond to the Letter of Notice as required.

receipt.

42. In or around May 2013, Theodore and Vickie Townsend ("the Townsends")
retained James for representation in a child custody matter. The Townsends paid James
$1,500.00 for the representation.
43. James failed to take any action on the Townsends' behalf and failed to
resolve the matters for which he was retained.
44. In or around late July 2013, the Townsends inquired with James about the
status of their child custody matter.
45.

James did not respond to the Townsends' inquiry.

46. James failed to notify the Townsends of his suspension from the practice of
law pursuant to the Order of Discipline in 12 DHC 4.
47. James failed to return any unearned portion of James's fee in the
Townsends' matter prior to or after being suspended from the practice oflaw.
48. James failed to surrender the Townsends' client file prior to or after being
suspended from the practice oflaw.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following

4

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Reid C. James, and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
James's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) & (3) as follows:
(a)

By failing to prepare and failing to file the QDRO as agreed upon by the
parties, Janles failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing his client in violation of Rule 1.3, failed to make reasonable
efforts to expedite litigation consistent with the interests of the client in
violation of Rule 3.2, and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d);

(b)

By failing to respond to the State Bar's Letter of Notice regarding
grievance file no. 13G0373, James failed to respond to a lawful demand
for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.l(b);

(c)

By failing to pnrsue Sebastian's matter after receiving payment for
representation and by keeping all of the fee paid by Sebastian despite
failing to provide the legal services for which he was retained, James
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a
client in violation of Rule 1.3 and collected a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule 1.5(a);

(d)

By informing Sebastian that he was working on Sebastian's case when
he had made no progress, James engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(e)

By failing to timely respond to Sebastian's inquiries and otherwise keep
Sebastian informed about the status of his matter, James failed to keep
his client reasonably informed about the status of the matter and failed to
promptly comply willi reasonable requests for information in violation
of Rules 1.4(a)(3) & 1.4(a)(4);

(f)

By failing to provide Sebastian with a copy of his client file and by
failing to retutn any unearned fees when he was suspended fium the
practice of law, James failed to surrender property to which his client
was entitled upon termination of the representation in violation of Rule
1.I6(d);

(g)

By failing to respond to the State Bar's Letter of Notice regarding
grievance file no. 13G0682, James failed to respond to a lawful demand
for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b);

(h)

By failing to pursue Fraley's matter after receiving payment for
representation and by keeping all of the fee paid by Fraley despite
5

failing to provide the legal services for which he was retained, James
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a
client in violation of Rule 1.3 and collected a clearly excessive fee in
violation of Rule 1.5(a);
(i)

By failing to timely respond to Fraley's inquiries and otherwise keep
Fraley informed about the status of her matter, James failed to keep his
client reasonably informed about the status of the matter and failed to
promptly comply with reasonable requests for information in violation
of Rules 1.4(a)(3) and 1.4(a)(4);

G)

By failing to provide Fraley with a copy of her client file and by failing
to retum any uneamed fees when he was suspended from the practice of
law, James failed to sUlTender property to which his client was entitled
upon telmination of the representation in violation of Rule 1.l6(d);

(Ie)

By failing to respond to the State Bar's Letter of Notice regarding
grievance file no. l3G0793, James failed to respond to a lawful demand
for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b);

(I)

By failing to pursue the Townsends' matter after receiving payment for
representation and by keeping all of the fee paid by the Townsends
despite failing to provide the legal services for which he was retained,
James failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3 and collected a clearly
excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a);

(m) By failing to timely respond to the Townsends' inquiries and otherwise
keep the Townsends infOlmed about the status of their matter, James
failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of the
matter and failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rules 1.4(a)(3) and 1.4(a)(4); and
(n)

By failing to provide the Townsends with a copy of their client file and
by failing to return any unearned fees when he was suspended from the
practice of law, James failed to surrender property to which his client
was entitled upon termination of the representation in violation of Rule
1.16(d).

Based upon the foregoing facts and conclusions of law, and upon the evidence
and arguments presented at the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the hearing
panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant, who was licensed to practice law in Nortll Carolina in 1982,
has substantial experience in the practice of law.

6

2.
In 2013, Defendant was suspended by this Commission for a period of
five years in case number 12 DHC 4 based upon Defendant's failure to properly handle,
safeguard, and monitor entrusted client funds.
3.
Defendant's conduct, to wit: severe and widespread neglect of client
matters, failure to communicate with clients, failure to notifY his clients of his suspension
and of their need to retain counsel, and failure to retmu to his clients their client files
and/or the unearned portions of the fees they paid to Defendant caused significant harm
to his clients and their abilities to resolve their legal matters.
Defendant's
misrepresentations and client neglect caused significant confusion and frustration
amongst his clients. Defendant's conduct impaired his clients' abilities to achieve the
goals of their respective representations by causing unnecessary delay in their cases and
by depriving his clients of their limited financial resources available to afford legal
representation.
4.
Defendant's clients were vulnerable victims of his misconduct. His clients
were unfamiliar with the legal process and had limited financial resources. His clients
had paid and relied upon Defendant to protect or pursue their legal rights.
5.
Defendant's conduct also had a negative effect on third parties.
Defendant's conduct prevented an opposing party from obtaining an order awarding her
additional funds that were rightfully hers as a result of a domestic proceeding and
unnecessarily delayed the adoption or custody determination of at least two children
whose lives and legal statuses remain unsettled.
6.
Defendant's repeated instances of client neglect and failure to respond to
the Bar comprise multiple offenses and constitute a pattern of misconduct. Defendant's
receipt of fees from clients, his refusal to carry out the representations for which he was
retained, and his refusal to renmd any unearned portion of the fees collected from his
clients evidence his selfish and dishonest motives and show that Defendant elevated his
own interests above those of his clients in that Defendant sought to gain, maintain, and
benefit from his clients' confidence. Defendant's failure to refund uneamed fees
demonstrates Defendant's indifference to making restitution.
7.
Defendant demonstrated an intentional and sometimes impUlsive pattern
of making misrepresentations to at least one of his clients concerning the true status of his
client's legal matter, and Defendant never made any attempt to conect his
misrepresentations. Defendant also knew of his suspension in 12 DHC 4, yet Defendant
intentionally refused to notifY his clients of their need to obtain new counsel, to provide
his clients with their client files, and to refund any unearned portion of their paid fees.
The conduct established in this case - ranging from his repeated client neglect to his
intentional misrepresentations - demonstrates Defendant's intent to commit acts where
the halm to his clients was foreseeable as well as Defendant's intent to cause the
significant harm suffered by his clients. Defendant's conduct reflects Defendant's lack of
honesty, tlustworthiness, or integrity.

7

8.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the legal profession.
Defendant's .neglect, failure to communicate with clients, failure to resolve the matters
for which he was retained, and repeated misrepresentations regarding the true status of
his clients' legal matters caused his clients to feel their trust had been betrayed. Some of
Defendant's former clients expressed a sense of distrust of the legal profession in general
due to Defendant's conduct.
9.
Defendant's conduct caused siguificant harm to the standing of the
profession in the eyes of his clients and has the potential to cause significant halm to the
standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows his disregard for his
duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the
reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the
legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
10.
Defendant's conduct caused significant halln to the public and to the
administration of justice by unnecessarily delaying resolution of his clients' cases.
Justice is achieved when all matters are timely pursued and resolved; justice is impeded
by attorneys who knowingly abandon their clients and their duties as an attorney, leaving
their clients' cases and their clients' interests in an unnecessarily uncertain status such as
that created by Defendant.
II.
Defendant caused significant harm to the profession by repeatedly failing
to respond to multiple State Bar inquires and otherwise failing to participate in the
grievance process. Additionally, Defendant failed to participate in the present proceeding
in any manner, including his failure to file an answer, his failure to appear at the hearing,
and his failure to appear for duly-noticed depositions of witnesses that took place in
Defendant's home county. Defendant's conduct demonstrates his continued refusal to
participate in the self-regulation process, his bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary
proceedings by intentionally failing to comply with the rules or orders of the disciplinary
agency, and his refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct. Such conduct
interferes with the State Bar's ability to regulate its members and undermines the
profession's privilege to remain self-regulating.
12.
Defendant is a danger to the public due to his repeated neglect of client
matters, repeated and intentional misrepresentations, and ongoing refusal to participate in
the self-regulation process. Defendant's inability or unwillingness to comply with the
Rules of Professional Conduct requires this panel to impose discipline upon Defendant as
the only means to adequately acknowledge the wrongfulness of his conduct and protect
the public.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
L
discipline available to it. In addition, the heal'ing panel has considered all of the factors

8

enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of
. the North Carolina State Bar and concludes that the following factors are applicable in
this matter:
a. Defendant's prior disciplinary offense;
b. Defendant's dishonest or selfish motive;
c. Defendant's indifference to making restitution;
d. Defendant's pattern of misconduct;
e. Defendant's mllitiple offenses;
f.

Defendant's bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceedings by
intentionally failing to comply with the rules or orders of the disciplinary
agency;

g. Defendant's refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;
h. The vulnerability of the victims of Defendant's conduct; and
i.

Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all ofthe factors enumerated in
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(w)(2)of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes that the following factors are present and warrant
disbarment:
a. Defendant's acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;
and
b. Defendant's impulsive acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or
fabrication without timely remedial efforts.
3.
TIle hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors warrant disbarment:
a. Defendant's intent to cause the resulting harm or potential harm
b. Defendant's intent to commit acts where the harm or potential harm was
foreseeable;
c. Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustwOlthiness, or
integrity;
d. Elevation of Defendant's own interests above that of his clients;

9

e. Defendant's actions had a negative impact on his clients' or the public's
perception of the legal profession;
f.

Defendant's actions had a negative impact on the administration of justice;

g. Defendant's conduct impaired his clients' ability to achieve the goals of
their respective representations;
h. The effect of Defendant's conduct on third pmties;
I.

Defendant's acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;
and

j.

Defendant multiple instances of failure to participate in the legal
profession's self-regulation process, including his failure to patticipate in
the present proceeding and attend the hearing in this matter.

4.
The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline available
and concludes that any sanction less than disbarment would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the
public, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regat'ding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar.
5.
The hearing panel concludes that disbatment is the only discipline that
will adequately protect the public from future transgressions by Defendant for the
following reasons:
a. The nature and extent of Defendant's conduct - natuely, Defendant's
severe and widespread neglect of his clients' cases, including his
collection of fees and failure to complete the tasks for which he was
retained;
b. Defendant's repeated failure to participate in the State Bar's regulatory
process;
c. The nature and extent of Defendant's prior discipline; and
d. The significant harm caused by Defendant's conduct and the significant
potential harm resulting from Defendant's conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Reid C. James, is hereby DISBARRED.
effective 30 days after service of the Order upon Defendant.

10

This Order

IS

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membershipeard tothe~ecrefai:y
of llie North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days followihgth~df.lt~ofthisOJ:def.to
the extent not already completed, Defendant shall Gomply Willi t)1e).yinddowhprovlsions
contained in Rule .. 0124 of the North Carolina State BilrDI~~iplineap'dbisabllityR~lesi
located at 27 N.C, Admin. Code lB § .0124.
. . .
3.
Defendant shall pay theyostsandadministrativefeesogthis pr~ceeclil1g11s
assessed by llie Secretary, inoluding the costs oiall dep(jsHiol)sasweu as the costs of all
video recordings and transcriptions()f depositiClllstakellhi.tJijsQase,within 30 days of
service of the statemellt of costs ancladtllinistrativefeeslipohliiill.
.
.
----4.
Within 15 days oftlleeff~~ii~e:dateoflhisQrder, pefendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address· anqtelep11611ehum.peralwhicll clients seeking retum of
files can communicate with Deferidanlapdd])tilir{suchfiles.
5.
Defendant shall promptly retam client files to clients upon request, within
5 days of receipt of such request. Defendant will be deemed to have received any such
request 3 days after the date such request is sept to Defendant if the request is sent to the
address Defendant provided the State Bar pursuant to the preceding paragraph.

nil M..Signed by th~ir wjth the consent of the other hearing panel members,this llie
--,<d-c...)=-.... day of

~

,2015.

11

