BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G1184

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Joe C. Jauregui,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRlMAND

On October 25, 2012 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the NOlih Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinmy Hem'ing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
The Settlement Source was a company that acted as settlement agent for residential real
estate closings in North Carolina, including transactions for properties in subdivisions known as
Cannons gate and Summerhouse. The Settlement Source provided closing services that exceeded
those pennitted to be provided by a non-lawyer pursuant to statute and as expressed in the

advisory opinion AP 2002-1 issued by The NOlth Carolina State Bar. Among those prohibited
services undertaken by The Settlement Source was the provision to consumers and/or lenders of
deeds conveying the propelties and title opinions based upon which title insurance policies were
issued.
On or about March 16, 2007 you prepared legal documents (deeds) and certified title to Lot 354
in Cannonsgate at Bogue Sound, in Carteret County, North Carolina for a real estate transaction
closed by The Settlement Source. These services were performed by you at the request of and as
part of the services provided to the buyers by The Settlement Source. In addition, between 2005
and 2008, you had an an'angement with The Settlement Source whereby you certified title to
other propelties in Cannonsgate, Summerhouse and elsewhere. You also prepared deeds
conveying the properties to the buyers in the transactions that The Settlement Source provided as
part of its services. These activities assisted The Settlement Source in its unauthorized practice
of law in violation of Rule 5.5(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance witlt tlte policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$100.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the / &(;f,:;day of

&.LQ.#uiUA.-

Grievance Committee

MMH/lr

,2012.

