NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
1001041

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Joe C. Jauregui,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 25,2012 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules ofthe North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminmy hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the lUles as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Cm·olina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The lUles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detelmine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinmy Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential halm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
The Settlement Source was a company that acted as settlement agent for residential real
estate closings in North Carolina, including transactions for properties in subdivisions known as
Cannonsgate and Summerhouse. The Settlement Source provided closing services that exceeded
those pelmitted to be provided by a non-lawyer pursuant to statute and as expressed in the
advisOlY opinion AP 2002-1 issued byThe North Carolina State Bar. Among those prohibited

services undertaken by The Settlement Source was the provision to consumers and/or lenders of
deeds conveying the properties and title opinions based upon which title insurance policies were
issued.
In or about March 2007 you prepared legal documents (deeds) and certified title to Lot 232 in
Cannonsgate at Bogue Sound, in Carteret County, and Lots 352 and 432 in Summerhouse on
Everett Bay, Onslow County, North Carolina for real estate transactions closed by The
Settlement Source. These services were performed by you at the request of and as part ofthe
services provided to the buyers by The Settlement Source. In addition, between 2005 and 2008,
you had an arrangement with The Settlement Source whereby you certified title to other
properties in Cannons gate, Summerhouse and elsewhere. You also prepared deeds conveying the
propeliies to the buyers in the transactions that The Settlement Source provided as part of its
services. These activities assisted The Settlement Source in its unauthorized practice oflaw in
violation of Rule 5.5(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart fi'om adherence to the high ethical standards ofthe legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administr\ltive fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ~ day of

~~', 2012.

Grievance Committee

MMH/lr

