A1"'C:~~I-a'/ '

/"1'

(,

v)
".

0

\

'0

STATE OF NORTH CAROL ~!'::J,

J '" ,/

.

e'!>.
. 'J ,,,

1A

4Plr;:;

,01/

"~~--~
"i,~\
::::;

BEFORE THE
RY I-IEARING COMMISSION
U/ic ,~'-'
OF THE
N; .~ I-l CAROLINA STATE BAR
_ c' -0~/
10 DI-IC 41

:::: • Z!::{] ,D)SCIPL~

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v,

MARK 1. JENKINS, Attorney,
Defendant

nIlS MATTER was heard on 31 March 2011 before a hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed ofM, H, Hood Ellis, Chair, Theodore C.
Edwards, II and Karcn B. Ray, Brian P.D. Oten appeared on behalf of Plaintiff, the
North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Mark L. Jenkins, was not present at the hearing
and was not represented by counseL

Based upon the pleadings and the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing
panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the fo]]owing
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding lmder the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Mark 1. Jenkins ("Defendant" or "Jenkins"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on April 8, 1994, and is, and was at all times referred to herein,
an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations
and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the
State of North Carolina.
3.
During part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Jenldns was engaged
in the practice of law in the State ofNOlih Carolina and maintained a law office in
Waynesville, Haywood County, North Carolina.
4.
Jenlcins was properly served with process and received due notice of the
hearing in this matter.

5.
In or around May 2007, Peter Watkinson {"Watkinson") retained Jenkins for
representation in a civil matter. Watkinson paid Jenkins for the representation.
6.
In August 2007, Jenkins infonned Watkinson that Watkinson's case had
been ordered to go to mediation.
7.
Jenkins led Watkinson to believe that he had filed a complaint on
Watkinson's behalf.
8.
indicated.

Jenkins did not file a complaint on Watkinson's behalf in the matter as

9.
In or around October 2007, Watkinson contacted the Haywood County
Clerk of Court regarding the status of his case.
10. The Haywood County Clerk of Court {"the Clerk") infonned Watkinson that
no complaint or any other document had been filed on his behalf in the matter.
11. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins repeatedly provided
Watkinson with fictitious court dates and false updates about the status of Watkinson's
case.
12. Jenkins misled Watkinson regarding the status of his case and the work
Jenkins had completed on Watkinson's matter.
13. In or around October 2007, Watkinson contacted the State Bar regarding his
experience with Jenkins. On or about 15 January 2008, the State Bar opened a grievance
file against Jenkins based on Watkinson's complaint, grievance file no. 0800058.
14. On or about 9 May 2008, the State Bar sent a Letter of Notice to Jenkins by
certified mail regarding brrievance file no. 0800058. Jenkins timely responded to the
Letter of Notice regarding grievance file no. 0800058.
15. By letter dated 30 July 2008, the State Bar requested further infonnation
from Jenkins regarding his response to grievance file no. 0800058. Jenkins was required
to respond to this follow-up letter by 15 August 2008.
16. Jenkins failed to respond to the State Bar's 30 July 2008 follow-up letter
within the time period provided.
17. On August 28, 2008, the State Bar received Jenkins's response to the 30
July 2008 follow-up letter.
18. In or around December 2007, Bruce D. Sutton ("Sutton") retained Jenkins
for representation in a civil matter. Sutton paid Jenkins $1,500.00 and agreed to pay
Jenlcins twenty percent of any damages awarded for the representation.

2

19. In or around December 2007, Sutton informed Jenkins that the statute of
limitations on his claim was set to expire in June 2008. Jenkins assured Sutton that a
complaint would be filed before the statute oflimitations expired.
20. In or around April or May 2008, Jenkins infonned Sutton that he had filed a
complaint on Sutton's behalf in the matter.
21.

Jenkins did not file a complaint on Sutton's behalf in early 2008 as claimed.

22. Between December 2007 and early 2009, Jenkins repeatedly provided
Sutton with fictitious court dates and falsely informed Sutton of progress made in his
case.
23. Sutton eventually contacted the Haywood County Clerk of Court regarding
the status of his case and was infonned that no complaint or any other document had been
filed on his behalf in the matter.
24. Jenkins did not file a complaint on Sutton's behalf in the matter until 2
September 2009, which was over one year after the June 2008 statute of limitations in
Sutton's matter expired.
25. Jenkins misled Sutton regarding the status of his case and the work Jenkins
had completed on Sutton's matter.
26. Jenkins's delay in filing the complaint until September 2009 caused Sutton's
claim to be barred.
27. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins failed to respond to
Sutton's requests for information, failed to provide substantive and useful updates to
Sutton regarding his case, and otherwise failed to maintain adequate communication with
Sutton.
28. After learning of Jenkins's failure to file a complaint on his behalf, Sutton
requested a refund of the $1,500.00 legal fee previously paid to Jenkins.
29.

Jenkins failed to refund any unearned portion of Sutton's fee.

30.

On or about 12 July 2010, Jenkins voluntarily dismissed Sutton's lawsuit.

31. Jenkins did not speak with Sutton or otherwise obtain Sutton's auth0l1zation
to dismiss his pending lawsuit prior to voluntarily dismissing the lawsuit.
"7
.J
.....

Jenkins did not inform Sutton that he voluntarily dismissed the lawsuit.

33. In or around July 2002, Bobby Teaster ("Teaster") retained Jenkins for
representation in a civil matter. Teaster paid Jenkins for the representation.

3

34. On or about 13 November 2003, Jenkins filed a complaint on Teaster's
behalf in his civil matter.
35.
complaint.

On or about 20 April 2005, Jenkins voluntarily dismissed Teaster's

36. On or about 19 April 2006, Jenkins filed another complaint on Teaster's
behalf concerning the civil matter for which Teaster originally retained Jenkins in July
2002.
37. A hearing on Teaster's case was continued on or about 4 February 2009 and
16 April 2009 to allow for service of the complaint.
38. Jenkins falsely infonned Teaster that the opposing party had been served
with the 2006 complaint in the matter.
39. Contrary to Jenkins's claim, the opposing party had not been served with
Teaster's complaint.
40. On or about 18 May 2009, Teaster's case was dismissed due to Jenkins's
failure to perfect service on the opposing party.
41.

Jenkins failed to notify Teaster of the dismissal of the case.

42. After the case was dismissed, Jenkins requested additional legal fees from
Teaster but did not infonn Teaster that the case had been dismissed. Teaster paid Jenkins
$767.00 on or about 25 March 2009 and $720.00 on 17 September 2009 to continue
pursuing what Teaster thought was his pending case.
43. In late 2009, Teaster met with Jenkins to discuss his case. Jenkins infolll1ed
Teaster that the case was progressing smoothly.
44. Jenkins misled Teaster regarding the status of his case and the work Jenkins
had completed on Teaster's matter.
45. In February 2010, Teaster went to the Haywood County courthouse and
discovered his case had been dismissed in May 2009.
46. After Teaster learned about his case being dismissed, Teaster repeatedly
attempted to contact Jenkins by telephone for an explanation. Jenkins did not retulll
Teaster's telephone calls.
47. On or about 15 February 2010, Teaster spoke with Jenkins's assistant, who
promised to deliver Teaster's message to Jenkins and set up an appointment for Teaster to
speak with Jenkins. Jenkins did not respond to Teaster's message and did not set up an
appointment to speak with Teaster.

4

48. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins failed to respond to
Teaster's requests for infonnation, failed to provide substantive and useful updates to
Teaster regarding his case, and otherwise failed to maintain adequate communication
with Teaster.
49. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins repeatedly provided
Teaster with fictitious court dates and false updates about the status of Teaster's case.
50. In or around April 2005, Teresa Brown ("Brown") retained Jenkins for
representation in a civil matter. Brown paid Jenkins $1,500.00 and agreed to pay Jenkins
ten percent of any damages awarded for the representation.
51. On or about I May 2006, Jenkins filed a complaint on Brown's behalf in her
civil matter.
52. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins repeatedly provided
Brown with fictitious court dates and false updates about the status of Brown's case.
53. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins failed to respond to
Brown's requests for infonnation, failed to provide substantive and useful updates to
Brown regarding her case, and otherwise failed to maintain adequate communication with
Brown.
54. A hearing on Brown's case was continued on or about 14 January 2009, 4
February 2009 and 25 March 2009 to allow for service of the complaint.
55. Jenkins falsely infonned Brown that the opposing party had been served
with the complaint in the matter.
56. Contrary to Jenkins's claim, the opposing party had not been served with
Brown's complaint.
57. On or about 18 May 2009, Brown's case was dismissed due to Jenkins's
failure to perfect service on the opposing party.
58. In or around 1999, Wayne and Oveida Pitts ("the Pitts") retained Jenkins for
representation in a civil matter. The Pitts paid Jenkins for the representation.
59. In or around June 1999, Jenkins filed a complaint on the Pitts' behalf in their
civiI matter.
60.
lawsuit.

On or about 24 August 2005, Jenkins voluntarily dismissed the Pitts'

61. Jenkins did not obtain the Pitts' authorization to dismiss their pending
lawsuit prior to voluntarily dismissing their lawsuit in 2005.

5

62.

Jenkins did not inform the Pitts that he voluntarily dismissed their lawsuit in

2005.
63. On or about 24 August 2006, Jenkins filed another complaint on the Pitts'
behalf in their civil matter.
64. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins continually infonned
the Pitts that the hearing in their matter had been continued based on the court's schedule.
65. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins failed to respond to the
Pitts' requests for information, failed to provide substantive and useful updates to the
Pitts regarding their case, and otherwise failed to maintain adequate communication with
Pitts.
66. On or about 17 January 2009, the Pitts' matter was scheduled for district
court session beginning 3 February 2009.
67.
lawsuit.

On or about 26 January 2009, Jenkins voluntarily dismissed the Pitts'

68. Jenkins did not speak with the Pitts or otherwise obtain the Pitts'
authorization to dismiss their pending lawsuit prior to voluntarily dismissing their lawsuit
in 2009.
69.

Jenkins did not inform the Pitts that he voluntarily dismissed their lawsuit in

2009.
70. In or around 1997, George Rogers, Sr. ("Rogers") retained the law finn of
Brown, Queen & Patten, PA for representation in a civil matter. The law finn assigned
Jenkins, who was employed by the finn at the time, to represent Rogers in the civil
matter. Rogers paid for the representation.
71. Jenkins continued to represent Rogers in Rogers's civil matter when Jenkins
left the finn of Brown, Queen & Patten, PA.
72.

In or around 1997, Jenkins filed a complaint on Rogers's behalf in his civil

73.

In or around November 1999, Jenkins voluntarily dismissed Rogers's civil

matter.

claim.
74. Jenkins did not speak with Rogers or otherwise obtain Rogers's
authorization to dismiss his pending lawsuit prior to voluntarily dismissing his lawsuit.
75. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins failed to respond to
Rogers's requests for infonnation, failed to provide substantive and useful updates to
Rogers regarding his case, and otherwise failed to maintain adequate communication with
Rogers.

6

76. Between 2006 and 2008, Jenkins indicated to Rogers that all parties
involved in the matter agreed to settle the dispute and had Rogers sign and notarize at
least two different settlement agreements purporting to resolve the matter.
77. The purpOlied agreements Jenkins had Rogers sign were not agreed upon by
all parties as Jenkins claimed, and Rogers's dispute was not resolved as Jenkins claimed.
78. Jenkins did not respond to Rogers's subsequent requests for information or
status updates regarding the signed agreements.
79. Jenkins misled Rogers regarding the status of his case and the work Jenkins
had completed on Rogers's matter.
80. In or around August 2008, Rogers hired new counsel to resolve the matter
for which he previously retained Jenkins due to Jenkins's inability to progress on or
otherwise complete the goals of the representation.
81. In or around May and August 2008, Rogers's new counsel contacted Jenkins
seeking a copy of Rogers's complete client file.
82. Jenkins failed to timely respond to Rogers's new counsel's requests and
failed to provide Rogers or Rogers's new counsel with a copy of Rogers's client file.
83. In or around January 2008, Paul Francis and Linnea MeAden ("Francis")
retained Jenkins for representation in a civil matter. Francis paid Jenkins for the
representation.
84. After Francis explained the need for urgency in the matter, Jenkins promised
to contact opposing counsel the next business day.
85.

Jenkins failed to contact opposing counsel as agreed.

86. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins failed to respond to
Francis's requests for information, failed to provide substantive and useful updates to
Francis regarding his case, and otherwise failed to maintain adequate communication
with Francis.
87. In or around March 2008, Francis contacted opposing counsel directly and
was infonned Jenkins had never contacted opposing counsel.
88. Francis subsequently attempted to speak with Jenkins about the matter, but
Jenkins did not respond to Francis's inquiries. Francis then terminated Jenkins's
representation.
89. Jenkins's assistant indicated to Francis that Jenkins would fully refund
Francis's paid legal fee.

7

90.

Jenkins did not initially refund Francis's paid legal fee as promised.

91. Francis subsequently filed a small claims action against Jenkins in 2009, at
which point Jenkins eventually refunded the full amount of the previously paid legal fee.
92. On or about 5 June 2008, before filing the small claims action, Francis tiled
a fee dispute petition with the State Bar against Jenkins, fee dispute petition no.
08FD0344.
93. On or about 5 June 2008, the State Bar sent a Notification of Mandatory Fee
Dispute Resolution to Jenkins regarding fee dispute petition no. 08FD0344. Jenkins
responded to the Notification on 24 June 2008.
94. On or about 27 June 2008 and 7 August 2008, the State Bar requested
further infonnation from Jenkins regarding his response to the Notification of Mandatory
Fee Dispute Resolution concerning fee dispute petition no. 08FD0344.
95. Jenkins failed to respond to the State Bar's follow up letters of 27 June 2008
and 7 August 2008.
96. On or about 21 January 2009, Francis filed a grievance with the State Bar
against Jenkins, grievance file no. 0900120.
97. On or about 19 February 2009, the State Bar sent a Letter of Notice to
Jenkins by certified mail regarding grievance file no. 0900120. Jenkins accepted this
Letter of Notice on 23 Febmary 2009 and was required to respond to the Letter of Notice
within fifteen days of receiving the letter.
98. Jenkins failed to respond to the Letter of Notice within the fifteen day peliod
as required.
99. On or about 24 March 2009, the State Bar sent a follow up letter to Jenkins
regarding the Letter of Notice for grievance file no. 0900120 requesting a response be
received by 3 Aplil 2009.
100. Jenkins failed to respond to the State Bar's 24 March 2009 follow-up letter
within the time peliod provided.
101. On or about 6 Aplil 2009, Jenkins submitted his response to the Letter of
Notice regarding grievance file no. 0900120.
102. On or about 9 Aplil 2008, Ronald and Kay Issennan ("the Isscnnans")
retained Jenkins for representation in a civil matter. The Issennans paid Jenkins
$10,000.00 for the representation.
103. After the representation began, Jenkins indicated he would forward
documents to the Issennans for their signature. Jenkins failed to forward the documents
as stated.

8

104. In or around July 2008, Jenkins infonned the Issennans that he had filed a
complaint on their behalf.
105. Jenkins did not file a complaint on the Issennans' behalf as claimed.
106. Jenkins misled the Issennans regarding the status of their case and the work
Jenkins had completed on the Issennans' matter.
107. The Issennans tenninated Jenkins's representation and requested a partial
refund. Jenkins did not refund any portion of the Issennans' paid legal fee.
108. After the Issennans tenninated the representation, Jenkins scheduled three
separate appointments to discuss this matter with the Issennans but later cancelled each
appointment.
109. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins failed to respond to the
Issennans' requests for infonnation, failed to provide substantive and useful updates to
the Issennans regarding their case, and otherwise failed to maintain adequate
communication with the Issennans.
110. On or about 25 February 2009, the Issennans filed a grievance with the
State Bar against Jenkins, grievance file no. 0900224.
1I I. On or about 26 February 2009, the State Bar sent a Letter of Notice to
Jenkins regarding grievance file no. 0900224. Jenkins accepted this Letter of Notice on
3 March 2009 and was required to respond to the Letter of Notice within fifteen days of
receiving the letter.
112. Jenkins failed to respond to the Letter of Notice within the fifteen day peliod
as required.
113. On or about 6 April 2009 Jenkins submitted his response to the Letter of
Notice regarding gIievance file no. 0900224.
114. In or around 2007, Robeli Putnam ("Putnam") retained Jenkins for
representation in an estate matter. Putnam paid Jenkins $2,500.00 for the representation.
115. Jenkins did not file Putnam's claim with the estate as instructed.
116. Putnam repeatedly requested a refund of his paid legal fee.
117. In or around January 2009, Jenkins agreed to issue a full refund plus interest
to Putnam in the fonn of three separate installments.
118. Jenkins failed to malce any of the agreed upon payments or otherwise refund
Putnam's paid legal fee.

9

119. In or around August 2009, Pamela Cairnes ("Cairnes") retained Jenkins for
representation in a dispute with a bank. Cairnes paid Jenkins for the representation.
120. Pursuant to Cairnes's request, Jenkins stated he would send the bank a letter
on Cairnes's behalf expressing her dispute and demanding a remedy.
121. Jenkins subsequently provided Cairnes with a copy of a letter dated I
September 2009 that Jenkins claimed to have sent to the bank.
122. Jenkins did not send the letter dated I September 2009 to the bank as
claimed.
123. Jenkins misled Cairnes regarding the status of her case and the work Jenkins
had completed on Cairnes's matter.
124. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins failed to respond to
Cairnes's requests for information, failed to provide substantive and useful updates to
Cairnes regarding her case, and otherwise failed to maintain adequate communication
with Cairnes.
125. On or about II March 2010, Cairnes filed a grievance with the State Bar
against Jenkins, grievance file no. 1000242. The State Bar sent a Letter of Notice to
Jenkins regarding grievance no. 1000242, and Jenkins submitted a response to the Letter
of Notice on 7 June 2010.
126. Jenkins informed the State Bar that he had sent the letter dated 1 September
2009 to the bank on Cairnes's behalf.
127. Jenkins did not send the letter dated I September 2009 as claimed.
128. In or around November 2006, R.L. Franklin ("Franklin") retained Jenkins
tor representation in a domestic matter. Franklin paid Jenkins for the representation.
129. In late 2006, Franklin instructed Jenkins to file a petition for divorce.
130. In or around late 2006 or early 2007, Jenkins falsely informed Franklin that
he filed a petition for divorce on Franklin's behalf.
131. Jenkins did not file a petition for divorce on Franklin's behalf as claimed
until 15 September 2009.
132. Jenkins misled Franklin regarding the status of his case and tile work
Jenkins had completed on Franklin's matter.
133. Throughout me course of the representation, Jenkins repeatedly provided
Franklin with fictitious court dates and false updates about the status of Franklin's case.

10

134. Throughout the course of the representation, Jenkins failed to respond to
Franklin's requests for information, failed to provide substantive and useful updates to
Franklin regarding his case, and otherwise failed to maintain adequate communication
with Franklin.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Mark L. Jenkins, and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Jenkins's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and 84-28(b)(3) as
follows:
(a)

By failing to file a complaint or otherwise pursue Watkinson's matter,
Jenkins failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

(b)

By failing to accurately respond to Watkinson's inquiries and otherwise
keep Watkinson informed about the status of his case, Jenkins failed to
keep his client reasonably infoTIned about the status of the matter in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with reasonable
requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to
explain the matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pennit the client
to make informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of
Rule 1.4(b);

(c)

By providing Watkinson with fictitious court dates and false status
updates regarding his case, Jenkins engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(d)

By failing to timely respond to the State Bar's 30 July 2008 follow-up
letter regarding grievance file no. 08G0058, Jenkins failed to respond to
a lawful demand for infoTInation from a disciplinary authOlity in
violation of Rule 8.1(b);

(e)

By failing to consult with Sutton before voluntmily dismissing his
lawsuit in 2010, Jenkins failed to consult with his client as to the means
by which the client's objective was to be accomplished in violation of
Rules] .2(a) and 1.4(a)(2);

(f)

By failing to file a complaint or otherwise meaningfully pursue Sutton's
matter, and by allowing the statute of limitations to expire in Sutton's
matter, Jenkins failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in

]]

representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3 and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
(g)

By failing to accurately respond to Sutton's inquiries and otherwise keep
Sutton informed about the status of his case, and by assuring Sutton a
complaint had been filed when it had not, Jenkins failed to keep his
client reasonably infonned about the status of the matter in violation of
Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to explain the
matter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the client to make
informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule
1.4(b);

(h)

By failing to refund any unearned portion of Sutton's paid legal fee,
Jenkins failed to take steps to the extent reasonably practicable to protect
his client's interests upon termination of representation in violation of
Rule 1.16(d);

(i)

By falsely infornling Sutton that the complaint had been filed in the
matter when in fact it had not been filed, and by providing Sutton with
fictitious court dates and false status updates regarding his case, Jenkins
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(j)

By failing to take the steps necessary to prevent Teaster's matter from
being dismissed or otherwise diligently pursue Teaster's matter, Jenkins
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a
client in violation of Rule 1.3;

(k)

By failing to timely and accurately respond to Teaster's inquiries and
otherwise keep Teaster informed about the status of his case, by assuring
Teaster that service had been perfected when it had not, and by failing to
inform Teaster that his case had been dismissed, Jenkins failed to keep
his client reasonably infonned about the status of the matter in violation
of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to explain the
matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pelmit the client to make
informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule
1.4(b);

(I)

By collecting additional legal fees and leading Teaster to believe the
additional legal fees were necessary to pursue a pending case when the
case had previously been dismissed, Jenkins collected a clearly
excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a) and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c);

12

(m) By falsely informing Teaster that service had been perfected when in
fact it had not, and by providing Teaster with fictitious court dates and
false status updates regarding his case, Jenkins engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c);
(n)

By failing to take the steps necessary to prevent Brown's matter from
being dismissed or otherwise diligently pursue Brown's matter, Jenkins
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a
client in violation of Rule 1.3;

(0)

By failing to timely and accurately respond to Brown's inquiries and
otherwise keep Brown informed about the status of her case, and by
assuring Brown that service had been perfected when it had not, Jenkins
failed to keep his client reasonably informed about the status of the
matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with
reasonable requests for infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and
failed to explain the matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pemlit
the client to make informed decisions regarding the representation in
violation of Rule 1.4(b);

(p)

By falsely informing Brown that service had been perfected when in fact
it had not, and by providing Brown with fictitious cOUli dates and false
status updates regarding her case, Jenkins engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(q)

By failing to consult with the Pitts before voluntarily dismissing their
claim in 2009, Jenkins failed to consult with his client as to the means by
which the client's objective was to be accomplished in violation of Rules
l.2(a) and 1.4(a)(2);

(r)

By failing to respond to the Pitts' inquiries and otherwise keep the Pitts
informed about the status of their case, Jenkins failed to keep his clients
reasonably informed about the status of the matter in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to explain the
matter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the clients to make
infonned decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule
1.4(b);

(s)

By failing to consult with Rogers before voluntarily dismissing his claim
in 1999, Jenkins failed to consult with his client as to the means by
which the client's objective was to be accomplished in violation of Rules
1.2(a) and 1.4(a)(2);

13

(t)

By failing to diligently pursue Rogers's matter for a pel10d of at least ten
years, Jenkins failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;

(u)

By failing to accurately respond to Rogers's inquiries and otherwise
keep Rogers infonned about the status of his case, Jenkins failed to keep
his client reasonably infonned about the status of the matter in violation
of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to explain the
matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pelmit the client to make
infonned decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule
1.4(b);

(v)

By infonning Rogers that his dispute had been settled and by having
Rogers execute alleged settlement agreements when in fact no settlement
had been reach in the matter, Jenkins engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(w) By failing to contact opposing counsel in the matter or otherwise pursue
Francis's matter, Jenkins failed to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
(x)

By failing to accurately respond to Francis's inquiries and otherwise
keep Francis infonned about the status of his case, Jenkins failed to keep
his client reasonably infonned about the status of the matter in violation
of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to explain the
matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pennit the client to make
infonned decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule
1.4(b);

(y)

By failing to timely respond to the State Bar's 5 June 2008 Notification
of Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution and by failing to respond to the
State Bar's 27 June 2008 and 7 August 2008 follow-up letters regarding
fee dispute petition no. 08FD0344, Jenkins failed to participate in good
faith in the fee dispute process in violation of Rule 1.5(t);

(z)

By failing to timely respond to the State Bar's 19 February 2009 Letter
of Notice regarding grievance file no. 0900120, Jenkins failed to
respond to a lawful demand for infonnation from a disciplinary authority
in violation of Rule 8.1 (b);

(aa) By failing to file a complaint or otherwise pursue the !ssennans' matter,
Jenkins failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
(bb) By failing to accurately respond to the Issennans' inquiries and
otherwise keep the Issennans infonned about the status of their case, and
14

by assuring the Issennans a complaint had been filed when it had not,
Jenkins failed to keep his clients reasonably infonned about the status of
the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with
reasonable requests for infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and
failed to explain the matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pennit
the client to make infonned decisions regarding the representation in
violation of Rule 1.4(b);
(cc) By failing to provide the legal services for which he was retained and for
which he collected a $10,000.00 fee, Jenkins colIected a clearly
excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a);
(dd) By failing to refund any unearned portion of the Issennans' paid legal
fee, Jenkins failed to take steps to the extent reasonably practicable to
protect his clients' interests upon tennination of representation in
violation of Rule 1.16(d);
(ee) By falsely infonning the Issennans that the complaint had been filed in
the matter when in fact it had not been filed, Jenkins engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c);
(ft)

By failing to timely respond to the State Bar's 26 February 2009 Letter
of Notice regarding grievance file no. 0900224, Jenkins failed to
respond to a lawful demand for infonnation from a disciplinary authority
in violation of Rule 8.1 (b);

(gg) By failing to refund any unearned portion of Putnam's paid legal fee,
Jenkins collected a clearly excessive fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a) and
failed to take steps to the extent reasonably practicable to protect his
client's interests upon termination of representation in violation of Rule
1.16(d);
(hh) By failing to pursue Cairnes's interests in her dispute with the bank,
Jenkins failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3;
(ii)

By failing to accurately respond to Cairnes's inquiries and otherwise
keep Cairnes infonned about the status of her case, Jenkins failed to
keep his client reasonably infonned about the status of the matter in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with reasonable
requests for infonnation in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to
explain the matter to the extent reasonably necessary to pennit the client
to make infonned decisions regarding the representation in violation of
Rule 1.4(b);

(jj)

By falsely infonning Cairnes and the State Bar that the 1 September
2009 letter had been sent when in fact it had not, Jenkins engaged in
15

conduct involving dishonesty, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c) and knowingly made a false statement of material fact in
cOimection with a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.1 (a);
(kk) By failing to file a divorce petition as instructed for nearly three years or
otherwise meaningfully pursue Franklin's matter, Jenkins failed to act
with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in
violation of Rule 1.3;
(11)

By failing to accurately respond to Franklin's inquiries and otherwise
keep Franklin informed about the status of his case, and by assuring
Franklin a divorce petition had been filed when it had not, Jenkins failed
to keep his client reasonably infonned about the status of the matter in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3), failed to promptly comply with reasonable
requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4), and failed to
explain the matter to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the client
to make informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of
Rule 1.4(b); and

(mm)By falsely informing Franklin that the divorce petition had been filed in
the matter when in fact it had not been filed, and by providing Franklin
with fictitious court dates and false status updates regarding his case,
Jenkins engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing panel also finds by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant's conduct - to wit: widespread and severe neglect of client
matters, failure to adequately communicate with his clients, failure to resolve the matters
for which he was retained, failure to return unearned legal fees, and repeated
misrepresentations to his clients regarding the true status of his clients' legal matterscaused significant hann to his clients by impairing or extinguishing his clients' ability to
achieve the goals of the representation and by causing their loss of paid legal fees without
Defendant making any progress on their legal matters.
2.
Defendant's conduct not only hanned his clients' ability to resolve their
legal matters but also dcmonstrated an ongoing pattern of neglectful conduct, elevation of
Deflmdant's interests above those of his clients, and a dishonest or selfish motive in that
Defendant sought to gain, maintain, and benefit from his clients' confidence by making
false representations to them.
3.
Defendant's conduct demonstrates an intentional and sometimes impulsive
pattem of misrepresentations to his clients concerning the true status of their legal

16

matters, and Defendant never made any attempt to con'ect his misrepresentations.
Defendant's intentional misrepresentations resulted in foreseeable harnl to his clients and
reflect Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or integrity.
4.
Defendant's conduct caused significant hann to the legal profession.
Defendant's neglect, failure to communicate with clients, failure to resolve the matters
for which he was retained, and repeated misrepresentations regarding the true status of
his clients' legal matters caused his clients, who were vulnerable because they were
unfamiliar with the legal process and relied upon Defendant to protect their legal rights,
to feel their trust had been betrayed. Nearly all of Defendant's fonner clients expressed a
sense of distrust of the legal profession in general due to Defendant's conduct.
5.
Defendant's habitual neglect of his clients' matters has the potential to
cause significant harm to the standing of the legal profession in the eyes ofthe public
because it shows his disregard for his duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public
confidence in attorneys tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the
profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal profession is a building block for public
trust in the entire legal system.
6.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the public and to the
administration ofjustice by unnecessarily delaying resolution of his clients' pending
cases and subjecting the cases to procedural resolution, rather than substantive or meritbased resolution. Justice is achieved when all matters subjected to litigation are resolved
on their merits and not as a result of procedural problems such as those created by
Defendant.
7.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the public and to the
administration ofjustice by placing a significant and Uilllecessary burden on the
Haywood County Clerk of Court's office. Defendant's misrepresentations and client
neglect caused significant confusion and frustration amongst his clients, leading his
clients to inquire of and complain to the Clerk's office frequently over the course of at
least two years. As of the date ofthis hearing, the Clerk's office continues to receive
such inquiries and complaints.
8.
In addition to his failure to timely respond to inquiries from the State Bar
during the fee dispute and grievance processes, Defendant failed to appear at the hearing
in this matter and failed to appear for duly-noticed depositions of witnesses that took
place over two days in Defendant's home county. Defendant's conduct demonstrates a
continued refusal to participate in the self-regulation process and a refusal to
aclmowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct. Such conduct interferes with the State
Bar's ability to regulate its members and undernlines the profcssion's privilege to remain
self-regulating.
9.
In 2006, the North Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee issued an
admonition to Defendant for failing to adequately communicate with a client.

17

10.
Defendant is a danger to the public due to his continued neglect of client
matters, repeated and intentional misrepresentations, and ongoing refusal to participate in
the self-regulation process. Defendant's inability or unwillingness to comply with the
Rules of Professional Conduct requires this panel to impose discipline upon Defendant as
the only means to adequately acknowledge the wrongfulness of his conduct and protect
the public.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .Oll4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and detennines the following factors are applicable:
a. Defendant's prior disciplinary offense;
b. A dishonest or selfish motive on Defendant's part;
c. Defendant's pattem of misconduct;
d. Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
e. Defendant's refusal to aclmowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;
f.

The vulnerability of the victims; and

g. Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and detennines Defendant has engaged in the following conduct that compel
consideration of and warrants disbannent:
a. Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and
b. Impulsive acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication
without timely remedial efforts.
3.
The hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and detennines the following factors have been established and warrant disbannent:
a. Defendant's intent to commit acts where the hann or potential hann was
foreseeable;

18

b. Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
c. Elevation of Defendant's own interests above that of his clients;
d. Defendant's conduct had a negative impact on his clients' and the public's
perception of the legal profession;
e. Defendant's conduct had a negative impact on the administration of
justice;
f.

Defendant's conduct impaired each client's ability to achieve the goals of
the representation;

g. Defendant's conduct had a negative effect on third pmiies; and
h. Defendant's conduct consisted of acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation,
deceit, and fabrication.
4.
The hearing panel has considered all other fonns of discipline and
concludes that any sanction less than disbannent would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the
public, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
conduct expected of members ofthe Bar.
5.
Due to the nature and extent of Defendant' s conduct, the significant harm
caused by Defendant's conduct, and the significant potential hann caused by Defendant's
conduct, and in the interest of protecting clients, the public, the administration ofjustice,
and the profession, this panel finds and concludes that disbannent is the only discipline
that will adequately protect clients, the public, the administration of justice, and the
profession from future transgressions by Defendant.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings
Regarding Discipline and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Mark L. Jenkins, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of
law in North Carolina.

Jenkins shall submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty (30) days following the date that this
Order is served upon him. Jenkins shall comply with the wind down provisions
contained in Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules,
located at 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0124.
?

19

3.
All applicable administrative fees and costs of this action, including but
not limited to deposition costs and travel expenses incurred by the witnesses, are taxed
against Defendant.

Announced at the conclusion of the hearing on March 31, 2011 and signed by the
Chair with tile consent of the other hearing panel members, this the 12.;-v-, day of April,
2011.

M. H. Hood Ellis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

20

r

·-~ c' 9 Ie

/"-0
/' (~-)

\

-ti

;.

STAIE OF NORTH

CAROL~.·~

WAKE COUNTY

i I?"
... I r

lip"

P;'j

~

'r .?o//

v / :.....

''''/j..

'>.

~'ft"

BEFORE THE

\.~_
1.~l:D .-QJSCIPU¥li RY HEARING COMMISSION
\:"'-.
°liC,2::::
OF THE
(~;;?
~Q~H CAROLINA STATE BAR
\~{>, ,
..' i.!-~/
10 DHC 41

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ADDENDUM TO ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

v.

MARK 1. JENKINS, Attorney,
Defendant

NOW COMES the hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of M. H. Hood Ellis, Chair, Theodore C. Edwards, II and Karen B. Ray
assigned in this matter on its own motion and notes that after the 31 March 2011 hearing
and decision of the hearing panel but before the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law,
and Order of Discipline had been reduced to writing and entered, the hearing panel
received the sad news that Defendant Mark 1. Jenkins had passed away. Because Mark
1. Jenkins is now deceased, the discipline imposed by the Order of Discipline is moot
and accordingly, this proceeding should be and is hereby abated. With appropriate
consideration for the family of Mark L Jenkins, Plaintiff may, in its discretion, pursue
any legal remedies to recover the costs ofthis proceeding against Defendant's estate.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members this the
Iz.M day of April, 201 I.

M. H. Hood Ellis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

