EFORETHE

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

·AR.~IEARING COMMISSION
OF THE

l:1iiIl>If\KOLJNA STATE BAR
15 DHC42

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
BRlDGETTE D. JOHNSON, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Shirley L. Fulton, Chair, and members Beverly T. Bea:! and
Bradley Lail, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant
Bridgette D. Johnson appeared pro se. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree
to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the
discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily stipulates to the foregoing fmdings
of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and entry of the order of discipline.
Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations offact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
Findings of Fact

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Bridgette D. Johnson ("Johnson"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 2008, and is, and was at a:!l times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professiona:! Conduct.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.

4.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant and
Daiva S. Bulluck were engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and
maintained a law office in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.
5.
From 2009 to 2013, Defendant failed to comply with certain trust account
requirements, as follows:
a. Failed to maintain client ledgers for each person or entity from whom
or for whom entrusted funds were received;
b. Failed to conduct monthly and quarterly trust account reconciliations;
c. Failed to identifY clients on deposit slips; and
d. Failed to use business size checks containing an auxiliary On-Us field.

6.
Defendant failed to ensure there were funds in the trust account for a client
before disbursing funds for the client from the trust account. On occasion this resulted in
Defendant disbursing funds from the trust account attributed to a client for whom she did
not have funds in the trust account. Some of these disbursements were to third parties on
behalf ofthe clients and some of the disbursements were for attorney's fees to Defendant.

7.

Defendant failed to ensure she deposited funds into the correct account
and would sometimes inadvertently deposit entrusted funds into the operating account
instead ofthe trust account.

8.
On occasion, Defendant would try to rectify deposit and disbursement
errors by transferring funds from the operating account to the trust account.

9.
The State Bar conducted a random audit of Defendant's trust account in
June 2013. In response to the results of the random audit, Defendant attempted to
reconcile the trust account and made transfers from the operating account to try to
address deficiencies.
10.
Defendant and Ms. Bulluck disbanded their finn in July 2014. Their firm
trust account had a zero balance as of June 30, 2014.

1l.
Defendant provided the State Bar with certain trust account records.
Subsequently, the State Bar requested additional records from Defendant and served her
with a Letter of Notice. Defendant failed to respond to the Letter of Notice from the
State Bar served upon her by certified mail on March 13, 2015 and to the State Bar's
request for additional records made to her by telephone in April 2015.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

Order of Discipline
The North Carolina State Bar v. Bridgette D. Johnson

Page 2 of10

Conclusions of Law

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to maintain client ledgers, Defendant failed to maintain a ledger
containing a record of receipts and disbursements for each person or entity
from whom and for whom entrusted funds were received and the current
balance of funds held in the trust account for each such person or entity in
violation of Rule 1.15-3(b)(S);

(b)

By failing to conduct monthly and quarterly reconciliations of the trust
account, Defendant failed to total the individual client balances shown on
the ledger of a general trust account with the current bank statement
balance for the trust account each qualter in violation of Rule l.lS-3(d)(I)
and failed to reconcile the balance of the trust account as shown on the
lawyer's records with the current bank statement balance for the trust
account each month in violation of Rule 1.l5-3(d)(2);

(c)

By failing to identify on deposit slips the. clients for whom funds were
being deposited into the trust account, Defendant failed to maintain the
requisite record listing the name of the client to whom the funds deposited
into the trnst account belonged in violation of Rule 1.15-3(b)(1);

(d)

By disbursing funds from the trust account for the benefit of clients who
did not have funds in the trust account at that time, Defendant failed to
appropriately maintain and disburse entrusted funds in violation of Rule
US-2(a), (i), and (m);

(e)

By failing to respond to the State Bar's March 2015 Letter of Notice and
the April 2015 request for additional records, Defendant knowingly failed
to respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary
authority in connection with a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule

8.1 (b).
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby fmds by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence the following additional:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
Maintaining client ledgers and conducting monthly and quarterly
reconciliations of the trust account are integral to the proper maintenance and protection
of entrusted funds.
Order of Discipline
The North Carolina State Bar v. Bridgette D. Johnson

Page 3 of 10

2.
When Defendant opened the law firm with Ms. Bulluck after passing the
bar, neither had any prior training or experience in managing a trust account.
3.
Defendant and Ms. Bulluck received help in operating as a business but
had no assistance with managing a trust account.

4.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

5.

There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the plllt of

Defendant.
6.
Defendant and Ms. Bulluck disbursed funds for clients when they had no
funds or insufficient funds in the tmst account for the client, thus misusing other
entrusted funds in the tmst account.
7.
Defendant and Ms. Bulluck had remedied all deficiencies in the trust
account when they closed their practice.
8.

Defendant is not currently managing a trust account.

9.

Defendant .has acknowledged her failure to properly maintain entrusted

funds.

10.
The legal profession has the privilege of being self-regulating. It can only
fulfill its regulatory duty, however, if its members participate in the self-regulation
process. When attorneys fail to respond to inquiries of the State Bar, it jeopardizes the
effectiveness of self-regulation.
11.
Although Defendant failed to respond to the State Bar's letter of notice
and provide the additional client information requested by the State Bar, she did meet
with the State Bar's investigator and provide some records.
12.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbannent, in considering the approptiate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the fOllowing:

Conclusions With Respect To Discipline

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension:
a.
Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm is foreseeable, to wit: failing to maintain client ledgers and conduct

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Bridgette D. Johnson

Page 4 oflO

reconciliations and thus comprOlllismg her ability to properly maintain and
disburse entrusted funds; and
b.
Potential negative impact of Defendant's actions on clients' or the
public's perception of the profession.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. 1B § .01l4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

A pattern of misconduct;

e.
Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
£

Remorsc; and

g.

Vulnerability of Defendant's clients.

4.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted
funds betrays a vital trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal
profession.
5.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.
6.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Bridgette D. Johnson

Page 5 ofl0

7.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions
to avoid significant harm or the potential for significant harm to clients.
8.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact and Conclusion Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order of Discipline

1.

Defendant, Bridgette D. Johoson, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for three years.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and fees.
Defendant shall pay the costs within thirty days of service of the statement of costs upon
her.

3.

The three-year suspension is stayed for a period 0 f three years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
a.
Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's
Trnst Account Handbook, using the Trust Account Reconciliation sheet provided
in the Handbook, for all (rust accounts she maintains. Defendant shall provide the
three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with funds in the trust
account(s) during that month, ledger for any personal funds maintained in the
trust account(s) for bank: or credit card fees, her trust account ledger, and the bank:
statements, cancelled checks, and deposit slips for each month. These documents
are due on the 15 th day of the following month - for example, the three-way
reconciliation for the month of January is due on February 15;
b.
Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA audit all trust accounts
maintained by Defendant. This audit shall assess whether Defendant has in her
trust account the client funds she should be maintaining for her clients at that
time, as well as Defendant's compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The
CPA's audit shall include addressing the items on the CPA Report Template
which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendant. The quarterly audit reports
from the CPA are due no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter - for
example, the CPA audit for the first quarter of the calendar year (January,
February, and March) is due on April 30;

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Bridgette D. Johnson

Page 60fl0

c.
If either the monthly three-way reconciliation repoli or the CPA
audit reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the date of
the three-way reconciliation repmi or the CPA audit and shall provide
documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar within 2 days of the
date of the remedial action;
d.
Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of
Counsel to provide any information regarding her hust accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to obtain
information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a trust account,
by the deadline stated in the request;
e.
Defendant certifies that she is not handling enhusted funds or
maintaining an attorney hust account at the time she signed this consent order.
Within 30 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall provide the
Office of Counsel of the State Bar with documentation showing the closing of any
and all hust accounta. Thereafter, for as long as Defendant is not handling
entrusted or fiduciary funds or maintaining an attorney hust account, on' a
monthly basis Defendant shall submit to the Office of Counsel an affidavit
certifying tllat she did not handle any enhusted or fiduciary funds in that month.
This affidavit shall be executed on the last day of each month and provided to the
Office of Counsel by the 5th day of the following month (e.g. the affidavit for
January would be executed January 31 st and due to the Office of Counsel by
February 5th). Such affidavit shall be in lieu of the three-way reconciliation repOli
required in paragraph 3a. For as long as Defendant is not handling any entrusted
or fiduciary funds and is not maintaining an attorney tmst account, the
requirements of paragraphs 3a to 3d above shall be tolled;
f.
Within the first year of the stayed period of suspension, Defendant
shall complete four hours of continuing legal education in the area of trust
account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. At least
one such session shall be taken before the end ofthe next calendar quarter (i.e., by
March 30, June 30, etc.) following the entry of this order and at least one such
session shall be the Tmst Accounting Rules Continuing Legal Education Program
taught by the Trust ACColmt Compliance Counsel for The North Carolina State
Bar. Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE
courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the courses. The~e four
hours are in addition to the continuing legal education requirements set out in 27
N.C. Admin. Code 1D § .1518;
g.
Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current physical business address (not a Post Office
box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notify the Bar of any
change in address within ten (10) days of such change;

Order of Discipline

The North Carolina State Bar v. Bridgette D. Johnson

Page 7 of10

h.
Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to
the address on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina
.State Bar;
i.
Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with
full and complete responses and all requested documentation;
j.
Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;

k.
Defendant will pay all membership dues, Client Security Fund
assessments, and any other related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable
deadline;

1.
Defendant will not violat~ any of the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect during the period of the stay;
m.
Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina
or of the United States, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the
stay; and
n.
Defendant paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within thirty days after the statement of costs and fees was served
upon her.
4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or proceedings pending alleging
lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to
§ .0114(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion
or proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the
suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise
have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the three year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of
the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
such pending motion or proceeding.
5.
Any order of the Administrative Co=ittee of the North Carolina State
Bar placing Defendant in inactive status for any reason shall toll the running of the
suspension, the period of the stay of the suspension, and Defendant's obligation to
comply with the terms of the stay of the suspension under this order. Upon Defendant's
reinstatement to active status by the Administrative Committee, the tolling of the running
of the suspension and the stay of the suspension under this order shall be lifted, at which

Order ofDiscipline
The North Carolina State Bar v. Bridgette D. Johnson

Page 8 oflO

time such Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions of the stay of the
suspension in this order will resume.
6.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of Defendant's suspension may
be lifted as provided in § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
.
.
7.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing a petition, demonstrating compliance with the requirements § .0125 ofthe North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, any requirements in the order
activating the suspension, and the following requirements by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence:
a.
Defendant properly wound down her law practice and complied
with the terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
b.
Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar
informed of her current information for her physical address (not a Post Office
box), telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of her
suspension;
c.
Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of the suspension;
d.
Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for
infOlmation from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with
full and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of her suspension;
e.
Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding
continuing education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of her
. petition for reinstatement;
f.
Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct
in effect during the period of the suspension;
g.
Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina
or of the United States, other than minor traffic violations, during the period ofthe
suspension; and

Order ofDiscipline
The North Carolina State Bar v. Bridgette D. Johnson

Page 9 of10

h.
Defendant paid all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding
as assessed by the Secretary by the date of the filing of her petition for
reinstatement.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jUlisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Signed
.t./j@ayof

F(4"'1--

Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
2016.

~~p~

hirley 1. ulton, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed and consented to by:

~fe"r&er

~Attomey for

Date

Plaintiff

\lIV/lb

Dater

Order of Discipline
The North Carolina State Bar v. Bridgetle D. Johnson

I

Page 10 oflO

