, ,t,;{\l \118 18cO" ,

.,,'"

NORTH CAROLINA':':;'

)I?r ,

",j\."~

BEFORE THE
FEe 2cJiljSOt~ INARY HEARING COMMISSION
'J\
OF THE
WAKE COUNTY~;;;;;
;; DHr. NO": H CAROLINA STATE BAR
B~
09 DHC I
"<9
(}:

r;:

FILED

f

iii

"\E tJdJJ~';<!i

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
PlaintifJ

)
)
)

v,

)

)

CHRISTOPHER DEAN JOHNSON,
Attomcy,
Dcfendant

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

)
)
)

This matter came beforc a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed ofC. Colon Willoughby, Jr., Chair, M. H. Hood Ellis, and Karen B. Ray.
Leanor Bailey Hodge representcd Plaintiff. Defendant was reprcsented by Alan M.
Schneider. Defendant waived a formal hearing. The pmiies stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order. The parties consent
to the discipline imposed by this order. Defendant also stipulates that he waives his right
to appeal the consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency ofthe findings by
consenting to the entry of this order.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, thc Hearing Panel
hercby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDlNGS OF FACT
I. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bling this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Rcgulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. Defendant, Chlistopher Dean Johnson, was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar on March 22, 2003 and is, and was at all times refened to herein, an Attol11ey at
Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to thc rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in the city of Charlotte,
Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
4. In October 2004, Defendant al,,'Teed to represent Jordan Hill (hereinafter "Hifr')
in matters of divorce, alimony, post-separation suppOli, and equitable distribution.
5. During his representation of Hill, Defendant failcd to respond to Hill's
requests fDr infonnation and status updates about her case.
6. Defendant prepared a motion for contempt on behalf of Hill against her
husband on April 6, 2005.
7. Defendant did not tile the motion for contempt until October 10,2005.
8. In July 2005. Defendant infonned Hill that she needed to attend a scheduled
hearing on the motion tDr contempt.
9. Just prior to the purported hearing date, Defendant told Hill that the hearing
had been continued by opposing counsel and rescheduled fl11" August 28, 2005.
10. The court had never scheduled a hearing on a motion for contempt.
I I. In fact, Defendant had not yet tiled the motion fllr contempt at the time of his
representations to IIill about a scheduled hearing on the Illation tllr contempt.
12. Defendant falsely represented to Hill that an Order tll1" i'm-cst (hereinafter
"OFA") had been entered tDr her husband when no such Order was ever entered.
13. Defendant knew when he represented to Hill that an OFA had been entered
fDr her husband that the representation was false.
14. Defendant falsely represented to Hill that an OFA had been entered in an
ef!llrt to cover his neglect of the Hill matter.
15. When Hill requested that she be provided with a copy ofthe OFA and any
related documents, Defendant f~liled to provide the requested documentation to Hill.

16. Defendant represented the wife of Phillip Stanley (hereinalter "Stanley") in a
domestic matter.
17. On February 24, 2006, Defendant filed a complaint for equitable distribution,
child support, alimony and custody on behalf of his client in the Stanley matter.

18. The Union County local rules required that Defendant tilc an equitablc
distribution affidavit on behalf of his client within ninety (90) days of the filing of the
equitable distJibution complaint.
19. Defendant failed to file the equitable distribution affidavit on his client's
behalf for more than 10 months after filing the equitable distribction complaint - well
beyond the ninety (90) day filing period required by the Union County local rules.
20. After making several promises to provide discovery, Defendant failed to
provide discovery requested by Stanley's attomey for 2 Y, months. Defendant did not
provide the discovery until after Stanley's attorney filed a motion to compel.
21. Defendant failed to prepare the written order of the court until approximately
2 months after the judE,'lnent was announced.
22. Defendant filed a last minute motion to continue a status conference on the
morning of the conference and then failed to a~l)('ar Il" the cont'.;rencc.
23. Defendant was retained to represent Craig Cousino (herc;inaftcr "Com:ino")
on August 19,2006 in domcstic matters.
24. Defendant represented Cousino at a hearing regarding post-separation issues
held on October 24, 2006.
25. Defendant failed to advise Cousino of the outcome of the hcaring and failed
to provide him with the order from the post-separation hearing.
26. After lalsely informing Cousino that mediation had been scheduled tl\r
February 15, 2007, Defendant inforn1ed Cousino that the mediation had been cancelled
because mediator Richard Long (hereinafier "Long"') had been in a car accident.
27. Mediator Long had not been in a car accident in Febmary 2007.
28. Defendant falsely inforn1ed Cousino that mediation had becn rescheduled for
May21,2007.
29. No mediation had been scheduled for May 21,2007.
30. Defendant knew when he made the representations that Long had been in a
car accident and that mediation was rescheduled that these statements were false.
31. Defendant later falsely infonned Cousino that the mediation had been
cancelled again because the opposing party was ill.
32. The opposing party was not ill.

33. Defendant knew when he made the representations that the opposing party
was ill and that mediation was cancelled that these statements were false.
34. Defendant falsely represented that mediation had been scheduled and
subsequently cancelled in an effort to cover his neglect of the Cousino matter.
35. Mediator Long's oftice called Defendant attempting to schedule a date for
mediation.
36. Defendant did not respond to Mediator Lung's telephone cal1s.
37. Cousino tried unsuccessfully to contact Defendant on numerous occasions
between mid-February 2007 and late-May 2007.
38. Defendant fililed to respond to Cousir.o's calls and messages.
39. In 2007, Defendant was retained to represent Dan'ell Moore (hereinai1er
"Moore") in a child and spousal support matter.
40. On May 3, 2008, Defendant appeared in court for a post-separation and
temporary child support hearing.
41. Moore was not present at this hearing.

42. At the May Y" hearing, Defendant provided the court and opposing counsel
with the required financial affidavit containing a verification page purportedly signed by
Moore.
43. Moore had originally signed a velitication page with the understanding that
Defendant would attach the verification to the financial attidavit after Defendant made
reVISIons.

44. Moore did not review the financial at1idavit before its submission to the court
and he did not sign the verification page submitted to the cOUl1 by Defendant.
45. Between the date Moore sil,'lled the verification page and the May 3 rd
hearing, Defendant did not present the final version of the financial attidavit to Moore for
review and lost the velifieation page signed by Moore.
46. Instead of asking Moore to sign a replacement verification page, Defendant
prepared the aftidavit using the infomJation Moore provided and sig11ed Moore's name to
the veritication page, without Moore's knowledge or consent.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง84-28(b)(2) in that he violated one or more of the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as tallows:
(a)

By failing to promptly file the motion for contempt on Hill's behalf,
Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing his client in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to expedite the
litigation consistent with the interests of his client in violation of Rule 3.2;

(b)

By failing to respond to Hill's requests for infoll11ation, Defendant failed
to keep his client reasonably infcmned about the status of the matter in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

(c)

By falsely infol1ning Hill that he tiled a contempt motion on ber behalf,
falsely stating that a hearing had been scheduled and falsely stating that an
OFA had been issued for her husband, Defendant engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8A(e) and engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to tbe administration
ofjustice in violation of Rule 8A(d);

(d)

By failing to file the financial affidavit and discovery in the Stanley matter
in a timely manner, and failing to prcpare and submit for comlllcnt the
temporary child support order, Defendant failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing his client, in violation of Rule
1.3, tililed to make reasonable efforts to expedite litigation consistent with
the interests of his client in violation of Rule 3.2, and engaged in conduct
that is prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule
8A(d);

(e)

By failing to attend a required status conference on behalf of Cousino,
Defendant engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8A(d) and tailed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptness in representing his client in violation of Rule
1.3;

(I)

By failing to respond to requests to schedule mediation in the Cousino
matter, Defendant failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness
in representing his client in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to make
reasonable efforts to expedite litigation consistent with the interests of his
client in violation of Rule 3.2;

(g)

By failing to respond to Cousino's requests for infonnation, Defendant
failed to keep his client rcasonably infimned about the status of the matter
in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

(h)

By falsely infonning Cousino that mediation had been scheduled when it
had not and then falsely infol111ing Cousino that the pun;lOrted mediation
was cancelled, Defendant cngaged in conduct involving dishonesty, iraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c); and

(i)

By signing Moore's signature to the verification page without Moore's
knowledge Of consent Defendant engagcd in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c)
and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rulc 8.4(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and thc consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panclmakes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidencc the fiJllowing:

FINDINGS REGARDlNG DISC1PUNE
I. Defcndant is suffeting li'om alcohol addiction.
2. Since the acts giving rise to Dcfcndant's misconduct Defendant has sought
treatment for his alcohol addiction.
3. Defendant receives regular counscling fI'om an addictions counselor for
treatment of his alcoholism.
4. Defendant has chosen to voluntarily pmiicipate in Alcoholics Anonymous
("AN') meetings and participates regularly in these meetings.
5. Defendant has not engaged in professional misconduct since beginning
treatment for his alcoholism.
6. Defendant has made satisfactory rehabilitative progress.
7. Defendant has no prior discipline.
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I. The Hearing Pancl has carefi.J1ly considered all ofthe different fonns of
discipline available to it and has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB ยง .OIl4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar.

2. Defendant has engageJ in m~ltiple acts misrepresentation, including one act of
fablication to cover his neglect.
3. Defendant's conduct negatively impacted the administration ofjustice in his
clients' domestic cases.
4. Defendant's actions resulted in potential significant hann to his clients, the
administration ofjustice and the legal profession.
5. The misconduct at issue in this case occun'ed "vhen Defendant was not in
treatment for his alcoholism. Defendant has since begun treatment for alcoholism and
has made satisfactory rehabilitative progress.
6. Suspension is appropriate and lesser discipline is insufficient to adequately
protect the public from any future misconduct by Defendant.
7. Stayed suspension is necessary to ensure that Defendant continues receiving
treatment for his alcoholism which will help ensure that he does not engage in ji,rrther
professional misconduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law. anJ Findings
Regarding Discipline, and by consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I. The law license of Chlistopher Dcan Johnson is hereby suspended for 3 years.
2. The suspension is stayed as long as Dcfendant complies and continues to
comply during the stay with the following conditions.
a. Abstain from the consumption of any alcohol during the period of the
stay.
b. Abstain from the consumption of any controlled substance other th"n as
expressly authorized by a treating physician during the period of stay.
c. Register for random alcohol screens with a monitoring service agreed to
by the parties. Sueh monitoring will include twelve alcohol screens per year and will be
at Defendant's expense. The monitoring agreement will require the monitoring service to
report to the State Bar any failure of Defendant to take or pay for the test and any positive
test result. Defendant will enter into a monitOling program within thiliy days of the date
of this order. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or documents to authorize such
reporting and shall not revoke such release(s) during the period of stay.

d. Attend AA meetings weekly beginning upon entry of this order and
work with a sponsor who is willing to make reports of Defcndant's attendance to the
State Bar. Within ten days of the date of this order, Defendant will notify the State B::lr of
the identity and contact infonnation for the AA sponsor with whom he will be working.
Defendant will detail his AA meeting attendance to this sponsor in any manner required
by the sponsor. Defendant will authorize and instruct his sponsor to provide quarterly
written reports to the State Bar of the dates on whieh the sponsor is confident that
Defendant attended AA meetings. The tirst such report shall be submitted to the State
Bar thirty days from the date of this order. Subsequent reports shall be submitted on the
first day of the first month of each quarter thereafter. Any cost associated with the
attendance or report shall be borne by Defendant.
e. Defendant will provide the Office of Counsel with his CUlTe"t street
address (not at P.O. Box) and will advise the State Bar in writing of any changes in his
address within] 0 days of such changers).
f Defendant will respond to all letters of notice and requests for
infonnation from the State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication.
g. Defendant will timely pay all State Bar membership ducs and Client
Security Fund assessments.
h. Defendant will timely comply with his State Bar continuing legal
education rcquirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline.
i. Defendant will not violate any federal or state laws.
j. Defendant will not violate any provision ofthe North Carolina Rules of
Professional Conduct.

3. Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service of
the statement of costs upon him by the Secretary ofihe State Bar.
4. If the stay of the suspension is lifted at any time and the suspension of
Defendant's law license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his
license to practice law, Defendant must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
that he has complied with each of the following conditions:
a. Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary ofthe State
Bar within 30 days after the effective date of the order suspending his law license;
b. Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Section .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules on a timely basis:

c. Demonstrated that at the time of his application for reinstatement he is
not suffering from any addiction, disability or condition that would impair his CUITent
ability to competently engage in the practice oflaw;
d. Demonstrated that he has abstained from all alcohol and illicit drug use
or consumption and has not taken any prescription drugs or controlled substances other
than as authorized by his treating physician for at least one year next preceding the filing
of his petition for reinstatement. This requirement will apply regardless of when the stay
is lifted and regardless of whether enforcement of this provision would extend the period
of suspension of Johnson's law license beyond the three year stay period set out herein:
e. Provided the Office of Counsel with releases authorizing and instructing
his medical, psychological and mental health care providers to provide ta the Office of
Counsel all medical records relating to his evaluation, prognosis, care or treatment.
including psychological and mental health evaluations, and authorizing and instructing
such providers to submit to interviews by the Ot1ice of Counsel; and

f. Paid all outstanding membership fees, Client Security Fund assessments
and costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar and complied with all continuing legal
education requirements imposed by the State Bar.

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Panel, this the -..12 day of &b~,:!_. 2010.
t

~cJ~

---

C. COLON WILLUUGHBy,.~hair
Hearing Panel

JlA . R BAILEY HODGE, DepU@ut,sel
Horney for Plaintiff

(2L1t{

~vZ

ALAN M. SCHNEIDER
AHomey for Defendant
",.-/-.

/~~.
CHRISTOPHER DEAN JOHNSON, Defendant

