STATE OF NORTH

BEFORE THE
HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
_J\DTTJ CAROLINA STATE BAR
12 DHC 14

~n"~'w'

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

DAWN DONLEYCOTT JOHNSON,
Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on August 9 and 10, 2012, before a hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Walter E.
Brock, Jr. and Percy L. Taylor. Mary D. Winstead represented Plaintiff, the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Dawn Donleycott Jolmson, was represented by Dudley A.
Witt and David B. Freedman.
Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel makes by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff: the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Dawn Donleycott Johnson ("Johnson" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the Nmih Carolina State Bar on August 26, 2003 and is, and was at all times
refened to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in Nmih Carolina, subject to
the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar
and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Johnson was actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State ofNmih Carolina and maintained a law office in Graham,
Alan1m1ce County, North Carolina.
4.
Child Plmming Conferences are an integral part of the juvenile court
system in Alamance County.

- I -

S.
Defendant represented a client in a juvenile comi matter who had a case
scheduled for a Child Planning Conference in Alamance County on December 9, 2008.
6.
Once Defendant arrived for the conference, she provided several excuses
why she could not stay.
7.
Defendant also informed Alamance County Juvenile Court Coordinator
Nichole Melton that Jamie Hamlett, the Department of Social Services attorney, had left
a message at Defendant's office stating that she would not be able to attend the meeting.
8.
9.
message.
10.

Ms. Hamlett arrived at the meeting a short time later.
Ms. Hamlett had not called Defendant's office nor had she leit any such

Defendant left the meeting before it was concluded.

11.
Defendant represented a client in a juvenile court matter who had a case
scheduled for a Child Planning Conference in Alamance County on December 16,2008.
12.

Defendant's client was present at the meeting.

13.

Defendant failed to appear at the scheduled Child Planning Conference.

14.
Defendant did not notify the clerk that she would not be present at the
meeting in accordance with the Local Rules for Juvenile Court for 15A Judicial District.
IS.
Because Defendant did not attend the Child Planning Conference, the
parties were unable to address all of the issues that needed to be addressed at that
meeting.
16.
Defendant's failure to appear at this scheduled meeting was disruptive to
the juvenile comi system in Alamance County.
17.
On or about December 16, 2008 Defendant informed Nichole Melton, the
Alamance County Juvenile Court Coordinator, that she would be on secure leave the
week of December 29, 2008 and conld not be present in juvenile court on a case that was
scheduled for December 31,2008.
18.
Defendant had not applied for secure leave for the week of December 29,
2008 ffild had previously exhausted her secure leave for 2008.
19.
In a meeting with Chief District Court Judge James Roberson on
December 17, 2008, Defendant denied that she had told Ms. Melton or anyone else that

-2-

she would be on secure leave the week of Deccmber 29,2008 or that she would be
unavailable on December 31, 2008.
20.
Prior to March 9, 2009, Defendant had failed to appear in district court
several times prompting Chief District Couti Judge James Roberson to discuss this
problem with her on two separate occasions.
21.
On March 9,2009, Defendant had several cases scheduled in Alamance
County District Court.
22.

Several of Defendant's clients were present in district court on that day.
Defendant did not appear in district court.

24.
While court was in session, Defendant called the office of the Alamance
COutlty district couti judges and infmmed the Trial Court Coordinator that she was in
Houston, Texas taking care of her sick brother.
25.
The court was unable to resolve the cases of Defendant's clients and had
to continue the cases to another date.
26.

Defendant's failure to appear in cOllli was disruptive to the court.

27.
As a result of Defendant' s failure to appear in court to represent her clients
on March 9, 2009 and prior occasions, ChiefJudge Roberson took steps to remove
Defendant as attorney of record in pending cases to which she was cOllli appointed and to
appoint new counsel in those cases.
28.
In October 2008, Ricky Anderson Moore ("Moore") was the subject of a
criminal investigation being conducted by the Alamance County Sheriffs Department.
On or about October 9, 2008, Moore met with Defendant regarding this
29.
investigation and Defendant agreed to represent him in the matter.
30.
On or about October 9, 2008, Moore paid Defendant the agreed upon
retainer of $2500.
31.
On November 24,2008, warrants for Moore's arrest were issued charging
Moore with tlu'ee felonies and three misdemeanors.
32.
The offenses Moore was charged with on November 24, 2008 arose out of
the investigation in which Defendant undeliook to represent Moore on or about October
9,2008.
33.
offenses.

On or about November 25, 2008, Moore was arrested on these six

" - .J

34.
On or about November 25, 200S, Defendant agreed to represent Moore on
the offenses for which he was charged on November 24, 2008 for an additional retainer
of$IO,OOO.
35.
On or about November 25,2008, Defendant was paid $5,000 to represent
Moore on these charges.
36.
On or about December 3, 2008, Defendant was paid an additional $5000
to represent Moore on these charges.
37.
On February 16,2009 the Alamance County Grand Jury returned true bills
of indictment against Moore on the charges on which Defendant represented him.
3S.
On or about February 16,2009, the Alamance County Clerk of Comi
provided the Defendant with the Notice ofRetul11 of Bill of Indictment in Moore's cases
by delivering a copy of the notice to Defendant's mail bin in the courthouse.
39.

Defendant did not inform Moore that he had been indicted.

40.
The cases on which Defendant represented Moore were calendared for
March 9, 2009 in Alamance County Superior Court.
41.
court date.

Defendant did not inform her client, Ricky Moore, of the March 9, 2009

42.
Defendant did not infornl her client, Ricky Moore, that she would not be
present in comi on March 9, 2009.
43.
Neither Defendant nor Moore appeared in Superior Court on March 9,
2009 as the defendant was in Houston, Texas taking care of her sick brother.
44.
As a result of Moore's failure to appear on March 9, 2009, he was called
and failed and the presiding judge ordered that an order for his arrest be issued.
45.
Moore learned that he had been called and failed and appeared in Superior
Court later the week of March 9, 2009, informed the court that he had not been notified
of his court date, and asked that the called and failed be stricken.
46.

The presiding judge ordered the called and failed stricken.

On March 12,2009, the presiding judge ordered Moore's cases continued
47.
until April 20, 2009.
4S.
On April 20, 2009, Moore appeared in Alanlance County Superior Court
on the cases in which Defendant represented him but Defendant did not appear.

-4-

49.
On April 20, 2009, the presiding judge ordered Moore's cases continued
until June 1,2009.
50.
After the April 20, 2009 court date, Moore tlied repeatedly to reach
Defendant but was unable to do so.
51.

Moore retained other counsel to represent him on these charges.

52.
At the time Moore retained another attorney, Defendant had not made an
appearance in Superior Court on Moore's behalf.
53.
Moore mailed Defendant a letter requesting a refund of the $12,500 that
Defendant was paid to represent him.
54.

Defendant did not respond to Moore's letter.

On or about October 7, 2009, Moore tiled a petition for resolution of
55.
disputed fee with Plaintiffs Attorney Client Assistance Program requesting a retum of
the $12,500.
56.
Defendant agreed to refund only $5000 of the $12,500 fee she had been
paid to represent Moore.
57.

Defendant did not eam the full $7500 she was unwilling to refund Moore.

58.

Defendant has a poor reputation for truth and veracity.

Based on the record and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes
the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are before this hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission mld the I-Iearing Panel has jurisdiction over Defendant and over the subject
matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out above, constitutes grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a.

Defendant, by being disruptive during the December 9, 2008 Child
Planning Conference, engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration
of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).

b.

Defendmlt, by failing to appear for the Child Plmming Conference on
December 16, 2008, failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing
her client in violation of Rule 1.3.

- 5-

c.

Defendant, by failing to appear for the Child Planning Conference on
December 16, 2008, engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration
of justice in violation of Rule 8.4( d).

d.

Defendant, by failing to appear in district court to represent her clients,
failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing her clients in
violation of Rule 1.3.

e.

Defendant, by failing to appear in district court to represent her clients,
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation
of Rule 8.4(d).

f.

Defendant, by failing to notify Moore that he had been indicted, failing to
notify Moore of his court date, and failing to appear in court to represent
Moore, failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing a client in
violation of Rule 1.3.

g.

Defendant, by failing to notify Moore that he had been indicted, failing to
notify Moore of his court date, and failing to appear in court to represent
Moore, failed to keep a client reasonably informed about the status of the
malier in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3).

h.

Defendant, by failing to appear in COlllt to represent Moore, engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule
8.4(d).

1.

Defendant, by collecting a $12,500 fee to represent Moore and failing to
agree to refund more than $5000 of that fee, collected a clearly excessive
fee in violation of Rule 1.5.

J.

Defendant, by charging $12,500 to represent Moore and failing to agree to
refund more than $5000 of that fee, failed to refund an advance payment
ofa fee that had not been eamed in violation of Rule 1.16(d).

k.

Defendant, by falsely representing that Ms. Hamleli would not be at the
December 9, 2008 Child Planning Conference, engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4( to).

I.

Defendant, by falsely representing to Ms. Melton that she would be on
secure leave the week of December 29,2008, engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c).

- 6-

m.

Defendant, by falsely representing to Ms. Melton that she would be on
secure leave the week of December 29,2008, engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).

n.

Defendant, by being untruthful to Judge Roberson about her conversation
with Ms. Melton, engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit,
or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c).

o.

Defendant, by being untruthful to Judge Roberson about her conversation
with Ms. Melton, engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule S.4(d).

3.
The Hearing Panel further finds that the State Bar did not prove by clear
cogent, and convincing evidence that Defendant, by delivering a controlled substance to
another person, committed a criminal act that reflects adversely on her honesty,
trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b) and
therefore, tillS claim is dismissed.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
J.
Defendant was disciplined by Admonition in 2011 for charging and
collecting an excessive fee in violation of Rule J.5( a).
2.
The conduct for which Defendant received an Admonition in 2011
occurred well prior to the conduct alleged in this Complaint.
3.
The Hearing Panel recognizes and takes into account that it was
Defendant's stated intention to reject this Admonition and to have it included in the
Complaint in this matter so that it would not constitute prior discipline, but that because
Defendant did not reject the Admonition in writing, it became final pursuant to the Rules.
4.
During the time period in which Defendant conmlitted these violations,
Defendant was under considerable stress in her personal life and sought mental health
treatment.
5.
The testimony established that Defendant's conduct in failing to appear in
court to represent her clients and tailing to appear in court on time demonstrated a pattern
of lack of attention to the orderly administration of justice in Alanlllilce County District
Court.
6.
Ricky Moore testified that his experience with Defendllilt had a negative
impact on his opinion of attorneys.

-7-

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(l), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes
that the following factors that warrant suspension of Defendant's law license are present:
(C)

Circumstances ret1ecting the Defendant's lack of honesty,
trustworthiness, or integrity;

(D)

Elevation of Defendant' s own interest above that ofthe client;

(E)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's
perception of the profession;

(F)

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of
justice;

(0)

Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals ofthe
representation; and

(I)

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

The remaining factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(I) are not
applicable.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(2), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes
that that the following factor indicating that disbarment should be considered, is present:
(A) Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

3.
Although a factor delineated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(2) is present,
the circumstances of this case do not dictate that disbarment is necessary in order to
adequately protect the public.
The remaining factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .Ol14(w)(2) are not
applicable.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(3), the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes
that the following factors are applicable in this matter:

-8-

(A)

Prior disciplinary offense;

(C)

Dishonest or selfish motive;

(E)

Indifference to making restitution;

(F)

A pattern of misconduct;

(G)

Multiple

(H)

Effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in
question;

(I)

Effect of any physical or mental disability on the conduct in
question;

(Q)

Poor character and reputation; and

(R)

Vulnerability of the victim.

om~nses;

The remaining factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(3) are not
applicable.
5.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to at least one client, the
administration of justice, and the profession, and potential significant harm to other
clients.
6.
Defendant's conduct caused harm to the legal profession by undermining
her client's trust and confidence in lawyers and the legal system.
7.
Defendant's conduct caused han11 to the administration of justice by
creating a situation in which court officials were unable to rely on her word in conducting
the business ofthe court and by causing court time and resources to be devoted to dealing
with the ramifications of her misconduct rather than the administration of justice.
8.
The I·Iearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a
censure, reprimand, or admonition would be insufficient discipline because ofthe harnl to
the administration of justice and the public caused by Defendant's conduct.
9.
The Hearing Pmlcl finds that discipline short of suspension would not
adequately protect the public mld would send the wrong message to attorneys and to the
public about conduct expected of members of the bm.
10.
Defendant should be allowed the opportunity to apply for a stay of the
balmlce of the suspension imposed by this order upon compliance with certain conditions

-9-

designed to ensure the protection of the pnblic as well as Defendant's compliance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the
Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
The law license of Defendant, Dawn Donleycott Johnson, is hereby
suspended for three (3) years effective thiliy (30) days from the date this Order of
Discipline is served upon her.
')
Defendant shall submit her law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the State Bar no later than thiliy (30) days following the date that this Order
is served upon Defendant.
. 3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4.
Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the State Bar within
ten (10) days ofthe effective date of this Order of Discipline certifying that she has
complied with the wind down rule.
5.
Within fifteen (15) days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant will
provide the State Bar with a street address (not P.O. box or drawer address) and mailing
address at which clients seeking return of their files and records in Defendant's
possession or control may obtain such files and records and at which the State Bar may
serve any notices or other matters upon her.
6.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and the costs of this action.
As allowed by statute, these costs include the costs of Defendant's deposition, which are
found to be reasonable and necessary expenses in this case. Defendant shall pay the
administrative fees and costs within thirty days of service of the statement of
administrative fees and costs upon her.
7.
After the completion of one year of active suspension of her law license,
Defendant may apply for a stay of the balance of the suspension upon filing a verified
petition with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar at least thiliy days before any
proposed effective date of the stay as provided in 27 N.C.A.C. lB, §.0125. The
remaining tenn of Defendant's suspension may be stayed only if she establishes by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence that during the active portion of the stay, Defendant
complied with the follO\ving:
a. That within six months prior to Defendant's application for a stay, she has
received a comprehensive psychiatric evaluation by a board certified

- 10-

psychiatrist who has been approved in advance by the Office of Counsel of
the North Carolina State Bar and that she has complied with any
recommended treatment, including, but not limited to, psychotherapy;
b. That Defendant has provided the State Bar with written authorization allowing
the State Bar to provide to the treatment providers(s) information and
documents obtained during the disciplinary process that the State Bar deems
relevant to Defendant's mental health issues;
c. That the psychiatrist has celiified under oath, based on his/her independent
comprehensive evaluation of Defendant, that in his/her professional opinion,
I) Defendant is in compliance with the prescribed course of treatment,
including the taking ofpresclibed medication(s) and is in compliance with any
reconunended psychotherapy, 2) the treatment plan is controlling any
diagnosed psychiatric condition(s) and/or disorder(s), and 3) Defendant does
not suffer from any mental, psychological, or emotional condition that
significantly impairs her professional judgment, perfol111ance, or competence;
d. That Defendant was solely responsible for paying all costs of such
evaluations, opinions, m1d treatment;
e. That Defendant has kept the NOlih Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current business and home addresses m1d notified
the State Bar of any change in address within ten days of such chm1ge;
f.

That Defendant has responded to all communications from the North Cm'olina
State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and has pmiicipated in good faith in the
State Bm"s fee dispute resolution process for any petition received after the
effective date of this Order;

g. That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or of any state or local government during her suspension;
h. That if Defendant proposes to practice law in NOlih Carolina as a sole
practitioner if the stay is granted, she has asked a member in good standing
with the State Bm' who practices law in the county where she proposes to
practice m1d who has been approved by Office of Counsel, to serve as a
practice monitor and that the selected monitor has agreed to so serve and has
agreed to submit monthly reports to the Office of Counsel;
I.

That she has made restitution in the amount of $1 0,000 to Ricky Moore.

J.

That Defendant has otherwise complied with the requirements of27 N.C.A.C.
1B §.0125(b).

- 11 -

8.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of her law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as she complies with the following
conditions:
a. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Depm·tment
advised of her current business and home addresses;
b. Defendant shall respond to all communications fi'om the North Carolina State
Bm' within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and paJiicipate in good faith in the State
Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition received during the stay;
c. Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States or of any state or local government during her suspension;
d. Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements aJld shall pay all fees mld costs assessed for such
by the applicable deadline;
e. During the period or the stay, Defendant shall continue to consult with a bOaJ'd
celiified psychiatrist licensed to practice in North Carolina or in the state in
which Defendant resides during the stay mld approved by the Office of
COLmsel. Defendant shall comply with all treatment prescribed by the
psychiatrist including, but not limited to, mly psychotherapy recommended by
the psychiatrist. Defendant shall ensure that the psychiatrist and any other
treating mental health professional(s) provide qUaJierly written reports to the
OtTice of Counsel. These reports shall be due JaJ1Uary I, April!, July I, and
October I tlu'oughout the stayed suspension and shall certify: I) that
Defendmlt is in complimlce with the prescribed course of treatment, including
the taking of prescribed medication(s), 2) that the treatment plan is
controlling mly diagnosed psychiatric condition(s) andlor disorder{s), aJld 3)
that Defendmlt is not then suffering from any mental, psychological, or
emotional condition that signiticantly impairs her professional judgment,
perfon11ance, or competence. In the event the psychiatrist has reason to
believe these conditions aJ'e not being met duri11g the interim periods between
reports, the psychiatrist has agreed to immediately notifY the State BaJ';
f

Defendant shall be responsible for all expenses of such treatment and reports;

g. Defendant shall execute written waivers and releases authorizing the
Defendant's psychiatrist and psychologist to confer with the Office of Counsel
for the plillJose of deten11ining whether Defendant is in complimlce with the
conditions contained in paragraph a through d above. Defendant shall not
revoke such releases during the period of stayed suspension;

- 12 -

h. In the event that the stay is granted and Defendant does not actively engage in
the practice oflaw in any manner, whether in private practice, public service,
as corporate counsel, or in any other form, Defendant shall notify the State
Bar by the first day of January following the effective date of the stay and
thereafter by April I, July I, and October 1 each year of the stayed suspension
by Wl·itten communication under oath, that Defendant has not so engaged in
the practice of law during the preceding three months;
I.

In the event that, during the stay, Defendant does actively engage in the
practice oflaw in any manner, whether in plivate practice, public service, as
corporate counsel, or in any other form, Defendant shall notify the State Bar
prior to engaging in such practice, by Wl·itten communication under oath, that
Defendant intends to become so engaged, and state when, where, and under
what circumstances Defendant intends to practice; and

J.

If Defendant proposes to practice law in North Carolina as a sale practitioner,
Defendant must meet monthly with her monitoring attorney to whom she shall
report the status of all cunent client matters, and provide any information the
monitor deems reasonably necessary to ensure that Defendant is diligently
handling all client matters. Beginning January 1 following the effective date
ofthe stay and thereafter on every April 1, July 1, and October 1 during the
stayed suspension, Defendant will deliver to the Office of Counsel written
reports signed by the monitor continuing that the meetings are occurring, that
Defendant is reporting on the status of Defendant's client matters to the
monitor, and that the practice monitor is satisfied with the status of such client
matters. Defendant must pay all costs associated with the monitor
arrangement.

9.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed
suspension provided in paragraph 8 above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as
provided in §.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension or
10.
if some pmi of the suspension is stayed m1d thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant
must comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs 7(a) thTOugh (j) above before
seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law.
Signed by the Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other heming
panel members, this the

l'1

·\1-~~')k'hbe~

day of-A-ugHSt, 2012.

- 13 -

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinmy I-leming Panel

- 14 -

