STATE OF NORTH CAROL

BEFORE THE
LINARY HEARING COMMISSION
1'.0
OF THE
. ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
I1DHCIS

WAKE COUNTY

..~",£, '0
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING DEFENDANT TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

Plaintiff

v.
LAURA G, JOHNSON, ATTORNEY
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Joshua W. Willey and Patti Head. Leanor
Bailey Hodge represented the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Laura G. Johnson,
represented herself. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order and to the transfer of Defendant to disability inactive status.
Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any right to appeal the entry of this consent order
transferring her to disability inactive status.
Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar") is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Laura G. Johnson (hereafter "Johnson"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on 4 September 1998 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attomey at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules
of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
On 12 December 2011, a Consent Order of Discipline was entered in this matter
(hereafter, the "Order"). Pursuant to the Order, Johnson was suspended from the practice of law
for two years, The suspension of Johnson's law license was stayed for three years upon her
compliance with numerous conditions.

1

4.
On 14 October 2014, the State Bar filed a Motion for Order to Show Cause
alleging that Johnson failed to comply with certain terms of the stay of her suspension.
5.
On 6 November 2014, the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission issued
an order requiring Johnson to appear and show cause why an order should not be entered by the
hearing panel activating suspension of Johnson's license to practice law in North Carolina.
6.
On 7 October 2013, Johnson informed the State Bar that since 2011 she had
"vittually stopped" performing legal services due to illness.
7.

The illness from which Johnson suffers is depression.

8.
Johnson has been receiving treatment for her depression from the Haymount
Institute of Psychological Services, PLLC since 2011. Johnson's treatment has not progressed
such that she is able to fulfill the responsibilities attendant to the practice of law.
9.
Johnson's ability to practice law has been impaired by her depression and also by
posttraumatic stress disorder.
10.
Johnson's depression and posttraumatic stress disorder are conditions that
significantly impair her performance and competence as an attorney.
11.

Johnson requests and consents to be transferred to disability inactive status.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties, the hearing panel
makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission, and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Defendant and over the subject matter of
this proceeding.
2.
Johnson is disabled within the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0103(19)
and should be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.0118 and N. C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g).
3.

Johnson should be transferred to disability inactive status with the State Bar.

4.
Johnson and the State Bar voluntarily consent to Johnson's transfer to disability
inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0118.
5.
Any pending or future grievances against Johnson and this disciplinary
proceeding should be stayed during the period of disability.
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
1.

Laura G. Johnson is transferred to disability inactive status.
2

2.
Johnson shall not practice law in North Carolina until she is no longer disabled
and has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to
the procedures set out in 27 N.C. Admio. Code 1B § .0125(c).
3.
Any pending or future grievances against Johnson and this disciplinary
proceeding are hereby stayed during the period of disability until such time as Johnson returns to
active status. The State Bar may continue to investigate allegations of misconduct and preserve
evidence as necessary pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0118(e).
,2015.

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO:

3

