IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE
OF SHERRIE HODGES

)
)

)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

)

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, §
.0117(a) ofthc State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon an affidavit of tender of
surrender oflicense executed by Sherrie Hodges onMarch30 ,2006 and filed in the
offices of the North Carolina State Bar on April 3-, 2006.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Sherrie Hodges' acts of
misappropriating client funds constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28(b )(2) in that Sherrie Hodges committed criminal acts that reflect adversely
on her honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8A(b) and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty in violation of Rule 8A( c) of the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon Motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the
following Order:
I. The tender of surrender of license of Sherrie Hodges is hereby accepted.
") Sherrie Hodges is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in North
Carolina, effective immediately. There shall be no wind down period.
3. Sherrie Hodges shall comply with the provisions 01'27 N.C.A.C. Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0124 ofthc State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules and shall
surrender her license and permanent membcrship card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline
& Disbarmcnt Rules.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against Sherrie Hodges.
Done and ordered this 21 st day of Apr~.

_

~~IJ
Calvin Murphy, Pres'aent
The N.C. Statc Bar

NORTH CAROLINA

« BEFORE THE COUNCIL
(Co:

OF THE

WAKE COUNTY
06 BCS 1

IN RE TENDER OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE
OF SHERRIE R. HODGES

) AFFIDAVIT OF TENDER
)
OF SURRENDER
)
OF LICENSE

I, Sherrie R. Hodges, being first duly sworn, say:
1.	 I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of27 NCAC IB .0117 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline
& Disability Rules.
2.	 My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion
or duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.
3.	 I am aware that there is pending an investigation regarding allegations that I have
misappropriated approximately $160,990 in funds belonging to the estate of
Wilhelmenia King, and $44,400 from the estate of Ruth Dasmann.
4.	 I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated
are true.
5.	 I am submitting my resignation because I know that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation I could not successfully defend against
them.
6.	 I am aware that the State Bar Council will consider this affidavit at its meeting in
Charlotte, N.C. on April 21, 2006 and I hereby waiver further notice ofthe
hearing.
7.	 I hereby consent to and acknowledge that my disbarment will be effective
immediately upon acceptance ofthe tender of my law license by the State Bar

8.	 Council on April 21, 2006 and I further agree and consent that no additional wind
down period will be permitted or allowed.
Respectfully submitted, this th~ day of March, 2006.

16be11;1~'
Sherrie R. Hodges

Sworn to and subscribed before me

This th~y of March, 2006.


C ](J

~---:n.JJ;.o A

"--N'otary Public

'"

