NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE TI-IE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
1101341

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Van I-I. Johnson,
A TTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On April 26, 2012, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by R. S.
Pursuant to section .01 J3(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admunitiun, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant halln or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairn1an of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
R. S. (Mr. S.) hired you in June 2008 to represent him in a divorce action. R. S.'s wife (Ms. S.)
was represented by Attorney M.H. (Attorney H.)
Attorney H. gave you notice about taking Mr. S.'s deposition on April 8,2009. The deposition was to
be taken on April 20, 2009. Attorney H. then filed an amended notice of deposition dated April 15,
2009, setting Mr. S.'s deposition for April 27, 2009. A second amended notice to take Mr. S.'s
deposition was dated April 24, 2009 and the deposition was set for May 6, 2009.

You indicated that you were unavailable for the deposition on April 27, 2009 but would be
available for the deposition on May 6, 2009. Neither you nor Mr. S. appeared at his deposition on May
6, 2009. In a May 4, 2009 e-mail from you to Attorney H., you stated the following: "This is to

confinn our request that the S's depositions not be scheduled until such time as botb parties are
available on tbe same day. Ifwe can't confinn that Ms. S will also submit to her deposition on May 6
by 12:00 noon on May 5 we will assume that the depositions will be scheduled for some other date tban
May 6." In a May 5, 2009 e-mail from you to Attorney H., you stated: "This is to confinn tbat Mr. S.
will not be available on Wednesday, May 6 because of my court conflict and because your client is not
available on that date." Later on May 5, 2009, you e-mailed Attorney H. and stated: "1 remain open to
reaching an agreement upon date for our clients' depositions if you can notice my client for deposition,
I can notice your client for deposition and we'll see what that gets us." In each oftbe c-mails that you
sent Attorney H., you condition his deposing Mr. S. upon you deposing Ms. S. on the same day as Mr.
S's deposition. The NOrtIl Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure do not support your failure to cooperate
with the opposing party deposing Mr. S.
You did not tell Mr. S. that his wife had noticed his deposition. As a result of Mr. S. not
appearing at the depositions, Attorney H. filed a motion for sanctions. Mr. S. paid $4,463.22 in courtordered sanctions.
The Grievance Committee found that you violated Rule 1.3, Rule 1.4(a)(l)(2)(3) and Rule
8.4(d).
In issuing this censure, the Grievance Committee found as aggravating factors your disciplinary
history (a reprimand in 2001 and a censure in 2007), refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of
your conduct and the lack of effort to rectifY the consequences of your conduct.
You are hereby censured by tbe North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end tbat you demean yourself as a respected member oftbe legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted july 23, 2010 by the Council oftbe North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

rt/t.,

day of

~

,2012.

Margaret 1. Hunt, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

