r~-rl----

UNCOU, COUNTY

F!L~::O

NORTH CAROLINA

DEC 12 2012

LINCOLN COUNTY

IN HE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION

d

CUIH1f. o'i! slItu!,:; iToR'coillfi'"
IN THE MATTER OF THE DISCIPLINE
)
)
of
)
)
HUGH WOLFE JOHNSTON, Attorney,
)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

THIS MATTER came on for hearing on December 10 and 11,2012 in Lincoln County
Superior Court after an Order to Show Cause was served upon Hugh Wolfe Johnston
("Johnston") notifying him of the issues to be considered and the time and place of the
hearing. A. Root Edmonson, Deputy Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar, appeared to
prosecute this matter as ordered by the Court. Johnston appeared pro se. Based upon the
evidence and arguments presented, the Court finds the following to be supported be clear,
cogent and convincing evidence:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
On April 28, 2010, Hugh W. Johnston ("Johnston") filed a Complaint in the
Western District of North Carolina on behalf of Neil Allt'an, Terry Spoerle, Leslie J. Dale and
numerous other Plaintiffs against a number of Defendants including Wells Fargo ("the federal
lawsuit. ")
2.
On May 27, 2010, Judge Graham C. Mullen ("Judge Mullen"), Senior Judge of
the Western District of North Oirolina, dismissed the federal lawsuit prior to the filing of any
responsive pleadings.
On February 16,2011, while his appeal of Judge Mullen's order was on appeal
3.
to the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals, Johnston filed a Complaint in Lincoln County Superior
Court in an action entitled Neil Allran, Terry Spoerle, Leslie Dale. et al., v. Graham C. Mullen
("Lincoln Lawsuit I") although Johnston lmew, or should have known, that Judge Graham C.
Mullen was entitled to absolute immunity for the acts he was accused of in the Complaint.
4.
The Complaint Johnston filed in Lincoln Lawsuit I accused Judge Mullen of
violating the oath he took when he became a lawyer by dismissing the federal lawsuit in
violation of the Plaintiffs' constitutional right to a jury trial which Johnston contended
constituted the felony of perjury in violation ofN.C.G.S. § 14-209.
5.
Also on February 16,2011, Johnston filed a Complaint in Lincoln County
Superior Court in an action entitled Neil Allran, Terry Spoerle, Leslie Dale, et al., v. Wells
Fargo, Robinson, Bradshaw & Hinson, P A, Louis Bledsoe, III, and Adam Doerr ("Lincoln

If

\

ii,

Lawsuit II'') seeking actual and punitive damages because the Defendants had filed a motion
for extension of time to file a response in the federal lawsuit.
6.
The Complaint Johnston filed in Lincoln Lawsuit II accused the lawyer
Defendants of violating the oaths they took when they became lawyers by using their legal
expertise to deny the Plaintiffs' constitutional right to ajury trial which Johnson contended
constituted the felony of perjury in violation ofN.C.G.S. § 14-209.
7.
On March 28, 2011, Judge Richard D. Boner heard the Defendants' motion to
dismiss Lincoln Lawsuit II and a motion for sanctions in Lincoln County Superior Court.
8.
In an order filed on April 21, 2011, Judge Richard D. Boner dismissed Lincoln
Lawsuit II and, in a separate order, sanctioned Johnston and the Plaintiffs in Lincoln Lawsuit
II, jointly and severally, by ordering them to pay partial attorney fees to the Defendants in the
amount of$15,000.
9.

Johnston appealed Judge Boner's April 21, 2011 orders.

10.
On February 7, 2012, in an unpublished opinion, the Court of Appeals affirmed
Judge Boner's April 21, 2011 orders.
,

\ ' ,:1\ '

11.
On March 14, 2012,. Johnstonfjled a notice of appeal of the Court of Appeals'
opinion to the Supreme Court of North Carolina claiming an appeal of right because the
matter raised a substantial question under the Constitution of North Carolina.
12.
On April 12,2012, the Supreme Court dismissed the appeal filed by Johnston
for lack of a substantial constitutional question.
13.
On April 20, 2012, Johnston filed a motion in the Supreme Court of North
Carolina asking the Supreme Court to initiate disciplinary measures against all Officers of the
Court involved in the trial and appeal of Lincoln Lawsuit II, including opposing counsel,
Judge Boner and the three judges on the North Carolina Court of Appeals who participated in
the February 7, 2012 opinion.
14.
The motion Johnston filed in the Supreme Court of North Carolina accused the
lawyer Defendants, Judge Boner and the three judges on the North Carolina Court of Appeals
who participated in the February 7, 2012 opinion of violating the oaths they took when they
became lawyers by their actions that denied the Plaintiffs' constitutional rights which
Johnston contended constituted the felony of perjury in violation ofN.C.G.S. § 14-209.
15.
On May 15,2012, knowing that the Court of Appeals had affirmed Judge
Boner's orders and that the Supreme.Court ofNGlrth Carolina had dismissed his appeal to that
Court, Johnston filed a Complaint in Lincoln County Superior Court in an action entitled Neil
Allran, Terry Spoerle, Leslie Dale, et al., v. Robinson, Bradshaw & Hinson, PA, Martin
Brackett, Jr., and Richard D. Boner ("Lincoln Lawsuit III") seeking actual and punitive
damages against the Defendants based essentially upon the same contentions, that had been
decided in Lincoln Lawsuit II and its appeal.

2

16.
The Complaint Johnston filed in Lincoln Lawsuit III accused the lawyer
Defendants, Judge Boner and others of violating the oaths they took when they became
lawyers and judge by their actions that denied the Plaintiffs' constitutional rights which
Johnston contended constituted the felonies of perjury in violation ofN.C.G.S. § 14-209 and
obstruction of justice in violation ofN.C.G.S. § 14-221.2.
17.
The Attorney General's office fi,le.d a Illotion to dismiss Lincoln Lawsuit III on
behalf of Judge Boner based upon judicial imrnl./niW and Martin L. Brackett, Jr. ("Brackett")
filed a motion to dismiss Lincoln ,Lawsuit III on behalf of the other Defendants and a motion
for sanctions. Those three motions were noticed.for hearing on September 17, 2012 in Lincoln
County Superior Court.
18.
On September 12,2012, Johnston faxed a motion to amend his Complaint in
Lincoln Lawsuit III and a proposed order granting the motion to the trial court administrator
in Lincoln County with a cover memo asking her to file the motion and present the proposed
order to the judge who was scheduled to preside at the September 17, 2012 session of civil
court in Lincoln County. The motion contained a signed copy of a certificate of service
showing that Johnston had served copies of the motion on the Attorney General and Brackett.
19.
At the hearing on September 17,2012, Johnston admitted that he had not sent
the motion to amend or the proposed order he had attempted to have entered to the Attorney
General or to Brackett as reflected in the certificate of service.
20.
During the hearing on September 17,2012, Johnston advised the presiding
judge, Forest D. Bridges ("Judge Bridges"), that he had not met with or communicated with
many of the persons named as Plaintiffs in the three Lincoln County lawsuits, and that most
Plaintiffs had to rely on a websitefo.r information,abo\lt the lawsuits.
I •.

21.
There was nothing on the website that informed the Plaintiffs in Lincoln
Lawsuit II that sanctions had been entered again~t them jointly and severally.
22.
During the hearing on the motion for sanctions on September 17, 2012, Judge
Bridges advised Johnston that he was, among other things, enjoined from filing any lawsuit,
claim, grievance or request for disciplinary proceeding against any of the Defendants in
Lincoln Lawsuits II and III in any court anywhere.
23.
After Judge Bridges announced the injunction, Johnston responded to Judge
Bridges that he understood that he could not file any more lawsuits against any of the
Defendants in Lincoln Lawsuits II and III in any court anywhere.
24.
On October 15, 2012, Brackett sent a proposed Sanctions Order Containing the
injunction against Johnston filing further lawsuits against any ofthe Defendants in Lincoln
Lawsuits II and III to Judge Bridges with a copy to Johnston.
25.
On October 19, 2012, Judge Bridges signed the Sanctions Order prepared by
Brackett, with one minor change, and it was filed in Lincoln County on October 25, 2012.

3'

26.

A copy of the filed Sanctions Order was mailed to Johnston on October 25,

2012.
On October 26, 2012, Johnston filed a motion in Gaston County Superior
27.
Court seeking 20 days from the issuance of Summons [sic1to file a Complaint in an action
entitled Neil Allran, Leslie Dale and #1 IN FREEDOM, LLC v. Roy Cooper, Walter Dalton, et
al that named 44 Defendants, including Judge Richard D. Boner, Robinson, Bradshaw &
Hinson, and Brackett. Johnston issued summonses to each of the 44 Defendants and attempted
to serve each of them with a copy of his motion and an order signed by an assistant Clerk of
Superior Court extending the time to file a Complaint to November 15,2012.
On November 15, 2012, Johnston filed a Complaint in Gaston County Superior
28.
Court naming Judge Richard D. Boner, Robinson, Bradshaw & Hinson, and Brackett, among
others, as defendants.
29.
The filing of the motion and summonses and the Complaint in Gaston County
against Judge Richard D. Boner, Robinson, Bradshaw & Hinson, and Brackett was in direct
violation of Judge Bridges' injunction announced in open court and as set out in the Sanctions
Order.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Court makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
The Order to Show Cause was served upon Johnston and this Court has
personal and subject matter jurisdiction.
2.
Johnston's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Johnston violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct as follows:
(a)
By filing Complaints, appeals and motions in Lincoln Lawsuits I, II
and III that had no basis in law or fact, Johnston filed frivolous claims in violation of
Rule 3.1 and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d);
i:

i

(b)
By falsely accusing others,offelonious conduct based upon an alleged
violation of an oath, Johnston engagedin.conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit
or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4( c); filed frivolous claims in violation of
Rule 3.1 and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8.4(d);
(c)
By signing a certificate of service that falsely claimed that he had
served the Attorney General and Brackett with his motion to amend the Complaint in
Lincoln Lawsuit III when he had not done so, Johnston engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

4

(d)
By sending a proposed order allowing his motion to amend his
Complaint in Lincoln Lawsuit III to the trial court administrator and asking her to
present it to the judge who was scheduled to preside at the September 17, 2012 session
of civil court in Lincoln County when he had not given the opposing counsel any
notice of his motion or proposed order, Johnston attempted to communicate ex parte
with a judge when a copy ofthe writteh' communication had not been furnished
simultaneously to the other party in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(3)(B);
By failing to meet with and get the consent of persons on whose behalf
(e)
he filed Complaints in Lincoln Lawsuits I, II and III, Johnston failed to consult with
and abide by the clients' decisions concerning the objectives of representation in
violation of Rule 1.2(a); failed to reasonably consult with the clients about the means
by which the clients' objectives were to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2)
and failed to explain a matter to the extent necessary to permit the client to make
informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b);

(f)
By failing to notify his clients of his intent to appeal in Lincoln
Lawsuits I and II and failing to notify his clients before filing the motion in the
Supreme Court of North Carolina asking the Supreme Court to initiate disciplinary
measures, Johnston failed to reasonably consult with his clients about the means by
which the clients' objectives were to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2)
and failed to explain a matter to the extent necessary to permit the client to make
informed decisions regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
By failing to inform his· clients of the $15,000 in sanctions ordered
(g)
against them jointly and severally withJ6'hnstdn, Johnston failed to keep his clients
reasonably informed about the status of the matter in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);
By filing the motion and summonses and Complaint in Gaston County
(h)
Superior Court naming Judge Richard D. Boner, Robinson, Bradshaw & Hinson, and
Brackett as defendants in direct violation of the Judge Bridges' injunction announced
in open court and as set out in the Sanctions Order, Johnston knowingly disobeyed an
obligation under the rules ofa tribunal in violation of Rule 3.4(c) and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4( d).
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and
additional evidence and arguments presented at the hearing, the undersigned enters the
following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Although no prior disciplinary action has been taken against Johnston, the
pattern of misconduct exemplified by the specific instances exemplified by this order shows a
complete disregard for the integrity of the judicial system and the consequences of his actions
I '
to others.
. 1,\ '
I

5

'Ii

2.
Johnston intentionally engaged in conduct that foreseeably undermined the
public's faith in the judicial system. His unwarranted attacks on the basic integrity of any
judge who ruled against him undermines the public's confidence in the judicial process.
3.
Johnston's baseless attacks on the integrity of judges caused embarrassment
and potential harm to the judges' reputations.
4.
Johnston displayed abject disrespect for the judiciary and the judicial system in
public forums, including open court with members of the public present. It is especially
damaging to the public's perception of the legal system when an officer of the court argues
with the Court and demeans its pmticipants.
5.
Johnston habitually violated both the letter and the spirit of Rule 12 of the
General Rules of Practice for the Superior and District Courts in North Carolina by failing to
yield gracefully to rulings of the Court.

,'

6.
By repeatedly filing lawsuits seeking the same relief that the appellate courts
had found to be without merit, Johnston wasted the Courts' time and interfered with the
Courts' ability to carry out their duties to the people of this State.
7.
Johnston testified that he was committed to pursuing his unfounded cause,
showing that the judicial system and the public need to be protected from him having the
ability to bring more unfounded lawsuits and from doing further harm to the judicial system in
North Caro lina.
8.
Johnston harmed his own clients by subjecting them to sanctions that he never
informed them about.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Court hereby enters the following additional
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
By making false allegations of felonjo\js conduct on the pm of judges and
fellow lawyers who opposed his unfounded allegation brought in federal court, Lincoln and
Gaston County Superior Courts and the North Carolina appellate courts, and by sending an ex
parte communication to Judge Bridges with a false certificate of service, Johnston has shown
himself to be a person who lacks the character necessary to be a lawyer.
2.
Johnston's misconduct caused significant potential harm to the reputations of
lawyers and judges, and to the public's perception of the legal profession and the justice
system.
3.
Johnston's misconduct caused significant potential harm to his clients by
subjecting them to significant monetary and other sanctions.

6

4.
This Court has considered lesser alternatives and finds that suspension of
Johnston's license or a public censure, reprimand, ouidmonition would not be sufficient
discipline because of the seriousness of Johnston's misconduct and the gravity of the actual
harm his conduct caused to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal profession
and because of the gravity of the significant potential harm to potential clients, the public, the
administration of justice, and the legal profession if Johnston were permitted to continue to
practicing law.
5.
This Court has considered all lesser sanctions and finds that discipline short of
disbarment would not adequately protect the public, the profession and the administration of
justice for the reasons set forth above and for the following reasons:
(a)
Johnston committed misdeeds including material misrepresentations
and deceit. Misconduct involving misrepresentations and deceit are among the most
serious offenses that an attorney can commit. Such offenses demonstrate that the
offending attorney is not trustworthy. The public should be able to assume that all
lawyers are trustworthy.
(b)
Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Johnston committed and would send the
wrong message to lawyers and to the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this State.
'
(c)
Defendant has neither ackP:owledged the wrongful nature of his
conduct nor expressed remorse for the significant harm he has caused. His conduct in
connection with this disciplinary proceeding suggests that he does not believe he has
done anything wrong and that he has no reason to feel remorseful. Accordingly, there
is an overwhelming likelihood that, ifhe were licensed to practice law, Johnston
would continue to engage in the pattern of misconduct that led to this disciplinary
action. So long as Johnston has a license to practice law, there is no way to protect
future potential clients from harm or to protect the judicial system and the profession
from deception and unwarranted attacks.
(d)
The protection of the public, the legal profession and the administration
of justice requires that Johnston not be permitted to resume the practice of law until he
demonstrates the following: that he has reformed; that he understands his obligations
to his clients, the public, the legal profession and the administration of justice; and that
permitting him to practice law will not be detrimental to the public or the integrity and
standing of the legal profession or the administration of justice. Disbarred lawyers are
required to make such a showing before they may resume practicing law.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, this Court hereby enters the
following:
'

7

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.

Hugh Wolfe Johnston is hereby DISBARRED from the practice oflaw.

2.
Johnston shall surrender his license and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon him.
3.
Johnston shall not practice law in North Carolina until his license is restored by
the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to its provisions regarding reinstatement of disbarred
lawyers.
4.

Johnston shall comply with th~ wind down provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB, Sec .

.0124.
5.
Before filing any action in any federal or state court on his own behalf, other
than an appeal of this Order of Discipline or any order that may be entered in the companion
contempt case before this Court, Johnston must accompany that filing with a sworn certificate
from a lawyer licensed in North Carolina averring that the lawyer has reviewed the pleading,
that the lawyer believes, after reasonable inquiry, that the allegations in the pleading are well
grounded in fact and are warranted by existing law.
This the J b a y of December 2012.

Richard 1. Doughton
Superior Court Judge Presiding

, l",

8

