STATE OF NORTH CARO

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.

JESSE W. JONES, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Beverly T. Beal, Chair, Richard V. Bennett, and Warren G.
McDonald pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State
Bar, was represented by A. Root Edmonson. Defendant, Jesse W. Jones, was represented by
Robert E. Zaytoun. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties
stipulate and consent to the entry of this order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant
waives any right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the
findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper patty to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
The defendant, Jesse W. Jones (hereinafter "Jones") was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 26, 1994 and was at the times referred to herein an Attorney at
Law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant to this order, Jones actively engaged in the practice
of law in the State of NOlth Carolina atId maintained a law office in the city of Lillington,
Harnett County, NOlih Carolina.
4.

Jones was properly served with the summons and complaint in this matter.

1

5.
On January 24, 2013, Jones was in the hallway of the courthouse in Lillington
talking to opposing counsel, Chad Wunsch, about a domestic case in which Jones represented
the wife. Wtillsch's client was also present. Jones became upset and statied yelling and
otherwise acting in an unprofessional manner. As a result, Wunsch and his client had to
leave the cOUlihouse.
6.
On February 28, 2013, Jones called opposing counsel in a domestic case,
Heather Williams, who had filed a sanctions motion to get her client's attomey fees paid by
Jones' client. Jones told Williams: "I got your f---ing motion." Jones went on to dispat'age
Williams personally, including saying, "your Dad is well known, but you aren't sh--."
Williams hung up on Jones but he called back and continued to lambast Williams.
7.
On April 11,2013, Jones attended a mediation involving distribution of assets
in a domestic case in which Jones represented the husband. After Jones and opposing
counsel gave the mediator the respective positions of the parties, Jones jumped up and
stormed into the room where the opposing party was located and screamed at her, pounding
his fists on the table and cursing her.
8.
Jones and Gerald Hayes represented opposing parties in a domestic case. After
the clients had engaged in a physical altercation, they took out cross warrants against each
other. On April 18,2013, Hayes looked for Jones in the courthouse to get Jones to go with
him to dismiss the cross warrants (which is common practice in cases where the parties are
represented in a related domestic case). When Hayes found Jones in the lawyers' lounge and
proposed that they should go get rid of the criminal charges, Jones got in Hayes' face and
yelled and cursed at him.
9.
On May 28,2015, LTC David C. Kan1ka and his wife were in COUliroom 2 in
the Hamett County Courthouse as witnesses against a criminal defendant represented by
Jones.
10.
At a recess in the court's proceedings, Jones approached to within two to three
feet of the Kamkas, aimed his phone camera at the Kamkas and either took their picture or
pretended to do so. The Kamkas believed that Jones did this to intimidate them as potential
witnesses or to harass them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All patties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission has jurisdiction over Defendant, Jesse W. Jones, and over the subject matter of
this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(1) and (b)(2) in that Defendant
violated § 84-28(b)(1) and the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his

actions as follows:
2

(a)

by yelling at Wunsch and acting unprofessionally in the presence of Wunsch's
client in the courthouse while representing a client, Jones engaged in
undignified or discourteous conduct that was degrading to a tribunal in
violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B); used means that have no substantial purpose
other than to embarrass, delay or burden a third person in violation of Rule
4A(a); and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8A(d);

(b)

by personally disparaging opposing COlllsel Williams after receiving Williams'
motion, Jones used means that have no substantial purpose other than to
embanass, delay or burden a third person in violation of Rule 4A(a); and
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of
Rule 8A(d);

(c)

by pounding his fist on the table and cursipg at the opposing party while
participating in a mediation, Jones communicated about the subject of the
representation with a person Jones knew to be represented by another lawyer in
the matter in violation of Rule 4.2(a); engaged in undignified or discourteous
conduct that was degrading to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B); used
means that have no substantial purpose other than to embanass, delay or
burden a third person in violation of Rule 4A(a); and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8 A( d);

(d)

by yelling and cursing at Hayes after Hayes asked Jones to accompany him to
the cOUliroom to dispose of matters for their respective clients, Jones engaged
in undignified or discourteous conduct that was degrading to a tribunal in
violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B); used means that have no substantial purpose
other than to embarrass, delay or burden a third person in violation of Rule
4A(a); and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule 8A(d); and

(e)

by approaching the Kamkas while they were in the cOUliroom as possible
witnesses against Jones' client and pointing his camera at them to intimidate or
harass them, Jones engaged in undignified or discourteous conduct that was
degrading to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4)(B); used means that had
no substantial purpose other than to embanass, delay or burden a third person
in violation of Rule 4A(a); and engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8 A(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the consent
of the pmiies, the Hearing Panel finds by clem', cogent, and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Jones acknowledges that the above-described behavior was inappropriate.

3

2.
Because he realized that domestic cases caused him to engage in undignified or
discourteous conduct, Jones chose to cease representing clients in domestic cases prior to the
complaint being filed in this matter.
3.
After the complaint was filed, Jones fully cooperated in obtaining medical
evaluations recommended by the State Bar to determine whether there might be a medical
reason for Jones' behavior that resulted in this complaint. He has continued his treatment
with Dr. Thomas English to improve stress management and emotional reactivity
management.
4.

Jones received a great deal of support from his clients after the complaint was

filed.
5.
Jones received an Admonition in 1999 for loaning a client funds to get out on
bond in violation of Rule I.S(e).
6.
Jones received a Reprimand in November 200S for speaking to the press and
playing an audiotape of allegedly exculpatory evidence during the pendency of his client's
criminal case in violation of Rules 3.6(a) and SA(d).
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings Regarding
Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following
ADDITIONAL CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in Rule .0114(w) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the State Bar, 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0114(w).
2.
The Heming Panel concludes the following factors from Rule .01l4(w)(1)
wat1'ant consideration of suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) negative impact of defendant's actions on the public's perception of the
profession;
(b) negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of justice; and
(c) the effect of' defendant's conduct on third pat·ties.
3.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
Rule .0114(w)(2) and concludes that none of the factors requiring consideration of disbarment
are present in this case.
4.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
Rule .0 114(w)(3) and detennines that the following factors are applicable:

(a) Prior discipline;
4

(b) Multiple offenses;
(c) Effect of physical or mental impairment on the conduct in question;
(d) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
(e) Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings; and
(f) Interim rehabilitation.
The Hearing Panel has considered admonition, reprimand and censure as
5.
potential discipline but finds that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge
the seriousness of the offenses committed by Jones.
6.
In light of the significant harm and the potential harm Jones' conduct had on
the public's perception of the profession and the administration of, the Hearing Panel
concludes that a suspension of Jones' license, stayed upon compliance with conditions, is the
only discipline that:
(a) will adequately protect the public;
(b) acknowledges the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed; and
(c) sends a proper message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
1.
Defendant, Jesse W. Jones, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for
one year, effective 30 days from service of this order upon him.
2.
The one year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as Jones
complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following
conditions:
(a) Jones shall continue treatment with Dr. Thomas English, or some other treating
therapist approved by the State Bar, as often as recommended by the therapist,
but not less than quarterly.
(b) Jones shall have Dr. Thomas English, or other approved therapist, repOlt to the
State Bar each qumter that Jones is in compliance with the conditions in this
order. Those reports shall be due by the 1st day of the month in the months of
January, April, July and October. It is Jones' obligation to ensure that the

5

reports are timely submitted. Jones will sign all necessary releases or
documents to authorize Dr. Thomas English, or other approved therapist, to
make these reports, and to otherwise respond to requests for information f1:om
the Office of Counsel about Jones' condition and treatment. The costs
associated with compliance with this paragraph shall be at Jones' sole expense;
(c) Jones shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for infonnation from the
State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
(d) Jones shall timely pay all State Bar membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments;
(e) Jones shall timely comply with his State Bar CLE requirements and will pay
all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;
(f) Jones shall not violate any federal or state laws, other than minor traffic
violations;

(g) Defendant shall not violate any provision of the North Carolina Rules of
Professional Conduct; and
(h) Jones shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service of the
statement of costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar.
3.
No conduct that Jones has engaged in prior to the entry of this order shall be
considered a violation of any condition of this order.
4.
Jones is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary, which shall be paid within 30 days of service of the notice of costs upon
Defendant.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted at any time and the suspension of Jones'
law license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice
law, Jones must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied with
each ofthe following conditions:
(a) Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the State Bar
within 30 days after the effective date ofthe order suspending his law license;
(b) Complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section
.0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules on a timely basis;
(c) Demonstrated that at the time of his application for reinstatement he is not
suffering from any disability or condition that would impair his CUlTent ability
to competently engage in the practice of law;

6

(d) Provided the Office of Counsel with releases authorizing and instructing his
medical, psychological and mental health care providers to provide to the
Office of Counsel all medical records relating to his evaluation, prognosis, care
or treatment, and authorizing and instructing such providers to respond to
requests for infOlmation by the Office of Counsel; and
(e) Paid all outstanding membership fees, Client Security Fund assessments and
costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar and complied with all continuing
legal education requirements imposed by the State Bar.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspension.
7.
The medical records produced by Jones' medical providers and therapist shall
be sealed and not made a part of the public record unless it is necessary to file a motion to lift
the stay of Jones' suspension.

1/

tI.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day of
2018.

Fehtuar:J

Beverly T. Beal, hair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

-Alt. ~~>4--)-~~~
A. Root Edmonson
Attorney for Plaintiff

Counsel for Defendant

7

