BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14G0787

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Sara Y. Jones,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On July 16, 2015, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. The grievance was assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results ofthe State Bar staffs investigation of this
matter.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Subcommittee found
probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of
the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You were assessed a late fee for failing to timely submit your CLE Annual Report form. When
you requested a waiver of the late fee, you were instructed by the State Bar to submit your original
signed CLE Annual Report form along with your waiver request. You subsequently presented to the
State Bar a document, representing that it was a copy of your original signed form when it was not.
Your submission of a false Annual Report form constituted conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit,
or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the

error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you .
.-Done and ordered, this 3~ day of_...J_u_u---'-~---' 2015.

John . Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

