NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G0339

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Kimber!y J. Jordan,
Attorney At Law

)

REPRlMAND

)
)

On April 23, 2009 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by Y. R.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
Y. R. retained you to prepare a separation agreement. You asked for and received an
initial retainer of $1 ,000.00 from Ms. R. Your written fee agreement also provided that Ms. R.
would pay an additional $1,500.00 at the time of the delivery of the final separation agreement.
Ms. R. claims that she left several telephone messages for you in January 2008, but you did not
return those telephone calls.

You and Ms. R. scheduled to meet in the law office Attorney J. 1. on February 4,2008.
Ms. R. went to J. L.'s office at the appointed time, but you failed to appear.
Ms. R. also called you numerous times in February 2008 and left messages, but you did
not return her telephone calls.
You indicated to an investigator of the 10th Judicial District Bar Grievance Committee
that you had a completed draft of the separation agreement. However, you never produced a
draft of the separation agreement.
The Grievance Committee found that you neglected Ms. R. 's domestic matter in violation
of Rule 1.3 and Rule 8.4(d). You further neglected Ms. R.'s case by not appearing at an
appointment in Attorney J. L.'s office. Furthermore, your conduct violates Rule 1.4(a)(I)(2) and
(3) as you failed to return Complainant's telephone calls to discuss her case.
A staff attorney from the North Carolina State Bar sent you follow up questions regarding
this grievance in October 2008. You did not respond to those questions and another letter was
sent to you giving you an extension to respond. You did not respond by the deadline, but later
called the staff attorney and asked for an extension to respond. You were afforded a second
extension, but did not respond to the questions by the extended deadline. The staff attorney
subpoenaed you to the North Carolina State Bar office and you were supposed to appear there on
March 25,2009. You did not appear at the State Bar office pursuant to subpoena. The
Grievance Committee found that your failure to respond to the State Bar attorney's follow- up
questions and your failure to comply with the State Bar's subpoena is in violation of Rule 8.1 (b)
and Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the I

JRF/lr

s-u-. day Of_~---'--'--""",-,<

, 2009

