j L\. . . '"'1-

'.>~

;;;
;;:;

~

5't;7~~
6''6'\

Sf:-

f::!l

c.;fJ 20/8

DHC
STATE OF NORTH CAROL

~

~\

:;:;~

::1

if

~~

BEFORE THE

{2(('/2) (n \1~rpLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
~~

WAKE COUNTY

OFTHE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
18 DHC 27

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

JAMES N. JORGENSEN, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission ("DHC") composed of R. Lee Farmer, Chair, and members, Maya M. Engle
and Christopher R. Bruffey, pursuant to NOlth Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .OlIS(i) (hereinafter "27 N.C.A.C. IB"). Plaintiff was
represented by BalTY S. McNeill, Deputy Counsel for the NOlih Carolina State Bar
("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"). Defendant, James N. Jorgensen ("Defendant" or "Jorgensen"),
proceeded pro se. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact
and conclusions of law recited in this Consent Order of Discipline and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant has freely and voluntarily stipulated to the findings of fact and
consents to the conclusions of law and entry of the order of discipline. Defendant freely
and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this Consent Order of
Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the pmiies' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper patty to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and
the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the
NOlth Carolina Administrative Code).
?
Defendant, James N. Jorgensen ("Defendant" or "Jorgensen"), was
admitted to the NOlih Carolina State Bar on April 5, 1996, and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the
laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar, and the Rules of Professional Conduct.

3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Jorgensen was
engaged in the practice of law in Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina.
First Claim for Relief
4.
The Wilber Lane Law Firm ("firm"), Bloomington, Illinois, engaged
Defendant to litigate 17 subrogation files on behalf of various insurance companies in
which they had advanced court costs to cover the litigation expenses.
5.
Under his alTangement with the finn, Defendant was required to obtain the
best outcomes possible by filing lawsuits, moving the cases forward in the civil court
system, providing status updates to the firm on behalf of the insurance company clients
when requested, and issuing payments to the firm on behalf of the insurance company
clients upon resolutions or settlements in the matters.
6.
The firm served as the agent for the insurance company clients and was
designated to make regular inquiries about the status of the actions on behalf of its
insurance company clients, receive any subrogation funds owed to the insurance company
clients by the defendants, and receive any balance of the advanced comi costs on behalf of
the insurance company clients.
7.
Defendant complied by filing the initial lawsuits, but numerous requests by
the firm for status updates went unanswered by Defendant.
8.
When the finn's representatives contacted the courts where the lawsuits
were filed, they learned that the courts had dismissed the matters for want of prosecution,
the cases "vere still pending with no activity, or the cases were on the list to be dismissed.
9.
After Defendant received an Admonition in No. 12GO 119 at the Grievance
Committee's January 2013 Quarterly Meeting, his communication with the firm about the
status of the cases improved for a short time, but then decreased.
10.
The firm attempted to telephone, left voicemail messages for, and e-mailed
Defendant requesting updates on the status of its clients' cases and the money owed by
Defendant to the clients, but Defendant was unresponsive.
II.
The firm requested that Defendant return all of its clients' files, as well as
the remaining amounts owed on each file, but Defendant did not promptly comply with the
request.
12.
The firm also expressed concerns to Defendant about its cases he had settled
without promptly remitting all of the funds owed to the firm.
13.
In the Jeffrey Gore matter, Defendant reached a settlement in March 2013
for $5,600 and remitted some of the money from that settlement to the firm, but then ceased
making the payments.
2

14.
In the Micah McCleary matter, Defendant received some payments from an
Octo bel' 24, 2012 judgment, and informed the firm that he would forward the payments,
but did not do so.
15.
In the Janet Lancaster matter, involving an October 24,2012 judgment in
the amount of$15,000, the 11rm received only $300 from Defendant in 2013.
16.
In early October 20] 4, Defendant e-mailed the firm that he would be
sending payments on these mes, but he had not done so as of the end of October 2014.
17.
The State Bar served Defendant with a Letter of Notice in the underlying
grievance (14G0860) on March 30, 2015.
18.
After Defendant requested and received an extension of time to file his
response to the Letter of Notice, Defendant's response was due on May 4,2015.
19.
The State Bar did not receive Defendant's response until June 10,2015,
almost one month past its due date.

Second Claim for Relief
20.
The Rathbone Group, LLC ("Rathbone"), based in Cleveland, Ohio,
formerly known as Javitch, Block & Rathbone, retained Defendant to obtain ajudgment or
other appropriate relief on behalf of the subrogee plaintiff, State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company ("State Farm"), against Donna Wattinne ("Ms. Wattilme") and her
son, Eric Allan Wattinne, jointly and severally for damages arising from a March 20, 2008
motor vehicle accident in Cabanus County, NOlih Carolina.
21.
Rathbone served as the agent for State Farm and was designated to receive
any subrogation funds owed to State Farm by Ms. Wattinne and her son.
22.
On September 9, 2009, Defendant filed the action against Ms. Wattine and
her son in State Farm lvlufual Automobile Insurance Company, as subrogee of Charles
Edwin McLean, Jr. v. Eric Allan W'aftinne and Donna Marie Waftinne, No. 09-CVD-18264
(Wake Co. Dist. Ct.).
23.
Defendant served process on Ms. Wattinne and her son, and on December
8, 2011 obtained a default judgment against the defendants in the amount of $6,922.75.
24.
Defendant then petitioned the NOlih Carolina Department of Motor
Vehicles ("DMV") to suspend the driver's licenses of both Ms. Wattinne and her son.
25.
After negotiations with Ms. Wattinne's and her son's attorney, the parties
agreed that Ms. Wattinne would make monthly payments of $150, payable to "James N.
Jorgensen, P.A. Trust Account" in exchange for State Farm's agreement to refrain from
enforcing the judgment, including the suspensions of Ms. Wattine's and her son's driver's
licenses.

3

26.
Based upon the agreement, Defendant withdrew his previous petition to
suspend Ms. WattilU1e's and her son's driver's licenses.
27.
Starting in September 2012, Ms. Wattinne began making the monthly
payments to Defendant, including 40 payments of $150 (fi'om September 2012 to
December 2015) totaling $6,000, and four payments in the amounts of $150, $150, $500,
and $122.75, respectively, all four of which were received by Defendant in an envelope
postmarked February 19,2016.
28.
The payments by Ms. Wattinne to Defendant totaled $6,922.75,
representing the principal amount of the judgment, but Ms. Wattinne's payments did not
include any pre-judgment or post-judgment interest as required by the judgment.
29.
As an accommodation to Ms. Wattinne and her son, State Farm agreed to
waive all pre-judgment and post-judgment interest.
On June 16,2016, Defendant filed a celiificate on behalf of State Farm
30.
indicating that Ms. Wattine and her son had rendered payment in full and satisfied the
judgment.
31.
Defendant did not promptly remit to Rathbone on behalf of State Farm the
collections he received from Ms. Wattinne.
32.
Defendant made disbursements to Rathbone in late 2012 and early 2013,
totaling $900 ($225, check no. 332998, on Nov. 3, 2012; $225, check no. 332929, on Nov.
20,2012; $225, check no. 333056, on Jan. 17,2013; and, $225, check no. 333087, on Feb.
27,2013).
33.
Between February 27, 2013 and February 14,2016, a period of nearly three
years, Defendant made no additional remittances to Rathbone despite records showing that
he continued to accumulate Ms. Wattinne's payments of over $4,000 in his trust account
during the same period.
34.
Starting in February 2016, Defendant made the following disbursements to
Rathbone: $337.50, check no. 333744, on Feb. 14,2016; $225, check no. 333765, on Feb.
15,2016; $675, check no. 333795, on Feb. 14,2016 but not received by Rathbone until
Apr. 4, 2016; $900, check no. 333802, on Feb. 14,2016 but not received by Rathbone until
Apr. 4, 2016; $692.06, check no. 333806, on Mar. 22, 2016 but not received by Rathbone
until Apr. 4, 2016; and, $1,462.50, check no. 333808, on Mar. 24, 2016 but not received
by Rathbone until Apr. 4, 2016.
35.
The payments to Rathbone and its predecessor amounted to $5,192.06, and
appear to have been the entire principal amount to which State Farm was entitled.

4

36.
Although Defendant eventually disbursed to Rathbone all of the
disbursements to which State Farm was entitled, Defendant failed to make timely
disbursements of Ms. Wattinne's payments to Rathbone for over a three year period.

Third Claim for Relief
37.
Donnell Sawyer ("Mr. Sawyer") was injured in a motor vehicle accident on
October 25,2007.
38.
In July 2010, Mr. Sawyer filed a personal injury la\vsuit against the
defendants, Christopher Michael Liskiewicz and Michael Andrew Liskiewicz
("defendants"), through an attorney who had represented him previously on an unrelated
matter. Becoming dissatisfied with his attorney, Mr. Sawyer dismissed the attorney and
proceeded in his lawsuit pro se.
39.
The defendants offered Mr. Sawyer $10,000 to settle, but Mr. Sawyer
refused the offer.
40.
Following mediation, Mr. Sawyer took a voluntary dismissal of his initial
lawsuit and on June 7, 2012 Mr. Sawyer retained attorney Alton R. Williams ("Mr.
Williams") to represent him in refiling the lawsuit.
41.
The contingent fee agreement signed by Iv1r. Sawyer did not disclose that
Mr. Williams would be associating another attorney in the lawsuit; it only indicated that
Mr. Williams would be performing the legal services on behalf of Mr. Sawyer.
42.
Mr. Sawyer turned over his case file to Mr. Williams, and Mr. Williams
indicated that he would work on Mr. Sawyer's case with another attorney, but Mr. Williams
did not identify the attorney at that time.
43.
Mr. Williams thereafter collaborated with Defendant about refiling the
lawsuit on behalf of Mr. Sawyer.
44.
Mr. Williams and Defendant filed a new lawsuit against the defendants on
August 1, 2012, Donnell Sawyer v. Christopher lviichael Lishewicz and Michael AndreII'
Liskiewicz, No. 12-CVS-10848 (Wake Co. Sup. Ct.) ("Lishewicz"). Both Defendant and
Mr. Williams signed the Liskiewicz lawsuit on behalf of Mr. Sawyer.
45.
Mr. Sawyer contacted Mr. Williams over the next several months to check
on the status of his case, but Mr. Williams did not return his telephone calls or reply to his
text messages.
46.
Mr. Sawyer never received an update from Mr. Williams or Defendant
about the status of his case.
47.
Mr. Sawyer was unaware of Defendant's role or appearance on his behalf
in the Liskiewicz lawsuit.
5

48.
On June 19,2013, Mr. Sawyer's Uskiewicz lawsuit was discontinued due
to the lack of service on the Liskiewicz defendants.
49.
In the latter part of2013, Mr. Sawyer was informed by Mr. Williams for the
first time that Defendant was handling Mr. Sawyer's Liskiell'icz lawsuit.
50.

Defendant at the time had an office in the same building as Mr. Williams.

51.
Defendant periodically renewed the summons in the Liskiewicz lawsuit after
having difficulty serving the defendants with the summons and complaint.
52.
After learning about Defendant's role, Mr. Sawyer thereafter met with
Defendant about the status of his Liskiewicz lawsuit.
53.
Defendant informed Mr. Sawyer that he was going to serve the defendants
in Mr. Sawyer's lawsuit, but he never did so via personal service or by publication.
54.
On July 24, 2014, Defendant wrote a letter to the attorney, John Walker
("Mr. Walker"), for the defendants' insurance company, with the letter copied to Mr.
Sawyer.
55.
Immediately after sending the letter to Mr. Walker, Defendant renewed the
summons in the Liskiewicz lawsuit, but had last done so on September 19,2013, over ten
months earlier.
56.
Mr. Sawyer infom1ed Defendant that Mr. Walker no longer worked at the
law firm, but Defendant did not resend the letter to Mr. Walker's successor.
57.
A few days before Christmas 2014, Mr. Sawyer met with Defendant. When
Mr. Sawyer asked Defendant about the status of his Liskiewicz lawsuit, Defendant refused
to tell him the status.
58.
Defendant admitted to Mr. Sawyer that he had missed a deadline in the
reissuance of the summons in the Liskiewicz lawsuit in 2013, and therefore the summons
had lapsed.
59.
Defendant asked Mr. Sawyer ifhe could pay Mr. Savvyer a $10,000 "down
payment" from his own personal funds and try to get the rest from a settlement with the
defendants, but Mr. Sawyer refused Defendant's offer.
60.
The State Bar served Defendant with a Letter of Notice in this matter
(15G0022) on March 30, 2015, and Defendant was originally due to file his response on or
before April 14,2015.
61.
After requesting and receiving an extension of time to me his response to
the Letter of Notice, Defendant's response was due on May 4, 2015, but, without further

6

request or extension of time, the State Bar did not receive his response until one month
later, on June 4, 2015.
Fourth Claim for Relief
62.
Karen McVicker ("Ms. McVicker") retained Defendant to represent her and
Dr. Massoud Mohammadi' s ("Dr. Mohammadi") companies, Atlantic Integrated
Tec1mologies, Inc. ("AlT'''), and ATCO International, Inc., ("ATCO") against Bank of
America Corporation, doing business as Bank of America, N.A. ("BANA").
63.
ATCO acted as the broker in negotiating the sale and purchase of bulk
platinum for a buyer. Ms. McVicker was the primary contact person tor AlT and ATCO,
and operated under the direction of Dr. Mohammadi.
64.
A TCO was entitled to a commission on the total sales price upon the closing
of the platinum transaction.

6S.
On or about March 14,2001, AIT, at the suggestion of a BANA employee
in Singapore, opened an escrow account with BANA for the purpose of depositing the
escrow sum of $200,000 with BANA to cover potential transactional costs.
66.
By AprilS, 2001, AIT deposited the escrow sum of$20S,000 at a Raleigh
branch of BANA ("BANA Cameron Village"), which was then wired from the BANA
Cameron Village branch to a Singapore branch of BANA.
67.
BANA agreed to release the $200,000 from AIT's escrow account only
upon satisfaction of certain specified conditions.
68.
Despite the seller's failure to satisfy the specific conditions of the
agreement, and over the protests of Ms. McVicker and agents of AIT, BANA released the
$200,000 held in the AlT escrow account to the seller.
69.
ArT and ATCO claimed that BANA's breach of fiduciary duty prevented
the buyers and seller from concluding the platinum transaction, and thus precluded ATCO
from receiving its commission, causing AlT to lose the $200,000.
Represented by another attorney, Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi, on
70.
behalf of AIT and A TCO, initially filed their action against Bank of America Corporation
in Wake County Superior Court in Atlantic Integrated Technologies, Inc., and A Tea
Intel'l1ational, Inc. v. Bank (?fAmerica CO/p .. No. 04-CVS-5639 (Wake Co. Sup. Ct.), but
that action was voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiffs on November 1,2004.
71.
Subsequently, on May 2, 200S, AIT and ATCO filed another action against
BANA in Wake County Superior Court, but that action was dismissed on October 17,2006
because it was brought against the wrong entity. Atlantic Integrated Technologies, Inc.,
and ATCO International, Inc. v. Bank ~f America C01p., No. 05-CVS-S823 (Wake Co.
Sup. Ct.).

7

72.
After being retained by Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi, on May 18,
2011 Defendant initially refiled their action in Wake County District Court, Atlantic
Integrated Technologies, Inc., and ATCa Internaaonal, Inc. v. Bank (~lAl/1erica, N.A., No.
11-CVD-5823 (Wake Co. Dist. Ct.).
73.
Threatened by BANA's counsel \vith sanctions, on December 16,2011,
Defendant filed a voluntary dismissal of the Wake County action without prejudice.
74.
Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi insisted that Defendant re-file their
action in Guilford County Superior Court without delay.
75.
ATCO paid Defendant over $9,000 expecting that he would file and
diligently pursue the action in Guilford County Superior Court.
On December 17, 2012, Defendant re-filed the complaint in Atlantic
76.
Integrated Technologies, Inc., and ATCa International, Inc. v. Bank ofAmerica, N.A., No.
12-CVS-11349 (Guilford Co. Sup. Ct.) ("AITIATCO").
77.
The AIT/ATea case was ordered to mediated settlement conference and
scheduled for administrative hearings on April 24, 2013, May 29, 2013, and June 26, 2013.
78.
The court subsequently scheduled this action for a July 1, 2013 "clean up"
calendar session.
79.
seSSIOn.

Defendant failed to appear on behalf of AIT/ATCa for the July 1, 2013

80.
On July 1,2013, Superior Court Judge John O. Craig, III entered an order
dismissing the AfT/ATCa action without prejudice due to Defendant's failure to obtain
service upon BANA and Defendant's failure to appear at the hearing on July 1,2013.
81.

Defendant did not discover the dismissal by Judge Craig until December

2013.
82.
Knowing of the dismissal by Judge Craig, Defendant falsely communicated
to Dr. Mohammadi that a hearing date had been scheduled in the A IT/A Tea lawsuit.
83.
After learning of the dismissal in December 2013, Defendant did not timely
communicate to Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi infolll1ation about Judge Craig'S July
1,2013 dismissal without prejudice in AIT/ATCa.
84.
Approximately two and a half months later, on March 14, 2014 Defendant
met with Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi in his office, providing them a verbal and
written status report, including for the first time notice of Judge Craig's July 1,2013
dismissal.
8

85.
Dr. Mohammadi subsequently contacted Defendant about continuing to
pursue the fUT/A TCO action.
On July 1,2014, Defendant filed a motion for relief in AIT/ATCO pursuant
86.
to N.C. R. Civ. P. 60 from Judge Craig's July 1, 2013 order dismissing the action without
prejudice, but the motion has never been calendared, heard or adjudicated.
87.
At a May 2015 meeting with Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi,
Defendant recommended another Guilford County judge to hear the AIT/ATCO action and
suggested hearing dates.
88.
Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi left the May 2015 meeting with the
understanding that Defendant would be sending them e-mail confirmation the next day
regarding the anticipated August 6, 2015 hearing date, but Defendant never did so.

Fifth Claim for Relief
89.
Beverly Sappington ("Ms. Sappington") was injured in a motor vehicle
accident on Wendover Avenue in High Point, Guilford County, North Carolina on January
15,2010.
90.
On December 23, 2010, Ms. Sappington signed a retainer agreement with
Defendant to represent her in the personal it~ury action against the driver of the other
vehicle, Alvin J. Bunton ("Mr. Bunton"), who was driving a 1996 Ford pickUp truck owned
by his employer, J. R. Tractor & Trailer Repairs, Inc. ("J. R. Tractor").
91.
On January 14,2013, Defendant filed a complaint against Mr. Bunton and
J. R. Tractor in Guilford County Superior Court alleging negligence by Mr. Bunton in
causing the accident, Sappington v. Bunton et al., No. 13-CVS-2782 (Guilford Co. Sup.
Ct.) ("Sappington ").
92.
A summons was issued to Mr. Bunton and J. R. Tractor, and the Sappington
defendants were served on April 10, 2013.
93.
The Sappington action was scheduled for mediation in October of2013 with
a potential trial date in December of2013, but in October 2013 Defendant contacted Ms.
Sappington and informed her that the mediation had been postponed due to the need to
obtain additional medical records.
On October 15,2013, Defendant moved for a continuance, but on October
94.
24, 20 I 3 Senior Resident Superior COUlt Judge Lindsay R. Davis, Jr. denied Defendant's
motion.
On October 30, 2013, Defendant filed a voluntary dismissal without
95.
prejudice in Sappington.

9

96.
Sapping/on.

Defendant never informed Ms. Sappington about the voluntary dismissal in

97.
Over the course of the next six to eight months, Ms. Sappington left
numerous voice mail messages for Defendant and sent him e-mail messages attempting to
check on the status of her case, but Defendant never responded.
98.
On July 12, 2014, Ms. Sappington received an e-mail message from
Defendant indicating that he was still trying to obtain certain necessary medical records.
99.
On July 19, 2014, Ms. Sappington replied bye-mail to Defendant
expressing her displeasure with his failure to communicate with her, but Defendant never
responded.
100. On October 29, 2014, Ms. Sappington sent Defendant a certified letter again
expressing her displeasure with Detendant, but Defendant did not respond.
101. Defendant confirmed that no additional medical records for Ms. Sappington
existed, but thereafter Defendant failed to take action to advance Ms. Sappington's case.
102. The State Bar served Defendant with a Letter of Notice (15G0230) on
March 30,2015, and Defendant was originally due to file his response on or before April
14,2015.
103. After requesting and receiving an extension of time to file his response to
the Letter of Notice, Defendant's response was due on May 4, 2015, but, without further
request or extension of time, the State Bar did not receive his response until almost one
month later, on June 2, 2015.

Sixth Claim for Relief
104. Defendant maintained trust accounts at Wells Fargo Bank (account number
ending in -7238) and Fifth Third Bank (account number ending in -0060) ("trust
accounts").
105. Defendant did not perform monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust
accounts in compliance with Rule 1.15-3(d)(1) and (d)(2) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct during the years 2010 to April 2018.
106. For the period of time identified in Paragraph 105 above, Defendant also
failed to review, sign, date and retain copies of the reconciliations of his trust accounts as
required by Rule 1.15-3(d)(3).
107.

Defendant has been properly reconciling his trust accounts since May 2018

to date.

10

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of Fact,
the Hearing Panel enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
2.
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b )(2) as follows:
a) By failing to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing the clients' cases referred to him by the Wilber Lane
Law finn, by allowing the summons to lapse in Mr. Sawyer's
Liskiewicz lawsuit, by failing to appear at the hearing in July 2013
on behalf of Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi, and, by failing to
take further action on Ms. Sappington's case after confirming that
no additional medical records existed, Defendant violated Rule 1.3;
b) By failing to reasonably consult with the Wilber Lane Law firm, on
behalfofits clients, about the means by which its clients' objectives
were to be accomplished, by failing to reasonably consult with Mr.
Sawyer about the means by which Mr. Sawyer's objectives were to
be accomplished in the Liskiewicz lawsuit, by failing to reasonably
consult with Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi about the means
by ,,,,hich their objectives were to be accomplished in the AIT/ATCa
lawsuit, and by failing to consult with Ms. Sappington about the
means by which her objectives were to be accomplished, Defendant
violated Rule 1.4(a)(2);
c) By failing to keep the Wilber Lane Law firm, on behalfofits clients,
reasonably informed about the status of its clients' cases refelTed to
him by the firm, by failing to communicate with Mr. Sawyer about
the status of his Liskiewicz complaint, by failing to communicate
with Ms. McVicker and Dr. Mohammadi about the status of their
AIT/ATCa lawsuit, and by failing to communicate with Ms.
Sappington about the status of her lawsuit or respond to her
inquiries, Defendant violated Rule 1.4(a)(3);
d) By failing to promptly pay to the Wilber Lane and Rathbone law
firms the entrusted funds belonging to the fil111S' clients, Defendant
violated Rule 1.15-2(m);
e) By falsely communicating to Ms. McVicker and/or Dr. Mohammadi
about a hearing date in their AITIATCa lawsuit and his efforts to
obtain such a hearing date, Defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c);

11

t) Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2), (3), by knowingly failing
to timely respond to the formal inquiries of the State Bar in
14G0860, 15G0022, and 15G0230, after being granted extensions
of time to do so, Defendant violated Rule 8.I(b); and,
g) By failing to perform reconciliations of his trust accounts for the
time period of 2010 to April 2018, Defendant failed to perform
monthly and qumierly reconciliations in violation of Rule 1.153(d)(1) and (d)(2), and by failing to review, sign, date and retain
copies of the monthly and quarterly reconciliations of his trust
accounts for six years, Defendant failed to prepaJ'e and maintain
monthly and quarterly reconciliations as required by Rule 1.153(d)(3).
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 107 above are reincorporated as if set

forth herein.
2.
Defendant engaged in a pattern ofneglectfl.1l misconduct and procrastination
which placed entrusted funds at risk and had the foreseeable potential to cause significant
client harm to multiple clients.

3.
Defendant's neglect of his clients and procrastination also had the potential
to cause significant harm to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because
it demonstrates disregard for his duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence
in attorneys tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a
whole. Confidence in the legal profession is the foundation for public trust in the entire
legal system.
4.
Defendant's trust accounting non-compliance endangered entrusted client
funds and caused potential significant haJ'm to his clients whose funds were placed at risk
while entrusted to Defendant's care, though no funds were misappropriated by Defendant.
5.
In 12G0119, Defendant received an Admonition in February 2013 for client
neglect involving the same Wilber Lane Law firm.
6.
In 13G0695, Defendant received a Reprimand in April 2015 for client
neglect and failing to promptly disburse client's funds involving a similar insurance
subrogation firm.
7.

Defendant has more than twenty-two years of experience in the practice of

law.
8.
Defendant has been cooperative, though not always timely in responding,
during the investigatory process.
12

9.
Defendant continues to engage with the Lawyer's Assistance Program
("LAP"), and is in compliance with LAP's recommendations.
10.
Defendant continues to attend counseling sessions and is in compliance with
his counselor's tTeatment recommendations.
11.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLIINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0116(£)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(A) Prior disciplinary offenses for similar client neglect;
(C) Absence of dishonest motive;
(D) Timely good faith efforts to rectify consequences of misconduct;
(F) A pattern of misconduct;
(G) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
(H) Effect of personal or emotional problems on the conduct;
(J) Defendant has undergone interim rehabilitation;

(K) Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel or cooperative attitude toward
the proceeding;
(P) Defendant is remorseful for his conduct;
(Q) Defendant's character or reputation;
(R) The vulnerability of the victims; and

(S) Defendant's substantial experience in the practice of law.
2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C. Admin. Code J B § .0116(£)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and finds the following factors warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
13

(B) Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
(E) Defendant's actions had a potential negative impact on his clients' and the
public's perception ofthe legal profession;
(F) Defendant's conduct had a negative impact on the administration of justice;
(G) Defendant's conduct impaired each client's ability to achieve the goals of
their representation; and,
(H) Defendant's conduct had an adverse effect on third parties.
3.
The hearing panel has also carefully considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N. C. Admin. Code 1B § .0 116(f)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar, and finds factor (A) is implicated (Defendant engaged in acts of
dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication), but concludes that disbarment is not
necessary in order to protect the public.
4.
The hearing panel has considered all other fOlms of discipline available and
concludes, for the following reasons, that any sanction less than suspension would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not
adequately protect the public, and would send the wrong message to attomeys and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar.
a. The factors under 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0116(f)(l) and (f)(3) that are
established by the evidence are of a nature that support imposition
of suspension as the appropriate discipline;
b. Entry of less serious discipline would fail to acknO\vledge the
seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and would send
the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in this State; and,
c. A stayed suspension with appropriate conditions, such as requiring
Defendant to continue his therapy and periodic rep0l1ing by that
therapist to the State Bar, along with the condition of a practice
monitor and reporting by that practice monitor to the State Bar, will
assure Defendant's progress and compliance with treatment and
professional norms.
5.

Defendant should be taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this

action.

14

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Additional Findings of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and based upon the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I. The license of Defendant, James N. Jorgensen, is hereby suspended for three
years. This Order will be effective 30 days after service of the Order upon Defendant.
2. Defendant's three year suspension is ordered stayed for the duration of the
suspension as long as Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of
the stay with each of the following conditions:
a. Defendant, at his own expense, continues counseling with his
present psychologist, and/or any other board-certified psychiatrist,
psychologist, or counselor (hereafter "Therapist") of his own
choosing, and follows and complies with the course of treatment
prescribed by his Therapist. The Therapist shall provide quarterly
repOlis, due in the Office of Counsel by the tenth day of each quatier
(statiing with the first report due on or by October 10, 2018, and
then quatierly reports thereafter 011 or by January 10,2019, April 10,
2019, July 10, 2019, October 10,2019, January 10,2020, April 10,
2020, July 10, 2020, October 10, 2020, January 10, 2021, April 10,
2021, and October 10, 2012), to the State Bar (with a copy to
Defendant)
confinning
Defendant
is
following
the
recommendations of the Therapist. The Therapist shall notify the
State Bar if Defendant fails to follow the recommendations and
treatment program of the Therapist. Deiendant shall ensure these
reports and notifications are timely made. Defendant will sign all
necessary releases or documents to allow such reports and
notifications, to allow the Therapist to provide documents £I'om
Defendant's treatment to the State Bar, and to allow the Therapist to
discuss Deiendant's participation and treatment with the Office of
Counsel ofthe State Bar, and shall not revoke the release during the
period of the stayed suspension;
b. Defendant instructs her Therapist to notify the Office of Counsel
immediately in writing if, at any point during the stayed suspension,
Defendant ceases to be a patient or otherwise fails to comply with
the course of treatment prescribed by the Therapist;
c. Defendant arranges for an active member of the North Carolina
State Bar to serve as his law practice monitor. Defendant's practice
monitor shall be an attorney in good standing who practices law in
Defendant's judicial district and who has been approved by the
Office of Counsel. The monitor will supervise all of Defendant's
client matters to ensure that Defendant handles all client matters in

15

a timely fashion, including, but not limited to, promptly responding
to his clients, diligent pursuit of his clients' matters, and prompt
disbursement of funds fi'om his trust account belonging to others.
Defendant shall meet once a month with his monitoring attomey,
repolt the status of all current client matters to the monitor,
cooperate with the monitoring attorney, and provide any
information the monitoring attorney deems reasonably necessary to
ensure that Defendant is properly and timely handling all client
matters. The monitor will submit written quarterly reports of this
supervision to the Office of Counsel, due in the Office of Counsel
by the tenth day of each qumter (starting with the first report due on
or by October 10, 2018, and then qumterly reports thereafter on or
by October 10,2018, January 10,2019, April 10,2019, July 10,
2019, October 10,2019, January 10, 2020, April 10, 2020, July 10,
2020, October 10, 2020, January 10, 2021, April 10, 2021, and
October 10, 2012), (with a copy to Defendant) confinning
Defendant is following the recommendations of the practice
monitor. Defendant bears the responsibility of ensuring the
monitoring attorney sends a written report each quarter to the Office
of Counsel as described above. This monitoring will occur for the
duration of the suspension. Defendant will pay the cost, if any,
charged by the monitor for this supervision. Defendant must make
the arrangements for this monitoring attorney and supply the Office
of Counsel with a letter from the monitoring attorney confirming his
or her agreement to perform the duties listed above. Defendant shall
make appropriate arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney,
approved by the Office of Counsel, if needed during his suspension.
d. Defendant shall provide the State Bar with reports of all quarterly
reconciliations as required by Rule 1.15-3 for all trust accounts and
fiduciary accounts to which Defendant has access andlor in which
Defendant deposits entrusted funds as follows:

i. In addition to the three-way reconciliation reports,
for the months covered by the submitted report,
Defendant shall provide: (i) client ledgers for each
client whose funds are held in the trust account
during the stay, (ii) any ledger for any personal funds
maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit
card fees, (iii) generalledger(s) for each trust account
to which Defendant has access, and (iv) the bank
statements, cleared checks, deposit slips, and deposit
items associated with the reports;

ii. The repOlis are due no later than 30 days after the end
of each quarter (first qumier's report due April 30,
second quarter's report due July 30, third qum-ter's
16

report due October 30, and fourth quarter's report
due January 30);
iii. Defendant shall certify with each quarterly report
that he has personally reviewed the reconciliation
report(s) and all relevant ledgers, bank statements,
cancelled checks, deposit slips, and deposit items
associated with the report(s), and Defendant shall
further celiify that no entrusted funds received by
him or his law office have been deposited into any
account other than his trust account(s);
iv. If any of the quarterly reports referenced above note
any irregularities or deficiencies, Defendant shall
promptly take all remedial action necessary to bring
the trust account(s) into compliance with the Rules
of Professional Conduct and shall provide proof of
the remedial action and compliance to the Office of
Counsel of the State Bar within 30 days of the date
of the report;
v. All reconciliations and repOlis refelTed to herein will
be completed and submitted at Defendant's sole
expense; and
VI.

Failure of the Defendant to timely submit any report
required by this Order shall be grounds to lift the stay
and activate the suspension.

e. Defendant shall certify annually on or before June 30 to the North
Carolina State Bar that all general trust accounts, dedicated trust
accounts, and fiduciary accounts maintained by Defendant or his law
firm are administered, to the best of his knowledge, in compliance with
the requirements of Rule 1.15 (including all SUbparts) or that he is
exempt fl'om this provision because Defendant does not maintain any
trust or fiduciary accounts for North Carolina client funds;
f.

Defendant shall successfully complete two hours of continuing legal
education (CLE) in the area of trust account management within the first
year after the effective date of this order, one hour of which must be a
trust account CLE taught by Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the
North Carolina State Bar. Defendant shaH provide written proof of
successful completion of these CLE courses to the State Bar within ten
days of completing the course;

g. Defendant timely submits his annual Continuing Legal Education
("CLE") reporl form to the CLE Department of the North Carolina State
Bar each year of the stay and contemporaneously sends a copy of the

17

CLE report form to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar to document
compliance. "Timely" means by the date specified by the CLE
department as the date by which members must submit their annual
report forms to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late filing penalty.
Defendant must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a copy of his
annual CLE report form no later than 15 days after it is due to the CLE
department of the State Bar each year;
h. Defendant pays all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and complies with all CLE requirements on a timely basis;
I.

Defendant keeps his address of record with the State Bar current,
accepts all certified mail from the State Bar, and responds to all letters
of notice and requests for information from the State Bar by the
deadlines stated in the communication;

J.

Defendant does not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the stay;

k. Defendant does not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of
the United States during the period of the stay; and
I.

Defendant pays all costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within ninety (90) days after service of the
notice of costs on him, or as may be extended by the panel for good
cause shown by Defendant.

If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions of the
3.
stay of his suspension provided in paragraphs 2(a)-2(1) above, the stay of suspension may
be lifted in accordance with 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI18(a).

4.
Defendant's obligations under this Order end after the applicable period of
the stay provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 113
§ .0 118(b), the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension
have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the
conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the
suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability
to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the remaining pOliion of the suspension in
whole or in pati if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The
stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the
stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or the show cause
proceeding.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the remaining period of suspension
is activated for any reason, the following conditions are placed upon Defendant's
reinstatement to active status. With any petition Defendant files for reinstatement to active

18

practice, Defendant must demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he
complied with each of the following conditions:
a. Complied with 2(g)-2(k) above;
b. Submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date of the order
activating her suspension;
c. Complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0128 on a
timely basis;
d. Complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB § 0129(b);
e. Not have violated any of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
f.

Not have violated any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States; and

g. Paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within
ninety (90) days after service of the notice of costs on him, or as may
be extended by the panel for good cause shown by Defendant.
6.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary, which shall be paid within ninety (90) days of service of the
notice of costs upon Defendant, or as may be extended by the panel for good cause shown
by Defendant.
7.
Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the State Bar from investigating and, if
necessary, pursuing disciplinary action against Defendant for additional misconduct
discovered or reported which occurred during the same time period as the conduct
addressed in this Order.

Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other
Hearing Panel members.

2018.

19

Agreed and consented to by:

Barry S. Mc
Deputy Co 11
The North Carolina State Bar

20

