BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09GOI77

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Jimmy H. Joyner, Jr.
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)

On January 14,2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Conunittee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You undertook representation of Mr. and Mrs. B in a civil action against General Motors
Corp. and Dick Shirley Chevrolet, Inc. You filed a civil complaint alleging violations oflemon
law. You later dismissed the complaint. You did not inform Mr. and Mrs. B ofthe dismissal.
You filed another civil complaint alleging fraud; .You failed to inform Mr. and Mr. B that the
new civil complaint was filed. Subsequent to filing the second civil complaint, you received

supplemental discovery from defendants. You failed to answer the supplemental discovery.
Defendants filed a Motion for Sanctions for your failure to answer the discovery and for failing
to attend your client's deposition. Your failure to diligently handle your client's matter
constitutes a violation of Rule 1.3. Although you filed a response to defendant's motion, you
failed to inform Mr. and Mrs. B that the motion had been filed. You also failed to inform Mr.
and Mrs. B that the court held a hearing regarding the discovery and the deposition. Mr. and
Mrs. learned of the motion, the hearing and dismissal ofthe first action by reviewing the Clerk's
file. Mr. and Mrs. B are not able to communicate with you except by appearing in your office
and waiting until you arrive. Your failure to communicate with your clients and keep them
informed of the status of their case isa violation ofRi.Jle 1.4(a).
On or about September 6,2009 you received a letter from State Bar Deputy Counsel.
You were asked to provide additional inforrriation regarding your representation ofMr. and Mrs.
B. You were given until September 21, 2009 to provide a written response. You did not provide
a written response. On October 30,2009 you appeared at the State Bar's office. You stated that
you sent a written response to Deputy Counsel's letter. You were informed that your response
was not received. You stated you would resend your response. You failed to do so. Your failure
to respond to Deputy Counsel's letter is a violation of Rule 8.1(b).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

dl~ ~a,~\~~

,2010

~

onald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

