BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
lOGO I 85

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Jimmy H. Joyner, Jr.
Attomey At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 28, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by C.G.
Pursuant to Section .01 I3Ca) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
intom1ation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has viofated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committec was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
C.G. provided heating and air services to third parties. Four ofC.G.'s customers failed to
pay C.G. for services rendered. In December 2009, C.G. retained you to file a lien against
customer P's property, file a lawsuit against customer P and send demand letters to three other
customers. Regarding customer P' s matter, you agreed to file a lien in Durham County and Ele a
lawsuit in Orange COlmty You further agreed to send the thrc:e demand letters. C.G. paid you

$1,250. In January 2010 and February 201 0, C.G. contacted your office several times for a status
update and requested copies of the lien and demand letters. On the few occasions you responded,
you told C.G. that you completed the work and would provide copies of the documents via
facsimile. You failed to send C.G. copies of the lien and the demand let1ers. On or about
January 26,2010, you refunded $600 to C.G. and promised to provide a full status report by
January 28,2010. You failed to provide the status report. On FeblUary 16,2010, C.G. picked up
his file. Neither a copy of the lien against customer P's property, the lawsuit against customer P,
nor one of the three demand letters was enclosed in the file. A State Bar investigator reviewed
the Durham County public records. You did not file a lien against customer P's property.
Customer P sold his property and because C.G. did not have a lien, C.G. did not get paid the
money he is owed. A State Bar investigator reviewed the Orange County public record. You
did not file a civil lawsuit against customer P on behalf of e.G.
Because you failed to prepare and file the lien and civil lawsuit, and failed to send one of
the tlu'ee demand letters, the Committee concluded that you neglected C.G.'s matters in violation
of Rule 1.3. C.G. called you more than a dozen times for a status update and copies of the
documents. You failed to adequately respond to C.G. in violation of Rules 1.4(a)(3) and (4).
When you did respond, your statements were untruthful. You told C.G. that you filed the lien
and sent the three demand letters. You agreed to fax copies of the lien and the demand letters to
C.G. You led C.G. to believe you did the work for which you were retained, when you had not
done so. Your conduct was dishonest and deceitful in violation of Rule 8.4(c). e.G. initially
paid you $1,250. You voluntarily refunded $600. For $650, you agreed to file a lien, file a
lawsuit and draft three demand letters. However, you only drafted two of the three demand
letters. Because you failed to complete the legal services agreed to, you collected an excessive
fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a).
On March 16,2010, you received the letter of notice regarding C.G.'s grievance. You
failed to respond within IS days as required by Rule .0112(c). On Aplil8, 2010, the State Bar
mailed you a follow up letter reminding you of your obligation to provide a written response to
the grievance. You were given until April 23, 2010 to provide a written response. You failed to
respond. On April 27, 2010, the State Bar asked your local Bar Councilor to contact you.
Sometime thereafter, you met with the Bar Councilor. You agreed to address the grievance with
the State Bar. You failed to do so. On July 15,2010, you called Deputy Counsel. You asked for
an extension of time to respond the grievance. Deputy Counsel informed you that the grievance
was late and would be reviewed by the Glievance Committee at its quarterly meeting on July 22,
2010. You and Deputy Counsel agreed that you would provide a written response by July 16,
2010. You failed to provide a written response. You failed to respond to the State Bar's letter of
notice concerning this grievance in violation of Rule 8.1(b).
The Grievance Committee mitigated your conduct because you were ill during your
representation ofC.G. as well as during the investigation of the grievance.
You are hereby replimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee tlUStS that you will heed this replimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

dJ.,

day of

O"--e..'

e..-... ,2010

~

Ronald G. Baker, Sf., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

