NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GlUEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G0078

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATIER OF
George W. Kane,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 23, 2009 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by D. C. S.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending Llpon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
On May 12, 2003 you closed a refinance loan and an equity loan involving borrower
S.A.S. and his wife D.C.S. and a lender. S.A.S. signed the Deeds of Trust and related documents
in your presence and you properly notarized his signature. D.C.S. was not in your office and did
not sign the Deeds of Trust and related documents. S.A.S. signed D.C.S.'s name to the
documents. You notarized D.C.S.'s signature on the documents despite the fact she was not

present and did not sign the documents in violation of the statutes regarding the obligations of
notaries public. This conduct violated Rules 8.4(b) and (c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed tIllS reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

JRF/lr

115'l-l\ day of_YA--,-'~-=;,-\-

, 2009

