BEFORE THE SECRETARY
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14DHC6& 15BSR6

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,
ORDER STAYING
SUSPENSION

v.
ELAINE S. KELLEY, Attorney,
Defendant.

THIS MA TIER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant
to a Petition for Order Staying Suspension filed by Elaine S. Kelley on May 26, 2015.
Based upon the petition and a review of the records ofthe North Carolina State
Bar, the Secretary makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
On May 9, 2013 the Superior Court of Bladen County entered an order
suspending Kelley's law license for six months.
2.
On March 17,2014, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DHC) entered an Order of Discipline in North Carolina State Bar v. Elaine
S. Kelley, 14 DHC 6 ("DHC Order"), which suspended Kelley's license to practice law
for a period of four years.
3.
The DHC Order provided that, at any time after serving two years of the
active suspension of her license, Kelley could file a petition seeking a stay of the
remaining period of her suspension upon compliance with the conditions stated in the
Order.
4.
Kelley was given credit toward satisfaction of the four year suspension for
the time since her license was suspended by the Court on May 9, 2013.
5.
On May 26, 2015 Kelley submitted a petition requesting a stay of the
remaining portion of her active suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status
subject to the continuing conditions and requirements set forth in the Order.

6.
The Order required that Kelley be in compliance with a number of
conditions to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of her suspension.
7.
In her petition, Kelley described the actions she has taken to comply with
the conditions of the Order.
8.
petition.

Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar does not object to Kelley's

9.
Counsel for the Defendant and Counsel for the State Bar have agreed to
waive the thirty-day period provided in Rule .OI2S(b)(2) of the State Bar's Discipline and
Disability Rules, and consent to Kelley's reinstatement to active status on a date less than
thirty days from the filing of her petition.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, and without any evidence
presented in opposition to the petition, the Secretary makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. The petitioner, Elaine S. Kelley, has satisfied the conditions established in the
Order for a stay of her suspension and reinstatement to active status, subject to the
continuing conditions set forth in the Order.
2. Kelley's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon
compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order.
BASED UPON the findings and conclusions stated herein, the Secretary hereby
enters the following:
ORDER
1. The remaining active suspension of Kelley's license imposed by the Order of
Discipline in 14 DHC 6 is hereby stayed and Kelley is reinstated to the active practice of
law in North Carolina as of the date of this order.

2. The stay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions, and
requirements set forth in the Order of Discipline.
3. Kelley's status as an active member of the North Carolina State Bar shall
continue in force only as long as she complies and continues to comply with all of the
conditions set forth in the Order of Discipline, as follows:
(a)

Defendant shall timely pay all Membership dues, fees and costs, including
all Client Security Fund assessments and other charges or surcharges that

2

the State Bar is authorized to collect from her, including all judicial
district dues, fees and assessments;
(b)

Defendant shall timely complete all mandatory CLE hours, report such
hours, and pay any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

(c)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or of any state or local government during her
suspension; and

(d)

Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of
her current business and home addresses. Defendant shall notify the State
Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change. Her current
business address must be a street address, not a P.O. box or drawer.

4. If Kelley fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out in the
Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension of her law license may be lifted and
the suspension activated as provided in ยง .0114(x) ofthe North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
This the

"f14-

1(':' day of June, 2015.

~.Cll~, ::J+-

L. Thomas Lunsford II, Sec' tary
North Carolina State Bar

3

