t:

\~J~ 161/18/1'

",

v~

....

AUG2013!

STATE OF NORTH CARO ,_
~.

~

~

DIS

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION

~'::@ FILED DHC ~~ RTH CAR~L~~ STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

~

l~

13DHC7

'G.~

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v,

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

BARRY B, KEMPSON, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Steven D, Michael, Chair, and members Barbara B. Weyher
and Scott A Sutton pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § ,01 14(h), Plaintiff was represented by Margaret T, Cloutier, Defendant,
Barry B. Kempson ("Kempson") was represented by Douglas Brocker and Carolin
Bakewell.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations offact, and the
evidence presented, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
L
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code),
2,
Defendant, Barry B. Kempson ("Kempson"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1974, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct
3,
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Kempson was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and was a principal in the

1

law firm of VanWinkle, Buck, Wall, Starnes & Davis, P.A. in Asheville, Buncombe
County, North Carolina.
4.
Kempson was properly served with process and received due notice of the
hearing in this matter.
5.
Kempson was attorney-in-fact for Mrs. D., an elderly client with dementia,
pursuant to a power of attorney prepared by Kempson.
6.
Kempson's fiduciary services as attorney-in-fact were law related services
as defined in Rule 5.7.
7.
As attorney-in-fact Kempson was responsible for managing Mrs. D.'s
personal checking account, money market account and brokerage account, and for
payment of Mrs. D.'s living expenses from those accounts.
8.
The law firm employed Susanne M. Crotty as a non-lawyer assistant
between December 2005 and February 2011, and she worked with Kempson and other
lawyers in the firm.
9.
Crotty was responsible for periodically reconciling the checking account
bank balance with the checkbook balance for Mrs. D.'s accounts.
10.
Although Kempson reviewed monthly reports for Mrs. D.'s accounts that
Crotty prepared using a computer software system designed for use with fiduciary
accounts, Kempson did not have in place an adequate system of checks and balances to
reasonably ensure the accuracy of the reports.
11.
Kempson did not review the bank statements for Mrs. D.'s checking and
money market accounts, and no employee other than Crotty handled the statements.
12.

Kempson reviewed the statements from Mrs. D.'s brokerage account.

13.
Crotty embezzled funds from Mrs. D.'s accounts between December 2008
and February 2011.
14.

Kempson detected Crotty's theft of Mrs. D.'s funds in late February 2011.

13.
Kempson promptly reported Crotty's theft to law enforcement and the
North Carolina State Bar.
Based upon the evidence and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel
enters the following:

2

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel, and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to have in place sufficient policies or procedures regarding the
review of Mrs. D.'s checking and money market accounts such that he did
not know for over two years that Crotty was embezzling Mrs. D.'s funds,
Defendant failed to supervise his non-lawyer assistant to the extent
necessary to reasonably ensure her conduct was compatible with
Defendant's professional obligations in violation of Rule S.3(b), failed to
properly maintain entrusted funds in violation of Rule US-2(a), and failed
to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in supervising his nonlawyer assistant in violation of Rule 1.3.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the evidence
presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Kempson failed to properly supervise his assistant's involvement with the
entrusted funds in Mrs. D.'s accounts for over two years.
2.
Kempson's delegation without appropriate supervision created
circumstances that enabled his assistant to embezzle entrusted funds.
3.
Mrs. D. entrusted her funds to Kempson with the expectation that the
funds would be available to ensure her comfort and security and not be at risk.
4.
Kempson took prompt and appropriate action when he became aware of
his assistant's misconduct.
5.
Kempson promptly and truthfully informed his client and her closest
relative about the incident.
6.
Kempson andlor his firm promptly reimbursed the funds that were
embezzled from Mrs. D.'s accounts.
7.
Kempson and his firm made prompt and appropriate changes in the
policies and procedures regarding the handling of fiduciary accounts.

3

8.
Kempson promptly reported Crotty to law enforcement authorities and
cooperated in the criminal action brought against her.
9.

Kempson has expressed remorse concerning this matter.

10.
Kempson voluntarily self-reported the matter to the State Bar and has fully
cooperated with the State Bar's review of this matter.
II.
Kempson is of admirable character and enjoys an excellent reputation in
the legal community and the community at large. Kempson contributes his efforts and
energies to the betterment of his community through his extensive involvement in pro
bono legal field services organizations and various other non-profits and charitable
organizations.
12.

Kempson has more than 38 years experience in the practice oflaw.

13.

Kempson has no prior discipline.

14.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0114(w)(I) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes that while the following factor is present, it does not
warrant suspension of Defendant's license:
(a)

Impairment ofthe client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. lB § .oJ 14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .01 14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

Absence of prior discipline;
4

(b)

Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;

(c)

Timely good faith effort to make restitution;

(d)

Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

(e)

Defendant's remorse;

(f)

Defendant's excellent character and reputation, including his extensive
contributions to the community;

(g)

Vulnerability of the victim;

(h)

Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw; and

(i)

Other factors pertinent to the imposition of discipline in this matter,
including:
(i)

Defendant's prompt andcandid notification to his client;

(ii)

Defendant's prompt report to the State Bar;

(iii)
Defendant's prompt report to the criminal authorities and
cooperation with them; and
(iv)
The reasonable remedial measures taken by Defendant regarding
the handling of fiduciary accounts prior to any notice of disciplinary
proceedings or action in this matter.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition but concludes
that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because Defendant violated one or
more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional Conduct. The Hearing Panel also
considered a censure and suspension, but concludes that, given all the factors set forth in
paragraph three above, the conduct was an aberration and is unlikely to be repeated.
5.
The Hearing Panel further concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by the issuance of a reprimand to Defendant and that Defendant should be
taxed with the administrative fees and costs, including the expenses incurred by the State
Bar for deposition videos and transcripts which are hereby found to be reasonable and
necessary.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:

5

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
misconduct.

Defendant, Barry B. Kempson, is hereby REPRIMANDED for his

2.
Defendant shall pay all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within 30 days after service of the statement of costs on him.

'--J...2 Signed by t
!S.:....-dayof

e Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
+,2013.

~~
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel

6

