NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF:
ORDER RECOMMENDING THAT
REINSTATEMENT BE DENIED
REINSTATEMENT OF GENE H. KENDALL

This matter came on to be heard and was heard by a hearing committee of the
Discipliumy fIcuring COIT1J.l1ission COiilposed ofToITliI1Y \V. JaITett, Charr, Donna R. Rascoe, and
Donald G. Willhoit. Petitioner, Gene H. Kendall represented himself. A. Root Edmonson and
Leanor Bailey Hodge represented the NOlih Carolina State Bar.
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Kendall was admitted to the NOlih Carolina State Bar in 1968 and began practicing
law in Davidson, Mecklenburg County, NOlih Carolina.
2. In an order of discipline entered on January 16,2001 in 00 DHC 25, a hearing
committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission found that Kendall misappropriated fl.ll1ds of
the Bacon Estate, failed to preserve funds received in a fiduciary capacity, failed to promptly pay
settlement funds belonging to a client, failed to properly maintain a trust account, neglected the
representation of the Bacon Estate, made a false statement of material fact to the tribunal, and
collected a fee for services he did not render.
3. Kendall was disbarred by an order of the Commission on JanuaTy 16, 2001 with an
effective date of June 6, 2001 at the latest.
4. Kendall was previously disciplined in 1995 for practicing law while his license was
suspended.
5. Not more than six months or less than 60 days before the filing of the Petition seeking
Reinstatement on behalf of Kendall, a Notice of Intent to seek Reinstatement was published by
the Petitioner in the Journal of the North Carolina State Bar.
6. The complainant in regard to the conduct that led to the disbarment of Kendall: to wit,
the State Bar, was appropriately notified by Kendall of his intention to seek reinstatement, as
were William Garrison and Dr. Mack King.
7. Kendall complied with the provisions of § .0124 in existence at the time of his
disbarment in 2001.

8. Kendall complied with the Order of Discipline entered in the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission.
9. Kendall did not engage in the unauthorized practice oflaw during his disbarment.
10. Kendall did not engage in conduct during the time of his disbarment that would be
grounds for discipline under G.S. § 84-28(b).
11. Kendall understands the current Rules of Professional Conduct.
12. Kendall paid all dues and fees owed to the North Carolina State Bar.
13. There was very little, if any, evidence that Kendall has been engaged in good works
since the tiI:ne of his disbarrflent. The good works testified to by KendaH were in 11105t instances
done by him at, before or during the time he was being disbalTed.
14. There was no corroborating evidence of Kendall's reformation from people in his
family, local law enforcement, fellow church members, or his friends.
IS. The petition was filed in this matter on October 8, 2008, more than seven (7) years
after the effective date of Kendall's disbannent of June 6, 2001.
16. Kendall's failure to file his petition within the two-year window of time that would
have allowed him to prove his competence without having to take the bar exam, that is, five
years after disbarment but before seven years after disbarment, was not the failure of the North
Carolina State Bar. Rather, Kendall's failure to file within the two-year window was due to a
lack of planning on the part of Petitioner.
17. The evidence presented by Kendall regarding CLE he has taken since his disbarment
falls far ShOli of meeting the requirements of the Rules regarding proving his competency by
means other than talcing the bar exam.
18. The letter from Mr. Knox submitted by Kendall does not support the conclusion that
Mr. Knox is familiar enough with Kendall presently so as to credibly describe Kendall's present
level of competence as being adequate and sufficient.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. Kendall has failed to prove by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has
refol1ned and presently possesses the moral qualifications required for admission to practice law
in this state talcing into account the gravity of the misconduct that resulted in his disbarment.
Kendall has failed to satisfy a necessary element required by § .0125(a)(3)(C) and is ineligible
to be reinstated to the practice oflaw.

2. Pennitting Kendall to resume the practice of law would be detrimental to the integrity
and standing of the bar, to the administration ofjustice and to the public interest taking into
account the gravity of the misconduct thal resulted in his order of disbannent. Kendall has failed
to satisfy a necessary element required by § .0125(a)(3)(D) arld is ineligible to be reinstated to
the practice oflaw.
3. During the period of disbar·ment, Kendall did not engage in the unauthorized practice
oflaw.
4. Kendall understands the current Revised Rules of Professional Conduct as required by
§ .0125(a)(3)(K).
5. Any reinstatement of Kendall shall be conditioned upon his attaining a passing grade
on a regular·ly scheduled Wl·itten bar exarnination administered by the North Carolina Board of

Law Exatninei's in accordance \vith §.0125(a)(4)(D)(5).
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact arld Conclusions of Law, the hearing
COlllillittee enters the following Order:
1. The hear·ing committee recommends to the COlU1cil of the North Cmolina State Bar·
that the law license of Gene H. Kendall not be reinstated.
2. If Kendall chooses not to ask the Council to review the decision of this hear·ing
conunittee, this order will constitute the final order in this matter.
3. If the Council reviews the decision ofthis hearing committee and chooses to reinstate
Kendall, Kendall's reinstatement must be conditioned upon his successfl.1l completion of a
written bar examination administered by the North Carolina Boar·d of Law Exanliners pursuarlt
to § .0125(a)(5).
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other members of the heming conmlittee
this

d t>

day of

bit/u

J

l~t1
I

,2009.

