BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
18G0049

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
RACHEL M. KIBLEN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 17, 2019 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by K.C. The grievance was assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs investigation of
this matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You were retained to represent K.C. in her divorce and custody cases in January 2016. At
some point in or around July, 2016 you left your firm but did not notify K.C. of your new contact
information. K.C. obtained this information from your former firm.
K.C.'s ex-husband was in the military and had to move several times for his duty stations
and deployment. Although you were aware of his impending moves, you did not make
reasonable efforts to serve him with the necessary documents to move the case forward. K.C.

advised you in November 2017 that her ex-husband would be in town and was prepared to sign
divorce papers and enter a custody agreement, but you did not respond to K.C.'s
communications and missed the opportunity to close the case. Opposing Counsel also tried to
reach you at that time, but you did not respond.
K.C . paid you the $250 filing fee for the divorce, but you failed to deposit the check in
your trust account or to pay the filing fee to the court. You lost K.C.'s check.
You were served with notice of this grievance on June 18, 2018 but you failed to respond.
Without your response, the Grievance Committee took all ofK.C.'s allegations as true . You
therefore have violated Rules 1.3; 1.4(a)(2), (3), and (4); 1. 15-2(b); 1. 16(a); and 8.1(b).
You are hereby reprimanded by the NOlth Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depmt from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

8~YOfl~

,2019.

ltrpf¥'~~
A. Todd Brown, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
ATB/lb

