,,~;0 7lZ9 JU];,

~'r)c

1l

.~

N

JU .
~

"A
.

..~ S:I:

uS

2(}

7ll:lJ ~

STATE OF NORTH CAROL .'

/~

~!

>

'J'\

~)J

BEFORE THE
VItCDI~CiPLJNARY HEARING COMMISSION
",:J.
J'
OF THE
\V~~I
" j\ \\)'? NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
!

.,."J1r1!11-~

WAKE COUNTY

17 DHC 8

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER
OF

DISCIPLINE

BRENT F. KING, Attorney,
Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Allison C. Tomberlin and Christopher R. Bruffey.
Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Brent F.
King, was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Defendant waives a formal hearing in the above
referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings' of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order. The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By
consenting to this order, Defendant knowingly, freely, apd voluntarily waives his right to appeal
this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regUlations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
1.

2. Defendant, Brent F. King (hereafter "Defendant" or "King"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on 24 August 1996 and is an attorney a~ law licensed to practice in
North Carolina. subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State'Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. During the relevant period referred to herein, King actively engaged in the practice
of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Huntersville, Mecklenburg
County, North Carolina.

4. Defendant leased property owned by M. Le and H. Ho d/b/a Amajes, LLC
C'Amajes").

Page 1 oflO

5. In or about JW1e 2014, Defendant's law practice lost a significant portion of its
revenue streom after the departure of two associate attorneys. two paralegals and severa) clients
from his finn.
6. As part of the fallout of the staff and client departures from the fum, Defendant faced
financial difficulties from June 2014 through December 2014 ("period of financial difficulty'».
7.
Defendant was also left renting a space that was far larger than that required to operate
his now one attorney law flIIIl.

8. Accorciil'lgJy. Defendant took steps druing the period of financial difficulty to try to
mitigate the effects of the loss of revenue as he worked to rebuild his law practice.
9~
One such step included contacting Le seeking to either modifY or be released from
the terms of his lease.

10. Le refused Defendant's l'e<{uest.
11. During the period of financial difficulty, Defendanfs eomings decreased such that he
often only eamed just enough to meet his monthly financial obligations.
12. Also. a large part of Defendant's time was devoted to travel as he worked to rebuild
his law practice and increase revenue.
13. As a result, Defendant was often unaware of the daily balance in his operating
account.
14. Between 30 July 2014 and 31 Octobcl' 2014, Defendant provided Amajes with two
checks drawn on his operating accounts that were returned unpaid due to insufficient funds in the
accounts.
15.
Uponleaming that the checks to Amajes had been returned unpaid due to insufficient
funds. Defendant made payment to Amajes by other means.
16.
On or about 4 December 2014, Defendant issued check no. 1002 drawn on his Fifth
Third Bank operating account payable to Amajes in the omount 0($3,400.00.

17.

Defendant provided this check to Ho as payment of his November 2014 rent.

18.
After Defendant provided check 110.1002 to Ho, Defendant engaged in discussions
with Le about the possibility of re-Ietting the property so that Defendant could be released from
the terms of the lease.
19.
payment.

During these discussions. Amajes did not pl'eSent check no. 1002 to the bank for

NCSB v. B. KI/lg

Consent Order of Discipline
Page2ofiO

20.
Because of the tenuous nature of Defendant's fUlancial situation, Defendant stopped
payment on check no. 1002 when he learned that Amajes had not yet presented it for payment and
instead sought to make other payment arrangements with Amajes.
.
21.

Defendant paid Amajes for November 2014 rent by other means.

22.
Amajes decHned to make alternate payment arrangements with Defendant and
instead sued Defendant for unpaid rent.
23.

Defendant paid Amajes for unpaid rent through Janumy 2015.

24.

Defendallt vacated Amajes' Pl'OPe1ty on or about 5 February 2015.

25.

Defendant left the Amajes property in satisfactory condition and did not pUi'Sue return

of his security deposit.

26.
The State Bar audited Defendant's trust accounts for transactions occwl'ing fi'Om 1
January 2014 through 31 December 2014.
27.

During the audit period, Defendant maintained four active trust accounts.

28.
The active trust accounts were Bank. of North Carolina trust account ending in no.
0462 ("Bank of North Carolina trust accountlt), Fidelity Bank trust account ending in no. 2452
("Fidelity trust account"), BB&T Bank trust account ending in no. 7667 ("BB&T trust account"),
and First Citizens Bank trust account ending in no. 8288 ("First Citizens trust account").
29.
Defendant opened the First Citizens trust account, a general trust account, in
September 2014.
30.
Defendant transferred the entrusted funds that remained in the Bank. of North
Carolina trust account and Fidelity trust account as of September 2014 to the First Citizens nust
account.
31.

Defendant maintains a balance of S10.00 of his personal funds in the BB&T trust

account. There are no client funds in the BB&T trust account

32.
As of September 20 14, aU of Defendant's trust accounts except the Fint Citizens tl'ust
account were inactive.
33.

The State Bar extended the end date of the transactions analyzed in the First Citizens

trust account through March 2015.

34.
account.

Defendant failed to promptly disburse his legal fees from the First Citizens trust

35.
Between 12 November 2014 and 10 February 2015, Defendant issued approximately
33 checks payable to cash drawn from the First Citizens trust account.
NeSB v. B. Klllg

Consent OrdOI' of Discipline
Page 3 of10

36.
In addition to failing to list a payee, the checks Defendant issued payable to cash did
not indicate from which client accounts the payments were drawn.
37.
Defendant either cashed or deposited into an account for his personal use the trust
account checks that were issued as payable to cash. At the time that Defendant issued these checks,
he had sufficient legal fees ill. the First Citizen's trust account to fund the disbursements, so these
checks were not funded using client funds.
38.
Defendant failed to properly account for the disbursements to himself that he made
by checks payable to cash on the client ledgers.
39.
Defendant also failed to properly account for earnest money deposits he received on
behalf of clients on such clients' trust account ledgers.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel
enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the pane] has jurisdiction
over Defendant. Brent Kingt and over the subject matter.

2.
King's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds for
discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b){2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) .By failing to promptly disburse legal fees from the First Citizens trust account,
Defendant failed to maintain entrusted property separate from property of the lawyer
in violatiouofRule 1. 15-2(a);
(b) By issuing checks drawn on the First Citizens trust account as payable to cash,
Defendant issued items drawn on the trust account as payable to cash in violation of
Rule l.iS-2(i) and failed to manage entrusted funds in accordance with Rule 1.15 in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(8);
(c) By failing to liBt the client account ft:om which funds were drawn on items issued
from the First Citizens trust account for payment of his fees, Defendant failed to
indicate on items issued for payment of the lawyer's fees the client balance on which
the item was drawn in violation of Rule 1.15-2(h), failed to manage entrusted funds in
accordance with Rule 1.15 in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a), and failed to maintain proper
records for general trust accounts in violation of Rule 1.1S-3(b);
(d) By failing to maintain accurate client ledgers, Defendant failed to maintain proper
records for general trust accounts in violation of Rule 1.15-3(b).

3.
King's conduct, as set forth in the Findings ofFaet above, does not estab'nsh
violation of Rule 8.4(b) and Rule 8.4(c).
NCSB v. B. King
Consent Order ofDiBcipline
Page 4 of 1ft

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of the
parties, the Heating Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convinclllg evidence the following;
ADDITIONAL FINDlNGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.. King was issued a Letter of Warning in May 2017 for failure to supervise and
take reasonable seourity measures in disbursement of real estate closing proceeds. Remedial
measures were taken to prevent a recurrence.
2.
King's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted funds betrays a
vital trust clients atld the public place in attorneys and the legal profession.
3.
King's failure to properly maintain a trust account placed entrusted client funds at
risk and has the potential to cause significant harm to the standing of the profession in the eyes of
the public because it shows his disregard for certain of his duties as an attorney. This tends to
erode the public '8 confidence in attorneys. Confidence in the legal profession is a building block
for public trust in the entire legal system.
. 4.
During the pendency of this disciplinary matter, on 1 January 2018, King
completed the continuing legal education two-part trust accounting series taught by the State
Bar's Trust Account Compliance Counsel.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearmg Panel makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
1Jle Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B.O 116(f)(1) and concludes that the following factors that warrant suspension or
disbannent are present:
(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the hann or potential harm is
foreseeable; and

(b) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
professioll.
2.
The Hearing Panel bas considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB .0116(1)(2) and concludes that no factors that warrant disbarment are present.
3~
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB.0116(£)(3) and concludes that the following are applicable in this matter:

(0)

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
NCSB v. B. Killg
Consent Order of Discipline
PageS uf10

I
I
I
j

(b) Multiple offenses;

(c) Good character and reputation; and
(d) Defendant has been licensed to practice law for approximately twenty-two years,
4.
Defendant caused potential significant honn to his clients by failing to properly
manage their entrusted funds and to the standing of the profession.

I
I

i
I

5.

The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including: censure,

reprimand, and admonition, and finds that discipline less than suspension would n.ot adequately
protect the public from Defendant's future misconduct because (i) of the gravity of potential
significant hann to clients, and (ii) a period of l'eporting pursuant to a stayed suspension is
necessary to ensure Defendant's propel' handling of entrusted funds.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and on the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant, Brent F. King, is hereby suspended from the practice of taw for two
years effective 30 days from service of this order upon King. This suspension is stayed
immediately as set forth herein and subject to the tenus of paragraph 3 below.

2.
Defendant shall pay, within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and costs
upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative fees and cos18 of this proceeding.
3.
The two-year suspension is stayed for a period of two years as long as Defendant
complies with all of the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the. Secretary of the State Bar within 30 days of service of the
statement of fees and costs upon him;
(b) Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State Bar with

the three-way reoonciliation described in the State Bar Lawyees Trust Account
Handbook, using the Trust Account Reconciliation sheet available on the State
Bar's website, for all trust accounts he maintains. Defendant shall provide (i) the
three-way reconciliation report, (ii) client ledgers for all clients with funds in the
trust account(s) during that month as may be requested by the Office of Counsel,
(iii) ledger for any personal funds maintained in the tl11st account(s) for bank or
credit card fees, (iv) trust account generalledger, (v) multipJe balance ledger
report (report listing balance of funds maintained in trust for each client during
reporting period), (vi) the bank statements, (vii) cancelJed checks, and (viii) as
may be t'equested by the Office of Counsel, deposit slips for each month. These
NeSB v. B. King
Conscnt Order of Discipline
Page 6 ofl0

i
;

documents w"e due on the 15 th day ofthe following month - for example, the
three-way reconciliation for the month of January is due on February 15;
(c) Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA, or other accouilting professional
approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar, audit all trust accounts
maintained by Defendant. This audit shall assess"whether Defendant has in his
trust account the client funds he is required to maintain for his clients at that time,
as well as Defendant's compliance with all requirements of Rule 1.l5~2 and Rule
1.15-3, The audit shall include addressing the items on the CPA Report Template
which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendant. The quarterly audit reports
from the CPA or accountant are due no later than 30 days after the end of the"
quarter - fot' example, the audit for the first quarter of the calendar year (January,
February, and March) is due on or before April 30. It is Defendant's sole
responsibility to ensure that the CPA 01' accountant completes and submits the
reports required herein. Defendant shall beat' the cost of preparation and
submission of these reports;

(d) If either the monthly three*way reconciliation report or the a.udit reveals any
deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or Rule 1.15~3,
Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the date of the three-way
reconciliation report or the CPA or accountant audit and shall provide
documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar within 2 days of the
date of the remedial action;
(e) Defendant shall provide any other records requested by the Office of Counsel
within ten days of the request;
(f)

By the deadline stated in the request. Defendant shall comply with any requests
from the Office of Counsel to provide any infonnation regarding his trust
a.ccount(s) or to sign and provide any release or authorization to anow the Office
of Counsel to obtain infonnation directly f1'om any bank in which Defendant
maintains a trust accoWlt;

(g) Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business address, office telephone number~ and office e-mail address,
Defendant shall notify the State Bar of any change address within ten (10) days
of such change.. His current business address must be a street address, not a post
office box or drawer;

of

(h) Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bol' sent to the address 011
record with the Membership Department of the State Bar;
(i)

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty (30)
days of receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;
NCSB II. B" King
Consent Ordel' of Discipline
Page 7 oflO

0)

Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition that is pending at the time of entry ofthis order or of
which he receiveB notice after the effective date oftbis order;

(k) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar continuing legal education

requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed therefor by the applicable
deadline;
(1)

Defendant will pay all State Bal' and judicial district membership dues, Client
Security Fund assessments, and any other related dues, fees, assessments and/or
costs by the applicable deadline; and

(m) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the

United States or of any state or local government
4.
Unless Defendanfs obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end two years from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no pending motions or show cause proceedings alleging lack of

compliance with the conditions ofthe stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code
1B.O 118, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been
met. If a motion or show cause proceeding aUeging lack of compliance with the conditions for
the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would
otherwise have telminated, the DHC retains the jul'isdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the two year suspension in whole or ill part if it fmds that any of the
conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation
to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until reso1ution of any such pending
motion or show cause proceeding.
5.
TfDefendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out above
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted in accordance with 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB.OllS.

6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order imposing such conditions as it
deems proper for the reinstatement of Defelldant's license at the end of the suspension.
Additionally, Defendant must establish the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
prior to being reinstated to the pTactice of law after any period of active suspension:
(a)

Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary of
the State Bar within thitty (30) days of the date of the order lifting the stay
and/or activating the suspension of his law license;

(b)

Defendant complied with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code lB.OI28
following entry of the order lifting the stay andlor activating the suspension of
his law license;
NCSB 1'. B. Killg

Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8 oflO

(c)

Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against him in
this proceeding 8S reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the
Secretary of the State Bar;

(d)

That within fifteen (15) days of the effective date of the order activating the
suspension Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and telephone
number at which clients seeking return of files could communicate with
Defendant and obtain such files;

(e)

That Defendant provided within ten days client files to all clients who made a
request for return of their files;

(f)

Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his current
business street address (not post office box or drawer addresses) and notified
the State Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

(g)

Defendant responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty
(30) days of receipt or by the deadline stated ill the communication, whichever
is sooner;

(h)

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment of
all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments, and other assessments, charges or surcharges the State Bar is
authorized to collect from him. including all judicial district dues and
assessments;

(i)

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory CLE hours in repOl1ing of such hours or in payment
of any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

(;)

At the lime of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant has completed within
the six months that immediately preceded his petition for reinstatement two
hours of continuing legal education (CLE) in the area of trust account
management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar;

(k)

Defendant did not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States, or the laws of any state or local government during his
suspension; and

(1)

Defendant participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition that was pending at the time of entry of this order or of
which he received notice after the effective date of this order.

NCSB v. B. Killg

Consent Ordel' of Discipline
Page 9 oflO

7.
The DiscipJinru'Y Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B.0118 until all conditions of the stay of suspension are
satisfied.
.
the

~ed by th.~ the consent ofth. othOr Hearing POllel members tills

,-r-day of

\

,2018.

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
WE CONSENT:

~~

NCSB II. E. Killg

Consent Order of Discipline
Page 10 oflO

