NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12G0963

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Ronnie P. King,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

CENSURE

)

On April 18, 2013, the Grievance Committee ofthe North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by L. O.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the G11evance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attomey's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.

L. O. was injured in a car accident in July 2006 (hereafter, first car accident). She retained you
in early 2007 to represent her in the first accident case. You were served with the opposing party's first
set ofintenogatories and request for production of documents on FeblUary 5, 2008. You did not
respond to that discovery on Ms. O.'s behalf. Although you had some health problems in March and
October 2008, you did not seek additional time to respond to the discovery from the opposing counsel,
who later filed a motion to compel discovery.
The court entered an order compelling Ms. O. to respond to the discovery. You did not respond
to the discovelY as a result of the court's order compelling discovery. The court sanctioned Ms. O. by
requiring her to pay $300.00 in attomey's fees for the opposing party. You never told Ms. O. about the

discovery, your failure to respond to the discovery, and the sanctions that the court ordered against her
for her failure to respond to discovery. You did pay the sanctions out of your own pocket.
By letter dated December 19,2011, the opposing counsel sent you a letter asking you to respond
to the discovery. You did not respond to the opposing counsel's December 19 letter and you did not
provide the discovery as requested.
In early 2012, opposing counsel filed a motion to dismiss Ms. O.'s first accident case. In
January 2012, you took a voluntary dismissal, in large part because of the opposing party's motion to
dismiss.
You then refiled the personal injury case from the first accid"nt in superior couti. You filed the
lawsuit in superior court eight months after you took the voluntary dismissal. You could not explain
why it took you eight months to file essentially the same complaint that you filed in 2007.
Ms. O. fired you in October 2012. As of February 19,2013, you had not moved to withdraw
from the first accident or the second accident case in which Ms. O. asked you for assistance.
Your failure to respond to the discovery from the opposing party violated Rule 1.3 and Rule
8.4(d). Your failure to advise Ms. O. that she needed to respond to discovery violated Rule 1.4(a)(3).
Your failure to advise Ms. O. that the opposing party had filed a motion to compel discovery and that
the court had entered sanctions against her violated Rule 1.4(a)(3) and (b). Your failure to withdraw
promptly from Ms. O's cases violated Rule 1.l6(c).
The Grievance Committee also found that you were less than forthcoming in your response to
the Grievance Committee when you did not mention the full histOlY of Ms. 0.' s first car accident case.
You never told the Grievance Committee that you failed to respond to discovery requests and that Ms.
O. was sanctioned for failure to respond to those requests. You did not advise the Grievance
Committee that the opposing counsel moved to dismiss Ms. 0.' s case for failure to respond to the
discovery. The Grievance Committee found that your failure to give a full and fair disclosure of the
circumstances surrounding this grievance violated Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are reminded of your obligation, per Rule .0112(c) of the North Carolina State Bar's Discipline
and Disability Rules, to give a full and fair disclosure of all facts and circumstances pertaining to the
alleged misconduct.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
enol' that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourselfto depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member ofthe legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the NOlth Carolina State
Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a censure
by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this

b;l: day of ~

,2013.

Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

