,\\\~ IS 151/16'

~,':)..

STATE OF NORTH

CAROL&~'
J

~

rcO

WAKE COUNTY

... &

Jl!JlIOO'

"'f'~

BEFORE THE

f.:
< tin SCI ' /NARY I-IEARlN. G COMMISSION
lLtD D
~;
OF THE

,('

'He

A"

- RTHCAROLINA STATE BAR
II DI-IC 14

Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

Jor-IN M. KIRBY, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Sharon Alexander, Chair, Harriett T, Smalls and Joe Castro
pursuant to 27 N,CA,C, IE § ,0114 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar, Plaintit1: the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian P,D, Oten, Defendant,
John M. Kirby, was represented by Douglas J. Brocker. Defendant waives a formal hearing in
this matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the enlry of this order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent order (If to challenge in any way
the sufficiency of the findings,
Based upon the consent of the paliies, the hearing panel hereby makes, by clear,
cogent alld convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1,
Plaintiff, the NOIih Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff" or "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority grallted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes ofNOlih Carolina, and the
rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated therewlder.
2.
Defendant, John M, Kirby ("Defendant" or "Kirby"), was admitted to the North
Cal'olina State Bar on 20 August 1993, and is, and was at all times refelTed to herein, all
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar alld the laws of the State of
North Carolina,
3,
During the times relevant herein, Defendmt actively engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina md maintained a law office in Raleigh, Wake County,
North Cal'olina,
4,
Defendmt was properly served with process md received due notice of the
hearing in this matter.

5.
.lustAnswer Corp. is a Delaware corporation operating a website located at
www.justanswer.com (hereinafter "the .lustAnswer website"). The .lustAnswer website is an
online venue for third-party users to ask and receive answers to questions from "experts" in a
variety of subject matter areas, including questions on various legal issues, in exchange for a
fee set by the third-party user.
6.
For every answer submitted by the expert and accepted by the third-party user,
.lustAnswer Corp. shares a portion of the fee paid by the third-paIiy user with the expert
providing the answer.
7.
To qualify as an "expert" on the .lustAnswer website, a person must register and
provide credentials in the pertinent subject area. If approved by .lustAnswer Corp., the expert
is allowed to answer questions posed by third-party users on the JustAnswer website.
8.
To qualify and register as an "expert" on the JustAnswer website in the subject
area of law, .lustAnswer Corp. requires the registering person to be a licensed attorney in good
staIlding. The JustAnswer website does not disclose the name or contact information of the
experts to the third-party users, but discloses the expert's screen name and the biographical
information provided by the expert.
9.

JustAnswer Corp. is not a law finn.

10. On or about 14 March 2008, Defendant registered an account with the
JustAnswer website enabling him to answer questions submitted by third-party users to thc
.lustAnswer website as an expert in the subject matter of law. Defendant used the screen
name 'johnral" for the account created on 14 March 2008, aIld Defendant provided the
JustAnswer website with his correct biographical and contact infol111ation to be associated
with the 'johnral" account.
II. On or about 21 Mareh 2008, Defendant registered a seeond account with the
JustAnswer website enabling him to answer questions submitted by third-party users to the
JustAnswer website as an expert in the subject matter of law. Defendant used the screen
name "ncatty" for the account created on 21 March 2008, and provided the JustAnswer
website with his correct biographical and contact infol111ation to be associated with the
"neatty" account with the exception that Defendant listed his middle name, McKinley, as his
last naIne.
12. Between Mareh 2008 aIld February 2009, DefendaIlt used the 'johnral" accOlmt
to provide legal advice to numerous third-paIiy users of the JustAnswer website, to wit:
Defendant communicated with third-party users of the JustAnswer website, aIlswered
numerous questions as an expeli in the subject matter oflaw, and collected fees from
JustAnswer Corp. for the answers he provided through the 'johnral" account.
13. On or about 28 March 2008, Defendant registered a third account with the
JustAnswer website enabling him to answer questions submitted by third-party users to the
JustAnswer website as an expert in the subject matter oflaw. Defendant used the screen
naIne "ADiIlon" for the account created on 28 March 2008.

2

14. Defendant did not register the "ADillon" account with the JustAnswer website
using his correct biographical and contact information. Instead, Defendant registered the
"ADillon" account using the biographical and contact infonnation of a North Carolina
attomey named Anthony Dillon.
15. Defendant did not have Mr. Dillon's pemlission to use his name, contact
information, and/or biographical infomlation in any manner.
16. Between March 2008 and February 2009, Defendant used the "ADillon" account
to provide legal advice to numerous third-party users of the JustAnswer website, to wit:
Defendant communicated with third-party users of the JustAnswer website, answered
numerous questions as an expert in the subject matter oflaw, and collected fees from
JustAnswer Corp. for the answers he provided through the "ADillon" account. The amounts
received by Defendant were typically in the range of$IO.00 to $15.00 per question accepted
by the third-party user of the website. Defendant coHected a total of at least $4,821.75 trom
his participation on the JustAnswer website.
17. Using the "johnral" and "ADillon" accounts, Defendant advised nun1erous thirdparty users ofthe JustAnswer website on matters conceming various other states' laws,
including but not limited to the laws of Minnesota, Washington, Alabama, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Idaho, and Arizona.
18.

Defendant is only licensed to practice law in the State ofNOIih Carolina.

19.

Defendant was nut pelmitted to practice law in the states listed in paragraph 17

above.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel cnters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Jolm M. Kirby, and over the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By registering and using an accow1t containing another attomey's
biographical and contact information in his interactions with JustAnswer
Corp. and the third-party users of the JustAnswer website, Defendant
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(b)

By advising third-party users ofthe JustAnswer website about the law of
states in which Defendant was not licensed to practice, Defendant practiced
law in jurisdictions where doing so violates the regulation of the legal
profession in that jurisdiction in violation of Rule 5.5(a);

3

(c)

By registering with JustAnswer Corp. and providing legal advice to thirdparty users of the JustAnswer website, Defendant assisted JustAnswer
Corp. in the unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(d); and

(d)

By splitting fees paid by third-party users for legal advice received through
the JustAnswer website with JustAnswer Corp., Defendant shared legal
fees with a nonlawyer in violation of Rule 5.4(a).

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel also finds by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant acted in a dishonest and deceitful manner when he knowingly and
impermissibly registered and used another attorney's biographical and contact infonnation in
the "ADillon" account with JustAnswer Corp. and conducted business as "ADillon." Such
conduct shows Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, and integrity and manifests
Defendant's dishonest or selfish motive in establishing and acting under the false profile for
monetary gain.
2.
Defendant's conduct had the potential to cause significant hann to attorney
Anthony Dillon in that Defendant provided legal advice to numerous individuals using the
"ADillon" account. In doing so, Defendant circumvented Mr. Dillon's ability to protect his
name and reputation in the legal community and with the public in generaL At the time of
Defendant's conduct, such potential harm was foreseeable to Defendant.
3.
Dcfcndant's dishonest conduct caused potential significant ham] to the
standing of the legal profession in the eyes of the public in that such conduct by attorneys
erodes the trust of the public in the profession. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys
tends to sully the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole.
Confidence in the legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal
system.
4.
Defendant's disregard for the licensing requirements of each state in which he
engaged in the lmauthorized practice of law caused potential significant hann to the standing
of the legal profession in the eyes of the public and those individuals to whom he provided the
unauthorized services. Each state has individual licensing requirements that typically include
demonstration of sufficient familiarity with the laws of the state prior to engaging in the
practice oflaw in that state. This system is designed to protect the public by ensuring clients
receive competent representation by a qualified attorney who is properly licensed in that
jurisdiction. By disregarding these requirements, Defendant showed his indifference to his
obligations concerning those to whom he provided legal services as well as the sovereignty of
the attorney regulatory system of each state.
5.

Defendant has no prior disciplinary offenses in over 17 years of practice.

6.
Defendant has fully cooperated with the State Bar's investigation oftb.is matter
and in reaching a resolution in these proceedings.

4

7.
With the exception of the professional misconduct at issue in this case,
Defendant enjoys a reputation of good character in his personal and professional life.
8.
Defendant understands the wrongfulness of his misconduct and is remorseful
for his actions.
9.
When Defendant was contacted by JustAnswer about the discrepancy in the
"ADiIlon" account on or about 30 January 2009, Defendant responded to JustAnswer and
infonned them that he responded to questions under the "ADillon" account, and Defendant
then provided JustAnswer with his con'ect biographical and contact information. JustAnswer
subsequently terminated all of Defendant's accounts with JustAnswer Corp.
Bascd upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and detennines the following factors are applicable:
a. Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
b. A dishonest motive on Defendant's pact;
c. Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
d. Remorse;
e. Defendant's reputation for good character; and
f.

Defendant's substantial experience in the practice oflaw.

2.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes that altllough acts of misrepresentation are present in this case, disbarment is not
necessary in order to protect the public.
3.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar and
detemlines the following factors waITant suspension of Defendant's license:
a. Defendant's intent to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
b. Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, tmstworthiness, or
integrity;

5

c. Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the pnblic's
perception of the legal profession; and
d. Defendant's conduct had a potential adverse affect on third parties.
4.
The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline and concludes
that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
offenses cDlllinitted by Defendant, would not adequately protect the public, and would send
the wrong message to attorneys and to the public regarding the conduct expected of members
ofthe Bar.
5.
Due to the misrepresentations described in the present action as well as the
significant potential hann resulting £i'Dln Defendant's conduct, the heming panel finds and
concludes that active suspension of Defendant's license for a set period of time is the only
discipline that will adequately protect the public from future transgressions by Defendant.
6.
Defendant should be allowed the opportunity to apply for a stay of a portion of
the suspension imposed by this Order upon compliance with certain conditions designed to
ensure protection of the public and designed to ensure Defendant's continued compliance
with the Rules of Professional Conduct.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

The license of Defendant, John M. Kirby, is hereby suspended for two years.

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretmy of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty (30) days following the date that this Order is
served upon him. Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule
.0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .0124.
3.
Six (6) months after the effective date of this Order, Defendant may seek a stay
of the remaining period of suspension imposed by this Order by filing a petition with the
Secretmy of the North Carolina State Bm. In order to be eligible for a stay of the remaining
period of suspension, Defendant must demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
that, in addition to complying with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C.A.C. lB § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, he has
complied with the following conditions:
a.
Paid the costs of and administrative fees associated with this proceeding
as assessed by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within 30 days after
the statement of costs and fees is mailed to him at his address of record;

6

b.
Provided and maintained with the North Carolina State Bar current
physical and mailing addresses which shall not be a post office box address.
Defendant shall keep the State Bar informed of his current physical and mailing
addresses and shall advise the State Bar in writing of any change to his physical
or mailing addresses within 10 days of the change, shall accept all certified mail
from the North Camlina State Bar, and shall respond to all letters of notice and
requests for information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines
stated in the communication;
c.
Participated fully and timely in the fee dispute program when he
notified by the State Bar of any petitions for resolution of disputed fees;

IS

d.
Provided to Anthony Dillon a written apology signed by Defendant in
which he apologizes for his use of Mr. Dillon's biographical and contact
infonnation in the manner described in the findings of fact above;
e.
Provided a written commitment and assurance to the Office of Counsel
that he has refrained from providing legal advice to individuals concerning the
laws of states where he is not licensed to practice law, from assisting others in
the unlicensed practice of law or from splitting fees with non-lawyers, including
as described in the findings of fact above, and will continue to refrain from doing
so in the future; and
f.
Arranged for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar in good
standing who pr"ctices law in Wnke County and who has been approved by the
Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar to serve as his law practice
monitor. The selected monitor must agree to so serve and agree to meet with
Defendant at least monthly to review Defendant's cases. The monitor must
supervise all client matters and ensure Defendant handles all client matters in an
appropriate fashion, including ensuring that Defendant refrains from providing
legal advice to individuals concerning the laws of states where he is not licensed
to practice law, l1'om assisting others in the unlicensed practice of law, or from
splitting fees with non-lawyers, including as described in the findings of fact
above. The monitor must submit written quarterly reports of this supervision to
the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. Such reports must be received by the
Office of Counsel on the following dates as they occur during the stay of this
suspension: January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. This monitoring will
occur for the duration of any stay of any portion of this suspension. Defendant
will pay the fees or cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this supervision. At
the time Defendant tiles any petition for a stay of any portion of the suspension
imposed by this Order, Defendant must have made the arrangements for this
monitoring attorney and must have supplied the Office of Counsel with a letter
from the monitoring attorney confinning his or her agreement to perform the
duties listed above.

7

4.
Defendant may file a petItIOn seeking a stay of the remammg period of
suspension and setting forth the above requirements up to 30 days prior to tbe end of the 6
month period but shall not be reinstated prior to the end of that 6 month period.
5.
If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license
pursuant to this Order, the stay will continue in force only as long as Defendant complies with
the following conditions:
a.
Provides and maintains with the North Carolina State Bar cUlTent
physical and mailing addresses which shall not be a post office box address.
Defendant shall keep tbe State Bar infolT11ed of his cUlTent physical and mailing
addresses and shall advise tbe State Bar in writing of any change to his physical
or mailing addresses within 10 days of the change;
b.
Accepts all certified mail from the NOlih Carolina State Bar and responds
to all letters of notice and requests for infollnation from the North Carolina State
Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication;
c.
Participates fully and timely in the fee dispute program whenever notified
by the State Bar that a petition for resolution of disputed fee has been received
by the State Bar;
d.
Timely complies with his State Bar continuing legal education
requirement> and pay all fees anJ costs lssessed by the applicable deadline;
e.
Meets at least once a month with his monitoring attorney, report the
status of all cUlTent client matters to the monitor, cooperates with the monitoring
attorney and provides any infollnation the monitoring attorney deems reasonably
necessary to ensure that Defendant is handling all client matters in an appropriate
fashion and is refraining from providing legal advice to individuals concerning
the laws of states where he is not licensed to practice law, from assisting others
in the unlicensed practice of law, or from splitting fees with non-lawyers,
including as described in the findings of fact above. Defendant shall report to
his practice monitor all intemet activity related to any and all legal topics upon
which Defendant comments or with which Defendant interacts in any internet
medium;
f.
Ensures the monitoring attorney sends a written repmi each quarter to the
Office of Counsel of the State Bar as described above in paragraph 3(h). Failure
of the monitor to provide such a report will be grounds to revoke any stay of the
suspensIOn;
g.
Cooperates witb the Office of Counsel and malces appropriate
anangements for an alternate monitoring attorney, approved by the Office of
Counsel, if needed during any stay of this suspension;
h.

Does not violate the laws of any state or of the United States;

8

I.

Does not engage in the unauthorized practice oflaw in any jurisdiction;

and
J.

Does not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

6.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and Defendant fails
to comply with anyone or more of the conditions referenced in Paragraph 4, then the stay of
the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .01 14(x) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
7.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of his law license or if
some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must
provide in his application for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of the
following:
a.
Compliance with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules; and
b.

Compliance with the conditions set out in paragraph 3 (a) - (e) above.

8.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .OII4(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules throughout the period of any stayed ';UsFllsion.

01

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of Iur-t
,201 J.

~. G--f

CONSENTED TO BY:

£·UfJ

~~

-cB=-I-c-·ian--,p=-.=c
D-.-,-O-te'=n=.L--------/Deputy Counsel
Defendant
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

'yd-~c~~~

-------Douglas J. Br~~
Counsel for Defendant

9

.

