BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
13 BSR 2 andll DHC 15

IN THE MATTER OF

)
)

Petition for Stay of
GARY B. KNETT, Attorney

)
)

ORDER DENYING
PETITION FOR STAY

)

THIS MATTER coming before a Panel ofthe Disciplinary Hearing Col1)ll1ission
for consideration of Petitioner Gary B. Kivett's Petition for Stay med pursuant to the
provisions of the Order of Discipline in this matter dated January 3,3012 and 27
N.C.A.C. 1B §.0125. The Petition for Stay was heard on May 23, 2013. Petitioner was
present and represented by Attomey Gerald R. McKin)ley. The North Catolina State Bar
was represented by Deputy Counsel Margaret Cloutier. TIle Panel consisted of Chair
Fred M. Morelock, and members Renny W. Deese, and Karen B. Ray. Based upon the
record and the evidence presented the Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. In a consent Order of Discipline filed January 3,2012, IGvett was suspended
from the practice oflaw for four years effective thirty days from the date the order was
served on Kivett.
2. TIle effective date ofthe Order was Febluary 4, 2012.
3. The Order provides thatIGvett may apply for a stay of any remaining period of
suspension after serving one year of the active suspension and upon compliance with
conditions stated in the Order. The Order provides that Kivett comply with the
procedures set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0125(b) in applying for the stay.
4. Kivett's Petition for Stay was filed on February 12, 2013.
5. The Office of COlUlSel for the NOlih Carolina State Bar filed its Objections to
Petition for Stay on March 11, 2013.
6. This hearing was held pursuant to the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§.0125(b)(7).

7. The Order requires that to be eligible for a stay of the remaining period of
suspension Kivett must establish by clear, cogent and convinci:p.g evidence compliance
with the following conditions:
a. That Defendant has snbmitted to comprehensive psychiatric or
psychological evaluations, at Defendant's sole expense, by two separate
psychiatrists or psychologists who specialize in treating sexual offenders
in the professions and who have been approved in advance by the Office
of Counsel of the NOlth Carolina State Bax;
b. That each of the psychiatrists/psychologists have certified under
oath, based on their independent comprehensive evaluations of Defendant,
that in their professional opinion Defendant does not suffer from any
condition creating a predisposition for inappropriate sexual behavior and
. that Defendant does not suffer from any mental, psychological, or
emotional condition that significantly impairs his professional judgment,.
performance, or competence in the representation of female clients;
c. That Defendant has attached to his reinstatement petition the
swom statements frol;1l the two evaluating psychiatrists/psychologists
along with releases or authorizations signed by Defendaut i:nstructing the
evaluating psychiatrists/psychologists to discuss their evaluations of
Defendant with, and to release any corresponding records to, a
.
representative ofthe Office of COlmsel;
d. That Defendant has kept the North Carolioa State Bar
Membership Department advised of his current business and home
addresses and notified the Bar of any change in address within ten days of
such change;
e. That Defendant has responded to all commlUncations from the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline
stated in the cornmuuication, whichever is sooner, and has patticipated in
good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution pTOcess for any petition
recdved after the effective date of tIns Order; .

f. That Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct ox the laws of the United States or any state or local govenunent
during his suspension;
g. That Defendaut has pTOperly WOlUld down Ins law practice atld
complied with tile requirements of §.0124 of the N011h Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules; and
h. That Defendant has otherwise complied with the requirelnents
of27N.C.A.C. lB, §.012S(b).

2

8. By the terms of the Order, the burden of proof is on Kivett to show by clear
and convincing evidence that he complied with the provisions set forth in the Order.
9. Kivett submitted into evidence a velified letter and report from Anthony D.
Sdara, Ph.D., ABPP, CLCP, and Dr. Sciara testified via deposition at the hearing in tbis
matter.
10. Dr. Sciara is of the opinion that Kivett does not fit any diagnostic categOlies
that would cause bim to be predisposed to engage in inappropriate sexual behavior or that
significantly impair his ability to represent female clients.
11. Dr. Sciara opined that Kivett's pmfessional judgment was impaired wbich led
to inappropriate behaviors. Fmiher, Dr. Sciara stated that Kivett tested positive for a
Coping Deficit Index, an indicator of developmental immaturity.
12. Dr. Sciara's opinion is that if Kivett is allowed to practice law, Kiyett should
not see female clients alone and that he should be counseled by a mentor on what it
means to be an officer of the court.
13. Kivett submitted into evidence a velified statement and report fi'omRoger
Wallace, M.A. Mr. Wallace testified via deposition at the hearing in tbis matter:
14. !vIT. Wallace is of the opinion that Kivett does not now suffer from any
diagnosable condition creating a predisposition for inappropliate sexual behavior and that
Kivett does not suffer from any mental, psychological or emotional condition that
significantly impairs his professionaljudgnlent, performance, or competence in the
representation of female clients.
15. Mr. Wallace's opinion is that Kivett's sexual behavior is seen as more of an
addictive-like pattem developed in response to emotional distress.
16. Mr. Wallace also recommended that Kivett undergo psycho-educational
therapy involving sexual addiction and sensitivity training conceming appropriate
respectful regard for women. Kivett has illldergone the reco=ended therapy.
17. Mr. Wallace agreed with Kivett that if Kivett is allowed to practice law,
Kivett should make a plan not to meet with female clients alone, widen the scope ofhis
practice, not be on the court-appointed list, and to discuss etbics with an older more
experienced attomey..
18. Dming the wind-down period, Kivett resolved the cases of five clients
without fIrst sending to them the required notifIcation. Kivett's notifIcation letter to his
remaining clients was dated and sent one day before the effective date ofbis suspension.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel malces the following

3

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jlJ1isdiction over Petitioner, Gary B. Kivett, and
the sllbject matter ofthis proceedirig.
2. Dr. Sciara's assel:tion that Kivett does not s~ffel' from any' diagnostic
categories and Mr. Wallace's assertion that Kivett does not suffer from any diagnosable
conditions do not meet the requirements of the Order that Kivett show that he does not
suffer from any condition that affects his representation offemale.clients.

3. The opinions offered by both psychologists that the only way that Kivett can
resume the practice oflaw is with conditions and supervision, particularly with respect to
female clients, do not satisfY the requirements for the granting of a stay set forth in the
Order.

4. Kivett has not shown by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he does
not suffer from any condition creating a predisposition for inappropriate sexual behavior
and that he does not suffer from any mental, psychological, or emotional condition that
significantly impairs his professional judgment, perfolmance, or competence in the
representation of female. clients.
5. Kivett did not properly wind down his practice pursuant to Rule .0124 in that
Kivett did not promptly notify all of his clients of his suspension as required by Rule
.0124 nor did he ensure that the written notification was received by the clients for whom
he entered into any agreement with or on behalf of any such client to settle, compromise
or resoive any ciainl, dispute or lawsuit of the client.

NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby ordered that Petitioner's Petition for Stay is
DENIED.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Panel, this
day 0~2013.

JL

~

FRED M. MORELOCK, CHAIR
HEARING PANEL

4

