~~ZllZ5(6
d§,~;\!
?<-'

NORTH CAROLIN","i&'

(~~"

.>

if]o.

BEFORE THE

MAR 201,S?ISCL.INARY HEARINQ COMMISSION

WAKE COUNTY ;S; . ..

OF THE
FILm ~~ iH CAROLINA STATE BAR
"~. .
" " , - BSR 2 and II DHC IS
-> •

fit-

,y

!7<11

IN THE MATTER OF
Petition for Stay of
GARY B. KIVETT, Attorney

~.,

. .~

)
)
)
)
)

ORDER ALLOWING
PETITION FOR STAY

THIS MATTER coming before a Panel ofthe,Disciplinary Hearing Commission
for consideration of Petitioner Gary B. Kivett's Petition for Stay filed pursuant to the
provisions of the Order of Discipline in this matter dated March 27, 2014 and 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, §.0125. The Petition for Stay was heard on
March 13,2015. Petitioner was present and represented by Attorney R. Daniel Boyce.
The North Carolina State Bar was represented by Deputy Counsel Margaret Cloutier.
The Panel consisted of Chair Fred M. Morelock, and members Renny W. Deese, and
Karen B. Ray.
Based upon the record and the evidence presented the Panel finds by clear, cogent
and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. In a consent Order of Discipline filed January 3, 2012, Kivett was suspended
from the pmctice of law for four years effective thirty days from the date the order was
served on Kivett.
2. The effective date of the Order was February 4,2012.
3. The Order provides that Kivett may apply for a stay of any remaining period of
suspension after serving one year of the active suspension and upon compliance with
conditions stated in the Order. The Order provides that Kivett comply with the
procedures set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B; §.0125(b) in
applying for the stay.
4. Kivett's Petition for Stay was filed on March 27, 2014.

5. The Office of Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar filed its Objections to
Petition for Stay on April 10, 2014.
6. This hearing was held pursuant to the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter I, Subchapter B, §.0125(b)(7).
7. The Order requires that to be eligible for a stay of the remaining period of
suspension Kivett must establish by clear, cogent and convincing evidence compliance
with the following conditions:
(a) That Kivett has submitted to comprehensive psychiatric or psychological
evaluations, at Kivett's sole expense, by two separate psychiatrists or
psychologists who specialize in treating sexual offenders in the
professions and who have been approved in advance by the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar;
(b) That each of the psychiatrists/psychologists have certified under oath,
based on their independent comprehensive evaluations of Kivett, that in
their professional opinion Kivett does not sutTer from any condition
creating a predisposition for inappropriate sexual behavior and that Kivett
does not suffer from any mental, psychological, or emotional condition
that significantly impairs his professional judgment, performance, or
competence in the representation of female clients;
(c) That Kivett has attached to his reinstatement petition the sworn statements
from the two evaluating psychiatrists/psychologists along with releases or
authorizations signed by Kivett instructing the evaluating
psychiatrists/psychologists to discuss their evaluations of Kivett with, and
to release any corresponding records to, a representative of the Office of
Counsel;
(d) That Kivett has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home addresses and·
notified the Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;
(e) That Kivett has responded to all communications from the North Carolina
State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and has participated in good faith in
the State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition received
after the effective date of this Order;
(I) That Kivett has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws

of the United States or any state or local government during his
suspension;

2

(g) That Kivett has properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the requirements of §.O 124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules; and
(h) That Kivett has otherwise complied with the requirements of27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, §.0125(b).
8. By the terms of the Order, the burden of proof is on Kivett to show by clear
and convincing evidence that he complied with the provisions set forth in the Order.
9. Kivett submitted to comprehensive psychiatric or psychological evaluations, at
Kivett's sole expense, by two separate psychiatrists or psychologists (Dr. Anthony Sciara
and Roger Wallace, M.A.) who specialize in treating sexual offenders in the professions
and who were approved in advance by the Office of Counsel for the North Carolina State
Bar.
10. Kivett submitted with his petition a re-evaluation report from Anthony D.
Sciara, Ph.D., ABPP, CLCP. Dr. Sciara testified at the hearing in this matter.
II. Dr. Sciara is of the opinion that Kivett does not suffer from any condition that
would cause him to be predisposed to engage in inappropriate sexual behavior or that he
suffers from any mental, psychological or emotional condition that would significantly
impair his ability to represent female clients.
12. Kivett submitted with his petition a Summary of Treatment Services and a
verified statement from Roger Wallace, M.A. Kivett submitted into evidence at the
hearing an affidavit signed by Mr. Wallace.
13. Kivett followed all the recommendations of Dr. Sciara and underwent the
treatment recommended by Mr. Wallace.
14. Mr. Wallace is of the opinion that Kivett does not now suffer from any
condition creating a predisposition for inappropriate sexual behavior and that Kivett does
not suffer from any mental, psychological or emotional condition that significantly
impairs his professional judgment, performance, or competence in the representation of
female clients.
15. During the wind-down period, Kivett resolved the cases of five clients
without first sending to them the required notification. Kivett's notification letter to his
remaining clients was dated and sent one day before the effective date of his suspension.
However, before resolving these cases Kivett contacted each client by telephone and
provided them with the information required by Rule §.0124.
16. Kivett complied with sections (a) through (h) of paragraph 7 of the Order of
Discipline.

3

17. Pursuant to the recommendation of Dr. Sciara, Kivett obtained an attorney
mentor. Attorney Shelley Blum has served as a mentor to Kivett since approximately
July, 2013 through the present.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Gary B. Kivett, and
the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Kivett has shown by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has met the
conditions for a stay set forth in paragraph 6(a) - (t) and (h) of the Order of Discipline.
3. Although Kivett did not properly wind down his practice pursuant to Rule
.0124 in that Kivett did not promptly notify all of his clients of his suspension in writing
as required by Rule .0124 as required by paragraph 6(g) of the Order of Discipline, his
failure to do so was a technical deficiency and not of a nature to prevent the imposition of
a stay of the suspension.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
ORDER
I. Kivett's Petition for Stay filed March 27, 2014 is allowed.

2. Kivett is taxed with the costs and administrative fees which he shall pay within
thirty days of service of the statement of costs on him.
3. The remaining term of the four-year suspension is hereby stayed as long as
Kivett complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
(a) Kivett shall pay all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary within thirty days after service of the statement
of costs on him;
(b) Kivett shall not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions of the
Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the stayed suspension;
(c) Kivell shall accept all certified mail sent to him by the State Bar and
respond to all State Bar requests for information as required by Rule

4

8. I(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by the earlier of the deadline
stated in the communication or within thirty days of receipt;
(d) Kivett shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements; and
(e) Kivett shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current home and business street (not P.O. Box) addresses
and telephone numbers.
4. If Kivett fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out in this
Order, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted and the suspension
activated as provided in § .01 14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
5. Unless Kivett's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Kivett's obligations under this Order end on February 4, 2016 provided there
are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance with the
conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to § .OI14(x) of the North Carolina
Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction untii all conditions of the
stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging
lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the
period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains
the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the suspension in
whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The
stay of the suspension and Kivett's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay
will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show cause proceeding
6. If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the DHC may enter an order imposing such conditions as it deems necessary for
the reinstatement of Kivett's license at the end of the suspension. Furthermore, Kivett
must have complied with each of the following conditions before he will be eligible for
reinstatement:
(a) Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days from the effective date of the
order activating his suspension;
(b) Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules on a timely basis;
(c) Paid any outstanding disciplinary administrative fees and costs;
(d) Have accepted all certified mail sent to him by the State Bar and
responded to all State Bar requests for information as required by Rule

5

8.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by the earlier of the deadline
stated in the communication or within thirty days of receipt;
(e) Within fifteen days of the effective date of the order activating the
suspension Kivett shall have provided the State Bar with an address and
telephone number at which clients seeking return of files could
communicate with Kivett and obtain such files, and Kivett shall have
promptly returned all files to clients upon request; and
(f) Complied with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and

Disability Rules.
7. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofthis matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed
suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Chai':l'ith the full knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Panel, this ~ (fay of March, 2015.

FRED M. MORELOCK, CHAIR
HEARING PANEL

6

