STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN
<:::'

v.

, THE GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17Gl139

ORDER OF
RECIPROCAL DISCIPLINE

PHILIP M. KLEINSMITH, Attorney,
Defendant

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §§ .010S(a)(l2) and .0120(b) of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, and based upon the record in this matter, the
undersigned finds as follows:
1.
Respondent, Philip M. Kleinsmith, was admitted to the NOlih Carolina State Bar
and licensed to practice law in NOlih Carolina on 23 April 2004 and is thereby subject to the
rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the NOlih Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of NOlih Carolina. On 23 January 20 IS, the North Carolina State Bar Council
approved Kleinsmith's petition for transfer to inactive status.
2. By Order and Notice of Disbarment dated 21 December 2016, the Presiding Disciplinary
Judge ("PDR") of a duly constituted Hearing Panel disba11'ed Kleinsmith from the practice of law
in Colorado. The 21 December 2016 Order was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Colorado on
30 October 2017. As a basis for his disbarment order, the PDJ determined by clear and
convincing evidence that Kleinsmith had engaged in professional misconduct wa11'anting
disbarment. The Hearing Panel, PDJ and Supreme Court of Colorado concluded that Kleinsmith
billed for and received payment from a client for title services performed on the client's behalf
by a third patiy title company, and then knowingly converted the funds to pay other law firm
expenses rather than remitting payment to the title company; the title company was able to
recover only $1,179.20 of the $S7,338.00 it was owed.
On 30 November 2017, the North Carolina State Bar served Kleinsmith with a
3.
Notice of Reciprocal Discipline. The Notice advised Kleinsmith that the State Bar was
considering imposing identical discipline based upon the Colorado disba11'ment.
4.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0120(b)(l), Respondent was required to
file a response within thiliy days of service of the Notice of Reciprocal Discipline if he desired to
object to the imposition of identical discipline.
S.

Kleinsmith failed to respond within thirty days of service of the Notice.

Page 1 of3

6.
The Grievance Committee concluded that none of the elements set forth in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0 120(b)(3) exist in this case, and therefore that there are no grounds to
conclude that the imposition of identical discipline in NOlih Carolina would be unwarranted.
The Grievance Committee further concluded that the imposition of identical discipline, to wit:
disbarment, should be effective thirty days after service of the Order of Reciprocal Discipline,
and that Kleinsmith's reinstatement to the practice of law in NOlih Carolina should be predicated
upon his reinstatement to the practice of law in Colorado.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS the Chair of the Grievance
Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1.
The North Carolina State Bar has jurisdiction over the subject matter of the
proceeding and over the person of the Respondent, Philip M. Kleinsmith.
2.
The Grievance Committee has complied with the procedure for imposition of
reciprocal discipline set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0120(b) of the N.C. State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0120(b)(5), the 21 December 2016
Supreme Court of Colorado Order and Notice of Disbarment against Kleinsmith establishes that
Kleinsmith engaged in conduct constituting violations of the following NOlih Carolina State Bar
Rules of Professional Conduct: Rule 1.15-2 and 8.4( c). These Rule violations justify the
imposition of reciprocal discipline in this State.
4.
The disbarment imposed by the Colorado disciplinary authority and affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Colorado is the equivalent of disbarment as described and set out in N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28( c)(1). Kleinsmith shall be disbalTed from the right to practice law in the State of
NOlih Carolina thiliy days after service of this Order of Reciprocal Discipline. Furthermore,
Kleinsmith will be allowed to petition for reinstatement of his NOlih Carolina law license only
after his license to practice law in Colorado is reinstated.
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1.
Respondent, Philip M. Kleinsmith, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law
in North Carolina effective thiliy days from the date this Order of Reciprocal Discipline is served
on him.
2.
Kleinsmith shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
NOlih Carolina State Bar no later than thiliy days following the date he is served with this Order.
Kleinsmith shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0128 of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0128.
3.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued discipline by the Grievance Committee, and in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB § .0105(a)(15), an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00 is hereby taxed to
Kleinsmith.
NeSB v. Kleinsmith
Order of Reciprocal Discipline
Page 2 of3

4.
Kleinsmith may not petition for reinstatement to the practice of law in North
Carolina until his license to practice law in Colorado is reinstated. Additionally, in petitioning
for reinstatement of his North Carolina law license after being reinstated to the practice of law in
Colorado, Kleinsmith must submit proof of his reinstatement to the practice of law in Colorado
and must comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0129.

This the ?Z-day of

U'8fM4W)

,2018.

NeSB v. Kleinsmith
Order of Reciprocal Discipline
Page 3 of3

