.
STATEOFNORTHCARO

,$Wj1VI mW?t/i,
,R:'
~ ~2'\
~
OCt
'V~
::::::
. <0 '"1
m-A ~~O
76' ~Gi
. _ BEFORETHE
<P
'"
.9$

WAKE COUNTY

b.o/flISC~ARY HEARING COMMISSION
{,," ~
OF THE

If: G\

~~RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

~\;p

16DHC20

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISBARMENT

v.
JOSEPH KOSKO, Attorney,

THIS MATTER was heard by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, Shirley L. Fulton, and Randy
Moreau pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Deputy
Connsel Joshua T. Walthall. Defendant, Joseph Kosko, was not present at the hearing
and was not represented by connsel.
On Plaintiffs motion, as a result of Defendant's failures to participate in the
discovery process, the Panel entered an Order of Sanctions on September 27, 2016
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0114 and Rule 37(d) of the North Carolina Rules of Civil
Procedure. Pursuant to this Order of Sanctions all of the allegatiollli in the Complaint
were deemed admitted and all of the documents identified by Plaintiff in its Motion for
Sanctions, filed 011 Septen1ber 9, 2016 were deemed authenticated. Based upon the
pleadings and the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding nnder the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Joseph Kosko ("Kosko" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Carolina State Bar on March 20, 1993, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the
State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, and
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

I

3.
On May 16, 2016, Plaintiff served Defendant with the Summons and
Complaint in this matter via certified mail, return-receipt requested at the address he had
on file with the Membership Department at the North Carolina State Bar on that date:
4001 Hopper Street, Raleigh, NC 27616.
4.
Defendant signed for and received the Summons and Complaint on June 6,
2016 at 4001 Hopper Street, Raleigh, NC 27616.
5.

Defendant later filed an Answer to the Complaint in this matter on June 27,

2016.
6.
Defendaot held out to North Carolina residents as able to provide them
with representation in bankruptcy matters in this state through VolkB Anwalt.
7.
Yolks Anwalt, an out-of-state entity engaged in providing legal documents
aod representation to individuals going through bankruptcy in various states, is not and
never has been authorized to practice law in North Carolina.
8.
In 2015, Defendant agreed to represent K.B., a North Carolina resident
and client ofVolks Anwalt.
9.

Defendant represented K.B. on behalf ofVolks Anwalt.

10.
K.B. was under the impression that Defendant was the attorney handliog
her case on behalf ofVolks Anwalt and that Yolks Anwalt was authorized to provide her
with legal services in North Carolina.
11.
Defendant accepted a portion of the fee Volks Anwalt charged K.B. as
payment for the legal services he provided her on behalf ofVolks Anwalt.
12.
On November 6,2015, Defendant filed a Chapter 13 Petition on behalf of
K.B. in the Western District of North Carolina Bankruptcy Court.
13.
Defendant signed the Chapter 13 Petition referenced in paragraph 12 as an
attorney with "Volks Anwalt."
14.
In Exhibit B to the Chapter 13 Petition referenced in paragraph 12,
Defendant signed his name affinning the following statement: "I, the attorney for the
petitioner in the foregoing petition, declare that I have infonned the petitioner that (he or
she) may proceed under chapter 7, 11, 12, or 13 of title 11, United States Code, and have
explained the relief available under each such chapter. I further certify that I delivered to
the debtor the notice required by 11 U.S.C. § 342(b)."
15.
Defendant had in fact not spoken with the petitioner, K.B., prior to filing
the Chapter 13 Petition referenced in paragraph 12.

2

16.
On November 9, 2015, the Court entered a Notice of Deficient Filing,
indicating that Defendant's Petition was deficient.
17.
On December 7, 2015, Defendant filed a Chapter 13 Plan on behalf of
K.B. in the Western District of North Carolina Bankruptcy Court.
18.
On December 11, 2015, the Court entered Notice of Defective Filing,
indicating that the Chapter 13 Plan Defendant had filed was defective.
19.
On December 18, 2015, the Court entered an Order to Appear and Show
Cause for Dismissal of Case, ordering Defendant to personally appear before the Court
and "show cause why he should not be sanctioned [by the Court] for his performance in
this case." This order directed Defendant to appear at a hearing on January 12,2016.
20.

Defendant did not appear as ordered on January 12, 2016.

21.
On January 13, 2016, the Court entered an Order holding Defendant in
contempt for failing to appear at the January 12, 2016 hearing.
On February 18, 2016, the Court sanctioned Defendant and Yolks Anwalt
22.
for contempt of court, disbmring Defendant from the Western District of North Carolina
Bankruptcy Court and requiring both Defendant and Yolks Anwalt to pay the debtor
$5,000.00 each.
23. Throughout the representation, K.B. had difficulty contacting Defendant,
Defendant failed to return K.B.' s caUs requesting information regarding the status of her
case, and Defendmlt failed to explain various aspects of the bankruptcy process to K.B. Of
obtain an understanding ofK.B.'s goals for Defendant's representation of her.
24.
In 2015, Defendant agreed to provide legal services to North Carolina
residents at the direction of and upon payment from Professional Closing Network, a
company then engaged in providing real estate closing services in North Carolina.
25.
Professional Closing Network is not and never has been authorized to
practice law in North Carolina.
26.
Defendant held out to the clients of Professional Closing Network as able
to provide them with legal services on behalf of Professional Closing Network.
27.
Defendant conducted at least 20 real estate closings in North Carolina for
the North Carolina clients of Professional Closing Network.
Professional Closing Network instructed Defendant as to which closings
28.
to conduct and directed the course of the legal services he provided to the clients.
29. Professional Closing Network paid Defendant a portion of the fee it
collected from its North Carolina clients.
3

30.
Defendant agreed to provide legal services to the North Carolina clients of
a business corporation named Family Court Direct.
31.
Family Court Direct is not and never has been authorized to practice law
in North Carolina.
32.
At the direction of and upon payment from Family Court Direct,
Defendant drafted legal documents for the following clients in domestic cases being tried
before North Carolina courts:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.

h.
i.
j.
k.
1.

P.S.M. of Moore County, NC;
E.E.M. of Tarrant County, TX;
D.K. of Lincoln County, NC;
J.K.M. ofCabarrus County, NC;
M.J. of Grovetown, GA;
D.R.H. of Vance County, NC;
8.M.B. of Forsyth County, NC
S.M.C. of Norfolk, VA;
J.C. of Cherokee County, NC;
V.G.K. of Davidson County, NC;
R.L.F. or Phyllis Foxx of Forsyth County, NC; and
E.M.K. of Iredell County, NC.

In addition to these clients, Defendant, at the direction of and upon
33.
payment from Family Court Direct, also drafted legal documents for other clients to use
in North Carolina courts.
.

34.
Though his association with Family Court Direct, Defendant drafted,
among other legal documents, Complaints for Joint Legal Custody, Separation
Agreements, Motions for Ex Parte Emergency Custody Orders, and Complaints for
Divorce, for use in North Carolina.
35.
Defendant did not speak with the clients ofFarnily Court Direct to whom
he provided legal services in North Carolina.
36.
Family Court Direct instructed Defendant as to what legal documents he
was to draft for the clients to use in North Carolina.
37.
Family Court Direct charged North Carolina clients for these legal
documents and Defendant accepted a portion of the fee collected by Family Court Direct.
38.
Some of the legal documents Defendant drafted through Family Court
Direct contained errors and were ineffectual and insufficient to meet the clients' needs.

39. Some of the legal documents Defendant drafted through Family Court
Direct were rejected by the courts in North Carolina due to their defieiencies, requiring
the clients to pay other attorneys to redraft the documents.

4

40. . By his own admission, Defendant agreed to work with Family Court Direct
for his own financial gain.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Joseph Kosko, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Kosko's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a) By improperly drafting and filing various forms and pleadings on behalf
of his client before the Bankruptcy Court and then failing to appear in
Court to rectify his errors, Defendant failed to act with reasonable
diligence and promptuess in representing his client, K.B., in violation of
Rule 1.3 and engaged in behavior that was prejudicial to the
administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
b) By failing to respond to inquiries from his client, K.B., regarding his
client's case, Defendant failed to promptly comply with the client's
requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4);
c) By failing to consult with his client, K.B., regarding which steps the client
wished to take during the course of the representation, Defendant failed to
explain a matter to the extent necessary to permit the client to make an
informed decision regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
d) By collecting a fee to engage in the practice oflaw through Volks Anwalt,
an entity not authorized to provide legal services in North Carolina,
Defendant collected an illegal fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a);
e) By failing to obey a direct order of the Bankruptcy Court to appear and
show cause why he should not be held in contempt, Defendant knowingly
disobeyed an obligation under the rules of a tribunal in violation of Rule
3.4(c), engaged in conduct that tended to disrupt a tribunal in violation of
Rule 3.5(a), and engaged in conduct that was prttiudicial to the
administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
f) By accepting fees from Yolks Anwalt out of a portion of the fees Volks
Anwalt charged the clients, Defendant shared a fee with noulawyers in
violation of Rule 5.4(a);
g) By providing legal services to North Carolina residents through Yolks
Anwalt, an entity not authorized to provide legal services or practice law
in North Carolina, Defendant assisted others in the unauthorized practice
of law in violation of Rule 5.5(f) and violated N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-8,
5

tltereby committing a criminal act that reflects adversely on Defendant's
honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other respects in
violation of Rule 8.4(b);
h) By holding himself out as able to provide various clients witlt legal
services tltrough Volks Anwalt, an entity not autltorized to practice law in
North Carolina, by claiming on his filed pleadings to provide legal
services via an entity tltat is not autltorized to provide legal services here,
and by claiming in tlte Chapter 13 Petition tltat he had advised the
petitioner of various matters when he had not spokeu with her, Defendant
made false or misleading statements about his services in violation of Rule
7.1(a), made false statements to a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a), and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty or misrepresentation in violation
of Rule 8.4(c);
i) By drafting and filing legal documents and pleadings in tlte Bankruptcy
Court witlt numerous errors and deficiencies such that tltey were rt<iected
by tlte Court, Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to tlte
administration ofjustice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);
j) By collecting a fee to engage in the practice oflaw through Professional

Closing Network, an entity not authorized to provide legal services in
North Carolina, Defendant collected an illegal fee in violation of Rule
1.5(a);
k) By accepting fees from Professional Closing Network out of a portion of
tlte fees Professional Closing Network charged the clients, Defendant
shared a fee with nonlawyers in violation of Rule 5.4(a);
I) By providing legal services to North Carolina residents through
Professional Closing Network, an entity not authorized to provide legal
services or practice law in North Carolina, Defendant assisted otlters in tlte
unautltorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(f) and violated N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-8, thereby committing a criminal act that reflects adversely
on Defendant's honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other
respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
m) By holding himself out as able to provide various clients with legal
services through Professional Closing Network, an entity not autltorized to
practice law in North Carolina, Defendant made false or misleading
communications about himself or his services in violation of Rule 7 .1 (a)
and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty or misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);
n) By drafting documents for clients at the direction of and upon payment
from Family Court Direct that were ineffectnal and deficient, Defendant

6

failed to act with reasonable diligence in representing his clients in
violation of Rule 1.3;

0) By failing to communicate with the North Carolina clients he was
allegedly serving at the direction of and upon payment from Family Court
Direct, Defendant failed to reasonably consult with his clients about the
means by which the clients' objectives were to be accomplished in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(2), and failed to explain a matter to the extent
reasonably necessary to permit the clients to make infurmed decisions
regarding the representation in violation of Rule 1.4(b);
p) By collecting a fee to engage in the practice oflaw through Family Court
Direct, an entity not authorized to provide legal services in North
Carolina, Defendant collected an illegal fee in violation of Rule 1.5(a);
q) By accepting fees from Family Court Direct out of a portion of the fees
Family Court Direct charged the clients, Defendant shared a fee with
nonlawyers in violation of Rule 5.4(a);
r) By providing legal services to North Carolina residents through Family
Court Direct, an entity not authorized to provide legal services or practice
law in North Carolina, Defendant assisted others in the unauthorized
practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(f) and violated N.C. Gen. Stat. §
84-8, thereby committing a criminal act that reflects adversely on
Defendant's honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in other
respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b); and
s) By drafting and causing to be filed documents at the direction of and upon
payment from Family Court Direct with numerous errors and deficiencies
such that they were rejected by the courts and had to be corrected and refiled, Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).
Based upon the foregoing facts and conclusions of law, and upon the evidence
and arguments presented at the hearing concerning appropriate discipline, the Hearing
Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
ADDmONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant, who was licensed to practice law in North Carolina in 1993,
has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
2.
Defendant received an Admonition in 2003 and a Reprimand in 2004;
both matters concerned Defendant's mishandling of real estate closings.
3.
Defendant knowingly provided legal services via out-of-state entities
without speaking with the North Carolina clients he was allegedly serving. Represented
clients can only effectively participate in our system of justice if they have the
7

opportunity to communicate with the attorney representing them. An attorney can only
effectively represent a client if he has communicated with the client sufficiently to
understand the client's circumstances as well as the client's goals in the representation.
The hann and potential hann resulting from Defendant's failure to communicate with his
clients was entirely foreseeable.
4.
Defendant should have taken a number of steps to ensure his clients were
protected and that his conduct conformed with the Rules of Professional Conduct,
including contacting the North Carolina clients of these out-of-state entities and taking
steps to ensure that he was meeting each client's needs.
5.
Rather than investigate these entities before agreeing to serve as their local
attorney to detennine whether they were authorized to practice law in North Carolina,
Defendant accepted quick money for minimal work and did not take steps to protect his
clients' interests, thereby elevating his own interests above those of his clients.
6.
Defendant's conduct - aiding nonattomeys in providing legal services in
this state, neglecting his clients, failing to communicate with clients, drafting and cansing
to be filed ineffectual and deficient documents - caused significant hann to his clients
and their abilities to achieve the goals of the representation.
7.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to his clients and the
administration of justice by causing unnecessary delay in his clients' cases.
8.
Defendant's conduct caused signifioant hann to his clients by depriving
them of their limited financial resources available for legal representation without
providing them adequate legal services in return.
9.
Defendant's clients were vulnerable victims of bis misconduct.
Defendant's association with the out-of-state entities lent legitimacy to the entities and
their unauthorized practice of law. To their unknowing detriment, Defendant's clients
trusted the entities and their ability to offer legal assistance due - at least in part - to
Defendant's association with the entities. His clients included individuais going through
divorces, child custody disputes, and bankruptcy; for example, K.B. was fighting to keep
her home from foreclosure in an effort to keep her family together. His clients were
unfamiliar with the legal process and had limited financial resources. His clients had
paid and relied upon Defendant to protect or pursue their legal rights and yet were often
left in a worse position after Defendant's involvement.
10.
Defendant's conduct also had a negative impact on third parties.
Defendant's conduct before the Bankruptcy Court contributed to one client losing her
home, wherein multiple members of the client's family were living; the family has since
been broken up and forced to live in multiple locations. The legal documents Defendant
drafted through Family Court Direct were ineffectual and, as a result, not only negatively
affected the clients, but negatively affected the clients' family members - e.g., the
children over whom the client was seeking custody - as well.

8

11.
Defendant's actions of drafting and causing to be filed legal documents
with numerous errors in them, such that Defendant was called into court, failed to appear
in court, and subsequently was fined and disbarred by the court, had a negative impact
on the administration of justice. Moreover, Defendant's actions of drafting legal
documents through Family Court Direct, such that they were rejected by the courts and
had to be redrafted, negatively affected the administration of justice. Justice is achieved
when all matters are timely pursued and resolved; justice is impeded by attorneys who
abdicate their duties as an attorney, leaving their clients' cases and their clients' interests
in an unnecessarily nncertain status such as that created by Defendant.
12.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to the legal profession.
Defendant's failure to communicate with clients, failure to resolve the matters for which
he was retained, and repeated misrepresentatious caused his clients to feel their trust had
been betrayed. Many of Defendant's former clients expressed a sense of distrust of the
legal profession in general due to Defendant's conduct.
13.
During the prosecution of this disciplinary case against Defendant,
Defendant failed to appear at his duly noticed deposition and failed to respond to various
requests from the State Bar for evidence.
14.
During the investigation of this disciplinary case against Defendant,
Defendant falsely claimed that the only out-of-state entities for whom he was working
were Family Court Direct and Professional Closing Network; he falsely claimed to a
State Bar investigator that he was not working with any other out-of-state entities despite
the fact that he was working with Yolks Anwalt at the time he made that statement.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 18 § .OI14(w)(l) of the Ru1es and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes that the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. Defendant's intent to commit acts where the harm or potential hann is
foreseeable;
b. Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or integrity;
c. Defendant's elevation of the his own interest above that of the client;
d. The negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's
perception of the profession;

9

e. The negative impact of the Defendant's actions on the administration of
justice;

f. Defendant's impainnent of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation;
g. The negative effect of Defendant's conduct on third parties;
h. Defendant's acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;
and

i. Defendant's multiple instances of failure to participate in the legai
profession's self-regulation process.
2.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated
in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and concludes that the following factor is present and warrants disbarment:
a. Defendant's acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

3.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated
in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .01l4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and finds the following factors warrant disbarment:
a. Defendant's prior disciplinary offenses in this state;
b. Defendant's dishonest or selfish motive;
c. Defendant's pattern of misconduct;
d. Defendant's multiple offenses;
e. Defendant's bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary proceeding by
intentionally failing to comply with rules or orders of the disciplinary
agency;

f. Defendant's submission of false evidence, false statements, or other
deceptive practices during the disciplinary process;
g. Defendant's refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;
h. The vulnerability of the victims Defendant harmed;
i.

Defendant's degree of experience in the practice oflaw;

j. The imposition of other penalties or sanctions on Defendant, to wit: his
disbarment from the Western District of North Carolina Bankruptcy
Court;

10

k. Defendant's failure to rectify the consequences of his actions; and
I. Defendant's lack of remorse.
4.
Whenever attorneys aid in the unauthorized practice of law, there is the
potential for hann. The risks include a lack of knowledge of the law or procedures
particular to that jurisdiction, confusion by the clients and third parties about who is
representing the clients, misrepresentation, and damage to the administration of justice.
But perhaps most fuundationally, whenever attorneys aid in the unauthorized practice of
law, it inhibits that jurisdiction's ability to protect the public by regulating the profession
therein.
5.
Defendant's conduct cansed significant hann to the standing of the
profession in the eyes of his clients and has the potential to cause significant hann to the
standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it shows his disregard for his
duties as an attorney. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the
reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the
legal profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
6.
Defendant caused significant hann to the profession by repeatedly failing
to respond to State Bar inquires and otherwise failing to participate in the grievance
process. Additionally, Defendant submitted false evidence to the State Bar and failed to
participate in the present proceeding, including failing to appear at the hearing or his
duly-noticed deposition. Defendant's conduct demonstrates his continued refusal to
participate in thc self-regulatory process, his bad faith obstruction of the disciplinary
proceedings by intentionally failing to comply with the rules or orders of the disciplinary
agency, and his refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct. Such conduct
interferes with the State Bar's ability to regulate its members and undermines the
profession's privilege to remain self-regulating.
7.
One of the foundational principles of being an attorney is a willingness to
subject oneself to the high standards of the profession. In North Carolina, being an
attorney means willingly accepting the accountability provided by the attorney's peers on
the State Bar Council. This allows the public to trnst attorneys with, usually, the most
important aspects of their lives. During the course of this disciplinary case, Defendant
made it abundantly clear that he does not accept that accountability, that he does not want
to participate in the self-regulatory process, and that he does not want to be held to the
standards of the profession. In doing so, he has inspired no confidence that he can be
trnsted to be a licensed attorney going forward.
S.
Defendant is a danger to the public due to his repeated misconduct,
multiple misrepresentations, and ongoing refusal to participate in the self-regulatory
process. Defendant's inability or unwillingness to comply with the Rules of Professional
Conduct requires this Panel to disbar Defendant as the only means to adequately
acknowledge the wrongfulness of his conduct and protect the public.

11

9.
The Hearing Panel has considered lesser sanctions and concludes that any
discipline short of disbarment would not adequately protect the public for the following
reasons:
a. Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses; would not adequately protect
the clients, the public, and the administration of justice; and would send
the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State;
b. The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that
Defendant not be permitted to resume the practice of law until he
demonstrates the following: that he has refol1ned; thst he understands his
obligations to his clients, the public, the courts, and the legal profession;
and that reinstatement will not be detrimental to the public or the integrity
and standing of the legal profession. Disbarred lawyers are required to
make such a showing before they may resume practicing law, whereas no
such showing of refol1llation is required of attorneys whose licenses are
suspended; thus, disbannent is necessary; and
c. Defendant has failed to refol1ll his conduct in response to lesser discipline.
10.
Due to the nature and extent of Defendant's conduct, the significant harm
or potential harm of his conduct caused by his conduct to clients, the administration of
justice, and the profession, and Defendant's prior discipline, the Hearing Panel concludes
that disbannent is the only discipline that will adequately protect clients, the public, the
administration ofjustice, and the profession from future transgressions by Defendant.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant, Joseph Kosko, is hereby DISBARRED.

2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the date of this Order.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0124 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C.A.C. I B §
.0124.
3.
Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary, including the costs of all depositions, within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs and administrative fees upon him.

12

4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of
files can communicate with Defendant and obtain such files.
5.
Defendant shall promptly return client files to clients upon request, within
5 days of receipt of soch request. Defendant will be deemed to have received any such
request 3 days after the date such request is sent to Defendant if the request is sent to the
address Defendant provided the State Bar pursuant to the preceding paragraph or, if
Defendant fails to provide an alternate address, to the address of record for Defendant
with the membership department of the North Carolina State Bar.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, on this
the.

c10

dayof

~

,2016.

~AQC?~v
Donald C. Prentiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

13

