STATE OF NORTI-ICAROLlNA

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
PEDRO EDUARDO KROMPECHER,
Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Richard V. Bennett, and Bradley Lai!, pursuant to NOlih
Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Joshua Walthall
represented Plaintiff, the NOlih Cal'Olina State Bar. Defendant, Pedro Eduardo 1(rompecher, was
represented by Alan M. Schneider of Raleigh. Defendant waives a formal hearing in the above
referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the fIndings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order. The pmiies consent to the discipline imposed by this order.
Defendant knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent order 01' to
challenge in any way the suffIciency of the fIndings by consenting to entry of this order.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes
by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the propel' pmiy to bring tllis proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of NOlih Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State Bar.
2.
Defendant, Pedro Eduardo Krompecher ("Defendant"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on March 27,2010, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attomey

Page 1 of9

at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the N(lrth Carolina, the Rules
and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During· all 01' part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Raleigh, North Carolina.
4.

Defendant is licensed to practice law in North Carolina.

5.

Defendant is not licensed to practice law in Virginia,

6.
On or around January 3, 2014, M.B" a Virginia resident, was involved in an
automobile collision that OCCUlTed in Virginia.
7.
M.B. asked Defendant ifhe could represent her in a personal injury claim arising
out of the Janumy 3, 2014 accident that occurred in Virginia.
8.
In January 2014, Defendant held himself out to M.B. as able to represent her in
Virginia related to M.B.'s personal injury claims arising out of the January 3, 2014 automobile
collision that OCCUlTed in Virginia.
9.
No portion of M.B.'s personal injury matter concerned NOlth Carolina courts,
patties, or laws.
10.
In January 2014, M.B. retained Defendant to represent her in her Virginia
personal injury case related to the January 3, 2014 automobile collision.
11.
From January 2014 to September 2014, Defendant represented M,B. in Virginia
and provided her with legal services in connection with her personal injUly claims in that state.
12.
Defendant sent various demand letters to Virginia medical providers on his law
firm letterhead on behalf of M.B., signing them as an atto1'l1ey and claiming therein to have
"been retained by [M.B.J".in connection with claims related to the January 3, 2014 automobile
collision. "
13.
Defendant negotiated M,B.'s legal rights as an attorney on her behalf m
connection with her personal injury claims in Virginia.
14.
Defendant charged and collected attorney's fees from M.B. for the legal services
he provided to her in connection with her personal injury claims in Virginia,
15.
Defendant collected and distributed funds to Virginia medical providers and M.B.
usmg his attorney trust account in comleetion with M.B.'s personal injury legal claims in
Virginia.
16.
Code of Virginia, Atiiele 1, Title 54.1, Subtitle IV, Chapter 39 Section 54.1-3904
indicates that any person who practices law in Virginia "without being authorized 01' licensed
shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor."
Page 2 of9

17.
The Virginia State Bar Rules of Professional Conduct permit a lawyer licensed in
another state but not in Virginia (0 provide legal services in Virginia "on a temporary and
occasional basis," provided that, among other criteria, (i) the client is informed in writing that the
out-of-state lawyer is not admitted to practice law in Virginia but rather is admitted in anothcr
state, and (ii) the legal services are provided "in association with a lawyer who is admitted to
practice without limitation in Virginia." Defendant did not satisfY thesc requirements in his
representation ofM.B.
18.
On November 14, 2016, Defendant submitted a signed response to the State Bar's
Letter of Notice and Substance of Grievance, indicating that Ed Booth ("Booth"), an actively
licensed Virginia attorney, was participating in Dcfendant's representation ofM.B.
19.
Whilc Booth did not participate in Defendant's representation ofM.B., Booth did
answer Defendant's questions about the substance of M.B.'s case, particularly as it concerned
Virginia law.
20.
Defendant's statement to the State Bar that Booth participated in Defendant's
rcpresentation of M.B. should havc bccn morc specific, but it was not intended to be misleading.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
Attorneys may only practice law in a state or jurisdiction in which they are
licensed or as permitted by that state or jurisdiction's rules regarding atiorneys not licensed
thcrein.
2.
By negotiating the resolution and settlement of an auto accident claim in another
state wherein Defendant was not licensed or admitted or otherwise pC111iittcd pursuant to that
state's JUles, Defendant engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in that state, notwithstanding
the fact that he did not appear in court or file pleadings therein.
3.
All patties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Pedro Eduardo Kl'ompecher, and over the subject matter.
4.
Defendant's conduct as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a) By providing legal services in a jurisdiction wherc hc is not licensed or otherwise
admitted to practice law in a manner not permitted by that jurisdiction's rules,
Defendant practiced law in a jurisdiction where doing so violates the regulation of
the legal profession in that jurisdiction in violation of Rule 5.5(a), accepted
representation of a client when the representation of that client would result in a
Page 3 of9

violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct in violation of Rule 1.I6(a), and
committed a misdemeanor criminal offense in Virginia in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
b) By holding himself out to M.B., M.B.'s medical providers, and the other parties
involved in the automobile accident in which M.B. was involved as able to
practice law in Virginia despite not being licensed or otherwise authorized to
practice law therein, Defendant made misleading statements regarding tbe
services he could provide in violation of Rule 7.1(a) and engaged in condnct
involving misrepresentation in violation of Rule S.4(c); and
c) By charging M.B. legal fees to engage in the practice of law in Virginia despite
not having a license to practice law or other authorization to provide legal
services therein, Defendant charged or collected an illegal fcc in violation of Rule
1.5 (a).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of
the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the
following:

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
forth herein.

The findings of fact in paragraphs 1 - 20 above are reincorporated as if fully set

2.
By practicing law in Virginia despite not being actively licensed or othe!wise
authorized to provide legal services in that state, Defendant caused potential harm to his client
and to the standing of the profession in the eyes of the public because it showed his lack of
understanding of one of the foundational duties of an atto1'1ley - to respect and comply with the
regulation of the legal profession. Such erosion of public confidence in atto1'1leys tends to sully
the reputation of, and fosters disrespect for, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal
profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
3,
Whenever attorneys engage in the unauthorized practice of law, there is the
potential for significant harm to the client. Such potential significant harm ranges fi'Dlll
inadequate representation due to muamiliarity with the jurisdiction's practices and laws, to the
improper collection of fees or other criminal activity.
4.
The unauthorized practice of law also poses potential significant hmm to the
public and the profession, hampering the jurisdiction's ability to protect the public by regulating
the practice of law in its jurisdiction.
5.
Defendant has acknowledged his conduct violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct from the outset of these proceedings before the DHC. Throughout these proceedings,
Defendant has been patticularly candid and forthright in his responses and in his admissions of
wrongdoing and violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct. Defendant has demonstratecl
genuine remorse throughout the process and a desire to mitigate the hmm caused by his actions.
Page 4 of9

6,
There is no evidence that Defendant intended to har111 his clients
exhibited a dishonest 01' sclfish motive,

01'

that he

7, ,
When Defendant represented M,B. in Virginia, he sincerely believed, albeit
incorrectly, that he could negotiate the resolution of an auto accident claim in a jurisdiction
where he was not licensed, in a matter that had no nexus to NOlih Carolina, provided he did not
appear in court in that jurisdiction,
8,
Defendant has, of his own volition, refunded M.B, for all legal fees she paid to his
firm for representing her in Virginia, Defendant has also paid to satisfy a judgment against M.B.
for fees owed to a Virginia Chiropractor for services rendered to M.B. following her auto
accident in Virginia.
.
9.
Based upon Defendant's candid admissions tlu'oughout these proceedings, his
remorse and effmis to rectify the effects of his actions on his client, and his demonstrated
newfound understanding of the rules and statutes regarding the unauthorized practice of law,
there is little likelihood that Defendant will engage in this misconduct again in the future.
10.
Defendant aclmowledges that he cannot practice law in any state 01' jurisdiction
other than those in which he is licensed or admitted 01' otherwise permitted to provide legal
services, and that, by negotiating the resolution and settlement of an auto accident claim in
another state wherein he was not licensed or otherwise permitted to provide legal services, he
engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in that state, notwithstanding the fact that he did not
appeal' in court therein.
Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the pmiies, the Hearing Panel
makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
l.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code lB § .01l6(w)(1) and concludes that the following factors that wanant suspension or
disbarment are present:

(a) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession; and
(b) Acts of misrepresentation.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N. C. Admin.
Code lB § ,OI16(w)(3) and concludes that the following are applicable in this matter:
(a) Absence of prior discipline;
Page 5 of9

(b) Absence of dishonest 01' selfish motive;
(c) Defendant's full and ll'ee disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings; and
(d) Defendant's remorse,
3,
Defendant caused potential harm to his client by engaging in the unauthorized
practice of law in Virginia, but Defendant has mitigated this harm by refunding to her the
entircty of the fcc she paid to Defendant's firm,
4,
The I-Iearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions, including censure,
reprimand and admonition, and finds that discipline less than suspension would not adequately
protect the public ll'om Defendant's future misconduct because of the gravity of potential
significant harm to his clients caused by the unauthorized practice of law, nor would discipline
less than a stayed suspension adequately communicate to the public and to the profession the
seriousness of the misconduct as it would send the wrong message to members of the Bar and the
public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar,
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and on the consent of
the pattics, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
'

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1,
Defendant, Pedro Eduardo Krompecher, is hereby SUSPENDED from the
practice of law for one year, effective 30 days from service of this Order upon Dcfendant. This
suspension is stayed immediately, as set f01th in, and subject to the terms of, paragraph 3 below.
2.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this procceding, including
the costs of all depositions, as assessed by the Secretary of the North Cat'olina State Bar.
Defendant must pay the costs within 90 days of service upon him of the statement of costs by the
Secretary.
3.
The one year suspension is stayed for a period of one year as long as Defendant
complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant pays the administrative fees and costs ofthis proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary of the State Bar within 90 days of service of the statement of fees
and costs upon him;
(b) Defendant completes 12 hours of continuing legal education in addition to the
hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter D, Section
.1518. These 12 hours shall consist of at least 6 hours regarding law firm
Page 6 of9

management and at least 6 hours regarding cthics. '111ese additional homs must be
completed prior to the expiration ofthe one-year stayed suspcnsion period;
(c) Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Deparlment advised of his
eUlTent business address. Defendant shall notify the State Bar of any change of
address within ten days of such change. His current business address must be a
strcct address, not a post office box 01' drawer;
(d) Defendant shall respond to all commnnications from the State Bar, including
communications from thc Attorney Client Assistance Progl'am, within thirty days
of receipt of such communication or by thc dcadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner;
(e) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar continuing legal education
requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;
(f) Defendant will pay all State Bar and jndicial district membership dnes, Client
Security Fund assessments, and any other related dues, fees, and/or costs by the
applicable deadline;
(g) Defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period ofthe stay; and
(h) Defendant shall not violate any laws of the United States or of any state 01' local
government, other than minor traffic violations, during the period ofthe stay.
4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end one year from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions 01' show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension.
5.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone 01' more of the conditions set out above
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted and the suspension
activated in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0118.
6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the Disciplinary Hearing COImtllssion may enter an order imposing such conditions as it
deems propel' for the reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension.
Additionally, Defendant must establish the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
prior to being reinstated to the practice of law after any period of active suspension:
(a)

That Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary
of the State Bar within thirty days of the date of the order lifting the stay and/or
activating the suspension of his law license;

Page 70f9

(b)

That Defendant complied with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB §
.0128 following entry of the order lifting the stay andlor activating the
suspcnsion of his law license;

(c)

That Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against
him in this proceeding as reflected on the statemcnt of costs served upon him
by the Secretary of the State Bar;

(d)

That within 15 days of the cffective date of the order activating the suspension,
Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and telephone number at
which clients seeking return of files could communicate with Defendant to
obtain such files;

(e)

That Defendant provided, within 10 days, client files to all clients who made a
request for return of their files;

(f)

That Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Dcpartment advised of his
current business street addrcsscs (not post office box 01' drawer addresses) and
notified the State Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

(g)

That Defendant responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty
days of receipt 01' by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner;

(h)

That, at the timc of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is cunent in
payment of all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security
Fund assessments, and other charges 01' surcharges the State Bar is authorized
to collect fi'om him, including all judicial district dues and assessments;

(i)

That, at the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE hours in reporting of such hours 01'
in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

Gl

That, at the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion ofthe additional mandatory CLE houl's reqnired in tlus
Order in reporting of such hours 01' in payment of any fees associated with
attendance at such CLE progranls;

(k)

That Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension; and

(I)

That Defendant did not violate the laws of the United States, or the laws of any
state or local government, other than minor traffic violations, during the period
of the suspension.

Page 8 of9

7,
The Disciplinary I'learing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this 111a((er
pursuant to 27 N,C, Admin, Code 1B § ,0118 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay of suspension are satisfied,
y~ed

the

by the Chair wit 1 tl e consent of the other Hearing Panel members this
h1-dayof
,2017,

Fred M, MOI'clock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Date

Date

Alan M, Schneider
Att01'l1ey for Defendant

Date

Page 9 of9

