i;J~LS2627('6'(?

~

~

~

f'0J
STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN ~

A

~..

'i,01'

~

<1P,
'2

.-"

<'<7)'", f0 BEFORE THE
p--"
~ISCIl"LIN~ HEARING COMMISSION
~
*' OF THE
of?",
~OR1Jit AROLINA STATE BAR
WAKE COUNTY
1;'/
0,1.
16 DHC 13
. 12,' ~.
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
""J_.
, U,J)L
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
SANDRA C. KULLMANN, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of William O. King, Chair, and members Beverly T. Beal and
Bradley Lail pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .01l4(h). Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by
Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant Sandra C. Kullmann appeared pro se. Both Plaintiff and
Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this
consent order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily stipulates
to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and entry of the
order of discipline. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal
the entry ofthis consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the NOlth Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Sandra C. Kullmann ("Kullmann"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1993, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in NOlth Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.

4.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Kullmann was engaged in the
practice oflaw in Charlotte, MeckienbUl'g County, North Carolina. Kullmann's status changed to
inactive status on January 23, 2015.
5.
From on or about January 2013 through Jime 2015, Kullmmm maintained an
attorney trust account at SunTrust Bank, with an account number ending in the digits 9598.
6.
During at least some of this time, Kullmann's trust account contained entrusted
client funds, including funds to be used for bankruptcy filing fees.
7.
During this time, Kullmann improperly kept earned fees in her trust account mld
made deposits of personal funds into the trust account.
8.
During this time, Kullmann improperly disbursed funds for personal expenditures
and purposes from the trust account.

9.
Kullmann's disbursements fi'om the trust account for personal purposes included
using a debit card to make personal purchases with funds fi'om the trust account.
10.
Kullmann disbursed funds to herself from the bust account by bust account
checks that did not indicate on the check the client from whose balance in the trust account the
checks were drawn.
11.
Kullmann did not maintain ledgers for the clients for whom she had deposited
funds into her trust account that showed all receipts and disbursements in the bust account for the
client and the cunent balance of funds in the trust account for the client.
12.
account.

Kullmann did not maintain a ledger for the personal funds she had in the trust

13.
Kullmann did not reconcile the balance of her trust account as shown in her
records with the current bank statement balance for the b'ust account each month.

14.
Kullmann did not total the individual client balances for clients for whom she
had funds in her t1'llst account and reconcile that total with the current bank statement balance for
the trust account as a whole at least quarterly.
15.
Kullmmm's cOlmningling of personal and client funds in her trust account and
her failure to maintain the requisite ledgers and conduct the requisite reconciliations created the
foreseeable risk that she would inadveltently disburse client funds for a personal purpose, which
occurred on at least the following occasions:
(a)

From July 23, 2013 through November 22, 2013, Kullmaml was required to
maintain $306.00 for client T. Nowlin's bankruptcy filing fee in her trust
account.

(b)

On September 4, 2013, the balance of fimds in Kullrnann's trust account was
$271.47.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Sandra C. Kullmann
Order of Discipline

Page 2 oflO

(c)

The expenditures from Kullmann's trust account on September 3, 2013 and
September 4, 2013 which resulted in the $271.47 balance were personal debit
card purchases.

(d)

On September 5, 2013, $3,000.00 in personal funds was deposited into
Kullmmm's trust account.

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions of Law

I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By retaining earned fees in her trust account and by depositing personal
funds in her trust account, Defendant failed to identify, hold, or maintain
entrusted property separate from the property of Defendant in violation of
Rule 1.15-2(a), and deposited personal funds into a trust account in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(f);

(b)

By maintaining personal funds in her trust account and making personal
expenditures from her trust account while it contained client funds,
Defendant failed to properly hold and maintain entrusted funds in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(a);

(c)

By disbursing funds to herself from the trust account by checks containing
no client attribution, Defendant withdrew funds for attorney's fees from
her trust account by an item that failed to indicate the client fi'om whose
balance in the hust account the item was drawn in violation of Rule 1.152(h);

(d)

By making purchases from her trust account with a debit card, Defendant
withdrew funds fi'om her trust account with a debit card in violation of
Rule 1.15-2(i);

(e)

By failing to keep a record of the deposits and disbursements per client in
her trust account, Defendant failed to maintain a ledger containing a
record of receipts and disbursements for each person or entity from whom
and for whom funds were received with the current balance of funds held
in the trust account for each such person or entity in violation of Rule
1.I5-3(b)(5);

(f)

By failing to conduct the requisite reconciliations of her trust account,
Defendant failed to total the individual client balances for clients for

The North Carolina State Bar v. Sandra C. Kullmann
Order of Discipline

Page 3 oflO

whom she had funds in her trust account and reconcile that total with the
cutTent bank statement balance for the trust account as a whole at least
quarterly in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d)(1) and failed to reconcile the
balance of her trust account as shown in her records with the cun'ent bank
statement balance for the trust account each month in violation of Rule
1.15-3(d)(2);
(g)

By making personal purchases £i'om her trust account that disbursed funds
she should have been maintaining for a client in her trust account,
Defendant failed to properly hold, maintain, and disburse entrusted funds
in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and Rule 1.15-2(m), and received a personal
benefit £i'om entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-20).

Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence the following additional:
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
Maintaining client ledgers and conducting monthly and quarterly
reconciliations of the trust account are integral to the proper maintenance and protection
of entrusted funds.
2.
During the period oftime at issue, January 2013 to June 2015, Defendant
closed her operating account and was using her trust account for all personal purposes,
including for purposes of paying payroll and for personal purchases.
3.
Although the evidence is insufficient to show Defendant knowingly
expended T. Nowlin's funds for her personal purposes in September 2013, Defendant's
encroachment upon T. Nowlin's funds was the foreseeable result of Defendant's
commingling, her use of the trust account as a personal account, and her failure to track
client funds and reconcile the trust account.
4.
5.
Defendant.

Defendant has no prior discipline.
There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of

6.
Defendant has a medical condition. Due to this condition and anxiety
from both her medical condition and the stress from managing her law practice,
Defendant ceased accepting new clients in June 2013 and began winding down her law
practice.
7.
Defendant's trust account was closed in June 2015 and she is not currently
managing a trust account.
8.
Defendant acknowledges that using the trust account as she did was not
correct and has expressed remorse for having used the trust account as she did.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Sandra C. Kullmann
Order of Discipline

Page 4 oflO

9.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline availahle to it, inclnding admonition, reprimand, censnre, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOlIDS of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .01l4(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension:
a.
Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm is foreseeable.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

b.

Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

A pattern of misconduct;

d.

Multiple offenses;

e.
Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
f.
g.
for 23 years;

Remorse;
Degree of experience in the practice of law, having been licensed

h.
Other factors: Although the Hearing Panel does not find that
Defendant's medical condition and anxiety prevented her from complying with
the Rules of Professional Conduct, it acknowledges the influence they may have
had on the choices Defendant made concerning how to focus and expend her time
and resources.
The North Carolina State Bar v. Sandra C. Kullmann
Order of Discipline

Page 5 of10

4.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted
funds betrays a vital trust clients and tbe public place in attorneys and the legal
profession.
5.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.
6.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimaud or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to aclmowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
7.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions
to avoid significant harm or the potential for significant harm to clients.
8.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline shOJi of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law aud tbe
Findings of Fact and Conclusion Regarding Discipline, and based upon the consent ofthe
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order of Discipline

1.
Defendant, Sandra C. Kullmann, is hereby suspended £i'om the practice of
law for three years. The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of tbree years as
long as Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with
the conditions listed in paragraph 4 below.

2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as
assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and fees.
Defendant shall pay the costs within thitty days of service of the statement of costs upon
her.
3.
Defendant is currently in inactive membership status pursuant to order of
the Council of the NOJth Carolina State Bar. Any order of the Council placing Defendant
in inactive membership status for any reason, including the order currently in effect, shall
toll the running of the suspension, the period of the stay of the suspension, and
Defendant's obligation to comply with the terms of the stay of the suspension under this
order of discipline. The tolling shall end upon Defendant's reinstatement to active status
by the Council, at which time the running of the suspension, the stay of the suspension,
The North Carolina State Bar v. Sandra C. Kullmann
Order of Discipline

Page 6 oflO

and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions of the stay ofthe suspension in
this order will resume.
4.
The tlU'ee-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
a.
Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's
Trust Account Handbook, using the Trust Account Reconciliation sheet provided
in the Handbook, for all trust accounts she maintains. Defendant shall provide the
three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with funds in the trust
account(s) during that month, ledger for any personal funds maintained in the
trust account(s) for bank or credit card fees, her trust account ledger, and the bank
statements, cancelled checks, and deposit slips for each month. These documents
are due on the 15th day of the following month - for example, the tluee-way
reconciliation for the month ofJanuary is due on February 15;
b.
Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA audit all ttust accounts
maintained by Defendant. This audit shall assess whether Defendant has in her
trust account the client funds she should be maintaining for her clients at that
time, as well as Defendant's compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The
CPA's audit shall include addressing the items on the CPA Report Template
which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendant. The quarterly audit reports
from the CPA are due no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter - for
example, the CPA audit for the first qumter of the calendar year (January,
February, and March) is due on April 30;
c.
If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA
audit reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within 10 days of the date of
the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall provide
documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar within 2 days of the
date of the remedial action;
d.
Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of
Counsel to provide any information regarding her trust accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to obtain
infOimation directly fi'om any bank in which Defendant maintains a trust account,
by the deadline stated in the request;
e.
Defendant is not handling entrusted funds or maintaining an
attomey trust account at the time she signed this consent order. Within 30 days of
the effective date of this order, Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of
the State Bar with documentation showing the closing of any and all tt'ust
accounts. Thereafter, for as long as Defendant is not handling entrusted or
fiduciary funds or maintaining an attomey trust account, on a monthly basis
The NOith Carolina State Bar v. Sandra C. Kulhnann
Order of Discipline

Page 7 oflO

Defendant shall submit to the Office of Counsel an affidavit certifying that she
did not handle any entrusted or fiduciary funds in that month. This affidavit shall
be executed on the last day of each month and provided to the Office of Counsel
by the 5th day of the following month (e.g. the affidavit for January would be
executed January 31 ,t and due to the Office of Counsel by February 5th). Such
affidavit shall be in lieu of the three-way reconciliation report required in
paragraph 3a. For as long as Defendant is not handling any entrusted or fiduciary
funds and is not maintaining an attorney trust account, the requirements of
paragraphs 3a to 3d above shall be tolled;
f.
Within the first year of the stayed period of suspension, Defendant
shall complete four hours of continuing legal education in the area of trust
account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the State Bar. At least
one such session shall be taken before the end of the next calendar quarter (Le., by
March 30, June 30, etc.) following the entry of this order and at least one such
session shall be the Trust Accounting Rules Continuing Legal Education Program
taught by the Trust Account Compliance Counsel for The North Carolina State
Bar. Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE
courses to the State Bar within ten days of completing the courses. These four
hours are in addition to the continuing legal education requirements set out in 27
N.C. Admin. Code lD § .1518;
g.
Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current physical business address (not a Post Office
box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notify the Bar of any
change in address within ten (10) days of such change;
h.
Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to
the address on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina
State Bar;
L
Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information ii-om the NOlth Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with
full and complete responses and all requested documentation;
j.
Defendant shall timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and shall pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;
k.
Defendant shall pay all membership dues, Client Security Fund
assessments, and any other related dues, fees, andlor costs by the applicable
deadline;

1.
Defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect during the period of the stay;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Sandra C. Kullmal1l1
Order of Discipline

Page 8 oflO

m.
Defendant shall not violate any laws ofthe State ofNOllh Carolina
or of the United States, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the
stay; and
n.
Defendant paid the costs and fees ofthis proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within thilly days after the statement of costs and fees was served
upon her.
5.
Unless Defendant's obligations nnder this Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end tln'ee years from the
effective date of the Order, unless tolled by any period of inactive status 01' if there are
any motions or proceedings pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of
the stay of the suspension. PUI'suant to § .0114(x) of the NOllh Carolina Discipline and
Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the
suspension have been met. If a motion or proceeding alleging lack of compliance with
the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the
suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability
to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the three year suspension in whole or in pall
if it finds that any of the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the
suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will
continue until resolution of any such pending motion 01' proceeding.
6.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of Defendant's suspension may
be lifted as provided in § .01l4(x) of the NOllh Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
7.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing a petition, demonstrating compliance with the requirements § .0125 of the NOIlh
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, any requirements in the order
activating the suspension, and the following requirements by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence:
a.
Defendant properly wound down her law practice and complied
with the terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
b.
Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar
informed of her CUl'1'ent information for her physical address (not a Post Office
box), telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of her
suspension;
c.
Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Depmlment of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of the suspension;
The NOllh Carolina State Bar v. Sandra C. Kullmann
Order of Discipline

Page 9 of 10

,

, ,

d,
Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the NOlth Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with
full and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of her suspension;
e.
Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding
continuing legal education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of
her petition for reinstatement;
f.
Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct
in effect during the period of the suspension;
g.
Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of NOlth Carolina
or of the United States, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the
suspension; and
h.
Defendant paid all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding
as assessed by the Secretary by the date of the filing of her petition for
reinstatement.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .01l4(x) of the
NOlth Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
~igned ~ with the

d. '6

f

"day of

,!

consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
2016.

U
William O. King, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
Agreed and consented to by:

Date

Sandra C.
Defendant

Kunma

The North Carolina State Bar v, Sandra C, Kullmann
Order of Discipline

Page 10 of10

