NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G1238

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Thomas L. Kummer,
Attomey At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 24, 2013 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by B. M
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) ofthe Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure "to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You undertook to act as escrow agent per an agreement you entered into with two
corporate entities operated by M.e. The escrow agreement provided that upon receipt of funds
procured by M. C.'s entities, you would disburse the funds in a specified manner. In connection
with this escrow arrangement with M.C., you promoted your Lawyer's Trust Account as being

i'

available for the receipt of these funds. Your escrow services to M.C. and his entities were lawrelated services pursuant to Rule 5.7 of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You received a communication from M.C. that B.M. would be providing separate funds
in addition to the funds referred to in the escrow agreement and a document signed by M.C. and
B.M. that purported to amend the escrow agreement you had previously entered into with M.C.
The purported amendment provided that you were to "verify and validate" to B.M. the
transaction from which M.e. 's entities were obtaining the funds subject to the escrow agreement.
You communicated to M. C. that you would not agree to such an amendment to the escrow
agreement and that you would require some written verification from the sender of the separate
funds that M. C.' s entities had the authority to direct the disposition of the separate funds ..
Although there was some indication that the separate funds were loaned to M.C.'s entities
from a third party, C.R., Inc., you received the additional funds from B.M. and disbursed them
according to M.C. 's instruction. You had reason to believe B.M. expected input from you, but
you failed to communicate with B.M. to ensure that he, as sender of the funds, was in agreement
that M. C. or his entities could direct the disbursement of the separate funds. This failure was in
violation of your fiduciary duties and Rules 1.15-2(c) and S.4(d) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
You are not licensed to practice law in Nevada, although at the time of the above-noted
activities you resided in Las Vegas. You held yourself out as an attorney located in Nevada,
including in communications with the parties using letterhead indicating a Las Vegas address and
listing your North Carolina State Bar membership number. You offered the use of your North
Carolina Lawyer's Trust Account for your services. These activities are not permitted under the
Rules of Professional Conduct in Nevada and violate the prohibition on the unauthorized practice
oflaw in violation of Rule S.5(a) ofthe NOIih Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 200S by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$100.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ~ day of

.~

Margare M. Hunt, Chair
Grievance Committee
MMHllr

,2013.

