STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY
..~~---------

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ORDER OF
DISBARMENT

v.
JOHN O. LAFFERTY, JR, Attorney,

This matter came before the undersigned Chair of The Disciplinary Hearing Commission
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0121 (d) upon an affidavit of surrender of license executed by Jolm
O. Lafferty, Jr. on April 4, 2019 and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on April
5,2019.
Based upon the pleadings and the record, the undersigned makes the following;
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Ru1es and Regu1ations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
Defendant, John O. Lafferty, Jr., was licensed to practice law in North Carolina in
1972, and during all relevant periods herein he was an Attorney at Law subject to the rules,
regu1ations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of
the State of North Carolina.
On Ju1y 24,2018, the North Carolina State Bar filed a fonnal complaint against
3.
Defendant alleging that he willfully failed to timely file federal and state income tax returns for
the years 2000 through 2017, failed to pay an indeterminate amount of federal and state income
taxes due for the years 2000 through 2017, and knowingly failed to timely respond to the State
Bar's investigation inquiries.
4.
This conduct as set forth in the complaint constitutes violations of Rule 8.4(b) and
(c), and Ru1e 8.1(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and as such constitutes grounds for
discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(h)(2}.

5.
Defendant has indicated his consent to disbarment by filing an affidavit of
surrender with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. The affidavit meets all requirements set
forth in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0121 (a)(1)-(4) and (d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0108(a)(6) provides that the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission has the power and duty to enter orders disbarring members by consent.
2.
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0121(d) provides that the Chair of the DHC will accept the
surrender and issue an order of disbannent upon determination that an affidavit of surrender filed
pursuant to this subsection meets the requirements set out in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0121(a)(1), (2),
(3), (4).

3.
Defendant's affidavit meets all requirements set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.0121(a)(1)-(4) and (d) and the facts upon which the affidavit is predicated warrant Defendant's
disbannent.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the undersigned
Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following
ORDER

1.

The surrender of the license of John O. Lafferty, Jr. is hereby accepted.

2.
John O. Lafferty, Jr. is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North Carolina
effective upon the entry of this order with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
John O. Lafferty, Jr. shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
3.
§ .0121(e) and § .0128 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and shall surrender his
license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along
with the affidavit required by 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0128(d) of the State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
4.

The costs and administrative fees of this action are taxed against Defendant.

This the

~ day of April, 2019.

~c~
Donald C. Prentiss, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Commission

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE.BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

.AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER
OF LAW LICENSE'

JOHN O. LAFFERTY, JR., Attorney,
Defendant

John O. Lafferty, Jr., first being duly swom, deposes and says as follows:

1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.
2. My.resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or duress. I am
fully aware of the implications ofsubmitting my resignation.

3. I am aware that there is pending a complaint against me befote the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission alleging that I 1) willfully failed to timely file federal and state income tax returns
for the years 2000 and through 2017, 2) willfully failed to pay an indetenninate amount of
federal and state income taxes due for the years 2000 through 2017, and 3) knowingly failed to
timely respond to the State Bar's investigation inquiries.
4. I acknowledge. that the material facts upon which the pending complaint is predicated are true.
5. I am submittiq.g my resignation because I know that I could not successfully defend against the
pending disciplinary charges.
This the!/- day of April, 201.9.

L;YlCL.Stvl ,

I,
Notary Public 0
e County of
State of
North Carolina, certify that oh . Lafferty, Jr. personall a eared before me this day, was sworn,
attested that the foregoing Affidavit is true and accu a,te of heb0.)VU. perso
d
.
.
amenne A. Lafferty.
executed the foregoing Affidavit.

.A ·
Thi

e .-::L day of April, 2 19.

NOTARY PUBLIC
Lincoln County, NC
My Commission Expires March 23, 2024

