BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
17G1205 and 17G1218

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
JOHN O. LAFFERTY, JR.,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 19, 2018, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by N. G. G. (in 17G1205) and M. B. M. (in
17G 1218). The grievances were assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the
results of the State Bar staff s investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to Section .0 113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your responses to the letters of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In both of the above-referenced grievances, you knowingly failed to timely respond to the
State Bar's Letters of Notice in violation of Rule 8.1(b) and N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง84-28(b)(3). Also,
in 17G 1218, after being retained by Marion Malone in April 2017 to, among other things, file the
preliminary 90-day inventory in In re Estate of Melissa Packard Malone, No. 17-E-189 (Clerk of
Lincoln Co. Sup. Ct.), you failed to prepare and file the estate's 90-day preliminary inventory in
violation of Rule 1.3, and failed to reasonably communicate with Mr. Malone about the filing of
the estate's 90-day preliminary inventory and amended Inventory in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3).

You are hereby reprimanded by the NOlih Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depmi from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

DM/lb

1~t!... day of ----P!-:1lt:=+-_ _ _----,~

