·n-7'-'j(\~"­

.

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

.'

1 ;-.1 .J Q

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERJOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO.: 12-CVS-_ __

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner:' .
ORDER
OF DISBARIvlENT

v.

ALEXANDER L. LAPINSKI, Attorney,
Defendant
THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of Superior Court of Wake County.
Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Barry S. McNeill, Deputy CounseL
Defendant, Alexander L. Lapinski, is represented by Locke T. Clifford of Clifford, Clendenin &
O'Hale, LLP, Greensboro, North Carolina, but has waived appearance on behalf ofMr. Lapinski.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Defendant, l'Ar. Lapinski) the Court maJ.:es the follov.;ing:
fINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Defendant was licensed to practice law in North Carolina on August 26, 2003 and
is and was at all times referred to herein an attorney at law, subject to the rules, regulations, Rnd
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws ofNoI1h Carolina.
2.
Defendant's current address of record is: Lapinski Law Offices, PC, 1906 E. NC
Hwy 54, Suite 200-F, Durham, North Carolina 27713. On March 21, 2012, Defendant filed
Articles of Dissolution with the North Carolina SecretaJY of State resulting in the dissolution of
Lapinski Law Offices, P.c.
3.
On March 16,2012, Defendant pled guilty in the United States District Court for
the Middle District of North Carolina, Greensboro, North Carolina, to the felony under 18 U.S.C.
§ 1425 of the1ll11awful procurement of citizenship or naturalization by aiding and.abetting a
client in seeking United States citizenship under a false name, United Siaies of America v.
Alexander L. Lapinski, No. I :12-CR-00088-WO-I (M.D.N.C.). The presiding Magistrate Judge
adjudged Defendant guilty. Pending the preparation of a Presentence Report, sentencing for
Defendant is scheduled for June 14,2012.
4.
By his Affidavit of Surrender of Law License, Defendant indicates the desire to
resign and surrender his license to practice law in North Carolina purSUaJlt to State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rule 27 NCAC IB §.0102(c).
DefendaJlt represents that his resignation is freely and voluntarily given, and is
5.
not the result of coercion or duress. Defendant also represents he is fully aware of the
implications of submitting his resignation.

6.
Defendant represents he is aware that there is a pending investigation by the State
Bar regarding his conviction in Uniled Stales aJAmerica v. Alexander L Lapinski, No. I: 12-CR00088-WO-1 (M.D.N.C.) of the felony under 18 U.S.C. § 1425 of the unlawful procurement of
citizenship Or naturalization by aiding and abetting a client in seeking United States citizenship
under a false name.
7.
Defendant acknowledges that the material fact upon which the investigation is
predicated is tme, that on March 16,2012 in United Siaies aJAmeric:a v. Alexander L. Lapinski,
No. 1:12-CR-00088-WO-I (M.D.N.C.), he was convicted ofihe felony under 18 U.S.C. § 1425
of the unlawfi.!1 procurement of citizenship or naturalization by aiding and abetting a client in
seeking United States citizenship under a false name.
8.
Defendant is submitting his resignation because he knows that if disciplinary
charges were predicated upon the misconduct wlder investigation relating to his conviction of the
above referenced charge, he could not successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Court makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
The felony offense for \vhich Defendilllt pled guilty is a Cri111e shu\ving
professional unfitness to practice law as defined by Rule .0103(17) of the State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28 (b) ,
2.
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-36 and Sections .0102(c) and 0115(c) of SUbchapter B of the
Discipline & Disability Rules of the State Bar authorize this Court to enter nn order disciplining
an attorney upon receipt of a certified copy of a plea of guilty to a crime shrnving professional
unfilIles~ to practice la\v. j\. certified copy of the relevant aocun1ents of Defendanfs guilty plea
is attached to his Affidavit of SU1Tender of Law T.icense.
3.
By committing the above-referenced felony, Defendant engaged in a criminal act
that reflects adversely on his honesty, tmstworthiness or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule
8.4(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct,l1nd also engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation 111 violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
4. Defendant's criminal conviction constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(1) and (d).
5. The courts of tllls State have inherent authority to take disciplinary action against
aitomeys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
6. TIllS Court has jurisdiction over the person of Defendant and over tlle subject matter
of this proceeding.
7. Defendant has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

2

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:

I. Defendant, Alexander L. Lapinski, is DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North
Carolina.
2. Defendant shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
shall SUlTender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124. Defendant shall have thirty (30)
days from the date of the entry of this order to complete the requirements of § .0124.
3. The costs of this action are taxed against Defendant.

Dated this v,.;z(

day of May, 2012.

j
}

1vJdjM,~

Superior Court Judge

1

J

Pre~idin

.

.

JUSTIOE

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISI.oN
FILE NO.: 12-CVS'.'.

WAKE COUNTY

!

-0
'. :.

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Petitioner
AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER
OF LA W LICENSE

v.

ALEXANDER L. LApINSKI, Attorney,
Respondent
Alexander L. Lapinski, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
I.
I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to State Bar Discipline & Disability Rule 27 NCAC IB §.0102(c).
2.
My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, and is not the rcsult of coercion
or duress. I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.
3.
I am aware that there is a pending investigation by tlle State Bar regarding my
conviction on March 16,2012 in United States ojAmerica v. Alexander L. LapinsJ..i, No. 1:12CR-00088-WO-I (M.D.N.C.) of the felony under 18 U.S.C. § 1425 of the unlawful
procurement of citizenship or naturalization by aiding and abetting a client in seeking United
States citizenship under a false name.
4.
J acknowledge that the material fact upon which the investigation is predicated is
true, that on March 16, 2012 in United States ojAmerica v. Alexander L. Lapinski, No.1: 12CR-00088-WO-l (M.D.N.C.), I was convicted of the felony nnder 18 U.S.C. § 1425 of the
unlawful procurement of citizenship or naturalization by aiding and abetting a client in seeking
United States citizenship under a false nm!!,..,.
5.
I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation relating to my conviction of the above
referenced charge, I could not successfully defend against them.
Respectfully submitted, this the ~ day of May, 2012.

C-~ >~
ALExANfm10(} .APINSKI

Eknd H Go

I,
fR
[Go. 1"0< .-eS, Notary Public of the County of
State of North
Carolina, certify that Alexander L. Lapinski ,J?\ll'li:c\~~i\~'~pp."ared before me is day, was sworn, attested that
the foregoing Affidavit is true and accll,!'lil~:)i'if'lifs 'o;;Vh:::P?twnal !mowl dge, and executed the foregoing
Affidavit.

";,,.

,,'' '

.~. -::.
. ~'~->'

··Y:,.;~r!:..

(i>~J:::: ).~)

otaryPubh/:m~""'..
.
Fr.>
J-r"lr
1 '.,
M Y commlss on explIes: /IV C) "",-,. .>~;.'.J
.. (.'. '."_,/
~/(,,'

l\l I \

c·· J,

,~j/'.;:-

:;''--;. ~>'

1 , ••'~I.;'

'·,·rdm;I;ltitWI~~·

