EFORE THE COUNCIL
OFTHE
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
06 BCS 6

WAKE COUNTY
~~,

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER

OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE OF


ORDER OF DISBARMENT

SAMUEL T. CURRIN

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0 117(a) ofthe
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon an affidavit of tender of surrender oflicense
executed by Samuel T. Currin CCurrin") on October 13,2006 and filed in the offices of the
North Carolina State Bar on October 13, 2006.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Currin's conduct of conspiring to commit
money laundering, obstructing the due administration of the Internal Revenue Code by the
Internal Revenue Service, and obstructing the grand jury process is grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Currin violated Rules 8.4(b), (c). and (d) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon Motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the following
Order:
I.	

The tender of surrender of license of Samuel T. Currin is hereby accepted.

2.	

Samuel T. Currin is hereby DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North
Carolina.

3.	

Currin shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B. § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disbannent Rules and shall
surrender his license and pennanent membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124 of the State
Bar Discipline & Disbannent Rules.

4.	

The costs of this action are taxed against Cunin.

Done and ordered this 20 th day of October 2006.

,,4··
. . \.;]
AFFIDAVIT TENDERING T~~ER OF THE LICENSE OF
SAMUEL T. CURRIN
I, Samuel T. Currin, being first duly sworn, say:
1.	

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of Section .0] 17 of the North Carolina State Bar Discip]ine
and Disabi]ity Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter], Subchapter B, Section .0117.

2.	

My resignation is free 1,y and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am ful1y aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3.	

I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations that I
have been guilty of misconduct by conspiring to commit money laundering,
obstructing the due administration of the Internal Revenue Code by the Internal
Revenue Service, and obstructing the grand jury process. A Bill of Indictment was
filed against me in the United States District Court for the Western District of North
Carolina on April 4, 2006, case number 3:06cr00074, and a Bill of Information was
filed on October 4, 2006, case number 3:06cr00403. I have agreed to plead guilty to
the offenses of conspiracy, obstruction of due administration of IRS, and obstruction
of official proceeding as identified in the plea agreement and supported in the factual
basis attached as Exhibit] to the plea agreement filed in the case on October 4, 2006.

4.	

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated,
identified in the plea agreement and factual basis filed on October 4, 2006, are true.

5.	

My resignation is being submitted because I know that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.
-?!

J
Respectful1y submitted, this the
o-day of October 2006.


,,5

Samuel T. Currin
Sworn to and subscribed befl)fe me
This Ihe \~~'i~day of October 2006.

-

