BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

04G0985

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

Petitioner
v.
MARK D. LATTIMORE, ATTORNEY,

Respondent

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

ORDER OF RECIPROCAL DISCIPLINE

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as Chairperson of the Grievance Committee of the
North Carolina State Bar by 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Rules .0105(a)(12)
and .0116(b)(4) of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar; and based upon the record in this matter, the undersigned finds as follows:
I.

Mark D. Lattimore, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 24,
1996, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attomey at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of
North Carolina.

2.

By order dated October 25, 2004, the Supreme Court of South Carolina issued an
order disbarring Mark D. Lattimore from the practice law in the state of South
Carolina.

3.

Pursuant to the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, 27 N.C.
Admin. Code, Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0116(a), an attomey who has been
disciplined in another jurisdiction will have the same discipline imposed by the
North Carolina State Bar unless the attomey provides a written response within 30
days of service of a Notice of Reciprocal Discipline showing that imposition of
the same discipline is unwarranted.

4.

On December 2, 2004, a Notice of Reciprocal Discipline Proceeding was properly
served on Mark D. Lattimore, as shown by the acceptance of service signed by
Mark D. Lattimore.

5.

No written response showing that imposition of the identical discipline would be
unwarranted was received by the NOlih Carolina State Bar from Mark D.
Lattimore within 30 days of service ofthe Notice of Reciprocal Discipline.

BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF FACT, the Chairperson of the
Grievance Committee makes the following CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
1.

The North Carolina State Bar has jnrisdiction over the subject matter of this
proceeding and over the person of Mark D. Lattimore.

2.

The procedure for imposition of reciprocal discipline pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0116 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline &
Disability Rules has been complied with.

3.

The order of the Supreme Court of South Carolina found that Mark D. Lattimore
had, among other findings, failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness
in the representation of multiple clients; failed to properly communicate with his
clients about the status of their legal matter; and had engaged in criminal conduct,
which constitutes conduct in violation of Rule 1.3; 1.4; and 8.4(b) of the North
Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct and which justifies the imposition of
reciprocal discipline in this state. The Order of the Supreme Court of South
Carolina is attached to this Order as Attachment 1, which Order, including the
findings of fact and conclusions oflaw, is adopted in its entirety and incorporated
by reference as if set out fully herein.

4.

The disbarment imposed by the Supreme Court of South Carolina should be
imposed on Mark D. Lattimore's in the State of North Carolina. The identical
discipline in North Carolina to the South Carolina discipline is disbarment.

THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1.

Mark D. Lattimore is hereby disbarred by the North Carolina State Bar, effective
October 25, 2004.

2.

Mark D. Lattimore shall forthwith surrender his license certificate and
membership card to the Secretary of the North Carolina State.

3.

Mark D. Lattimore is hereby taxed with the costs of this proceeding as assessed
by the Secretary.

4.

Mark D. Lattimore shall not resume the practice of law in the State of North
Carolina until reinstatement by the North Carolina State Bar.

MarkD. Lattimore Order ofReciprocal Discpline

Page 2 of3

5.

Mark D. Lattimore shall comply with the wind down provisions of 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Rule .0124 of the N.C. State Bar
Discipline & Disbannent Rules.

Mark D. Lattimore Order ofReciprocal Discpline

Page 3 of3

ATTACHMENT 1

THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA
In The Supreme Court

In the Matter of Mark Douglas
Lattimore,

Respondent.

Opinion No. 25882
Submitted October 5,2004 - Filed October 25,2004

DISBARRED

Henry B. Richardson, Jr., Disciplinary Counsel, and Barbara M.
Seymour, Senior Assistant Disciplinary Counsel, both of
Columbia, for Office of Disciplinary Counsel.
J. Steedley Bogan, of Columbia, for respondent.

I
4- A
<y'}p

PER CURIAM: In this attorney disciplinary matter,
respondent and the Office of Disciplinary Counsel (ODC) have entered
into an Agreement for Discipline by Consent pursuant to Rule 21,
RLDE, Rule 413, SCACR. In the agreement, respondent admits
misconduct and consents to either an indefinite suspension or
disbarment. We accept the agreement and disbar respondent from the
practice of law in this state. The facts, as set forth in the agreement, are
as follows.
FACTS
Respondent was admitted to the practice of law in North
Carolina in 1996 and the practice oflaw in South Carolina in 1998.
From 1998 until 2000, he worked as an associate for the law firm of

THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA
In The Supreme Court

In the Matter of Mark Douglas
Lattimore,

Respondent.

Opinion No. 25882
Submitted October 5, 2004 - Filed October 25,2004

DISBARRED

Henry B. Richardson, Jr., Disciplinary Counsel, and Barbara M.
Seymour, Senior Assistant Disciplinary Counsel, both of
Columbia, for Office of Disciplinary Counsel.
J. Steedley Bogan, of Columbia, for respondent.

PER CURIAM: In this attorney disciplinary matter,
respondent and the Office of Disciplinary Counsel (ODC) have entered
into an Agreement for Discipline by Consent pursuant to Rule 21,
RLDE, Rule 413, SCACR. In the agreement, respondent admits
misconduct and consents to either an indefinite suspension or
disbarment. We accept the agreement and disbar respondent from the
practice oflaw in this state. The facts, as set forth in the agreement, are
as follows.
FACTS

Respondent was admitted to the practice oflaw in North
Carolina in 1996 and the practice oflaw in South Carolina in 1998.
From 1998 until 2000, he worked as an associate for the law firm of

Forquer & Green in the firm's Charlotte office. In 2000, respondent
formed the partnership of Forquer, Green & Lattimore with offices in
Greenville and Charleston. In 2001, the firm of Forquer, Lattimore &
Calloway was formed to succeed Forquer & Green in Charlotte.
Neither Forquer, Green, nor Calloway are licensed to practice law in
South Carolina.
The primary business of Forquer, Green & Lattimore was
residential real estate closing services. Respondent worked out of the
Greenville office from early 2001 until August 2003. The finn
employed various associates licensed in South Carolina until its
dissolution upon respondent's departure.
I.

On December 17, 2002, respondent conducted a residential
real estate closing for Client A. For her convenience, respondent
traveled from his office in Greenville to Anderson to conduct the
closing. Respondent did not bring any witnesses to the closing and
conducted the closing with only Client A present. Upon his retum to
the office, non-lawyers signed as witnesses and notary on the closing
documents.

:3
i:JP

Respondent aclmowledges that non-lawyers signing closing
documents as witness or notary when they were not present at the
closing was routine in his office, especially during a period of high
volume that occurred as a result of the low interest rates from 2002
through 2004. Respondent further admits that, on occasion, his staff
would witness and notarize documents prior to closing and prior to
execution by the signatory. Respondent states this practice violated his
own policies and procedures, but aclmowledges he is responsible.
In the Greenville office during this high volume period,
non-lawyers conducted real estate closings outside the presence of a
licensed attorney. Although respondent had policies in place against
this practice, he acknowledges it did occur and that he is responsible for
creating an environment in which the practice was tacitly condoned.

II.
Respondent failed to complete his mandatory continuing
legal education (CLE) requirements for 2002. He filed an incomplete
reporting affidavit with the Commission on Continuing Legal
Education and Specialization (the Commission). On February 7,2003,
respondent was served with a notice from the Commission that his
licensed to practice law was suspended as of February 5,2003, for
failing to meet mandatory CLE requirements. Respondent
subsequently obtained the credits needed for compliance and filed an
amended affidavit. His administrative suspension was lifted on
February 26,2003.
While suspended, respondent continued to practice law.
Eighty-four closings were conducted in the Greenville office during the
twenty-one days in which respondent was suspended. During this
period of time, no licensed attorneys worked in the Greenville office.
Respondent acknowledges he was aware he was suspended and not
permitted to practice law, but nevertheless admits he made a conscious
decision to continue to do so.

III.
In August 2001, respondent conducted a real estate closing
in which Clients B & C sold one of two adjacent lots they owned. The
lot sold had a house on it; the adjacent lot was empty. As a result of
errors in the title search, the closing documents conveyed and
encumbered the empty lot rather than the lot with the house that the
clients had intended to sell.
In Spring 2002, respondent was informed of the error.
Respondent corrected the problem by having the clients and the buyer
sign reciprocal deeds. Respondent failed, however, to secure a release
of the empty lot from the buyer's mortgage company until July 2003,
after receiving notice of the grievance filed by Client Band C. This
caused a several month delay in Client Band C's sale ofthe empty lot

to a new buyer. Respondent failed to adequately communicate with
Client Band C during the time he was attempting to solve the
problems.

On January 9, 2003, respondent conducted a real estate
closing in which Client D and E were selling their home to buyer.
Through no fault of respondent, the lender did not fund the loan and the
transaction had to be cancelled.
When the problems were resolved, the closing was
rescheduled for February 11,2003. Respondent conducted the second
closing even though he was aware his license to practice law was
suspended. Respondent's partner, Green, was present in the office
when the loan was closed, but Green was not licensed to practice law in
this state. Respondent failed to sign some of the closing documents. A
non-lawyer in the office subsequently signed respondent's name to the
closing documents without indicating someone was signing for him.
This was not done with respondent's specific authorization, however,
respondent acknowledges he was responsible for creating an
environment in which non-lawyers in his office would assume the
practice was acceptable.

From March 2001 through July 2002, the Greenville office
of Forquer, Green & Lattimore conducted 166 closings in which
National City Mortgage was the lender. In instances in which the loans
were for refinancing rather than purchase money purposes,
representatives of the lender insisted that the closing be done prior to
completion of the title search and the title work be done during the
three-day recession period. Respondent advised the borrowers in these
cases that the title search had not been conducted and that the closings
would not be completed or the loans funded until the title work was
complete. Respondent instructed the borrowers to sign closing
documents without property descriptions. The property descriptions

would be added once the title work was complete. This process was
contrary to the firm's standard practice and, as a result, the post-closing
process in many of the files was not timely handled. In forty-eight of
the National City files, the mortgages were not recorded as of January
2003. By the time respondent was contacted by National City
Mortgage, many of the mortgages had been lost and had to be reexecuted.
It was the firm's practice to collect the title insurance
policy premium from the closing and then issue a separate check once
respondent issued the title opinion. Forquer visited the office
periodically to collect the premium checks. It was his responsibility to
pay the premium over to the title company which would then issue the
policy. In approximately eighty-four ofthe National City Mortgage
closings, premiums were collected, but policies were not issued.
VI.

Respondent received a significant portion of his business in
Anderson from three mortgage loan brokerage companies. Certain
employees and owners of these mortgage loan brokerage companies
conspired with certain loan officers employed by National City
Mortgage and celiain real estate appraisers to obtain loans on properties
for more than the properties were worth using inflated appraisals. (The
mortgage brokers, loan officers, and appraisers are referred to
collectively as "Co-Conspirators."). Respondent conduct the closings
on many of the properties involved in the conspiracy.
In several instances, the Co-Conspirators obtained the
fraudulent loans by using a practice lmown as property "flipping." In
an illegal property flip, a straw buyer or co-conspirator (Buyer A) will
enter into a contract to purchase property for its actual value from the
Seller. Buyer A will not obtain financing but will, instead, enter into a
contract to sell the property to a co-conspirator (Buyer B) at an inflated
price. Buyer B will then use an appraisal for the inflated price to obtain
a loan. Closings on the sale from Seller to Buyer A and from Buyer A
to Buyer B are done at the same time. Buyer A will pay the contract

price to Seller from the loan proceeds and will then often split the
difference with Buyer B. The actual transaction is contrary to the
information contained on the HUD-I forms, which misrepresents the
sales prices and the source of the funding for the purchases and often
. falsely indicates that the buyers are contributing significant down
payments in cash. According to the Agreement for Discipline by
Consent, when no payments are made to the lender and the property is
foreclosed, the lender can recoup only the actual value of the property
rather than the amount loaned on the inflated appraisal.
An illegal property flip generally requires the conspiracy of
at least one of the buyers, an appraiser, and a mortgage broker or loan
officer. It also requires the assistance of an attorney who is aware of
the fraud, chooses to look the other way, or who fails to supervise nonlawyer assistants engaging in the unauthorized practice oflaw. In order
for the flip to work, the same attorney has to close both transactions. If
an attorney conducts a closing on property for a certain sales price and
funds that closing with proceeds from the immediate resale of the same
property for a significantly higher amount, the attorney has constructive
notice that the second sale might be based on a fraudulently inflated
appraisal of the property. This is particularly true when the buyer
leaves the closing with both the property and with money from the
loan.
In the case of the loans closed by respondent, in addition to
the constructive notice described above, respondent had actual
knowledge in at least two of the transactions that the appraisals were
inflated. In several of the transactions, respondent falsely represented
on closing documents that mortgage broker fees to a Co-Conspirator
were payments to creditors of the borrower.
Respondent was on further notice that the conduct of the
Co-Conspirators might be illegal because, in connection with several of
the closings, the documents reflected that the loans were for refinancing
rather than purchase money. At the same time, respondent prepared
documents actually conveying the property. Additionally, at least one

Co-Conspirator who was personally known to respondent used aliases
to obtain some of the loans.
The Co-Conspirators used 116 fraudulent appraisals, each
of which had been inflated by at least $50,000 to obtain loans from
National City Mortgage. The Co-Conspirators pled guilty to federal
felony conspiracy charges and admitted to obtaining inflated amounts
totaling $13,000,000.
Respondent closed eighty-eight loans for the CoConspirators with inflated appraisals of at least $25,000 each.
Respondent did not share in the profits from the fraudulently obtained
loans, but he did benefit from significant business generated by the
various mortgage brokers involved. Additionally, respondent charged a
fee of $175 for the title search on each closing. In cases of flip
transactions done simultaneously on the same property, there is no need
for a second title search. Respondent essentially double-billed for this
work.
On June 3, 2004, respondent pled guilty to one count of
conspiracy to commit mail fraud in the United States District Court
arising out of his involvement in the above-described activities relating
to the National City Mortgage loans. As of the date of the Agreement
for Discipline by Consent, respondent had not been sentenced.
VII.

Respondent conducted a closing on a refinancing loan for
Client F in September 2002. Respondent issued and mailed a check to
Client F's existing lender to pay off her mortgage. In December 2002,
Client F received a notice from her lender that payment had not been
received. When respondent received a copy of this notice, he reissued
payment to the lender with a request that it apply the payment
retroactively to September. The lender would not comply with this
request and returned the check as insufficient to pay the debt. In March
2003, Client F received a delinquency notice. At that time, respondent

paid the full amount claimed by the lender using his firm's funds to
make up the shortage.
Although respondent maintained a separate trust account
for the Greenville office and kept some financial records there, primary
bookkeeping and account reconciliation were conducted by nonlawyers in the Charlotte office. Respondent did not supervise this
process and was not informed of discrepancies in the trust account.
Additionally, non-lawyers in respondent's Greenville office often
placed checks returned by lenders and deeds or mortgages returned by
the RMC office into the closing files without alerting respondent to the
problem. For these reasons, respondent was unaware that the two
checks issued to Client F's lender did not clear the bank in a timely
fashion but sat non-negotiated in Client F's file. It was not until Client
F contacted respondent with her delinquency notices that respondent
took action to correct the situation.

VIII.
At the request of Client G's lender, the Greenville office
conducted a closing for Client G in July 2001. Due to
miscommunication on the lender's part, both respondent's firm (on
behalf of Client G) and the lender ordered title searches on the
property. Respondent issued a title opinion and paid out funds from the
closing for his title search and for a title policy. When the lender
learned it would have to pay for the title work it conducted, the lender
demanded respondent reimburse it for this expense, claiming
respondent was hired solely to "witness" the closing.
Initially, respondent refused to refund the money,
asserting his firm's policies prohibited "witness-only" closings and
required their own title work. In order to maintain a good working
relationship with the lender, however, respondent decided to pay $500
to share in the loss. The check to Client G's lender was written on the
Greenville office's operating account. The check was returned for
insufficient funds. Respondent was unable to explain the deficiency
because all accounting and bookkeeping for the operating account had

been transferred to the Charlotte office. The firm ultimately paid the
lender $500 plus bank fees incurred as a result of the returned check.
IX.

In October 2002, respondent conducted a loan closing for
Client G. At the closing, he withheld an estimated payment for the
property taxes that would become due in January 2003. In January·
2003, payment was issued to the tax authority for the amount withheld,
however, the estimate was lower than the actual taxes due. Client G
contacted respondent's office in June 2003 to inform him that she had
received a delinquent tax notice. Payment was reissued in the full
amount with respondent's firm paying the difference. Client G made
numerous attempts to get information from respondent about the status
of her tax payment. She had no success. In fact, at the time she filed
her disciplinary complaint, the matter had been resolved but respondent
had failed to inform Client G.
Respondent acknowledges that, due to his insufficient
supervision of the firm's accounting practices, he was unaware the tax
check did not clear the bank for six months. He acknowledges that the
volume of real estate closings he was attempting to accomplish in the
Greenville office led to misfiling and misplacing important documents
such as the trust account check that was returned by the tax office.
Respondent further acknowledges that his delegation of the
responsibility to respond to Client G's inquiries was not sufficient to
meet his obligation to adequately communicate with his client.

X.
In April 2002, respondent conducted a closing on the sale
of property from Mr. H to Mr. 1. In the transaction, Mr. H was selling a
portion of a tract of land encumbered by a mortgage owed by Mr. H.
The agreement provided Mr. H's lender would accept $35,000 in
exchange for a release of the portion of the property being purchased
by Mr. 1. Mr. I obtained a loan on the property and, by June 2003, had
paid it off. Mr. I then attempted to borrow additional funds using the

property as collateral. In the course of closing on this second loan, it
was discovered that Mr. H's mortgage still encumbered the portion of
the property now owned by Mr. I.
In May 2002, after the closing on the sale from Mr. H to
Mr. I, respondent had issued payment to Mr. H's lender. However, the
lender did not accept the payment or release its mortgage because
certain documentary requirements had not been met by respondent at
the time of the closing. Respondent's file contains no record of
receiving the check back from the lender, although the lender did
produce a cover letter indicating that it had sent the check back. The
firm ultimately paid $35,000 plus interest to the lender and obtained a
release ofMr. 1's portion of the property.
From the time of the closing in April 2002 until payment
was made in August 2003, the balance in respondent's trust account
remained sufficient to cover the $35,000 withheld from the closing.
Respondent admits that his failure to adequately supervise the firm's
trust accounting procedures resulted in his failure to know that the
check to Mr. H's lender had never cleared the bank. He also
acknowledges that the volume ofreal estate closings he was attempting
to accomplish in the Greenville office led to misfiling and misplacing
important documents such as the payoff check that Mr. H's lender
returned.
XI.

J/

_t:u,<S

For each of the law offices in which closings on South
Carolina properties were handled (Greenville, Rock Hill, Charleston,
and Charlotte), Robert Forquer and Scott Green opened a bank account
called the "recording" account. When funds were collected at closing
to pay fees for the recording of mortgages, deeds, and other documents,
a check in the amount collected would be written from the real estate
trust account and deposited into the recording account for that office.
Checks to the appropriate county office would, in turn, be written from
the recording account and delivered with the documents to be filed.
The firm routinely and intentionally overcharged clients for these

recording fees and failed to reimburse the amounts not used for the
designated purpose. The overcharges ranged from $2.00 to $40.00 per
closing.
The recording accounts were also sometimes used for
processing the entire closing. The firm failed to maintain sufficient
records ofthe recording accounts and failed to identify and track client
funds maintained in the accounts. No record was kept in the closing
files of the actual amounts paid for recording fees and no accounting of
overcharges to the clients was kept. The overcharges for the recording
fees were separate from the attorney's fees and courier fees charged to
clients.
The funds in the recording accounts were used for a variety
of purposes other than document recording fees, including office
expenses (stamps, bank charges, stafflunches), correction of errors in
closings (payoff shortages and miscalculation of title insurance
premiums), settlement of minor claims against the firm, payroll or other
payments to staff, and checks to Mr. Forquer and Mr. Green in various
amounts, including checks for $4,000 and $7,000.
The source of the funds in the recording accounts (client
charges and overcharges for recording fees) was insufficient to cover
the firm's uses of the account. As a result, the accounts were
frequently short of funds. Mortgages, deeds, and other closing
documents were routinely held and not timely filed because there were
insufficient funds in the recording account to pay the recording fees.
Occasionally, associates used their own money to pay recording fees
and then sought reimbursement from the firm.
;';2

$;d

In the Greenville office, a paralegal with signatory
authority on the recording and real estate trust accounts wrote a series
of approximately twenty-five checks payable to herself or to cash in
various amounts. This paralegal was also responsible for reconciling
the recording account and maintaining records associated with it. Upon
receipt of the cancelled checks, the paralegal altered the payee to make
it appear that the checks had been written to county offices for

legitimate pUl]Joses. Using this method, the paralegal took
approximately $46,000 from the recording account.
Although he was unaware of the paralegal's activities in
this regard, respondent had supervisory authority over the employee.
From February 2003 through May 2004, the Greenville recording
account had insufficient fund charges of approximately $11,522.
Respondent acknowledges that the recording accounts were
client trust accounts. He further acknowledges that, as a partner in the
Greenville, Charleston, and Charlotte offices, he shared responsibility
for the safekeeping of client funds and for maintaining certain financial
records. Respondent acknowledges that the use to which his firm put
the recording account funds constituted mismanagement, commingling,
and misappropriation.
LAW

)5

c8J,J

Respondent admits that by his misconduct he has violated
the following provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule
407, SCACR: Rule 1.1 (lawyer shall provide competent representation
to a client); Rule 1.3 (lawyer shall act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in representing a client); Rule 1.4 (lawyer shall keep a
client reasonably informed about the status of a matter and promptly
comply with reasonable requests for information); Rule 1.IS(a) (lawyer
shall hold property of clients in the lawyer's possession in connection
with a representation separate from the lawyer's own property); Rule
5.1 (partner in a law firm shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that
the firm has in effect measures giving reasonable assurance that all
lawyers in the firm conform to the Rules of Professional Conduct);
Rule S.3(a) (a partner in a law firm shall make reasonable efforts to
ensure that the firm has in effect measures giving reasonable assurance
that a non-lawyer employee's conduct is compatible with the
professional obligations of the lawyer); Rule 5.3(b) (lawyer having
direct supervisory authority over a non-lawyer shall make reasonable
efforts to ensure that the person's conduct is compatible with the
professional obligations of the lawyer); Rule 5.3(c) (lawyer shall be

responsible for conduct of a non-lawyer that would be a violation of the
Rules of Professional Conduct if engaged in by a lawyer if either the
lawyer orders or, with the lmowledge of the specific conduct, ratifies
the conduct involved or the lawyer is a partner in the law firm in which
the non-lawyer is employed, or has direct supervisory authority over
the non-lawyer, and lmows ofthe conduct at a time when its
consequences can be avoided or mitigated but fails to take remedial
action); Rule 5.5(b) (lawyer shall not assist a person who is not a
member of the bar in the performance of activity that constitutes the
unauthorized practice oflaw); Rule 8.4(a) (it is professional
misconduct for a lawyer to violate the Rules of Professional Conduct);
Rule 8.4(b) (lawyer shall not commit a criminal act that reflects
adversely on the lawyer's honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer
in other respects); Rule 8.4(d) (it is professional misconduct for a
lawyer to engage in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation); and Rule 8.4(e) (it is professional misconduct for a
lawyer to engage in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of
justice).
In addition, respondent admits his conduct violated Rule
417, SCACK Respondent admits his misconduct is grounds for
discipline under Rule 7, RLDE, of Rule 413, SCACR, specifically Rule
7(a)(1) (it is a ground for discipline for lawyer to violate Rules of
Professional Conduct); Rule 7(a)(4) (it is a ground for discipline for
lawyer to be convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or a serious
crime); Rule 7(a)(5) (it is a ground for discipline for lawyer to engage
in conduct tending to pollute administration of justice or to bring the
courts or the legal profession into disrepute or conduct demonstrating
an unfitness to practice law); and Rule 7(a)(6) (it is a ground for
discipline for lawyer to violate oath of office).

/c-t
.:3);3
'<

CONCLUSION

,

We accept the Agreement for Discipline by Consent and
disbar respondent. Respondent's request that the disbarment be made
retroactive to the date he was placed on interim suspension is denied.

Within fifteen (15) days of the date of this opinion,
respondent shall file an affidavit with the Clerk of Court showing that
he has complied with Rule 30 of Rule 413, SCACR, and shall also
surrender his Certificate of Admission to the Practice of Law to the
Clerk of Court.
DISBARRED.
TOAL, c.J., MOORE, WALLER, BURNETT and
PLEICONES, JJ., concur.

//5

:8.}r6

