NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12G1191

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
William Andrew LeLiever
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 24, 2014 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .Ol13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You were ordered by the United States Bankruptcy Court to produce certain documents
by certain dates related to cases in which you had represented the debtor, MJ. You failed to
timely and fully comply with the production orders and failed to properly appear at court hearing
regarding his compliance. You also improperly indicated to counsel for the bankruptcy trustee
that you were going to disburse to MJ funds that were required by applicable law to be turned
over to the bankruptcy estate absent a court order. Your failure to timely comply with the

Bankruptcy Court's orders and failure to properly appear at compliance hearings was conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d). Your failure to
acknowledge and comply with your obligation to tum over the $5,000.00 you received for MJ to
the bankruptcy estate without a court order was also in violation of Rule 8A( d).
In addition to these violations of Rule 8.4(d), the evidence also shows violations of the
trust account rules. The evidence did not establish misappropriation of entrusted funds but did
show several other issues. You did not always indicate on your trust account checks the client
from whose balance in your trust account you were disbursing funds in violation of Rule 1.153(b). Although you produced many records for your trust account, you failed to produce client
ledgers for any client other than one for MJ and you failed to produce reconciliations in response
to the State Bar's request in violation of Rule 8.1 (b); it appears this is because you were not
maintaining those records as required by Rule I.I5-3(b) and (d). You commingled your funds
with MJ's funds in the trust account in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (t). You disbursed funds
by improper methods from your trust account, once by automated debit and once by debit card, in
violation of Rule I.I5-2(i).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(c), the Grievance Committee is requiring you to
complete continuing legal education (CLE) in addition to the minimum amount required by 27
N.C. Admin. Code ID ยง .1518(a). Within 120 days from service ofthis reprimand upon you,
you must complete the following: one trust account CLE taught by Peter Bolac, the State Bar
Trust Account Compliance Counsel; and one CLE on professionalism in court. The courses
must be approved in advance by Deputy Counsel Jennifer Porter, Office of Counsel, the North
Carolina State Bar. The CLEs may be in online, video, or in person format. You must provide
proof of compliance to Deputy Counsel Jennifer Porter within 120 days from service of this
reprimand upon you.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

~th

day

of_'_'J_~-=--fJ_[-=--_ _ _ _, 2014.

John . Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

