~~\ 1

~-

A"IiI"

~

"v

,'";;;:'

MAY 2012

STATE OF NORTH CAR ktNA

~

~

0

.;<'

~

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
,;;
OF THE
,S; ORTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
~"i'
I I OHC 29

FILED DH£isc'

'0:"

WAKE COUNTY

.

c-'!l?r:.

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W, AND
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
MICHAEL D. LEA, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed ofC. Colon Willoughby, Jr., Chair, Ronald R. Davis, and Joe Castro
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code I B § .0114 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian P.O.
Oten. Defendant, Michael D. Lea, was represented by Douglas J. Brocker and Carolin
Bakewell. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties stipulate and
consent to the entry of this order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant waives any right to
appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel hereby makes, by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Michael D. Lea ("Defendant" or "Lea"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on 15 August 1969 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of
North Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Lea actively engaged in the practice of law in
the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Thomasville, Davidson County,
North Carolina.

4.
Defendant was properly served with process and received due notice of the
hearing in this matter.
5.
In or around January 2008, Ronnel! L. Penny ("Penny") retained Lea for
representation in an adoption proceeding. Lea resumed his previous representation of Penny
and her husband from a prior adoption proceeding concerning the same child in 2001, which
was previously dismissed with the Pennys' consent.
6.
In or around June 2008, Lea filed with the Davidson County District Court a
motion to serve notice by publication on the biological parents involved in the adoption.
7.
In support of the June 2008 motion for service by publication, Lea attached to
the motion an affidavit purportedly signed by Penny ("the affidavit") containing Penny's
experience and expected testimony as to her lack of communication with and difficulty
locating the biological parents.
8.

Penny did not sign the affidavit.

9.

Lea signed Penny's name to the affidavit.

10.

Lea is a licensed notary in the State of North Carolina.

II.

Lea notarized his signature of Penny's name on the affidavit.

12. Between July 2008 and March 2009, Penny made inquiries of Lea requesting a
status update on Lea's progress regarding her adoption proceeding.
13.

Lea did not promptly respond to some of Penny's inquiries.

14. In or around March 2009, Lea informed Penny of a hearing scheduled in her
adoption proceeding on 26 March 2009. As a result of this hearing, on 24 April 2009 the
court entered an order drafted by Lea terminating the parental rights of the purported
biological parents.
15. Despite Penny's inquiries requesting a status update after the March 2009
hearing, Lea did not respond to some of Penny's inquiries or otherwise communicate with
Penny regarding the status of the adoption proceeding.
16. Between March 2009 and July 20 I 0, Lea made no significant progress
Penny's adoption proceeding.

111

17. In or around June 20 I 0, Penny received notice from the Davidson County Clerk
of Court that her adoption was set for dismissal and a hearing on the matter was scheduled for
July 201 O.
18. Penny contacted Lea regarding the July 20 I 0 hearing, and Lea informed Penny
that he would resolve the confusion.

2

19.

Lea failed to appear at the July 20 I 0 hearing.

20. Penny appeared at the July 2010 hearing and obtained from the Court, without
Lea's or any other attorney's assistance, an extension of time to continue the adoption
proceeding.
21. After the July 2010 hearing, Penny terminated Lea's representation of her
interests in the adoption proceeding.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant. Michael D. Lea, and over the subject maller of this proceeding.
7
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above. constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

(a)

By failing to meaningfully pursue and progress in his client's adoption
proceeding, Lea failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3:

(b)

By failing to respond to some of his client's inquiries and by failing to
maintain adequate communication with his client. Lea failed to keep his
client reasonably informed in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and failed to comply
with reasonable requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4); and

(c)

By signing his client's signature to the affidavit, by notarizing his signature
of his client's name on the affidavit. and by filing the affidavit with the
Davidson County District Court, Lea engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule S.4( c), and
engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice in
violation of Rule S.4( d).

Based upon the consent of the parties, the hearing panel also finds by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
Defendant acted in a dishonest and deceitful manner when he signed his
client's signature to her purported affidavit, notarized his signature of his client's name, and
filed the affidavit with the court in his client's case. Despite Defendant's good reputation as
described below, Defendant's conduct demonstrated a lack of honesty, trustworthiness, and
integrity in representing his client.
2.
Defendant's conduct caused potential significant harm to his client's adoption
case in that Defendant's improperly signed and notarized affidavit was a necessary
3

component of the process by which the court terminated the biological parents' rights to his
client's adopted child. At the time of his conduct, Defendant knew or should have known that
his actions could cause potential harm to his client's case.
3.
Defendant's conduct caused potential significant harm to the standing ofthc
legal profession in the eyes of the public in that such conduct by attorneys erodes the trust of
the public in the profession. Such erosion of public confidence in attorneys tends to sully the
reputation of, and fosters disrespect tor, the profession as a whole. Confidence in the legal
profession is a building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
4.
Defendant's disregard for the notary requirements of this State caused potential
significant harm to the administration of justice in the eyes of the public and in the eyes of
employees of the judicial system in that such conduct by attorneys damages and undelll1ines
the integrity of a notarized signature. By disregarding these requirements. Defendant showed
his indifference to his obligations as both a licensed attorney and as a licensed notary.
5.
There is an absence of any evidence that Defendant intended to harm his
clients or that he exhibited a dishonest or selfish motive.
6.
With the exception of one or two technical and immaterial changes, the
substance of the affidavit was generally accurate and the client would have agreed with and
signed the affidavit.
7.

Defendant has no prior discipline in his forty-three years of practice.

8.
With the exception of the conduct at issue in this case, Defendant enjoys a
reputation of honesty, integrity, and good character in his professional and personal life. At
least eighteen lawyers and/or judges from Defendant's community submitted testimony via
affidavit or written letter confirming Defendant's excellent reputation in the community.
9.
Defendant has fully cooperated with the State Bar's investigation of his
conduct and in reaching a resolution in these proceedings.
10.
Defendant has acknowledged his conduct violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct from the outset of the State Bar's investigation in this matter and is remorseful for
his actions. Throughout the investigation of the grievance and in these proceedings before the
DHC, Lea has been extraordinarily candid and forthright in his responses and in his admission
of wrongdoing and violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
II.
Defendant promptly provided Penny with her client file upon request. In
recognition of his conduct, Defendant reimbursed Penny $1,000.00 to cover her paid legal fee
of $150.00 and at least a portion of her expenses in completing the adoption proceeding to
rectify a consequence of his misconduct.
12.
Based upon Defendant's lack of discipline in forty-three years of practice, his
good professional reputation, his candid admissions throughout these proceedings, his
remorse and efforts to rectify the effect on his client, and his substantial experience in the
practice of law, there is little likelihood of repetition of misconduct.

4

Based upon the Findings of Fact. Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I,
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hearing panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .OII4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar and determines the following factors are applicable:
a. Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
b. Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
c. Defendant's good faith eff0I1s
his misconduct:

(0

make restitution or rectify consequences of

d. Defendant's full and free disclosure and cooperative attitude toward the
proceedings;
e. Remorse;
f.

Defendant's reputation for good character: and

g. Defendant's substantial experience in the practice of law.
7
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01 14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes that although acts of misrepresentation are present in this case, disbarment
is not necessary in order to protect the public.

3.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01 14(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and determines the following factors warrant suspension of Defendant' s license:
a. Defendant's intent to commit acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;
b. Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;
c. Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession;
d. Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the administration of
justice;
e. Defendant's conduct had a potential adverse affect on third parties; and

5

f.

Defendant's conduct included acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation. deceit. or
fabrication.

4.
The hearing panel has considered all other forms of discipline and concludes
that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the public, and would send
the wrong message to attorneys and to the public regarding the conduct expected of members
of the Bar.
5.
Due to the misrepresentations described in the present action as well as the
significant potential harm resulting from Defendant's conduct. the hearing panel concludes
that active suspension of Defendant's license for a set period oftime is the only discipline that
will adequately protect the public from future transgressions by Defendant, that acknowledges
the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed, and thal sends a proper message to
attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.
6.
Under other circumstances, the misconduct in this case would warrant more
serious discipline. The misconduct caused substantial potential harm to the public's
confidence in the integrity of the legal profession and the judicial system. However, the
hearing panel finds and concludes that the unique circumstances surrounding this case justify
lesser discipline than would otherwise be appropriate. The factors that particularly warrant
lesser discipline include: there is no evidence Defendant intentionally harmed his client or
her case; Defendant has no professional discipline in 43 years of practice; a large number of
lawyers and judges offered testimony about Defendant's excellent professional and personal
reputation in the community; Defendant has candidly accepted personal responsibility for his
actions from the outset of the State Bar's investigation; Defendant acknowledges the
wrongfulness and seriousness of his misconduct: and Defendant is genuinely remorseful.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The license of Defendant, Michael D. Lea, is hereby suspended for six months,
effective 60 days from the date of this Order.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membel'ship card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 60 days following the date of this Order. Defendant
shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule .0124 of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124.
3.
Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary, including the costs of his deposition and transcription of that
deposition, within 90 days of service of this Order upon him.
4.
In petitioning for reinstatement after the active period of suspensIOn,
Defendant mllst comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code. IB § .0125.

6

5.
Defendant may tile a petition seeking reinstatement pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code I B § .0125 up to 30 days prior to the end of the 6 month period but shall not be
reinstated prior to the end of that 6 month period.

2.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
day of
!\1t:'1
, 2012.

I

cCewkRu

C. Colon Willoughby, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

y'

CONSENTED TO BY:

Brian P.D. Oten
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Michael D. Lea
Defendant

.
cI;;~~~l~d~
/

_____D Iglas.T. B ocJs.€t
Counsel for Defendant

7

/

.

