f
~~

S\r;1m~

~
STATE OF NORTH CAROJl.'iNA

('i2
\0'

'If"

WAKE COUNTY

,0

""Ol,

..
,

<?r.'

~

&

FEB 2,010

BEFORE THE
FILEOJISCm' INARY HEARING COMMISSION
DHC
~
OF THE
,~ RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
c~"",
09 DHC 14

t ("\ -; .\,\ :J>-'

'-4.. __~ .

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

JENNIFER Y. LEECH., Attorney,
Defendant

Tllis matter was heard on December 18, 2009 before a hearing parlel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Colon C. Willoughby, Jr., Chair, HarTiet
T. Smalls arld Johnny A. Freemarl. Brian P.D. Oten arld Mar'garet T. Cloutier appemed
on behalf of Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Stephen E. Culbreth appeared on
behalf of Defendarlt, Jennifer Y. Leech. Based upon the pleadings, the evidence
presented at the hearing, and the stipulations ofthe pmies, the hearing parlel hereby finds
by clem, cogent, arld convincing evidence the following

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bm ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a
body duly orgarlized under the laws ofNOlih Carolina arld is the proper pmy to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules arld regulations of the North Cmolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.

Defendarlt, Je11l1ifer Y. Leech ("Defendarlt" or "Leech"), was admitted to
the North Car'olina State Bar on August 22, 1992, and is, arld was at all times referred to
herein, arl attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations ill1d Rules of Professional Conduct ofthe North Cmolina State Bar ill1d the
laws of the State ofNolih Carolina.
7

3.
During all or a portion of the relevarlt periods referred to herein,
Defendarlt was actively engaged in the private practice of law in the cities of Raleigh,
Wake County, ill1d Wilmington, New Harl0ver COLmty, North Carolina.
4.
Defendarlt was properly served with process
the hearing in this matter.

~md

received due notice of

5.
Between 2005 and March 2008, Defendant owned and operated J. Leech,
PLLC, a duly organized professional limited liability company authorized to practice law
("the law finn"), which operated under the trade name "Traffic Ticket Restitution of
North Carolina" ("TTRNC").
6.

No attomeys other than Defendmlt were members of the law firm.

7.
Defendant entered into contracts with various attomeys across the State
(hereinafter "contract attorneys").
8.
Under the tenns of the contmct, the contract attomeys agreed to resolve
traffic citations of Defendant's clients in exchmlge for a specified portion of the legal fees
paid by the clients to Defendant.
9.
Defendant advertised the law firm's services to potential clients by mailing
solicitation letters ("the solicitation letter") to members of the public who received tmffic
citations.
10. Defendant mailed solicitation letters under the signature of ml attomey who
did not practice at the address listed by Defendffilt in the letter, nor was the signing
attorney available at the phone number listed by Defendmlt as a point of contact.
II. The solicitation letter stated, "Our finn has local member attomeys who
work ffild live in the Counties ffild districts where we hffildle tickets."
12. The classification of the contract attorneys as "member attorneys" was false
mld misleading to the public.
13. The solicitation letter invited potential clients to visit a website located at
http://www.ttmc.com ("the website"). The website was operated by Defendmlt.
14. Through the website, potential clients could retain TTRNC, communicate
specific information about their traffic ticket to Defendant, ffild submit payment online to
Defendmlt for the representation as well as for court costs mld/or fines.
15. Upon receiving payment from a client, Defendant instructed a contract
attomey to resolve her client's traffic matter. The contract attomey assigned by
Defendmlt to a pmiiculm' client received a pOliion of the fee paid to Defendffilt by that
client, while Defendmlt retained a larger portion of the fee.
16. Defendmlt did not obtain her clients' written consent or inform her clients of
the fee-splitting agreement between Defendffilt and the individual contract attorney prior
to the clients' retaining the law finn to resolve their respective traffic matters.
17. In or m'oll11d August 2007, Robert Jonigffil CR. Jonigml") retained
Defendant to represent his son, Andrew Jonigml ("A. Jonigan"), concerning a traffic
citation A. Jonigan received in Duplin County, NOith Carolina.

2

18.

R. Jonigan paid Defendant $415.00 for the representation.

19.

A. Jonigan's comt date for his traffic citation was set for September 14,

2007.
20. No attorney appeared on A. Jonigan's behalf at his September 14, 2007
court date, and the court entered a Failure to Appear against A. Jonigan.
21. Due to Defendant's fail me to appear at her client's September 14, 2007
court date, the North Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles ("NCDMV") notified A.
Jonigan that his driving privilege would be suspended indefinitely.
')') In or around August 2007, Jacob Williams ("J. Willianls") retained
Defendant to represent him concerning a traffic citation he received in Wake COWlty,
North Carolina.
J. Williams paid Defendant $205.00 for the representation.
24.

J. Williams' court date for his traffic citation was set for September 22,

2007.
25. No attorney appeared on behalf of J. Williams at his September 22,2007
court date, and the court entered a Failure to Appear against J. Williams.
26. Due to Defendant's failure to appear at her client's September 22, 2007
COlui date, the NCDMV notified J. Williams that his driving privilege would be
suspended indefinitely.
27. In or around August 2007, Terry Depew ("Depew") retained Defendant to
represent him concerning a traffic citation he received in Vance Calmly, North Carolina.
28.

Depew paid Defendant $225.00 for the representation.

29.

Depew's comi date for his traffic citation was set for September 18, 2007.

30. No attorney appeared on behalf of Depew at his September 18,2007 court
date, and the court entered a Failure to Appear against Depew.
31. Due to Defendant's failure to appem' at her client's September 18, 2007
court date, Depew received notice that his North Carolina driving privilege mld Virginia
driver's license were scheduled for revocation unless the traffic citation was resolved.
32. In or m'Oll11d September 2007, Richard LaFreniere ("LaFreniere") retained
Defendant to represent him concerning a traffic citation he received in Vmlce County,
North Cm·olina.
33.

LaFreniere paid Defendant $215.00 for the representation.

34.

LaFreniere's comt date for his traffic citation was set for October 12, 2007.
3

35. No attorney appeared on behalf of LaFreniere at his October 12, 2007 court
date, and the court entered a Failure to Appear against LaFreniere.
36. Due to Defendant's failure to appear at her client's October 12, 2007 court
date, the NCDMV notified LaFreniere that his driving privilege would be suspended.
37. LaFreniere and his daughter, Teri Kaasa ("Kaasa"), attempted to contact
Defendant regarding the status of LaFreniere's case by telephone and email. LaFreniere
and Kaasa did not receive a timely response fi'om Defendant.
38. In or around December 2007, Betty Thomas ("Thomas") retained Defendant
to represent her concerning a traffic citation she received in Scotland County, North
Carolina.
39.

Thomas paid Defendant $360.00 for the representation.

40.

Thomas' court date for her traffic citation was set for December 31,2007.

41. No attorney appeared on behalf of Thomas at her December 31, 2007 court
date, and Thomas obtained a continuance of her case without the assistance of Defendant.
42. Thereafter Thomas attempted contact Defendant regarding the status of her
case. Thomas did not receive a timely response from Defendant.
43. In or around JanuaTy 2007, Randall Nelson ("Nelson") retained Defendant
to represent him concerning a traffic citation he received in Franklin County, North
Carolina.
44.

Nelson paid Defendant $295.00 for the representation.

45.

Nelson's court date for his traffic citation was set for March 20, 2007.

46. The Franklin County court required an original waiver of appearance, signed
by the client, before it would permit a lawyer to resolve a traffic citation on behalf of a
client. Defendant did not timely provide Nelson's waiver of appearance to the Franldin
COWlty clerk of court.
47. Due to Defendant's failure to timely provide the original waiver form, a
failure to appear was entered against Nelson in August 2007 and the NCDMV sllspended
Nelson's driving privilege.
48. Defendant did not obtain an original waiver form signed by Nelson until
November 2007.
49. In or around June 2007, Patricia Bridges ("Bridges") retained Defendant to
represent her concerning a traffic citation she received in Franklin County, NOlih
Carolina.

4

50. Blidges paid Defendant $205.00 for the representation. Bridges' payment
was to include court costs and fines.
51. Defendant did not timely pay the court costs and/or fines associated with
Bridges' traffic citation.
52. BIidges subsequently received a notice from the NCDMV which stated her
license would be revoked due to failure to pay cOllli costs and/or fines associated with her
traffic citation.
53. In or around September 2007, Loretta Sposato ("Sposato") retained
Defendant to represent her conceming a traffic citation she received in MecJdenburg
COlmty, NOlih Carolina.
54. Sposato paid Defendant $255.00 for the representation. Sposato's payment
was to include court costs and fines.
55. Defendant did not timely pay the couli costs and/or fines associated with
Sposato's traffic citation.
56. Sposato subsequently received a notice from the NCDMV which stated her
license would be revoked due to failure to pay court costs and/or fines associated with her
traffic citation.
57. In or around July 2006, Dawn Wilson ("Wilson") retained Defendant to
represent her concerning a traffic citation she received in Pender County, NOlih Carolina.
58. Wilson paid Defendant $455.00 for the representation. Wilson's payment
was to include court costs and fines.
59. Defendant did not timely pay the courl costs and/or fines associated with
Wilson's traffic citation.
60. Due to Defendant's failure to pay the cOllli costs and/or fines associated
with her traffic citation, Wilson's driver's license was suspended on or about December
10,2006.
61. In or around August 2007, Karen Wiley-Eberle ("Wiley") retained
Defendant to represent her concerning a traffic citation she received in Franklin County,
NOlih Carolina.
62. Wiley paid Defendant $205.00 for the representation. Wiley's payment was
to include court costs and fines.
63. Defendant did not timely pay the court costs and/or fines associated with
Wiley's traffic citation.

5

64. Wiley subsequently received a notice from the NCDMV which stated her
license would be revoked due to failme to pay court costs and/or fines associated with her
traffic citation.
65. After receiving the notice from the NCDMV, Wiley attempted to contact
Defendant by telephone and by email regarding the status of her case. Defendant did not
timely respond to Wiley's telephone messages or emails.
66. By letter dated October 9, 2008, the State Bar required Defendant to
produce trust account records, including banle statements, client ledgers, and quarterly
and monthly reconciliations, for the period from August 1, 2007 to November 30, 2007.
67. Though Defendant produced some trust account records, Defendant failed to
produce any quarterly or monthly reconciliations, or proper client ledgers as required.
68. Checks drawn on Defendant's trust account failed to identifY the clients
associated with the disbmsement.
69. Defendant did not perform quarterly or monthly reconciliations of the trust
account used to facilitate J. Leech, PLLC/TTRNC.
70. Defendant did not maintain proper client ledgers which adequately tracked
the deposit and witlldrawal of clients' funds into her general trust account.
71. On or about March 31, 2008, Defendant sold her law practice operated
under the trade name "TTRNC" to anotller NO/ih Carolina attomey.
72. Prior to selling her law practice, Defendant did not notifY clients who had
retained J. Leech, PLLC in writing about the sale of the practice, including the identity of
tlle purchaser, their right to retain other counsel and take possession oftheir client file,
and the fact that their consent to the sale and transfer of the representation would be
presumed if tlley did not object.
73. For each of the client instances listed above, Defendant took proactive
measmes to resolve the issues for her clients by having failure to appear charges struck
and favorable pleas entered in their stead, paying fees and fines on behalf of certain
clients, and refunding money in several situations as per the individual client's request.

Based on the record and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel makes
the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I.
All the parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel
has jmisdiction over Defendant, Jennifer Y. Leech, and the subject matter.

6

2.
Leech's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as
follows:
(a)

By describing the contract attorneys as "member attorneys" when in fact
they were not member attomeys, Defendant made a false and misleading
communication in violation of Rule 7.1 (a) and falsely stated or implied
that the contract attorneys were a part of a partnership or other
professional organization in violation of Rule 7.5(e);

(b)

By signing the letter using the name of an attomey who did not practice
at the address listed and who was not reachabl e at the phone number
listed, Defendant made a false and misleading conummication in
violation of Rule 7.1 (a);

(c)

By failing to obtain her clients' consent before splitting collected fees
with attomeys who were not in the same fiml, Defendant improperly
divided legal fees paid by her clients in violation of Rule 1.5(e);

(d)

By failing to appear on behalf of A. .Tonigan,.T. Williams, Depew,
LaFreniere, mld Thomas at their respective court dates. mld by failing to
timely provide Nelson's original waiver form to the cOllli, Defendant
failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing
clients in violation of Rule 1.3;

(e)

By failing to timely respond to LaFreniere's and Kaasa's telephone calls
mld emails, as well as Thomas's attempts at commLmication, Defendmlt
failed to keep her clients reasonably informed about the status of the
matter and failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and (4);

(f)

By failing to timely pay the court costs and/or fines on behalf of
Bridges, Sposato, Wilson, and Wiley, Defendmlt failed to act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation
of Rule 1.3 and failed to deliver entrusted property to a third party as
directed by a client in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);

(g)

By failing to respond to Wiley's telephone messages mld emails,
Defendmlt failed to keep her client reasonably informed about the status
of the matter and failed to promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and (4);

(h)

By failing to maintain proper client ledgers, identify the clients
associated with checks drawn on the trust account, mld perform monthly
and qumierly reconciliations of her trust account, Defendmlt failed to
adequately monitor and maintain her trust accollllt in violation of Rules
1.15-3(b)(2), (3), and (5), as well as Rule 1.15-3(d)(l) and (2);

7

(i)

By failing to produce all trust account records as required by the State
Bar, Defendant knowingly failed to respond to a lawful demand for
information ii-om a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.1 (b); mld

G)

By failing to notify her clients in writing prior to the sale of her law
practice, Defendant failed to comply with the provisions regulating the
sale of a law practice in violation of Rule 1.l7(c)(1), (2), and (3).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law mld upon the
evidence and arguments presented at the hearing conceming appropriate discipline, the
hem'ing panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendmlt put her own interest in generating a large amount of revenue
ahead of her client's interests in receiving adequate representation.
7
Defendant's actions impaired her clients' abilities to achieve the goals of
the representation; nmnely, to resolve their traffic tickets as quickly ffild easily as
possible. Defendffilt's conduct delayed her clients' abilities to achieve their goals ffild
caused ullilecessary frustration mld stress for her clients.

3.
As a result ofDefendffilt's conduct, Teri Kaasa was forced to intervene on
her father's behalf and attempted to contact Defendant herself in order to resolve her
father's ticket. Kaasa also retained another attorney to ensure that Defendant actually
resolved the traffic ticket as stated.
4.
Defendmlt's conduct resulted in frustration and stress for not only her
clients but for third parties as well. Defendant's conduct had a negative impact on her
clients' and the public's perception of the profession.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the hem'ing pmlel also enters the following

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the hem'ing panel has considered all of the factors
emnnerated in 27 N.CA.C. IE § .01 l4(w)(3) of the Rules ffild Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar ffild finds the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

A pattem of misconduct; and

(b)

Multiple offenses.

8

The hearing panel has also carefully considered all of the factors
enwnerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IE § .OII4(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and finds the following factors warrant suspension of Defendmlt' s
license:
?

(a)

Elevation of the Defendmlt's own interest above that of the client;

(b)

Negative impact ofDefendmlt's actions on client's or public's
perception of the profession;

(c)

Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation; and

(d)

Effect of Defendmlt' s conduct on third parties.

3.
Any sanction less thml suspension would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant, would not adequately protect the
public, and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar.
4.
Due to the nature mld extent ofDefendmlt's conduct and in the interest of
protecting the public this panel would consider ml active suspension of Defendmlt's
license to practice law ifit were not for Defendant's efforts to remedy the problems
caused by her representation mld her willingness to refund numerous clients' paid fees.
Accordingly, the hearing pmlel finds mld concludes that the public will be adequately
protected by suspension of Defendmlt' s license, stayed for a period of time with
conditions imposed upon Defendmlt designed to ensure protection of the public mld
continued complimlce with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
5.
Defendant has infoTIlled the hearing pmlel that she intends to apply for
inactive status with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. ID § .0901.
The intent of this Order of discipline is to protect the public while Defendant is in
practice. Therefore, it would thwmi the intended effect ofthe hem'ing panel's discipline
if Defendant should be able to avoid complying with the terms of the stay of this
suspension because she is in inactive status. Furthermore, the hem'ing panel recognizes
that Defendmlt's potential transfer to inactive status cannot occur until the April 2010
meeting ofthe NOlih Carolina State Bm' Cowlcil. Accordingly, tillS Order of discipline
shall go into effect as described below.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, mld Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendmlt's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is
hereby suspended for three years.
9

2.
This Order shall be effective on the date Defendant is served with this
Order. However, because Defendant intends to apply for a transfer to inactive status as
noted above, prim' to April 30, 2010 conditions 3(a) - (c) shall not apply to Defendant. In
the event Defendant successfully petitions for and is transferred to inactive status with the
North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1D § .0901 by April 30, 2010, the
stayed suspension and all accompanying conditions imposed by this Order shall be tolled
until Defendant successfully petitions for and is transferred back to active status with the
North Carolina State BaT pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1D § .0902. If Defendant is not
transferred to inactive status by April 30, 2010, the stayed suspension and all
accompanying conditions imposed by this Order shall remain in effect until Defendant
successfully transfers to inactive status, at which time any remaining period of the stayed
suspension shall be tolled lmtil Defendant's transfer back to active status. Once
Defendant returns to active status, the stayed suspension and all accompanying conditions
imposed by this Order shall once again go into effect for three years minus the time
previously served by Defendant prior to being transfen'ed to inactive status.
3.
The period of suspension is stayed for three years contingent upon
Defendant's ongoing compliance with the following conditions:
(a)

If Defendant petitions the membership depaTtment of the North Carolina
State Bar to renID1 to active status with the North CaTolina State BaT,
Defendant shall notifY the Office of COlmsel of the North Carolina State
Bar within ten (10) days when said petition is filed and if/when
Defendant is transferred back to active status;

(b)

Defendant shall complete twelve (12) hours oflaw office management
training approved in advance by the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar within the first yeaT of the stayed period of
suspension. These twelve hours aTe in addition to the Continuing Legal
Education requirements imposed upon all attorneys in this State;

(c)

If Defendant maintains a trust account during the period of stayed
suspension, Defendant shall open and operate a new trust aCCOllnt.
Before opening such trust account Defendant shall present the State Bar
with a plan describing the manner in which she will maintain the trust
account in compliance with Rules 1.15-2 & 1.15.-3;

(d)

Defendant shall not violate ~ll1Y state or federal laws or any provisions of
the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the stayed
suspensIOn;

(e)

Defendant shall respond to all State BaT requests for information by the
earlier of the deadline stated in the communication or within 30 days of
receipt;

(f)

Defendant shall timely comply with all State BaT membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements; and

10

(g)

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of her current home and business street (not P.O.
Box) addresses and telephone numbers.

4.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more ofthe conditions
referenced in Paragraph 3, then the stay of the suspension of her law license may be lifted
as provided in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0] ]4(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disabi]ity Rules. Ifthe stay granted herein is revoked or the suspension of Defendant's
license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice
law Defendant must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that she has
complied with each of the conditions referenced in Paragraph 3.
5.
All costs of this action are taxed to Defendant. Defendant must pay the
costs of this action within 30 days of service of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0] ]4(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing panel members, this the
Fi61VC~
,20]0.
l

/7 day of

C. Colon Willoughby, Jr.:<;:~
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

]]

