·~J{~,b~\-··

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

E. ELIZABETH LEFLER, Attorney,
Defendant

___________ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _ _ = = _ _ = : . = = ' _ _ l ~ ~ ~_~ _

~~~~~~~~

This matter is before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Theodore C, Edwards, n, Chair, Steven D. Michael and Dr. Charles L.
Garrett,.Jr. William N. Farrell represents Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant has not participated in this proceeding and has no counscl of record.
On Plaintiffs motion, judgment by default was entered against Defendant. Based
upon the pleadings and admissions pursuant to 27 N,C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0114(1) and Rule 8(d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, the hearing pancl
finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2,
Defendant, E. Elizabeth Lefler (hereinafter "Lefler" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 21, 1983 and is, and was at all times
referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed North Carolina, subject to thc rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the
laws of the State of North Carolina. In August 2004 Defendant closed her practice in
North Carolina and moved to Texas.
3,
In November 2004 the Council of the North Carolina State Bar entered an
order suspending Defendant's license to practice law for failing to complete the minimum
mandatory continuing legal education requirements.

4.
Before November 2004, Defendant actively engaged in the practice of law
in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Franklin, Macon County,
North Carolina.
5.
On or about September 30, 1999 David and Georgene Gay and their son
Matthew were involved in an automobile accident. Shortly thereafter, the Gays hired
Defendant to reprcsent them in a claim for personal injury.
6.
In or about April 2004 Defendant settled tl1e Gays' claims. Defendant
received $68,772.09 on behalf of the Gays which she deposited into her attorney trust
account at First Citizens Bank in April 2004.
7.
In or about early May 2004, Defendant disbursed on the Gays' behalf
most of the funds she deposited. Defendant retained in her trust account $2,979.51 for
payment to specific medical providers, the amount of which was uncertain at that time.
8.
In or about May 2004, Defendant asserted to the Gays she would
determine and disburse thc appropriate amounts due to those mcdical care providers and
disburse any remaining funds to the Gays.
9.
Sometime in mid 2004 Defendant abandoned her law practice and moved
to Dallas, Texas, effectively terminating her representation of the Gays. Defendant did
not notify the Gays that Defendant was relocating.
10.
Defendant has not properly disbursed the remaining funds in her trust
account held on behalf of the Gays.
II.
After Mr. and Mrs. Gay realized Defendant was no longer representing
them, they attempted to contact Defendant to determine the status ofthe limds held on
their behalf. Defendant did not respond to their inquiries.
As previously found by default judgment and now recited herein, based on the
foregoing Findings of Fact the hearing panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
].
All parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's foregoing aetions constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as follows:
a.
By Jailing to determine the amounts due to the medical care providers and
appropriately disburse the trust funds held on the Gays' behalf, Defendant did not
act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client in violation
of Rule 1.3;

-2-

b.
By failing to notify the Gays that Defendant had moved away and would
not continue the representation and by failing to otherwise communicate with
them, Defendant failed to keep her client reasonably informed about the status of
the representation and failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary
to permit the client to make informed decisions regarding the representation in
violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and (b); and
c.
By failing to properly disburse client funds remaining in her attorney trust
account upon closing her law practice, Defendant did not take steps reasonably
necessary to protect the client's interests in violation of Rule 1.16(d) and did not
promptly payor deliver to the client or to a third person as directed by the client
entrusted propeliy belonging to the client and to which the client was currently
entitled in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (m).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
panel finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant was disciplined by a committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission by order dated June 6, 2007 in case number 06 DHC 20 and received an
active suspension of 5 years. Although Defendant could have applied to be reinstated
after completing 1 year of the active suspension, she has not done so.
2.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice of law.

3.
Clients are entitled to attorneys they can trust and to attorneys that will
communicate with them.
4.
their behalf.

Clients arc entitled to attorneys that will properly disburse money held on

5.
Defendant has engaged in a pattern of misconduct when considered with
the conduct in 06 DHC 20.
6.
Defendant has been indifferent to disbursing the remaining funds in her
trust account held on behalf of the Gays and has not done so.
7.

The Gays relied on Defendant to protect their interest.

8.

Defendant has failed to participate in this proceeding.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and upon consideration of the lac tors set forth in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .01 14(w), the hearing panel hereby
enters the following additional:

-3-

CONCLUSIONS OF LA W REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. lB § .01 14(w) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.
The hearing panel Ends evidence of the following factors:
a.

b.

From Rule /0114(w)(1):
I.

Negative impact of defendant's actions on the client's
perception of the profession.

II.

Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of
representation.

iii.

Effect Defendant's conduct on third parties, in thaI
Defendant retained settlement funds to pay specific medical
providers but failed to determine and disburse the
appropriate amounts.

From Rule .0114(w)(J):
I.

Prior disciplinary offense.

11.

Indifference to making restitution to the Gays for
settlement funds not disbursed.

Ill.

A pattern of misconduct.

IV.

Multiplc offenses.

v.

Vulnerability of the Gays.

VI.

Degree of experience in the practice of law.

')
Defendant's conduct resulted in significant harm and/or potential hann to
her clients, the Gays.
J.
Defendant's pattern of dishonest conduct poses potential signitlcant harm
to the public that may seek to retain her or those who may deal with her in other
capacities. When a lawyer violates the trust clients and others should be able to have in
attorneys, it harms the public and the profession.
4.
The hearing panel has carefully considered admonition, reprimand,
censure, suspension, and disbarment in considering the appropriate discipline in this case.

-4-

5.
The hearing panel ftnds that admonition, reprimand, censure, or
suspension would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity ofhann to clients,
the public and the profession in the present case.
6.
The hearing panel concludes that discipline short of disbannent would not
adequately protect the public for the reasons stated above and for the following reasons:
a.

Defendant has been previously disciplined and suspended from the
practice of law.

b.

Defendant has repeatedly engaged in rule violations reflecting
adversely on her trustworthiness or litness as a lawyer.

c.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed,
would be inconsistent with discipline issued in prior cases
involving similar misconduct, and would send the wrong message
to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar of this State.

d.

The protection of the public and the legal profession requires that
Defendant not be permitted to resume the practice oflaw until she
demonstrates the following: that she has reformed; that she
understands her obligations to her clients, the public, and the legal
profession; and that permitting her to practice law will not bc
detrimental to the public or the integrity and standing of the legal
profession or the administration ofjustice. Disbarred lawyers are
required to make such a showing before they may resume
practicing law.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel hereby
enters the following:
ORDER OF DlSCIPLfNE
1.

Defendant, E. Elizabeth Lefler, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice

of law.
2.
Defendant shall surrender her license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this
order upon Defendant.
3.
Defendant be taxed with the administrative fees and with actual costs
permitted by law in connection with the proceeding. Defendant must pay the costs within

-5-

30 days ofserviee upon her orthe statement of costs by the Secretary ofthe North
Carolina State Bar.
4.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions 01'27 NCAC IB § .0124 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
l-L..

Signed by the Chair with the consent oCthe other hearing panel members. this the

\!.__ day ofJanuary. 2011.

JRJb'-

C,

dl-~ =\l

Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

·6·

