iIft1J

~{1fTfhir.
/81{1

/~~\ •
~.

STATE OF NORTH CAROLl

1't ''0/

'A~'

f'E:a 2rJ.

G'J>

p.,

<t,

BEFORE THE

1Jo~C1Pc-· ARY HEARING COMMISSION

~2) '" '

:;;;>
0 F THE
'
,'H CAROLlNA STATE BAR
~
15DHC40'

t;/~ N

WAKE COUNTY

J""

~E NORTH CAROUNA STATE~~!~

v

Plaintiff
v,

WADE H. LEONARD, JR., Attorney,

CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISCIPLlNE

Defendant
This matter was considered by a hearing pand of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission'composed of Fred M, Morelock, Chair, William 0, King, and Randy A,
Moreau, . Leanor Bailey- Hodgerepresented PlaultifCtl:1e North Carolina State Bar,
Defendant, Wade H, Leonard, Jr" appeared pro se, Defendant waives a forlllarl1earingili
the above referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and
conclusions of law recited in this consent order, The parties consent to the discipline
imposed by this order, Defendant knowi ngly, freely, and voluntarily waives his right to
appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency orthe findings by
consenting to entry of this order,
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, tbe Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent, and conviI)cing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

L
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter "State Bar"), is a body dLlly
organized under the laws of Noeth Carolina and is,the proper party to bring this
proceeding lmder the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statotes of North
Carolina and the rules and regulations (,)f the NOlth Carolina State Bar promulgated
thercunder,
2,
Defendant, Wade n Lconard, Jr, (hereafter '''Defendant'' or "Leonard"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bai' on 12 Augnst 1972 and is an attorney at law
licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws ot'theState ofNOlth
.Carolina"

3,
Dllring the relevant period. referred to herein, Leonard actively engaged in
the practice of lay" in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law oft-ice in
Mocksville, Davie County, North Carolina,
4,
Between January 2010 and January 2012, Leonard maintained a general
attorney trust account Wjtll BB&T bank, account number ending 7138 (hereinafter "trust
account"),
Page 1 ofU

i.,

5.
Leonard used the trust account as a general account into which all entrusted
client funds were deposited and disbnrsed.

6.
Leonard employed two non-lawyer assistants, J.D. Stroud (hereinafter
"Stroud") and K.R. Jones (hereinafter "Jones").

7.

Leonard had managerial and. direct supervisory authority 'over Stroud and
Jones during their employment.

8.
Leoriard delegated to Stroud the tasks of receipt of enuusted client funds,
deposit of enu'usted client funds, maintenance of account records for the trust account,
and reconciliation of the trust account.

9.

Stroud also had signature authority for the trust account.

10. Leonard also delegated to Stroud the responsibility of handling real estate
closing tnmsaetions.
.

-n. -SU'olld

prepared - (rlist -accoluit checks for real estate transaction
disbursements and signed many of the checks she wrote that were drawn on the trust
account.
12.. Leonard paid Stroud 20% of his legal fee as a commission on all real estate
closings she handled for his firm.
13.
account.

Stroud delegated tasks to Jones, including the task of reconciling the trust

14. Leonard did no! pro\iide any training for Stroud and Jones on trust account
management or reconciliation.
15. On or about 22 November 2011, Leonard was notified that he had been
selected for a random procedural audit.

16.

The audit was scheduled to take place on4 January 2012.

17.

On 3 January 2012, the night before the scheduled audit, someone set frre
Leonard's office.

18.

[0

An iilsurance investigation ensued after the fire.

19. The results of the insurance investigation suggested that the fire was
intentionally set.
20.

An analysis of Leonard's trust accOlmt was conducted after the fire.

21. The [rust account ffiJalysis showed that Leonard Jailed to perform three-way
reconciliations of the trust account and failed to identify clients on checks drawn on the

NCSB v. LeOJUlrd
Consent Order of DiSCipline
Page 2 of 11

trust account. The analysis fmiher showed that these failures existed as early as 2010 and
continued through the date of the fire.

22. The trust account analysis also showed that the balance of Leonard's trust
account was less than the amount of entrusted illl1d·s Leonard was required to maintain in
trust for his clients.
23. The shilltage in Leonard's trust account was primarily caused by SU'oud's
and .TotIes's embezzlement fro111 the trust account from February 2010 through December

20 II.
24. Late fees assessed due to Leonard's failure to timely disburse loan payoffs
also contributed to the shortage, because Leonard did not deposit inio the trust account
fimds to pay the amounts by which the loan payoffs were increased by the fact that the
payments were made late.
25. Leonard failed to routinely review bank statements or any other records for
the U'ust account. .
26. Leonard failed to supervIse Stroud's handling of real estate closing
transactions.
27. Because Leonard failed to supervise Stroud's handling of real estate
closings, he did not become aware that mortgage payoffs were not being timely made and
that late fees were being assessed mltil the State Bar audited his tmst account.
Based upon tile consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I. All parties afe properly before the Hearing Panel, and the Panel has judsdiction over
Deiendant, Wade H. Leonard, Jr., and over the subject matter.
2. Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings ofract above, constitutes grounds for
discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules
of PrOfessional Conduct as follows:

a.

By failing to provide training to his non-lawyer assistants, failing
to supervise their handling of entrusted client funds, and failing to
review records for his trust account, Defendant failed to make
reasonable efforts to ensure that his law finn had in effect
measures that gave reasonable assurance that his non-lawyer
assistants' conduct was compatible with Defendant's professional
obligations in violation of R,lle 5.3(a) and failed to supervise his
non-lawyer assistants to the extent necessary to ensure that their

NCSB v. Leonard
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of11

conduct was' compatible with Defendant's professional obligations
in violation of Rule 5.3(b);,
b. By failing to timely submit mortgage payoffs after Closing,
Defendant failed to diligently represent his cii(:nts' interests in
violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to promptly pay to a third person as
directed by the client entrusted property belonging to the client in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);
c. By failing to deposit into the trust account funds to cove'r the late
fees and instead using entrusted funds belonging to other clients to
pay such fees, Defendant used 'entrusted property for the personal
benefit of someone other than the legal or beneticial owner of the
property in violation of Rule 1,15-20);
d. By failing to perform at least qliarterly a three-way reconciliation
of the trust account, Defendant failed to conduct the requisite
- - -reconciliations of his-tIust accOlUlt in violation of Rule_Ll 5--3Gd);e. By failing to identify clients on checks drawn on the trust account,
Defeildant failed to maintain the minimum 'records required for
general trust accounts in violation of Rule 1.15-3(b); and
f

By paying his assistant a percentage of his legal fee for performing
real estate closings, Defendant shared his fee with a non-lawyer in
violation ofRulc 5.4(a).

Based upon the t()fegoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence the following:

ADDITIONAL FTNl)[NGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Leonard cooperated with the State Bar's investigation into hishandling of entrusted client
funds.

2. Leonard deposited in excess of $1 00,000 into his trust aecolmt to replenish the shortage
in the account.
3. Leonard ilsed his personal funds to pay the obligations of clients whose entrusted funds
were frozen in his trust account after Leonard was enjoined fi'om handling entrusted
funds.

4, Leonard has expressed remorse for his misconduct.

NeSB 1'. Leonan/
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 of 11

5. Leonard's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted ftmds betrays a vital
trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal profession. Clients are entitled
to have their funds handled Witll the utmost care.

6. Leonard'.s failure to properly maintain a tmst acconnt places entrusted client funds at risk
and has the potential to cause significant hU1111 to the standing of the profession in tile
eyes of the public becaus.e it shows his disregard for his duties as an attorney. This tends
to erode the public's confidellce in attorneys. Confidence in the legal profession is a
building block for public trust in the entire legal system.
7. Leonard's failme to reconcile his trust accounts and failure for at least two yeal'S to
supervise his non-lawyer staff's management of his trust account demonstrates Leonard's
intent to commit acts where the potential harm is foreseeable.
Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the
Aclditional Findings ofFacl Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB
§ .0 114(w)(I) and concludes that the following factors that warrant suspension or
disbarment are present:
(a) Intcnt ofthe defendant to commit acts where thc harm or potential harm is
foreseeable; and
(b) Negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
of the profession.
2. The Hearing Panel has considered all onhe factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB
§ .OI14(w)(2) and concludes that no factors that Warralit disbarment are present.

3. The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB
§ .0 114(w)(3) and concludes that the following are applicable in this matter:
(a) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;

(b) Multiple offenses;
(c) Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
(d) Timely good faith elIorts to reciify consequenccs of misconduct;
(e) Defenclant's remorse;

(f) Good character and reputation; and

NCSB v. Leonard
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 of 11

·

~

.-~

--------------

...........

(g) Defendant has been licensed to practice law for approximately forty-three
years.
4. Defendant caused harm to his clients by using their entrusted i:unds to pay the obligations
of other clients.

5. Defendant caused potential significant harm to his clients by failing to properly manage
their entrusted flmds.

6. The Hearing Panel has considered

all

lesser sanctions including: censure, reprimand, and
admonition, and finds that discipline less than suspension would not adequately protect
the public £i·om Defendant's fhture misconduct because (i) ofthc gravity of potential
significant harm to clients, and (ii) a period of reporting pln·suant to a stayed suspension
is necessary to ensure Defendant's proper handling of entrusted funds.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Filldings 6fFile! Regaiding Discipline, and ConclusTbiis of taw RegatdihgDlsctplme, - - _..
and on the consent oftlie parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER 01' DISCIPLINE·

1. Defendant, Wade H. Leonard, Jr., is hereby suspended from the practice of law for two
years, effective 30 days li'ol11 service of this order upon Leonard.
2. Defendant shall pay, within 30 days of service ofthe statement of fees and costs upon
him by the Secretary of the State Bal~ the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding.

3. The two year suspension is stayed for a period of two years as long as Defendant
complies with the following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
assessed by the Secretary of the State Bal· within 30 days of service oflhe
statement of fees and costs upon him.
(b) Within thilty (30) days of this order's effective date, Defendant shall retain
a certified public accountant ("CPA") approved ill advance by the Offiee
of Counsel who shall audit his trust accounts. Defendallt will cooperate
with the CPA to ensure that the audit is completed within sixty (60) days
of the date the CPA is lirst retained. The CPA shall provide monthly
written rep0l1s to the State Bar updating the State Bar on the audit's
progress until the audit is complete. Upon completion of the audit, the
CPA shall provide the State Bar with a writtyn final audit report thal
identifies who owns the funds presently held in Defendant's trust account
and which identities any shortage in the trust aCeOlll1t. It is Defendant's

NCSB v, [eonaN'
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 60f11

sole responsibility to ensure that the CPA completes and submits the
reports tequired herein,
(c) Within fifteen (l5) days of completion ofthe CPA's audit of Defendant's
trust accounts, Defendant shall petition the court in Wake County Superior
Court Case File No, 13 CVS 01050 (i) to replenish the trust account(s) for
any shortfall that the CPA has found to exist in his trust account(s), and (ii)
(0 disburse to the rightful owners the funds held in his trust account(s),
(dl 'Defendant shall provide to the State Bar's Office of Counsel quarterly
(April 15 for the qUalier ending Mal'ch 31, July 15 for the quarter ending
June 30, October 15 for the quarter ending September 30 and January 15
for the quarter ending December 31) the written report of the three-way
reconciliation of all attorney trust accounts to which he has access using
the reconciliation method descri bed and form found in the online State Bar
Lawyer's Trust Account Handbook, rev. 12/2014, pages 33 - 42. In
addition to the tlu'ee-way reconciliation report, Leonard shall provide (i)
clien~t ledgers f01' each client vvhose-flmtls are-held in the trl\sf accOliiit(s)
during the quarter covered by the submitted report, (ii) the ledger for any
personal funds Defendant maintained in the trnst account(s) for bank or
credit card fees, (iii) the generalledger(s) for each trust account to which
Defendant has access, and (iv) the following bank documentation for the
quarter covered by the submitted report: the bank statement, canceled
checks and deposit slips or other bank documentation that identifies the
SOurce of all deposits into the account for each trust account to which
Leonard has access.
(c)

Defendant shall provide any other records requested by the Office of
Counsel within ten days of the request.

(f)

Defendant shall certify that he is not handling entrusted funds or
illaintaining an attorney trust account at the time he signed this consent
order, Within fifteen (15) days of disbursement of entrusted flmds
pursuant to tbis order, Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of
the State Bar with documentation showing the closing of any and all trust
aCcolmts. Thereafter, for as long as Defendant is not handling entrusted or
fiduciary funds or maintaining an attorney tnlst accOlmt, Defendant shall,
on a monthly basis, submit to the Office of Counsel an affidavit certifying
that'he did not handle any cntrusted or fiduciary funds in that month. This
aflicJavit shall be executed on the last day of eaeh montb and provided to
the Office of Counsel by the 5th day ofthe following month (e.g. the
affidavit for March would be executed March 31st and due to the Office of
Counsel by April 5th). Such an<davit shall be in licu of the three-way
reconciliation report required in paragrapb 3d~ For as long as Defendant is
not handling any entrustcd or fiduciary f'i.mds and is not maintaining an

NCSB v. Leonard
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 oftl

..

~'.~-.'

..' . "

--------

attorney trust account, the requirements of paragrapb 3d above shall be
tolled.
(g)

Within six months ofthe effective date of this order, Defendant shall .
complete the trust aCCOlll1t continuing legal education (CLE) course taught
by State Bar Trust Accounting Compliance Counsel Peter Bolac (usually
titled "Trust Accounting Rules" or "Trust Accounting Rules: Avoid the
Pitfalls.") This CLE requirement is in addition to the CLE requirements
set out in 27N.C. Admin. Code ID § .1518.

(h)

Defendant shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business address. Defendant shall notify the State Bar of any
change of address within ten (10) days of such change. His current
business address must be a street address, not a post office box or drawer.

(i)

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program,
williin tliil'ty (30) days ofieeeipt Of such com:1l1U1iication or by thedeadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner.
Defendant shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition of which he receives notice after lfte
effective date ofthis order.

(k)

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline.

(1)

Defendant will pay all State Bar and judicial dish'ict membership dues,
Client Secnrity fund assessments, and any other related dues, fees, and/or
costs by the applicable deadline;

(m) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
of the United States or of any state or local government.

4. Unless Defendant's obligations unde!' this Order are modified by further order orthe
DHC, Defcndant's obligations under this Order end two years from th.e effective date of
the Order provided there al'e no pending motions or show cause proceedings alleging lack
of compliance with the conditions ofthe stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 113 § .01l4(x), the DEC reia'ins jurisdicti()!1 until all conditions of the stay
of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show calise proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of'the suspension is pending when the period
of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the
jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activat{! the two year
suspension in whole or in pmt if it finds that any 0 rlhe conditions ofthc stay have not

NCSB P. Leonard
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8 of 11

becnmet. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the
conditions for the stay will c06tinue until resohltion of any such pending motion or show .
cause proceeding.
5. If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out above in this
Order of Disciplille; then the stay of the suspension may be liftcd in accordance with 27
N. C. Admin. Code lB § .0 114(x).
6. If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason, the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order imposing such conditions as it
deems proper for thc reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension,
Additionally, Dcfendallt must establish the following by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence prior to being reinstated to the practice oflaw after any period of active
suspension:
(a) Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary
oCthe State Bar within thirty (30) days ofthe date of the order lifting the
. stay andlOi'aCt{vatfng ihe suspension oThis hiwlicerise; (b) Defendant complied with the provisions of27 N.C, Admin, Code lB § .
0124 following entry of the order lifting the stay and/or activating the
suspension of his 'law license;
(c) Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against
him in this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon
him by the Secretary of the State Bar;
(d) Defendant had his trust accollnt(s) audited by a CPA.
(e) Defendant, upon completion ofthe CPA's audit of his trust account(s),

petitioned the COUli in Wake County Superior COlitt Case File No. 13
CVS 01050 (i) to replenish the trust account(s) for any ShOlifull that the
CPA has found to exist in his trust account(s), alld (ii) to disbmse the
fimds held in his tnlsl account(s) to the rightful owners.
(f) That within fifteen (15) days of the cffective date of the order activating
the suspension Defendarll provided the Slate Bar with an addrcss and
telephone number at which clients seeking return of files could
cOlmnunicate with Defendant and obtain such files;

(g) That Defendant provided within ten days client files to all clients who
made a request for return of their files;
(h) Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business street addresses (not post office box or drawer

NCSB v. Leonard
Cons en t Order of Discipline
Page 9 of 11

addresses) and notified the State Bar of any change in address within len
days of such change;
(i) Defendant responded to· all commuhications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty (30) days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
conununication, whichever is sooner;

(j) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in
payment of all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client
Securiti Fund assessments, and other charges or surcharg~s the State
'Bar is authorized to collect from him, including all judicial district dues
and assessments;

(k) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE hours in reporting of such
hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendmlce at CLE
pl~ogra·nls;

(I) At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant has completed
within the six months that immediately preceded his petition for
reinstatemcnt the trust account CLE course taught by NC State Bar
Trust Accounting Compliance COlmse\ Peter Bolac (usually titled "Trust
Accollnting Rules" or "Trust AccolUlting Rules: Avoid the Pitfalls"); and
(m)Defendant did not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
.the United States, or the laws of any state or local government during
his sllspension.

7. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction ofthis matter pursuant to
27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0 114(x) until all conditions of the stay of suspension m'e
satdied .
.\~)lned by thep.~with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members this
the --D'L day of
,2016.

--S:f

\J(J..B

Fred M. Morelock, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Pmlel

WE CONSENT:

NCSB v. LeonI/I'd
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 10 ofll

" - . - ,- - ...-.......

~~-~~~~~~~------.

NCSB v. LeonaI'll
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 11 of11

- ..

