STATE OF NORTII CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE '0/.
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION ,
FILE NO.: 13 CVS 000651
~<
'y

6'L
r

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

"

Petitioner

v.

~

MATTHEW JEFFREY LESTER,
Attorney,
Respondent
THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of
Wake County upon the tender of surrender of his law license by Matthew Jeffrey Lester,
NCSB # 29319. Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the
Court by Respondent, Matthew Jeffrey Lester (hereinafter "Lester"), the Court makes the
folJowing:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Lester was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 2000 and is, and
was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

3.
Lester desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in North Carolina.
4.
Lester's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result
of coercion or duress. Lester is fully aware of the implication of submitting his
resignation.
5.
Lester acknowledges that the material facts upon which the investigation
is predicated are true.
6.
Lester has submitted his resignation because he knows that if disciplinary
charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could not
successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court makes the following:

" Go

' "

~,

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

2.
Lester is aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding
allegations that he is guilty of misappropriation of client funds.

"

va ".(
(')'. '. t,"C
v p,

/}-

'C'

/7

2·

~~

/0

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
By misappropriating client funds, Lester engaged in acts in violation of
Rule 8.4(b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct and engaged in conduct in violation of
Rule 8.4(c) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
2.
Lester's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
3.
The courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary
action against attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
4.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person of Matthew Jeffrey Lester and
of the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
5.

Lester has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.
Matthew Jeffrey Lester is DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North
Carolina. This disbarment is effective upon the entry of this order by the court.
2.
Lester shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter
1, Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124. Lester has 30
days from the entry of this order to complete the requirements of § .0124.
3.
Lester shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
expiration of at least five (5) years from the date of entry of this order.
4.
Lester's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125.
5.

The costs of this action are taxed against Lester.

Done and Ordered this

3

day of

L) dtII> '$ "==

2

, 2013.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Matthew Jeffrey Lester
13 CVS 000651
Consent Order of Disbarment
CONSENTED TO BY:

c{)ii{,{dr0

1

Deputy Counsel, North Carolina State Bar
Attorney for Petitioner

T. Richard
e
Attorney r Respondent

3

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO.: 13 CVS 000651

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
OJ-

Petitioner

v.

AFFIDAVIT OF SURRENDER OF",
LAW LICENSE

MATTHEW JEFFREY LESTER,
Attorney,
Respondent
Matthew Jeffrey Lester, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3. I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations
that I am guilty of misappropriation of client funds, including: 1) the funds necessary to
pay-off the sellers' mortgage in the transaction referenced in the Consent Order of
Preliminary Injunction in this file; and 2) the transfer of other funds to which I was not
entitled from my real estate trust account to my operating account.

4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend
against them.
This

thOZ._ day ofC() t.A-o~

,20 3.

J04. "\;

I,
L.--v6u.!eLo/I"Z-J I ,Notary Public of the County of Mecklenburg,
State of North Carolina, certify that Matthew Jeffrey Lester personally appeared before
me this day, was sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of his
own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.
--""-'-~'---"''--_-', 2013.

