BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG1243

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Eric D. Levine,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

CENSURE

)
)

On April 21, 2011, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by S. H.
Pursuant to section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee
found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a
member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilly of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detelmine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before tbe Disciplinary Hearing Commission
are not required and the Grievance Conunittee may issue various levels of discipline depending
upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating
factors. The Grievance Conunittee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in
which an attomey has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice,
the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the
attomey's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing befGre the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the
Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
In November 2008, S.H. retained you to represent him in a nuisance claim against the
owners of the property next door to his house. You filed a complaint on Mr. H's behalf in district
court. The case went to arbitration, and the arbitrator ruled against Mr. H. You were supposed to
appeal the arbitrator's decision, but failed to do so. Consequently, the arbitration award was
deemed a final judgment on September 14, 2009. Your failure to appeal the arbitrator's decision
violated Rule 1.3 of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You did not advise Mr. H. that you had not appealed the arbitrator's decision. Mr. H. met
with you in February 2010, and you did not tell him that you failed to appeal the arbitration award.

Due to your lack of communication with Mr. H., he went to the courthouse in May 20 10 and
reviewed the file in his case. Mr. H. discerned that there had been no activity in the case since July
2009. Mr. H. stated that even when he spoke with you in November 2010, you still did not tell him
that you had not appealed the arbitration award. The Grievance Committee found that your failure
to advise your client that you had not filed the appeal involvetl neglect, in violation of Rule 1.3, and
a failure to keep your client reasonably informed about the status of his case, in violation of Rule
1.4(a)(3).
On or about February 16,2009, you drafted a complaint (hereafter, February 16 complaint)
where Mr. H. sued the property owners of the house adjacent to his. Mr. H. received the February 16
complaint by email. He signed the verification for the Febmary 16 complaint before your employee, a
notary on February 26,2009. The February 16 complaint for which Mr. H. signed the verification was
not filed in court. You prepared another complaint in the same action, filed it on March 6, 2009, and
used the same velification that Mr. H signed on February 26, 2009 for the February 16 complaint. Mr.
H. did not swear before your notary those things set forth in the verification dated Febmary 26, 2009,
which was attached to the complaint you filed on March 6, 2009. You attached a false verification to
the complaint filed on March 6, 2009, in violation of Rule 8A(cj(d) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
The Grievance Committee considered your prior discipline of two reprimands and a censure as
an aggravating factor.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that :t0u will ponder this censure,
recognize the error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from
adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a
strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the
public, your clients, your fellow attomeys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a
respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of$350.00 is hereby
taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this

IYday

of4

,2011.

/L,ofl~

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

