IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE OF

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

KATHERINE MCDIARMID

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of
the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to Section .0017 of Subchapter B of
the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar upon an affidavit
of tender of license executed by Katherine McDiarmid and filed in the
offices of the North Carolina State Bar on October 13,2006.
Based upon the affidavit of tender oflicense, the Council finds that
Katherine McDiarmid misappropriated approximately $10,000 from the trust
account of her former law firm Johnson, Peddrick, McDiarmid, Connors and
Kantlehner, PLLC on or about November 17,2004. Katherine McDiarmid
endorsed a trust account check issued for the benefit of a beneticiary of an
estate that was a client ofthe firm. Katherine McDiarmid deposited the
check into an account of another client ofthe firm, Chase, who was not
entitled to receive funds from the estate and over whose account Katherine
McDiarmid had a valid power of attorney. Katherine McDiarmid then
withdrew the misappropriated funds from the Chase account. When the
misappropriation was discovered, McDiarmid refunded the full amount to
the successor law firm's trust account.
The Council also finds that Katherine McDiarmid has waived her right to
notice of this hearing and the right to be heard before the Council. The
Council concludes that the conduct of Katherine McDiarmid constitutes
grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) in that Katherine
McDiarmid violated Rules 1.15-2(a), (j), and (m); 8.l(a); and 8.4(a), (b), and
(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct and that the Council may

enter an order of discipline accordingly.

WHEREFORE, upon motion duly made and seconded, the Council of the

North Carolina State Bar enters the following order:


1. The tender of surrender oflicense of Katherine McDiarmid is hereby


accepted.

2. Katherine McDiarmid is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law in
North Carolina.
3. Katherine McDiarmid will comply with the provisions of Subchapter B,
Section .0024 of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
and will surrender her license and permanent registration card to the
Secretary ofthe North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required
by Subchapter B, Section .0024.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against Katherine McDiarmid.
Done and Ordered, this the 20th day of October, 2006.

'
('
S?

'J ~
"
L<1',,~--,!J J,[;jvz '_
,. . .

•

,-;1 ..r(­

1/,"'"

~sident

'Stev n D. Michael,
The North Carolina State Bar

NORTH CAROLNA
WAKECOCNTY

In re: Katherine B. McDiarmid
Attorney at Law

)
)
)

AFFJDAVIT OF
SURREI\TDER OF LICEN.

________J

Katherine B. McDiamlid, first being duly swom, deposes and says as follows:
I. I am presently a member in good standing of the Nor!h Carolina State Bar.
2. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina pursuant
to the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B. Section .0117 of he North
Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.
3. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is \lot the result ofcoerc ion or duress.
I am fully aware ofthe implications of submitting myresif,'1lation and have discussed these with my
attorney, James B. Maxwell.
4. [ am aware that there is presently pending an investigation by The North Carolina State
Bar regarding allegations that 1 misappropriated approximately $10,000 from the Trust Account of
my fOlmer firm, Jolmson, Peddrick, McDiarmid,Connors & Kantlehner, PLLC, on or about
:':ovember 17,2004 when I endorsed a Trust Account check of the film intended for the benefit of
a beneficiary of an estate that was a client ofthe finn and deposited the check into an account of
another client of the firm who was not entitled to receive funds from the estate and over whose
account, [had a valid power of attorney. These funds were then withdrawn from that account byme.
5. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation of The North Carolina
State Bar are true and that my actions in ?\ovember, 2004 die! constitute a misappropriation ofclient
funds in violation of Rule 1.15(2). Upon discovery of the misappropriation by the successor finll
of Peddrick, Johnson & YlcDonald in June, 2006, I reiunded the full amount in question
(510,628.56).
6. I am submitting my resignation because I know that, if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the miscon.duct under investigation, I COllld not successfully defend against them.
7. J am aware that, in accordance with Discipline and Disbannent Rule .0117(e), 1will not
be considered as an active memher of the State Bar upon submission of my resignation, that I may
not undertake any new legal matters, and tJ1at I must fully \~ ind down my practice within 30 days of
submitting this affidavit of surrender even though it may be more than 30 days before the next

meeting of the Council at which the Council may take action on my surrender.
This the

_L~I_ day of~2006.
Katherine B. McDiannid

Sworn to and subscribed before me

_

This the i. H j' nay of .~pt 2006.

Notary Public

i

My Commission expires:

It I \ .) ( l (.;,

