NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRlEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G0629

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Jolm E. Lewis,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 14, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by J. G.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential hann to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairn1an of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
On July 26,2009, you were served with a Letter of Notice from the State Bar regarding a
grievance filed by J.G., grievance file no. 09G0629. The Letter of Notice required you to submit
a response within fifteen days of service. You failed to submit a response within fifteen days of
service. By telephone conversation with Deputy Counsel and by letter dated August 27, 2009,
you were reminded to submit a response to the Letter of Notice and you were given a new

deadline of September 7, 2009. You did not submit a response to the Letter of Notice by
September 7, 2009 and have not responded to the Letter of Notice as of this date. Your knowing
failure to respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary authority constituted a
violation of Rule 8. I (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby repnmandedoyll1e'NortllTariiTinaStateBar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs ofthis action in the amount
of$IOO.OO are hereby taxed to you.

Done and ordered, this the

0<:2....

day

OK::::=-=~':..,,::;:<'!'!:f.::!='=.s~~c, 2010

Ronald G. Bal(er, Sf. Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

