,:>11: 56 70'

,,'""

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

;;J'"

..94'

t>...,/
/, ,/,FORE THE DISCIPLINARY HEARING

A;\. <;?> '11>11

~~
. /,(' ~
:;;;
<J<.
~":: ";;; ~V 1;>

w

COMMISSION OF THE

:;:;: NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
,-....

10 DHC 36

ORDER
OF
DISBARMENT

v.
JOHN EDWARD LEWIS, Attorney,
Respondent

THIS MATTER coming before the undersigned Chair nfthe DisciplinalY Hearing Commission
pursuant to N.C. Admin. Code title 27, Rule !B.OI I7(d) upon an affidavit of surrender of license executed
by John Edward Lewis ("Lewis") dated I December 20 I0 and filed in the offices of the North Carolina
State Bar on 6 December 20 IO.
Based upon the pleadings and the record, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of North
Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the
General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant was licensed to practice law in Nnrth Carolina on March 25, 2006.

3. During all periods relevant hereto, Defendant was engaged in the practice of law in North

Carolina.
4. Defendant has indicated his consent to disbarment by filing an affidavit of surrender with the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission. The affidavit meets all requirements set forth in N.C. Admin. Code title
27, Rule IB.OI J 7(a)(I) through (4), and (d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact the undersigned makes the followiog:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. N. C. Admin. Code title 27, Rule IB.0108 provides thatthe Chair of tile Disciplinary Hearing
Commission has the power to enter orders disbarring members by consent.
2. Defendant's affidavit meets all requirements set forth in N.C. Admin. Code title 27, Rule
IB.oI 17(a)(I) through (4), and (d), and the facts on which the affidavit is predicated warrant Defendant's
disbarment.

3. Defendant has admitted the material facts as alleged in the State Bar's complaint, incorporated
herein by reference, and the misconduct alleged in the complaint has been established.
Based upon ti,e foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the undersigned Chair of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following:

ORDER
I, The surrender of the license of John Edward Lewis is hereby accepted,
2, John Edward Lewis is DISBARRED fTom the practice of law in North Carolina effective upon
the entry of this order with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
3, John Edward Lewis shall comply with tl,e provisions ofne. Admin, Code title 27, Rule
18.0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules,
4,

The costs of this action are taxed against the Defendant.

Done and Ordered this

~ day of December, 20 I0,

LG,~

Sharon Alexander, Chair

Disciplinary Hearing Commission

/iT5'6)~

£
,"

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

~~
R1

~

~ v
DEC 2010

~\
BEFORE THE
F:IL -. DlSC~INARY HEARING COMMISSION

- t::lJ
'~> lJHC

,~

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA

v

c9}

,

~i

OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BAR
10 DHC 36

~hH
",;

STA;r~K,R~,G21J\~:}:T'
Petitioner

v.

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LAW LICENSE

JOHN EDWARD LEWIS, Attorney,
Respondent

TO: The Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
ofthe North Carolina State Bar
Jolm Edward Lewis, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:

1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to State Bar Discipline and Disability Rule 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0117(d).
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion
or duress, I am fiJlly aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3, I am aware that there is pending a fOl1l1al complaint against me before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission, a copy of which is attached and incorporated herein,

4,

I aclmowledge that the material facts alleged in the complaint are true.

5, I am submitting my resignation because I know that I carmot successfully defend
against the charges in the complaint
'tlle _
!ff,
_ aay
Th IS'

0,L'

lI,?f'eM tJI~r
Lit.
L

L

Sworn to and subscribed before me,
this the /sr day of /)ec<-~ba/, ,2010,

NO~~P-, W~
..

•

.~\

My commiSSIOn expires: _LAC?-

I

2-0

{5

7010

, _

,

BEFORE THE

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

ARY HEARING COMMISSION
WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
COMPLAINT
v.

JOHN EDWARD LEWlS, Attomey,
Defendant

Plaintiff, complaining of Defendant, alleges and says:
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar"), is a body
duly organized under the laws ofNorth Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, John E. Lewis ("Defendant" or "Lewis"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on 25 March 2006 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attomey at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
ofNorth Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Lewis actively engaged in the practice oflaw
in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Cullowhee, Jackson County,
North Carolina.
4.
On at least four occasions between September 2008 and August 2009 Lewis
forged judges' signatures on court documents and represented those forged documents to
be valid. On at least one occasion, Lewis filed a forged document in a court file.
5.
Lewis misrepresented to his clients that their cases were resolved based upon
the forged documents.
6.
Based upon Lewis's conduct described in paragraph 4 above, on or about 11
January 2010 Lewis was charged with and pled guilty to twelve (12) felony counts
including obstmction ofjustice, forgery, uttering of forged paper and entering an
unauthorized judgment in case nos. 10 CRS 30 -41 in Jackson County, North Carolina.
Lewis was sentenced to a total of sixty (60) days in jail, ten months house arrest and five
years probation.

7.
The offenses of which Lewis was convicted are criminal offenses showing
professional unfitness as defined by § .0 I03(17) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of
the North Carolina State Bar (27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0103(17».
8.
While serving his jail sentence, Lewis forged a law enforcement officer's
signature on a document purporting to release an individual from the custody of the
Jackson County Sheriff's Office.
9.
Lewis's conduct described in paragraph 8 above was a criminal offense as
. defmed by the cornmon law of North Carolina.

THEREFORE, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(l) based upon his conviction of
criminal offenses showing professional unfitness and l'tC. Gen. Stat. § 84-2~(b)(2) in
that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)

By forging judges' signatures and representing the forged documents to be
valid to the court and his clients, and by forging a law enforcement officer's
signature on a court document, Lewis committed criminal acts that reflect
adversely on Lewis's honesty, trustworthiness and fitness as a lawyer in
violation of Rule 8A(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit and misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A(c); and

(b)

By filing at least one forged document with a court, Lewis engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit and misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8 A(c) and made a false statement of material fact to a tribunal in violation of
Rule 3.3(a)(I).

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff prays that:
(I)

Disciplinary action be taken against Defendant in accordance with N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28(a) and § .0114 of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the
North Carolina State Bar (27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114), as the evidence on
hearing may warrant;

(2)

Defendant be taxed with the administrative fees and costs permitted by law in
connection with this proceeding; and

(3)

For such other and further relief as is appropriate.

-2-

This the 17th day of November, 2010.

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

Brian P.D. Oten, Deputy Counsel
State Bar No. 34140
AttorneyJln' Plaintiff
North Carolina State Bar
P.O. Box 25908
Raleigh, N.C. 27611
(919) 828-4620

-3-

