S Q1 8 gill/,
>\..)'"

WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

<\J

..

Stp 201

I ~)

~

Di~bPll
FlI.lEfJDH~ ~
'NO '.
?,>"..
'

BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BAR
14DHC 16D

'''<;. .B2i/t2~(·

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BA1t;:J..!<
Plaintiff
)
)
)
v.
)
CLINTON O. LIGHT, ATTORNEY,
)
)
Defendant
)
)

ORDER TRANSFERRING
DEFENDANT TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS AND
STAYING DISCIPLINARY
PROCEEDING

THIS MATTER ("disability matter") came on for hearing pursuant to a complaint
filed by the State Bar alleging disability. The State Bar's complaint was filed in this case
in accordance with the 28 April 2015 order of the Hearing Panel Chair in 14 DHC 16
("disciplinary case"). That Order was entered pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.01l8(c)(2) in the disciplinary case and instructed the State Barto file a complaint
alleging disability. This disability matter was considered by a new hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Beverly T. Beal, Chair, Donald C.
Prentiss and Randy A. Moreau. Leanor Bailey Hodge represented Plaintiff, the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Clinton O. Light, appeared pro se.
Based upon the competent and relevant evidence presented at hearing, including
those documents that were introduced into evidence, and considering the credibility of
witnesses and weight of the evidence, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent
and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

--1

2. Defendant, Clinton O. Light ("Mr. Light" or "Defendant"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar on 5 August 1960, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the
State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

Page 1 of5

3. During the relevant periods referred to herein, Mr. Light was engaged in the
practiclJ of law in thlJ StatlJ of North Carolina and maintained a law offic€ in EdlJn,
Rockingham County, North Carolina. Rockingham County is in Judicial District 17A.
4. On 10 March 2015, Mr. Light moved to continue the disciplinary hearing
scheduled for 12 and 13 March 2015. Mr. Light cited his recent hospitalization for
congestive heart failure as the basis for his motion to continue.
5. The Hearing Panel granted Mr. Light's motion to continue the disciplinary
case by order entered 11 March 2015. In addition to continuing the case, the Hearing
Panel ordered Mr. Light to provide within ten days a letter from his doctor that outlined
Mr. Light's health condition in more detail and provided the doctor's professional
opinion about whether Mr. Light would be physically able to defend himself in a 2-day
disciplinary trial.
6. On or about 20 April 2015, Mr. Light provided to the Hearing Panel in the
disciplinary case a letter dated 19 April 2015 from Ayyaz M. Qureshi, M.D. of Mayodan,
N.C.
7.
condition:

The letter of Dr. Qureshi asserts the following about Mr. Light's medical

a. Mr. Light suffers from congestive heart failure;
b. Mr. Light was hospitalized via the Emergency Room at Morehead
Memorial Hospital in Eden, North Carolina on 5 and 6 February
2015 for his congestive heart failure;
c. Mr. Light was hospitalized for congestive heart failure again on 14
-17 February 2015;
d. Mr. Light gets short of breath upon walking due to severe left
ventricular dysfunction;
e. Due to his congestive hemt failure and medication, Mr. Light has
been very limited in his ability to walk, sit or stand for more than a
few minutes at a time; and
f. Mr. Light's mental and physical endurance cmmot withstand a
COutt appearance of more than 30 minutes a day.
8. Mr. Light is 83 years old and has a history of uncontrolled hypertension,
diabetes and sleep apnea.
9. Mr. Light was hospitalized at Morehead Memorial Hospital in Eden, North
Carolina and treated for acute congestive heart failure and sleep apnea on 5 February
2015.
10. During Mr. Light's February 5th hospitalization, it was determined that Mr.
Light's congestive heart failure was due to severe left ventricular dysfunction which
results in a decreased ability of his heart to pump blood through his body.

Page 2 of5

11. The condition of Mr. Light's heart can result in a decreased flow of oxygen to
the brain resulting in diminished cognitive function.
12. Mr. Light was released from this hospitalization on 6 February 2015 and
retnrned to his normal routine which would include reduced activity due to his congestive
heart failure.
13. At the time of Mr. Light's discharge, Light still got short of breath when
walking.
14. Mr. Light was hospitalized again and treated for acute congestive heart failure
on 14 February 2015.
15. Mr. Light was released from this hospitalization on 17 February 2015 and
returned to his normal routine which was to include reduced activity due to his congestive
heart failure.
16. Dr. Qureshi's clinical notes from Mr. Light's 8 June 2015 visit show that as of
that date, Mr. Light still became short of breath, became anxious and was not taking all of
his medications as prescribed.
17. The medical records from Mr. Light's 5-6 and 14-17 February 2015
hospitalizations at Morehead Memorial Hospital and Dr. Qureshi's testimony show that
Mr. Light suffers from a physical condition that significantly impairs his professional
performance as an attorney.
18. Mr. Light represented the defendant in Carter v. Corum, Rockingham County
District Court Case No. 13 CVD 1280.
19. Mr. Light failed to appear on behalf of Corum for a duly noticed hearing on 4
March 2015.
20. Mr. Light did not give notice to plaintiffs counselor the court that he would
be unavailable for hearing on 4 March 2015.
21. As a result of Mr. Light's failure to appear, the plaintiffs motion for
involuntary dismissal of Mr. Light's client's counterclaims for failure to prosecute was
granted and judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff since no contradictory
evidence was offered in the absence of Mr. Light's client.
22. Dr. Qureshi's clinical notes show that Mr. Light was seen in his office on 2
March 2015 and that at that time Mr. Light still became short of breath.

j

,

~

23. On 10 March 2015, Mr. Light was ordered to appear and show cause why he
should not be sanctioned in connection with his representation of the debtor in In re:
Eldridge V. Dickerson, United States Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of North
Carolina, Greensboro Division Case No. 14-11291.

Page 3 of5

24. After hearing, the court concluded that Mr. Light's representation of the
debtor in In re: Dickerson was deficient; specifically, that Mr. Light's review of the
debtor's schedules failed to rectilY significant errors and non-disclosures. The court
fmther concluded that Mr. Light failed to serve with competence.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel concludes:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Mr. Light and the subject
matter of this proceeding.
2.
Mr. Light's physical condition significantly impairs his professional
performance as an attorney.
3.
The medical records from Mr. Light's 5-6 and 14-17 February 2015
hospitalizations at Morehead Memorial Hospital and Dr. Qureshi's testimony show that
the existence of Mr. Light's physical health impairment has the cumulative effect of
impairing Light's professional judgment and competence as an attorney.
4.
Mr. Light's physical condition negatively affected his representation of his
client in Carter v. Corum.

5.
Mr. Light's physical condition negatively affected his representation of his
client in In re: Eldridge V. Dickerson, United States Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of
Notth Carolina, Greensboro Division Case No. 14-11291.
6.
Mr. Light is disabled with the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.0103(19) and should be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0118 and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g).
7.
All proceedings pending before the Grievance Committee and the
Disciplinaty Hearing Commission against Mr. Light should be stayed as long as Mr.
Light remains in disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §
.0118(e).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
panel hereby orders:

1

Page 4 of5

ORDER
1.
Defendant, Clinton O. Light, is hereby transferred to disability inactive
statns in accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(g) and 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB §
.01l8(d)(5).
2.
Mr. Light shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina until he is
reinstated to active statns by the Disciplinary Hearing Commission pursuant to the
procedures set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125(c).
3.
All proceedings pending before the Grievance Committee and the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission against Mr. Light are stayed until such time as Mr.
Light is reinstated to active status.
4.
Mr. Light is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary. The costs taxed to Mr. Light include but are not limited to all costs associated
with Dr. Qureshi's testimony. These costs are due within two years after entry of this
order, or upon petition by Mr. Light for reinstatement to active statns, whichever is
earlier.
5.
Mr. Light remains responsible for any fees and costs associated with all
medical evaluation and treatment of Mr. Light initiated by Mr. Light prior to this
disability proceeding.
6.
In addition to the notification provisions of Rule .0123 (b) ofthe Rules of
Discipline and Disability, a copy of this Order shall be sent to the Senior Resident
Superior Court Judge and the Chief District Court Judge of Judicial District 17A. This
panel takes notice ofthe provisions of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-280) in regard to the
authority of the Senior Resident Superior Court Judge as to the protection of clients in a
case of this type.
7.
This order shall be effective immediately upon entry pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .01l8(d)(5)(A).

~ Signed ~Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
~dayof
({\!;eg, ,2015.

l

Beverly T. Be , Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Page 5 of5

