BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08G0467

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

)

Clinton O. Light,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 14,2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by H.E.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused hann or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
On October 9,2007, H.E. retained you to represent her in a Tort Claims Act claim before
the North Carolina Industrial Commission ("Commission"). H.E.' s matter was set for hearing on
December 19,2007. On December 13, 2007, your assistant faxed a draft of the pretrial
agreement to the deputy commissioner. Your assistant submitted the agreement on your behalf,
stating "I'm was hesitate [sic] to submit the pre-trial without Mr. Light's okay, but feel you will

understand that something is better than nothing." Two days later, your assistant faxed the
agreement to opposing counsel, stating, "Mr. Light was out due to a family member near death
matter. I did not sent [sic] the original to you but got confhsed and sent it to Deputy
Commissioner Glenn. My bad!!" Clearly, you did not review or approve the document before
your assistant submitted it to the deputy commissioner and opposing counsel. You failed to
appropriately supervise your non-lawyer assistant in violation of Rule 5.3(b).
In January 2008, H.E. terminated the attorney-client relationship. On May 2,2008, H.E.
learned you had not filed a motion to withdraw. H.E. again contacted you and told you that you
were discharged from her case. You failed to file a motion to withdraw until May 6,2008. You
violated Rule l.16(a) by waiting four months to file a motion to withdraw from RE.'s case after
being discharged. On April 7, 2008, before you filed a motion to withdraw, you received the final
order in H.E.'s case. You received notice H.E.'s pro se Motion to Recuse and Motion for a New
Hearing were denied. H.E. did not receive notice of those orders nntil she contacted the
Commission on May 2,2008. You offered no evidence that you forwarded those orders to H.E.
You violated Rule 1.4(a) and Rule l.16(d) by failing to tell H.E. about the Commission orders
and by failing to provide copies of those orders to H.E.

You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North

Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$IOO.OO are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

c:?::l..-

day of~~

,2010

/l~Q44~

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/npm

