NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G0052

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Clinton O. Light,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)

REPRIMAND

)
)

On January 14, 2010 the Grievance Conunittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by R.B.
Pursuant to Section .0l13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Conunittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee
found probable cause. Probable cause is defmed in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a
member of the NOIth Carolina State Bar is guilty ofmisconductjustif)ring disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Conunittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Conunission
are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending
upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors.
The Grievance Conunittee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure to the respondent
attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and
has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession, or a
member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Conunittee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case and
issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In August 2008, J.B. retained you to represent her in a child custody action. J.B.'s estranged
husband filed a custody and support action in Patrick Co., Virginia. J.B. and her child lived in North
Carolina. J.B. received a summons to appear for a hearing on September 4,2008 in Virginia. You
sent a letter to the Virginia court making an argument that the Virginia Court did not have
jurisdiction. Because you are not licensed to practice law in Virginia, your letter to the court
constitutes the lmauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(a). Additionally, you did not
send a copy of your letter to the court to opposing counsel. You therefore engaged in an ex-parte
conununication with a judge in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(3)(B).
You initially told J.B. not to plan on attending the hearing in Virginia because you would
obtain a continuance. You then called J.B. the morning of the hearing telling J.B. the hearing in
Virginia was still to be heard that day and you were not going. You told J.B. that you could not

advise her to go to court because you did not feel the Virginia court had jurisdiction. You advised
J.B. that she did not need to appear in court. You directed J.B. to ignore the Virginia court's
summons. You knowingly advised J.B. to disobey a legal obligation in violation of Rule 3.4(c).
When you found out J.B. had been summoned to appear in Virginia, you should have
consulted with an attorney licensed to practice in Virginia or made J.B. aware it would be in her best
interest to retain a Virginia attorney for the custody matter. You assumed the Virginia court would
agree with your assessment that Virginia lacked jurisdiction and failed to seek further assistance
from a Virginia attorney. You should have been more cautious in assuming lB.'s North Carolina
residency given J.B. had not worked in NC or obtained a NC driver's license until five days prior to
the September 4, 2008 hearing. At the Virginia hearing on September 4, 2008, the court denied your
jurisdiction request and issued a [mal custody order. You failed to act with reasonable diligence in
representing J.B. in violation of Rule 1.3. Furthennore, you failed to thoroughly explain the
jurisdiction issues and advise J.B. she should seek representation ofa licensed Virginia attorney. You
failed to provide your client with infonnation necessary to make an infonned decision in violation of
Rule 1.4(b).
On September 3,2008, you filed a complaint in North Carolina for divorce from bed and
board, child custody, and child support. The only pleading in the court file is the complaint. In your
response to the grievance, you included drafts of a separation agreement, an ex-parte order for
emergency custody and a motion to be relieved as counsel, none of which were filed. On January 2,
2009, the North Carolina court discontinued the case. You failed to follow up on the complaint and
therefore failed to diligently handle J.B. 's North Carolina filing. You violated Rule 1.3.
On September 28, 2008, J.B. sent you a letter ending her attorney-client relationship with
you. You sent a response letter to J.B. and included a signed motion to withdraw and infonnation
about retrieving the client file. However, you failed to notifY and seek the court's permission to
withdraw by filing tlle motion to withdraw in violation of Rule 1.16(c).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself to
depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
reprimand by the Grievance Conunittee, the costs oftms action in the amount of $1 00.00 are hereby
taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ,,;l ~ day of

~ ~ ~ "..;wI a

Lo-o~

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/npm

