NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
SCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
II BCR I

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF:
PETITION FOR REINSTATEMENT OF

ORDER RECOMMENDING
THAT REINSTATEMENT BE DENIED

LARRY R. LINNEY

This matter came on for hearing on April 28, 20 II before a panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Harriett Smalls, and Patti Head;
with Larry R. Linney appearing pro se and with A. Root Edmonson appearing on behalf of the
North Carolina State Bar. Based upon the evidence before the panel, the panel makes the
following:

Findings of Fact
1.
Petitioner was disbarred by an order of discipline entered in the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission (hereinafter "DHC") on November 19,1996 in 96 DHC 6 (hereinafter
"1996 order of discipline"). The 1996 order of discipline fOLmd: (I) that petitioner, while
guardian for Georgiana Alexander, misappropriated the proceeds of a $10,000 CD owned by Ms.
Alexander; (2) after Ms. Alexander's death, petitioner misappropriated $900 he received as rent
on the property she had owned; and (3) petitioner made false statements to the State Bar's
investigator and to the Grievance Committee.
2.

Petitioner accepted service of the 1996 order of discipline on December 19, 1996.

3.
Petitioner filed a Motion for Rehearing in 96 DHC 6 on January 16, 1997 that was
denied on February 19, 1997.
4.
On April 24, 1997, petitioner filed a Petition for Judicial Review of an
AdministrativeAction of the North Carolina State Bar in Buncombe County Superior Court.
Petitioner's Petition for Judicial Review was dismissed by the Buncombe County Superior Court
by order filed on December 29, 1997.
5.
Petitioner did not appeal the 1996 order of discipline to the NC Court of Appeals
which was the appropriate method of seeking review of the 1996 order of discipline pursuant to
N.C.G.S. § 84-28(h).
6.
The January 18, 1997 effective date of Petitioner's disbal111ent was never stayed
or modified by the DHC or any court.

7.
On September 18, 1997, petitioner was convicted of two counts of embezzlement
and two counts of peljury in Buncombe County Superior Court relating to the same conduct that
resulted in the 1996 order of discipline.
8.
By opinion filed June 6, 2000, the North Carolina Court of Appeals vacated one
ofpetitioner's 1997 embezzlement convictions and remanded the case to Buncombe County
Superior Comt for retrial of the other charges.
9.
On FebruaTy 5, 2003, petitioner was convicted of one comt of embezzlement and
two counts of perjmy in Buncombe County Superior Court on retrial of the remanded charges.
10.
By opinion filed June 7, 2005, the North Carolina Court of Appeals affirmed
petitioneT's 2003 convictions.
11.

Petitioner filed his instant petition for reinstatement on February 27, 201 I.

12.
Prior to filing his petition for reinstatement, petitioner timely published a Notice
of Intent to seek Reinstatement in the North Carolina State Bar Journal.
13.
Petitioner timely notified the complainant in the disciplinaTy proceeding that led
to his disbarment of his notice of intent to seek reinstatement.
14.
IS.
disbarment.

Petitioner's citizenship was restored on January I, 2004.
Petitioner complied with Rule .0124 by winding down his practice after his

16.
There is no evidence presented that petitioner failed to comply with all applicablc
ordcrs of the North Carolina State Bar.
17.
There was no evidence presented that petitioner engaged in the unauthorized
practice oflaw after his disbarment.
18.
There was no evidence presented that petitioner engaged in conduct after his
disbarment that would constitute grounds for discipline.
19.
misconduct.

The Client Security Fund did not reimburse any clients as a result of petitioner's

20.
Although petitioner contended that he was disbarred by the judge presiding during
sentencing upon conviction at his second criminal trial in February 2003, he presented no
evidence in support of his contention. There is no refercnce to such judicial disbarment in the
Court of Appeals decision and this panel was shown no record 01' information from which it
could take judicial notice of a judicial disbarment.

2

21.
By January 26, 1998 court order, Gail Carmen Spencer, Georgiana Alexander's
granddaughter, was reimbursed the amount that the DHC found was misappropriated from
Georgiana Alexander from funds belonging to petitioner that had been frozen in petitioner's
various bank accounts by an earlier order of the Wake County Superior Court.
??
Petitioner paid all dues and Client Security Fund assessments owed to the North
Carolina State Bar.

23.
Petitioner deposited $500 with the Secretary as security for the cost of his
reinstatement petition.
24.
Petitioner chosc not to testify in support of his petition for reinstatement. In the
absence of his testimony, the hearing panel had only the statements petitioner made in his
petition for reinstatement as expressions of his contentions.
25.
In his petition for reinstatement, petitioner professed to have accepted full
responsibility for the conduct that led to his disbarment.
26.
However, in his petition for reinstatement, petitioner also made the following
statements that conflicted with his professed acceptance of responsibility for his past conduct:
a.

Petitioner contended that Georgiana Alexander was legally incompetent and,
therefore, not able to enter into a contract. He contended that this fact
contradicted any conclusion in the 1996 order of discipline that petitioner
"misappropriated" his "client's" funds;

b.

Petitioner contended that Georgiana Alexander died testate and, thus, did not
have "heirs," but had "devisees." He contended that this fact contradicted
any conclusion in the 1996 order of discipline that petitioner misappropriated
$900 in rent proceeds without the approval of Ms. Alexander's "heirs;" and

c.

Petitioner contended that the Buncombe County Clerk of Superior Comt,
rather than the DI-IC, had exclusive jurisdiction to determine all issues
relating to Georgiana Alexander, implying that the DHC had no jurisdiction
to discipline him.

27.
In a February 10,2011 letter that petitioner wrote to Georgiana Alexander's
granddaughter, Gale Carmen Spencer, he denied that he had the requisite criminal intent to
commit embezzlement or peljury.
28.
Petitioner's statements referenced in paragraphs 26 and 27 above show that
petitioner refuses to acknowledge that his taking Georgiana Alexander's CD proceeds and the
rent proceeds was wrong.
29.
Petitioner presented two friends as witnesses who believed that petitioner was
remorseful for the conduct that led to his disbarment. However, petitioner's statements

3

mentioned in paragraphs 26 and 27 above conflicted with the witnesses' belief that petitioner
was remorseful.
30.
Petitioner presented no evidence to show that he had exhibited any remorse for
his past misconduct to the people in the Buncombe County community where he lived at the time
of his misconduct.
31.
Petitioner failed to present evidence from any lawyer or judge from Buncombe
County that the hann to the standing and integrity of the bar and the administration ofjustice
caused by petitioner's misconduct, and the publicity resulting from petitioner's disbarment and
his criminal convictions, had been eradicated.
32.
In his petition for reinstatement, petitioner claimed to have Imowledge of the
current Rules of Professional Conduct. However, petitioner's contentions in his petition for
reinstatement mentioned in paragraph 26 above show that petitioner lacks knowledge of the
current Rules of Professional Conduct.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel makes the following:

Conclusions of Law
I.
The panel has jurisdiction over the petitioner and over the subject matter of the
issues determined at the hearing.
2.
Because Petitioner failed to properly perfect any appeal of the DHC order of
discipline disbarring him, the order constitutes the law of the case and was not subject to
challenge in this petition for reinstatement.
3.
Pursuant to the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State Bar,
petitioner had the burden of showing by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he had met
each of the requirements for reinstatement to the practice oflaw in North Carolina.
4.
Petitioner satisfied his burden of proving the requirements of27 N.C.A.C. IE, §
.0125(a)(3)(A), (B), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (1), (L), (M), and (N).
5.
The misconduct that resulted in petitioner's disbarment constituted some of the
most serious violations of professional responsibility that an attorney can commit, involving
dishonesty and criminal conduct by the misappropriation of entrusted funds and making false
statements to cover up his misconduct. The fact that one of his subsequent criminal convictions
was later vacated by the Court of Appeals does not negate the conclusion of the DHC that
petitioner engaged in criminal conduct.
6.
Petitioner failed to prove by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he has
reformed and presently possesses the moral qualifications required for admission to practice law
in this state taking into account the gravity of the misconduct tllat resulted in his disbamlent as
required by 27 N.C.A.C. § .0125(a)(3)(C), making him ineligible to be reinstated to the practice

4

of law in North Carolina.
7.
Petitioner failed to prove by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that permitting
him to resume the practice oflaw would not be detrimental to the integrity and standing of the
bar, to the administration ofjllstice and to the public interest taking into account the gravity of
the misconduct that resulted in his disbannent as required by § .0125(a)(3)(D), making him
ineligible to be reinstated to the practice oflaw in North Carolina.
8.
Petitioner failed to prove by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he
lmderstands the current Rules of Professional Conduct as required by § .0 I25(a)(3)(K), making
him ineligible to be reinstated to the practice of law in North Carolina.
Therefore, based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the panel
enters the following ORDER:

I.
It is the panel's recommendation to the Council that petitioner's Petition for
Reinstatement be denied.
2.
If petitioner fails to appeal this order to the Council pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB, §
.0125(a)(8) within 30 days of service of this order, then this order will be a final order denying
petitioner's petition for reinstatement.
3.

The costs of this petition for reinstatement are taxed against the petitioner.

Signed by the Chair with the knowledge and consent of the other panel members this the

1/6

day of May 2011.

5

