ar\~~\f\~~
of.

,~1:;

Of'r
" CPu.·

,'\j

L.,j

Vffdj

t'<'J

~
STATE OF NORTH CARO

~A

FilEl))

\~).

'..4>

or

WAKE COUNTY

DNa,

BEFORE THE
DJXC . LINARY HEARING COMMISSION
'<\\~
OF THE
Bll( ~\t,\. NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
.
12DHC 39

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER

WILBUR L. LINTON, JR., Attol11ey,
Defendant

Defendant, Wilbur L. Linton, Jr. ("Linton" or "Defendant"), was ordered to
appear and show cause why the stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of
Discipline entered in this case on 8 March 2013 should not be lifted and the suspension
activated. This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, JI'., Chair, Harriett T. Smalls, and Scott A.
Sutton pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01l4(x). Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina
State Bar ("State Bar" or "Plaintiff') was represented by Brian P.D. Oten. Defendant
represented himself. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter and both partics
stipulate and consent to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order
and to the disposition imposed. By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant
waives any right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of
the findings.
Based upon the pleadings and the consent of the patties, the Hearing Panel hereby
tinds by the greater weight of the evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. On 8 March 2013, a Consent Order of Discipline (hereinafter "the Order") was
entered in this matter, with an effective dale of8 March 2013.
2. The Order imposed a two-year suspension, stayed for three years, on
Defendant's license to practice law in tltis State. The stay of the suspension was
conditioned upon Defendant's compliance with the conditions stated in the Order.
3. The Order, at paragraph 1(a) on page 5, required Defendant to reimburse his tlUst
account for all improperly disbursed funds within thirty days of the Order's effective
date. The Order also required Defendant to provide the Office of Counsel with
documentary evidence demonstrating such I'eimbursement took place within the

1

timeframe allotted. Defendant failed to comply with this condition by failing to
reimburse his trust account as required by the Order.
4. The Order, at paragraph 1(b) on page 5, required Defendant to disburse all
identified funds deposited in his bust accOlmt to the funds' rightful owner(s) within sixty
days of the effective date of the Order. Defendant failed to comply with this condition by
failing to disburse the identified funds from his trust account (0 the funds' rightful
owner(s) as required by the Order.
5. The Order, at paragraph led) on page 6, required Defendant on a quarterly basis
to provide the Office of Counsel with certain trust account documentation evidencing his
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct. Defendant failed to comply "'~th this
condition by failing to provide the Office of Counsel with any of the required
documentation described in paragraph led) ofthe Order.
6. The Order, at paragraph I (e) on page 6, required Defendant to retain a CPA to
audit his trust account(s) and provide the Office of Counsel with quarterly reports
attesting to Defendant's compliance or lack of compliance with Rules 1.15-2 & 1.15-3 of
the Rules of Professional Conduct. Defendant failed to comply with this condition by
failing to have a CPA audit his trust account and by failing to provide the Office of
Counsel with any quarterly reports from any CPA concerning Defendant's compliance
with the Rules of Professional Conduct as required by the Order.
7. After enby ofthe Order of Discipline in this matter, Linton was diagnosed with a
mental health condition. This condition, while not disabling, has the potential to affect
Linton's ability to practice law.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the I-learing Panel enters the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All pmties are properly before the Hearing Panel mld the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Wilbur L. Linton, Jr., mld over the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2.
Linton failed to comply with the following conditions of the stay of his
suspension contained in the Order of Discipline:
a. That, within thirty days of the Order's effccti vc dale, Linton reimburse his
trust account for all improperly disbursed funds and provide the Office of
Counsel with documentary evidence demonstrating such reimbursement
took place within the specitied timetrame as required by paragraph l(a) of
the Order of Discipline;

2

b. That, within sixty days of the Order's effective date, Linton disburse all
identified funds deposited in his trust account to the funds' rightfld
owner(s) as reqnired by paragraph I (b) ofthe Order of Discipline;
c. That Linton provide the Office of Counsel with certain trust account
documentation evidencing his compliance with the Rules of Professional
Conduct as required by paragraph 1(d) ofthe Order of Discipline; and
d. That Linton retain a CPA to audit his trust account(s) and provide the
Office of Counsel with quarterly reports attesting to Linton's compliance
or lack of compliance with Rules 1.15-2 & 1.15-3 of the Rules of
l'rofessional Conduct as required by paragraph l(e) of the Order of
Discipline.
3.
Such violations walTant activation of the suspension imposed by the Order
of Discipline and walTant imposition of conditions upon Linton's reinstatemcnt at the end
of the period of active suspension.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER
1.
The stay of Defendant's two-year suspension is lifted and the suspension
is activated. Pursuant to Rule .0124(c) of the NOlth Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules, this order and the two-year suspension imposed herein are effective 30
days after service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
AII costs and administrative fees of tlus action are taxed to Defendant.
Defendant must pay the costs of this action within 120 days of service upon him of the
statement of costs by the Secretary.
3.
Linton shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of
the NOlth Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the date that this Order is
served upon him. Linton shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in Rule
.0124 afthe North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .0124.
4.
At the end of the two-year active period of suspension, Linton may apply
for reinstatement by tiling a petition with the DllC in accordance with the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and by showing by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that he has complied with the following conditions for
reinstatement:
(a)

That he has complied with the general provisions for reinstatement listed
in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules;

3

(b)

That he refunded all paid legal fees to any client who is entitled to a
refund of paid legal fees - in Palt or in whole as the representation
wan'anted - within 120 days of the effective date ofthis order;

(c)

That, within 90 days prior to filing his petition for reinstatement, he has
been evaluated by a licensed and qualified psychiatrist or psychologist
who certifies under oath, based on his or her independent and
comprehensive evaluation of Defendant, that in his 01' her professional
opinion Defendant docs not cUll'ently have any mental, psychological,
behavioral, cognitive, or emotional condition 01' disordcr that impairs
Dcfendant's ability to practice law, that impacts Defendant's ability or
willingness to comply with the Rules of Professional Conduct, and/or
that poses a risk of harm to the public if he engages in the practice of
law. Such psychiatrist/psychologist shall be approved in advance by the
North Carolina State Bar Office of COlmse!. Defendant shall sign an
authorization form consenting to the release of all medical records and
information related to Defendant's evaluation to the Office of Counsel,
and Defendallt will not revoke tilat release.
Defcndallt shall
simultaneously provide a copy of such signed authorization to the Office
of Counsel and thc psychiatrist/psychologist. Defendant shall direct the
evaluating psychiatrist/psychologist described herein to provide a
written report of such evaluation and recommended treatment, if any, to
the Office of Counsel within thirty (30) days of the evaluation taking
place. All expenses of such evaluation and report shall be bome by
Defendant;

(d)

That he has complied with all treatment recommendations of the
evaluating psychiatrist/psychologist descrihed in paragraph (c) above.
Defendant shall sign an authorization form consenting to the release of
any medical records and infonnation related to Defendallt's treatment to
tile Office of Counsel, and Defendant will not revoke that release, and
Defendant shall simultaneously provide a copy of such signed
authorization to the Office of Counsel and his treatment provider.
Defendant shall direct his treatment provider to provide the Office of
Counsel with a written report detailing Defendant's treatment plan alld
Defendant's compliance or lack of compliance with such plall. All
expenses of such treatment and repOlis shall be bome by Defendant;

(e)

That he has paid all outstanding membership dues and Client Security
Fund assessments alld that there is no deficit in his fulfillment of any
obligation of membership;

(f)

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical home and business addresses and
telephone numbers, and that he has accepted all celtified mail fro111 the
N0l1h Carolina State Bar and responded to all letters of notice and
requests for information from ilie North Carolina State Bar by ilie

4

deadlines stated in the communication 01' within fifteen (15) days of
receipt of such communication, whichever is later;

._

(g)

That he has not violated any state or federal laws or any provisions of
the Rules of Professional Conduct; and

(h)

That he has paid all costs and administrative fees associated with this
case as assessed by the Secretary.

) Signed by

fh.ed~h the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

~dayof_ (W

I

,2013.

Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

Brian P.D. Oten
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Defendant

5

