THE COUNCIL OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BAR
14 BCS 2

STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN
WAKE COUNTY

ORDER OF DISBARMENT
DONALD F. LIVELY

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council ofthe North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0117(a) of the State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules upon tender of an affidavit of surrender of license executed by Donald F.
Lively and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on 22 July 2014.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Lively lmowingly and intentionally
engaged in the unauthorized practice oflaw for at least 2 years after being administratively
suspended fi'om the practice oflaw in North Carolina, including obtaining property under false
pretenses by receiving fees for the legal work he performed, and that he falsely represented his
suspended status and/or his Imowledge of his suspended status to the cOillt, to other attorneys, to
clients, and to third pmties in violation of Rules 1.4(b), 3.3(a)(1), 4.1, 5.5(a), 8.4(b), 8.4(c), and
8.4(d) of the NOlth Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct, and that Lively's conduct is grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
WHEREFORE, upon motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the following Order:
1. The tender of surrender of license of Donald F. Lively is hereby accepted.
2. Donald F. Lively is hereby DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in NOlth Carolina.
3. To the extent not already completed, Lively shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules and shall
surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the NOlth
Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by .0124 of the State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
4. The administrative fees and costs of this action are taxed against Lively.

Done and ordered this

2S'daYOf~{ ~

L'JOI4.

;!L2"'-~f--_~-

'Ronald G. Baker, Sr., President
The NOlth Carolina State Bar

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY
SURRENDER OF THE LICENSE OF
DONALD F. LIVELY
DONALD F. LIVELY, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:

1. I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina pursuant to
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0117.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, and is not the result of coercion or duress. I
am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.
3. I am aware that there is a pending investigation by the State Bar regarding allegations that I
knowingly and intentionally engaged in the unauthorized practice of law for at least 2 years
after being administratively suspended fi-om the practice of law in North Carolina, including
obtaining property under false pretenses by receiving fees for the legal work I perfonned.
Further, I falsely represented my suspended status and/or my knowledge of my suspended
status to the com1, to other attorneys, to clients, and to third pm1ies.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are true.
5. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them.
6. I understand that the hearing by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar with regard to the
acceptance of the tender of surrender of my license to practice law will occur at the regularly
"
scheduled meeting of the Council of the North Carolina State Bar on Friday, 25 July 2014 at
the Doubletree by Hilton Hotel, located at 100 Middle Street in New Bern, North Carolina. I
hereby waive any fulther notice of the hearing before the Council on my affidavit of surrender.
I waive any claim, argument, or asseltion that I have not received proper or timely notice of the
hearing before the Council on my affidavit of surrender or any other defect in notice. I further
waive any and all right or privilege to appear before the Council at the hearing.
This is the 22. day of

JvL.. '(

,2014.

~~

I, R€\:)eCL~ 5. Co..no II. Notary Public of the County of Ha-:rY'e-q , State of North Carolina, ceJtity
that Donald F. Lively personally appeared before me this day, was sworn, attested that the foregoing Affidavit
is true and accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.
This the

2.~vJday of Jrl-"'vL-,-l'-'~T-_ _' 2014.
r-==~~~~'~'9frI~'.es'
Notary Public

REBECCA S. CARROlC
NOTARY PUBLIC

HARNETT COUNTY, N.C.

My Commtulon

Expire. 10-0J..2018.

.

10-:3 - :2.0 I B

