STATE OF NORTH CAR

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
DAVID A. LLOYD, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on January 16,2015 before a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair, and members R. Lee Farmer and
Michael S. Edwards pursuant to NOlfu Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1,
Subchapter n, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by G. Patrick Murphy. Defendant, David A.
Lloyd ("Lloyd" or "Defendant"), appeared pro se.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and the evidence
presented at hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of NOlih Carolina and is the proper patty to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant was admitted to the NOlth Carolina State Bar on August 18, 1990, and
is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attomey at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Rutherford County, North Carolina.
4.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter cat1le befOl'e the
Hearing Panel with due notice to all patties.

1

5.
From 2000 through May 31, 2010, Defendant practiced law with the finn
Hamrick, Bowen, Mebane & Lloyd, LLP ("HBML") in Rutherfordton, North Carolina.
Defendant left HBML effective May 31, 201 O.
6.
During the time Defendant was a member of HBML, Robert L. Mebane
("Mebanc") was also a member of the law firm. Beginning in 2008 through May 31, 2010,
Defendant and Mebane were the only members ofHBML.
7.
In 2008 through May 31, 2010, HBML had two trust accounts: a) a real estate
trust accotmt with RBC Centum, account number ending 1230 CRBC 1230"); and b) a general
trust accmmt with BB&T, account munber ending 1837 ("BB&T 1837"). Both Defendant and
Mebane had signature authority to write checks on BB&T 1837 and entrusted funds were held in
the account.
8.
During the period 2008 through May 31, 2010, Defendant did not conduct
monthly or quarterly reconciliations ofBB&T 1837.
9.
Between October 1,2008 and May 31, 2010, Defendant signed and issued checks
on BB&T 1837 without identitying on the checks the client balance against which the checks
were drawn.
10.
In or about 2008, HBML's business operations account used for finn operational
transactions was closed.
11.
Defcndant became aware in 2008 that trust account BB&T 1837 was being used
for operational expenses. Defendant's personal funds were commingled with hust account funds
in BB&T 1837 in order to cover usage of the trust account for operational expenses.
12.
Beginning in or about 2008 and continuing lmtil the time Defendant left the firm,
a ledger was maintained to tmck HBML operational transactions through BB&T 1837. Ledger
cards for clients with entrusted funds in BB&T 1837 were also maintained.
13.
In the fall of 2008, Defendant learned HBML had not met its obligations to pay
federal income tax withholding for its employees for the first three quarters of2008.
14.
On or about November 10,2008, Defendant signed and issued check no. 21176 in
the amount of $13,437.03 drawn against BB&T 1837 and made payable to the Internal Revenue
Service (hereinafter "IRS") for overdue incomc tax withholding.
15.
On November 18,2008, when check no. 21176 cleared BB&T 1837, HMBL did
not have sufficient funds belonging to HBML in the account to cover the check.
On November 26,2008, Defendmlt deposited $13,437.03 of his personal funds
16.
into BB&T 1837 to cover check no. 21176. Defendant commingled personal funds with trust
account funds to replenish the trust account for the check written to the IRS.

2

17.
Defendant used entrusted client funds to cover check no. 21176 and pay HBML's
withholding tax obligation.
18.
On December 17, 2009, check no. 21565, signed by Mebane, was drawn on
BB&T 1837 in the amount of $173.10 and paid through BB&T 1837. The check was made
payable to a restaurant to pay for a staff holiday luncheon.
19.
At the time check no. 21565 was drawn against BB&T 1837, I-IBML did not have
sufficicnt funds belonging to HBML in the account to cover the amount of the check. Entrusted
funds were used to pay for the staff luncheon.
20.
On December 21, 2009, Defendant's personal check in the amount of $86.55 was
deposited to BB&T 1837 to cover Defendant's portion of the luncheon expense. Defendant
commingled personal funds with trust account funds to replenish the trust account for his part of
the check written for the luncheon.
21.
On or about June 2,2009, Defendant depositcd $95,270.69 to BB&T 1837. These
were entrusted funds of the KN. Estate held on behalf of Defendant's client RH which had been
named administrator of the KN. Estate.
22.
After Defendant deposited the entrusted funds of the K.N. Estate to BB&T 1837,
he withdrew attorney fees from the estate funds on two occasions so that as of August 17, 2009,
$94,070.69 of the K.N. Estate entrusted funds remained to be disbursed.
23.
In or about March or April 2010, an employee of HMBL told Defendant she
suspected Mebane had misappropriated money from BB&T 1837.
24.
As a result of the employee's information, Defendant looked into Mebane's
disbursements from BB&T 1837. After examining BB&T 1837, Defendant confronted Mebane
about checks drawn on the nust account by Mebane that Dcfendant deemed suspicious.
25.
Between the time Defendant confi'onted Mebane and May 31, 2010, Mebane told
Defendant he (Mebane) had replenished BB&T 1837 for everything Mebane had taken out of the
trust account.
26.
By late May 2010, Defendant lmew and had information to reasonably believe
that Mebane had misappropriated or misapplied entrustcd funds from BB&T 1837.
27.
With information to know and reasonably believe that Mebane had
misappropriated or misapplied entrusted funds from BB&T 1837, Defendant did not inform the
North Carolina State Bar about Mebane's conduct.
28.
For extended periods of time between June 2, 2009 and the time Defendant
confronted Mebanc about Mebane's misappropriation from BB&T 1837, the balance of BB&T
1837 dropped well below $94,070.69, the balance of the KN. Estate fuuds that should have been
in the account.

3

29.
After Defendant separated from HBML on May 31, 2010, Defendant left the K.N.
Estate funds for which RH was Administrator in BB&T 1837 even though Defendant had
information to reasonably believe that Mebane bad misappropriated or misapplied entrusted
funds from BB&T 1837and that Mebane had signature authority on BB&T 1837.

On October 21, 2010, Defendant wTote the following checks against BB&T 1837
30.
to disburse K.N. Estate funds as follows:
Date

Check No.

Payee

Amount

10/21/10

21729

RRadiology

$1,570.73

10/21/10

21730

BB&T

$5,955.28

10/21110

21731

R Intemal Med.

$3,678.75

10/21110

21732

B Center

$365.27

10/21110

21733

RH

$71,340.32

10/21110

21734

Clerk/Court

$10,610.22

10/21/10

21735

Clerk/Court

$550.12

31

Defendant latcr sent the checks listed in paragraph 30 to the entities named on the

32.

Check no. 21733 to RH in the amount of $71,340.32 was retm'ned for insufficient

33.

Mebane was later disbarred.

checks.

funds.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes grounds
for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:

4

a.

By failing to conduct quarterly and monthly reconciliations ofBB&T 1837,
Defendant violated Rule 1.15-3(d)(l) and Rule 1.15-3(d)(2);

b.

By depositing funds belonging to Defendant into BB&T 1837 to cover check no.
21565 written on BB&T 1837 for the stafflunchcon, Defendant commingled
personal and entrusted ftIUds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(f);

c.

By issuing checks on BB&T 1837 without identifying on the checks the client
balance against which the checks were drawn, Defendant violated Rule 1.153(b)(2);

d.

By using entrusted funds to pay HBML's withholding tax obligation, Defendant
used entrusted funds for his own benefit and for the benefit of third parties other
than the beneficial owners ofthat property in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j);

e.

By depositing funds belonging to Defendant into BB&T 1837 to cover check no.
21176 and pay HBML' s withholding tax obligation, Defendant commingled
personal and entrusted funds in BB&T 1837 in violation of Rule 1.15-2(f);

f.

By failing to inform the North Carolina State Bar or a court having jurisdiction
that Defendant knew Mebane had misappropriated entrusted funds thereby
committing a violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct that raised
substantial qnestions as to Mcbane's honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a
lawyer, Defendant violated Rule 8.3;

h.

By failing to promptly report Mebane's conduct to the NOlth Carolina State Bar
after Defendant discovered or had grounds to reasonably believe Mebane had
misappropriated or misapplied entrusted property, Defendant violated Rule 1.152(0); and

i.

By leaving the K.N. Estate entrusted funds in BB&T 1837 after Defendant
separated from HBML Imowing or having grounds to reasonably believe Mebane
had misappropriated or misapplied entrusted proPelty, and that Mebane had
signature authority on the account, Defendant fail to act with reasonable diligence
to protect the K.N. Estate's interests in violation of Rule 1.3.

3. The evidcnce was no.! sufficient to find by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that
Defendant used entrusted propelty of his own use and the benefit of third parties with respect to
check no. 21565 in violation of Rule 1.12-2G), or that Defendant violated Rule 8A(b) or 8A(c)
with respect to check nos. 21565 or 21176, or that he failed to safeguard the K.N. Estate funds in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(a).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the evidence
presented at hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:

5

ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage and handle entrusted funds
betrays a vital trust that clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal profession.
2.
Defendant's mismanagement of BB&T 1837 resulted innumerous violations of
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

3.
Defendant's client notified Defendant that its check in the amount of $71,340.32
drawn on his trust accolrnt was returned for non-sufficient funds. Defendant explained to RH that
he had left the K.N. Estate funds in a trust account that Mebane had access to and that Mebane
had misappropriated K.N. Estate funds.
4.
Defendant's handling of the K.N. Estate ftrnds resulted in significant harm to
Defendant's client which has been without the use of $71 ,340.32 for more than four years.
5.
Defendant's failure to notify the State Bar of Mebane's misappropriation of client
funds demonstrates a lack of trustworthiness on the part of Defendant in dealing with difficult
circumstances.
6.
By failing to report Mebane's conduct to the State Bar and leaving entrusted
funds of the K.N Estate in the untrustworthy hands of Mebane, Defendant elevated his own
interests above those of his client RH.
7.
Defendant's handling of the withholding tax payment was a misappropriation of
client funds and assets even though he intended, and had made arrangements, to reimburse the
trust account for the check he wrote to the IRS.
8.
Defendant had significant experience in ,the practice of law and should have
demonstrated greater responsibility for the trust account.
9.
On January 11, 2012, Defendant consented to the entry of an order in Wake
County Superior Court enj oining him fi'om accepting, receiving or having custody or control of
any fiduciary funds until further order of the cornt.
10.
Defendant enjoys a good reputation for integrity and high moral character among
several members of his local Bar.
II.
Defendant candidly admitted his failure to supervise the finn's trust account and
is remorseful for his conduct.
12.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbarment, in
considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

6

Based on the Findings of Faet and Conclusions of Law above and the additional Findings
of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fmms of discipline
available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel ha, considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. IB § .01l4(w)(I) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes the following factors are present:
a.

Circumstances reflecting Dcfendant's hick of trustworthiness;

b.

Elevation of the Defendant's own interest above that of his client;

c..

Negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of the
profession; and

d.

Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation.

2.
The I-Iearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IE § .OII4(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factor is present:
a.

Misappropriation of client assets to which Defendant was not entitled.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .OII4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe NOlth Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

Defendant's selfish motive;

b.

Defendant's condnct resulted in multiple offenses;

c.

Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;

d.

Defendant's good general character and reputation;

e.

Defendant's experience in the practice of law; and

f.

Otherpenaities or sanctions in the form of a comt order enjoining Defendant from
handling fiduciary fllllds.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or censure
but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline. The Panel concludes that
such discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the violations committed by

7

Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in this State.
5.
The Hearing Panel considered disbarment but concludes that considering all the
circumstances of this case disbarment is not necessary to protect the public or the profession in
this matter.
6.
The Hearing Panel has considered all alternatives and concludes that a suspension
is necessary to adequately protect the public. The Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of suspension would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant is hereby suspended from the practice of law in the State of North
Carolina for three (3) years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
The three year suspension is stayed for tIu'ee (3) years as long as Defendant
complies with the following conditions:
a.

Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar and
respond to all requests for information or communications fi'om the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in the communication;

b.

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership department
advised of his current physical business address (not a Post Office box), telephone
number, and email address and shall notify the Bar of any changes in address
within ten (10) days of such change;

c.

Defendant will timely comply with State Bar continuing legal education ("CLE")
requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;

d.

Defendant will not violate the laws of any state or the United States;

e.

Defendant will not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional Conduct;

f.

Defendant shall open an IOLTA 1mst account within 30 days of entry ofthis order
and shall maintain a trust account for the duration of the stayed suspension.
Defendant shall provide the account name, number and location to the Office of
Counsel within 10 days of opening the tmst acconnt;

g.

Defendant shall cooperate with the Office of Counsel in petitioning the Superior
Comt to terminate the injunction presently in place enjoining defendant from
serving in any fiduciary capacity and from accepting or receiving entrusted funds.

8

Any filing expenses associated with terminating the injunction shall be the sole
responsibility of Defendant;
h.

Defendant shall complete three hours of CLE in the area of trust account
management each of the three yeaxs of the stayed suspension arid shall provide
written proof of the successful completion of those courses to the Office of
Counsel within 10 days of completing each course. These CLE requirements arc
in addition to the CLE requirements set out in 27 N.CAC. lD § .1518;

L

Defendant shall complete a course of training in law office management approved
by the State Bar within six months of the date of tlus order and shall provide
written proof of the successful completion of the course to the Office of Counsel
within 10 days of its completion. This requirement is in addition to the CLE
requirements set out in 27 N.C.A.C. 1D § .1518;

J.

Defendant shall, at his own expense, retain a certified public accountant ("CPA")
who shall audit Defendant's trust account semi-annually and provide written
reports to the State Bar confirming that Defendant's trust account is in compliance
with all applicable provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct. The report of
the CPA shall be provided to the Office of Counsel no later than July I and
January I throughout the period of the stayed suspension. Defendant shall
cooperate with the CPA by producing all trust account records, bank account
records, or any other financial record related to any client requested by the CPA.
to ensure the audit is completed in a timely fashion. It is Defendant's sole
responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and submits the report as required
herein;

Ie

Defendant shall permit the State Bar to conduct random audits of all accounts
over which he' has signatory authority and to which any fiduciary funds are
deposited. Defendant shall promptly comply with any requests from the State Bar
to provide any information regarding his trust accounts or to sign and provide any
release or authorization to allow the State Bar to obtain information directly from
any banle at which Defendant maintained or maintains a h'ust account;
.

L

Defendant shall pay to his client, RH, the sum of $71,340.32 as restitution. This
amount shall be paid within the three-year period of the stayed suspension. Proof
of payment shall be provided in writing to the Office of Counsel; and

m.

Defendant shall pay the admilush'ative fees and costs of this disciplinary
proceeding within 30 days of service of the statement of fees and costs upon him
by the Secretary ofthe State Bar.

3.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated above,
then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .01l4(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, and the DHC may enter an order
imposing such conditions as it deems proper for the reinstatement of Defendant' license at the
end of the suspension.
9

4,
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DBC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years ii'om the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack' of
compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension and Defendant has provided an
affidavit with supp01ting documentation to the Office of Counsel not less than 60 days prior to
the expiration of this suspension demonstrating that he has complied with all of the conditions of
the suspension, Pursuant to § ,OI14(x) of the NOlth Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the
DBC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a
motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of
the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise have
terminated, the DBC retains jurisdiction and the ability to lift the stay of the suspension and
'activate the three year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the conditions of the
stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with
the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion or show
cause proceeding,
5,
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the DBC may enter an order imposing such conditions as it deems proper for the
reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension, Additionally, Defendant must
establish the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence prior to being reinstated to the
practice oflaw after any period of active suspension:
a,

Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary of the
State Bar within thhty days of the date of the order lifting the stay and/or
activating the suspension of his Jaw license;

b,

Defendant complied with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B § ,0124 of the State
Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following entry of the order lifting the stay
and/or activating the suspension of his law license;

c,

Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against him in
this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the
Secretary of the State Bar;

d.

That within 15 days of the effective date of the order activating the suspension
Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which
clients seeking return of files can cOlmnunicate with Defendant and obtain such
files;

e,

That Defendant promptly provided client files to all clients who made a request
for return of their files;

f.

Defendant has Icept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his current
business and home street addresses (not post office box or drawer addresses) and
notified the State Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

10

g.

Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
cOlmnunications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days
of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner;

h.

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment of
all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Security Fund
assessments, and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to collect
from him, including all judicial district dues and assessments;

i.

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory CLE hours in reporting of such hours or in payment of
any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

j.

At the time oHus petition for reinstatement, Defendant has completed the
additional 3 hours per year oftrust account CLE and law office management CLE
required in paragraph 2 (h) aud (i) above;

k.

At the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant has paid his client, R.B.,
the sum of$71,340.32 as restitution; and

I.

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States, or the laws of any state or local govermnent during his suspension.

6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of tIus matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay of the suspension are
satisfied.

-r!s,.igned

-f-C'-I°-,--·

'JJiJ1

~ t\lt~hair ,Ath the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

Myof~~

Walter E. Brock, JI'., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

11

