'i>\\ \B ]9 ('0 ?/c:

.~

..AI.
'1P

~

?,-',)
v,-?

APR 2012'

;;

'&-

STATE OF NORTH CAR :;l;!.INf!Lf::1J DHr'>
0'
\lilIS

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
~ <9
,<,;;'
OF THE
~~ 1:>
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
3~\
12DHC

lie

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR.
PlaintiIT
CONSENT ORDER OF
lNTERIM SUSPENSION

v.
SHANNON LOVINS, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS CAUSE came before the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Section
.0115(d) or the Discipline & Disability Rules of the Nonh Carolina Slale Bar and by
consent of the parties and upon good cause shown. the undersigned hereby makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Shannon Lovins ("Lovins") was licensed to practice law in Nonh Carolina
on March 24, 2001 and is and was at all limes referred to herein, an attorney at law,
subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of North Carolina.
2,
The current address of record for Lovins with the North Carolina State Bar
is The Lovins Law Firm, PA, 66 N. Market Street, Asheville, NC 28801.
J.
On April 10,20[2, Lovins pled guilty in Rutherford County, North
Carolina, to the following criminal offenses: possession of methadone and heroin, class I
felonies, in violation ofN.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-95(3)(3); possession of marijuana, a
misdemeanor, in violation of N.C. Gen. Slat. § 90-95(d)(4); possession ofa Schedule II
controlled substance, a misdemeanor. in violation ofN.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-95(d)(2): and
possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor, in violation ofN.C. Gen. Stat. § 90113.22. Lovins entered these guilty pleas pursuant to an arrangement allowing for
conditional discharge under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-96 if she successfully completes the
probation imposed thereunder. Lovins has been placed on probation for 30 months.

4.
Lovins has entered inlo a contract with the North Carolina State Bar
Lawyer Assistance Program (LAP) for a period of three years. Under the LAP contract,
Lovins will receive treatment and monitoring to assist her in abstaining from drug and
alcohol use.

5.
It is appropriate for the State Bar to monitor Lovins during the period of
time while her disciplinary matters arc still pending, while Lovins is on probation under
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-96 and receiving treatment through LAP.
Based upon the foregoing FINDINGS OF FACT. the undersigned makes the
following
CONCLUSIONS OF LA W
I.
Felonies constitule serious crimes showing professional unfitness as
defined by Rule .0103(17) of the State Bar DiSCipline & Disability Rules. 27 N.C.
Admin. Code. Chapter I, Subchapter B, Section .0103(17).
2.
Rule .0 IlS(d) of the Discipline & Disability Rules of the State Bar
authorizes the Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission to enter an order
suspending an attorney's license pending disposition of the disciplinary proceeding
against Ihe member in cases where an attorney pleads guilty to a serious crime showing
professional unfitness. 27 N.C. Admin. Code. Chapter I. Subchapter B. Section .0115(d)
3.
It is appropriate for the State [lar to support efforts to ensure Lovins
receives necessary treatment for drug and alcohol abuse, for the rehabilitation of Lovins
and for the proteclion of the public. as long as measures are taken in the interim for Ihe
protection of the public. Given the unique circumstances of this case, including the
nature of the violations, the voluntary Ireatment undertaken by Lovins pursuant 10 LAP,
and the probationary conditions under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90·96. the undersigned Chair
concludes that active interim suspension is not required as long as Lovins refrains from
alcohol and illegal drug consumption. The Chair concludes that the public will be
adequately protected by staying an interim suspension of Lovins' law license while she is
under probation pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90·96 and while she undergoes treatment
pursuant to LAP. with conditions imposed upon Lovins to ensure her abstention from
drug and alcohol usage and proper maintenance of entrusted funds.
4.
The entry of this order placing Lovins on a stayed interim suspension does
not forecast or limit (he discipline that will ultimately be detenmined 10 be appropriate .t
the conclusion of this disciplinary action.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following
ORDER
I.
The license (0 practice law in North Carolina of Shannon Lovins is hereby
suspended until the conclusion of all disciplinary matters pending before (he North
Carolina State Bar relating to her plea of guilty in Rutherford County Superior Court.
North Carolina, to crimes showing prOfessional unfitness.

2.
This suspension is stayed as long as Lovins cDmp!i.s, and continues to
comply, with the following conditions:
a.

Comply with all terms and conditions of any order of the court
pertaining to the guilty pleas and § 90-96 program referenced
above;

b.

Abstain from the consumption of any alcohol during the period of
stay;

C.

Abstain from the consumption of any controlled substance other
than as expressly authorized by a treating physician during the
period of stay;

d.

Comply with the monitoring requirements of FirstLab Professional
Health Monitoring Program or other service agreed to by the
parties, at Lovins' expense. Such monitoring will include thirteen
drug and alcohol screens per year. The monitoring agreement will
require the monitoring service to report to the North Carolina State
Bar any failure of Lovins to take or pay for the test and any
positive test result. Lovins will enter into n monitoring program
within thirty days of the date of this order. Lovins will sign a[l
necessary releases or documents to allow such reporting and shall
not revoke the release during the period of stay;

e.

Continue participation in and comply with any treatment
recommendarions from the North Carolina State Bar Lawyers
Assistance Program, at Lovins' expense. The Lawyers Assistance
Program shall notify the State Bar if Lovins fails to participate in
the Lawyers Assistance Program or fails to comply with treatment
recommendations. Lovins will sign all necessary releases or
documents to allow such notilication and to allow the Lawyers
Assistance Program to discuss Lovins' participation and treatment
in the Lawyers Assistance Program with the Office of Counsel of
the State Bar, and shall not revoke the release during the period of
stay;

f.

Attend at least three AA meetings per week beginning ten days
from the date of this order and work with a sponsor willing to
make reports of Lovins' attendance to the North Carolina State
Bar. Within litleen days ofthe date of this order, Lovins' will
noti(l' the North Carolina State Bar of the identity and contact
infonnation for the sponsor with whom she wiJi be working on the
AA program. Lovins will detail her AA meeting attendance to her
sponsor in any manner required by the sponsor. Lovins will

authorize and instruct her sponsor to provide monthly written
reports to the North Carolina Slate Bar of the dates on which the
sponsor is confident that Lovins attended AA meetings. The first
such report shall be submitted to the North Carolina Stale Bar
thirty days from the date of this order and subsequent reports
submitted on the first day of each month thereafter. Any cost
associated with the attendance or report shall be borne by Lovins;
g.

Each month Lovins shall provide the State Bar with the three-way
reconciliation of her trust account described in the State Bar
Lawyer's Trust Accollnt Handbook on pages 35-40 (reference is to
the edition last revised in May 2011). Lovins shall provide the
three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with
funds in her trust account during that month, ledger for any
personal funds maintained in the trust account for bank or credi!
card fees. her trust account ledger, and the bank statement,
cancelled checks. and deposit slips for each month. These
documents are due on the 15'· day of the following month - for
example, the three-way reconciliation for the month of January is
due on February 15;

h.

Lovins shall not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions
of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the
stayed suspension:

i.

Lovins shall respond to all State Dar requests for information as
required by Rule 8.' (b) of the Rules ofProfeS5ional Conduct by
the earlier of the deadline stated in the communication or within 30
days of receipt;

J.

Lovins shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements; and

k.

Lovins shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of her current home and business Slreet (not
P.O. Box) addresses and telephone numbers.

3.
This order, and the stayed interim suspension imposed herein, are effective
as of the date of the filing of this order.
4.
If the stay granted herein is revoked or the interim suspension of Lovins'
license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement orher license to practice
law. Lovins must show by clear. cogent and convincing evidence thaI she has complied
with each of the following conditions:

n.

Submitted her law license and membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within thirty days of service upon her
of the order activating the interim suspension;

b.

Complied with nil provisions of27N.C.A.C. IB § .Ol24 ofthe
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules on a timely basis
following the order aClivating the interim suspension;

c.

Demonstrated that she is not suffering from any addiction.
disability or condition that would impair her ability to competently
engage in the practice of law;

d.

Demonstrated that she has abstained from all alcohol or illicit drug
use or consumption and has not taken any prescription drugs or
controlled substances other than as authorized by her treating
physician for at least one year immediately preceding the filing of
her petition for reinstatement;

e.

Provided the Ortice of Counsel with releases to obtain and review
her medical records. including psychological and mental health
evaluations. and sub'tance abuse counseling records. and to
interview her medical care providers and substance abuse
counselors;

f.

Paid all outstanding membership fees. Client Security Fund
assessments and costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar and
complied with any outslanding continuing legal education
requirements imposed by the State Bar; and

g.

Any conditions set out in the order lilling the stay and activating
this interim suspension.

5.
The undersigned will retain jurisdiction oflhis matter until resolution of
the diSciplinary matter pertaining to the guilty pleas referenced herein pursuant to
Rule .OI15(d) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. 27 N.C.
Admin. Code. Chapter I, Subchapter B. Section .OI15(d).
This the 1.:P~~aay of April. 2012.

k

CJ, ~f~

Sharon B-:- Alexand~Tr
Disciplinary Hearing Commission
Signatures of parties and counsel follow:
(next page)

We consent to the Consent Order of Interim Suspension in the case of The North
Carolina SUIte Bar v. Shannon Lovins:

Date
,,/

/ CouMel for Plaintiff

S\hVj.,.rvnfJe6~,,-;~.:+
Shannon Lovins

i J/S);:;Z
or;;;-4-!
J

Defendant

-Alan M. Schneider
Counsel for Defendant

Date~

~.

