STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF GASTON

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
File No. 06CVS4545

IN RE LICENSE OF
ORDER

JAMES T. SROUD, JR.	

THIS MATTER came on to be heard before Robert C. ERVIN, Superior Court Judge, with a
special assignment for Gaston County while sitting in Burke County upon motion of the Respondent
for the court to review and modify the Order of this Court entered on the 17 day of March, 2008
after the hearing before this court upon Respondent's petition to transfer his law license from
inactive disability status to active status. Present was Bruce H. Jackson, Jr., counsel of record for the
respondent and A. Root Edmonson appearing on behalf of the North Carolina State Bar. The Court
having considered the most recent psychiatric evaluation by Dr. Robert H. Weinstein, M.D., a
psychiatrist in Wilmington, NC dated June 11, 2008, and making such other inquiry and review it
deemed necessary and appropriate, makes the following:
Findings of Fact
1. The Respondent, James T. Stroud, Jr., proposes a revision of his plan to return to the
practice of law under the following conditions:
A.	 That he be allowed to return to the practice of law as an Associate Attorney employed

by Bruce H. Jackson, Jr. Attorney At Law, in Wilmington, New Hanover County,
NC;
B.	 That respondent shall only be allowed to practice

In

New Hanover, Pender,

Brunswick; and Onslow Counties unless accompanied by Mr Jackson or another
attorney associated with Mr. Jackson's firm.
C.	 That he be supervised by Mr. Jackson on a regular basis including review of at least

two of respondents recently completed cases and a review of respondents upcoming
cases at least twice a week;
D.	 That each client understands and agrees that the client's matter shall be handled and
resolved by either Mr. Stroud, Mr. Jackson or other attorney in Mr. Jackson's law
firm;
E.	 That the Respondent shall limit his representation to traffic violations unless he is

,
/( Ali
associated with Mr. Jackson or another attorney in Mr. lac/son's firm;
F.	 That the Respondent shall at all times utilize the firm's trust account for deposit of
advanced cost and fines under the direct supervision and direction ofMr. Jackson;
G.	 That respondent shall be monitored by Dr. Robert H. Weinstein, M.D. or other
approved psychiatrist and that Dr. Weinstein or other psychiatrist report respondent's
current condition to Mr. Jackson as well as the North Carolina State Bar on at least a
quarterly basis;

H.	 That respondent shall take Depakote and other antipsychotics as prescribed by Dr.
Weinstein or other psychiatrist at all times and shall submit to laboratory tests
evaluating his blood levels of these medications on a quarterly basis and at other
times as requested by hispsychiatrist;

1.	 That the respondent shall keep a daily log of his ingestion of his prescribed
medications witnessed by a person actually observing the respondent ingesting said
medications and thereafter signed by said witness;
J.	 That the respondent shall request the Lawyers Assistance Program (LAP) to assign
him a monitor in the New Hanover County area and shall meet with his LAP monitor
so assigned as often as requested by the LAP Program.

2. The Court having reviewed the respondents revised proposal and the recent medical
evaluation of respondent and his proposed plan to return to the practice of law under the conditions
set forth hereinabove and upon the concurrence of Mr. Jackson and the N.C. State Bar finds that this
plan ensures the proper administration of justice in an expeditious manner and fashion to permit the
operation of the courts.
3. The respondent has demonstrated as shown herein a sufficient change of circumstances to
support and warrant a modification of the Court's Order of 17 March, 2008;

itl:{
Wherefore, the Court modifies its Order of 17 March, 2008 only to the extent as recfited
herein and therefore Orders:

1. That the Respondent, James T. Stroud, Jr., Attorney At Law, license to practice law in North
Carolina is transferred from inactive status to active status upon the conditions of the proposal set

out hereinabove;
2. That the Respondent is to limit his practice as proposed under the supervision of Mr. Bruce
H. Jackson, Jr. until further review and orders ofthe Court;
3. That the Respondent is to remain under the medical and psychiatric care of Dr. Robert H.
Weinstein, M.D. or other psychiatrist approved by the Court and to comply in all regards with
treatment and regular evaluations and shall authorize reports to be made to Mr. Bruce H. Jackson,
Jr., Attorney At Law and the North Carolina State Bar until further orders from the Court;
4. This Cause shall come on for review by this Court in six months.
5. This Cause is retained by the Court for further orders.

This

the2i~ay of July, 2008.

~.c£~
ROBE
C. ERVIN
Superior Court Judge

