NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0701418

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Nikita V. Mackey,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 23, 2009, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by The North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justif'ying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In 2005 you filed a bankruptcy petition. A question on the petition called for your marital
status. You typed "single." At the time you prepared and filed the petition with the court, you
were married. You falsely indicated single status on the bankruptcy petition in violation of Rule
3.3(a): Candor Toward the Tribunal and Rule 8.4(c): Misconduct.

On December 13,2007 you failed to appear for your criminal client's trial. Because of
your absence, the court continued the trial. Your client remained in custody. TIle presiding
judge issued a Show Cause Order for Criminal Contempt of Court against you. After a hearing,
you were found guilty, held in criminal contempt of court and ordered to pay a $100 fine. Your
failure to handle your client's matter is neglect and a violation of Rule 1.3: Diligence. Your
failure caused your client's trial to be delayed and caused disruption to the court in violation of
Rule 3.2: Expediting Litigation and Rule 8A(d): Misconduct.
During the State Bar's investigation of the grievance, you were repeatedly asked to
provide your federal and state income tax returns. You failed to provide the records. The State
Bar served you with a subpoena to produce signed federal and state tax returns for years 1997
through 2002. Thereafter, the State Bar received from you IRS transcripts for years 1997 through
2002. You did not provide the state tax returns. You were served with a second subpoena to
appear and produce your signed federal and state tax returns. While you did provide additional
copies of the federal tax transcripts, you did not provide any records pertaining to your state tax
returns. Your failure to provide state tax records is a violation of Rule 8.l(b): Bar Admission
and Disciplinary Authority.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of$IOO.OO are hereby taxed to you.

~,-,--,,'7\Done and ordered, tins the I ~ day Of __

~

JRF/npm

" 2009

