WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLIN

)
IN RE THE MATTER OF THE PETITION)
FOR REINSTATEMENT
)
)
)
)
NIKITA V. MACKEY
)

ORDER STAYING
SUSPENSION

THIS MATTER is before the Secretary ofthe North Carolina State Bar pursuant
to a Petition for an Order Staying Suspension filed by Nikita Mackey ("Mackey") on
May 5, 2011.
Based upon the petition and a review of the records of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Secretary makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
On May 3, 2010, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (hereinafter, "DHC") entered a Consent Order of Discipline in file
number 09 DHC 18 (hereinafter "Order").

)
The Order suspended Mackey's license to practice law for a period
of three years, effective June 3, 2010. The Order provided that, at any time after
serving one year of the active suspension of his license, Mackey could file a
petition with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar, at least thirty days
before any proposed effective date of the stay, seeking a stay of the remaining
period of his suspension upon compliance with the conditions stated in the Order.
3.
On May 4, 2011, Mackey filed a petition to stay the remaining
portion of his active suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status subject
to the continuing conditions and requirements set forth in the Order.
4.
The Order required that Mackey be in compliance with a number
of conditions to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.

5.
In his petition, Mackey described and provided documentation of
the actions he had taken to comply with the conditions of the Order.
6.
Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar did not tile an objection
to Mackey's petition.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, and without any evidence
presented in opposition to the petition, the Secretary makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. The petitioner, Nikita Mackey, has satisfied the conditions established
in the Order for a stay of his suspension and reinstatement to active statllS, subject
to the continuing conditions set forth in the Order.
2. Mackey's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned upon
compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order.
BASED UPON the findings and conclusions stated herein, the Secretary
hereby enters the following:
ORDER
I. The remaining active suspension of Mackey's license imposed by the Order is
hereby stayed and Mackey is reinstated to the active practice of law in North Carolina as
of the date of this order.
2. The slay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions, m1d
requirements set fOlih in the Order.
3. Mackey's status as m1 active member of the NOIih Cm'olina State Bar is
contingent upon his compliance with all of the remaining conditions set forth in the
Order.
4. If Mackey fails to comply with all terms, conditions m1d requirements set fOlih
in the Order, the DHC may lift the stay and activate the remaining period of suspension.

This the t.s-"tiay ofJune 201 I.

L. Thomas Lunsford II, Seer
North Carolina State Bar

2

