/c~Z'J~
i';}'
y 0\

~
/,~J"

,,~." ~

STATE OF NORTH CAROLlh.:i

\'--:3
~

S'~

cP~

~$'.i'20-'l"~
0'·

'~
6/

WAKE COUNTY

.
~ ~

BEFORE· THE
<:)aDJSCfPJ2 ARY I-IEARING COMMISSION
~t"
C$
OF THE
11!.i:) TI-I CAROLINA STATE BAR
~ /. ."
10 DHC ?7

V

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

HOLLY C. STEVENS. PAULINE E.
MAKIA, CARMEN .J. BATTLE, and
JAMIE FAYE NEWSOM, Attorneys,

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDEROF
DISCIPLINE
AS TO
PAULINE E. MAKIA

Defendants
This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of ShaTOn B. Alexander, Chair, and members Harriett Smalls and
Joe Castro, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Plaintitf was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant,
Pauline E. Maida ('"Makia"), was represented by Garris Neil Yarborough. Both PlaintitT
and Defendant MaIda stipulate and agree to the Jindings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Maida has freely and
voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of
law and entry of the order of discipline. Makia freely and voluntarily waives any and all
right to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline.
This order pertains only to the claims concerning Defendant Pauline E. MaIda and
resolves only those claims. The term "parties" in this order refers to the State Bar as
Plaintiff and Pauline E. MaJcia as Defendant.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the I-Iearing Panel hereby enters the following:

Findings of Fact
1.
Plaintii1~ the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, :ll1d the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant Pauline E. Maida ("Makia") was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 2003, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North

Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Cmolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Maida was
engaged in the practice oflaw in Fayetteville, Cumberland County, North Carolina.
4.
Makia was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set,
rnld the matter came before the Heming Prnlel with due notice to all parties.
5.
In about 2004, Makia opened a law ofTice in Fayetteville, North Carolina.
Although MaIda had very little experience in real property law or in closing real estate
trrnlsactions, Makia undertook, nonetheless, to engage in this area of the practice oflaw.
6.
MaIda hired non-attorney assistants who had previously worked for
another attorney named Holly Stevens ("Stevens") to do the work for the real estate
closings.
7.
Stevens was associated with Maurice Jenkins ("Jenkins"), who purpOlied
to be a real estate investor. Stevens frequently closed real estate transactions involving
Jenkins and participated in purchasing and selling real property with Jenkins.
Unbeknownst to Makia, Jenkins and Stevens engaged in ti-audulent practices in these real
estate transactions.
8.
Maida failed to provide the necessary superVISIOn of her assistants and
their work to ensure compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct in real estate
transactions closed by her office. Maida's lack of supervision included the following:
a. tailing to ensure prior deeds of trust were being paid off Irom the funds at
closing:
b. failing to ensure proper hrnldling of entrusted funds;
c. failing to ensure compliance with lender closing instructions: and
d. failing to review and supervise the preparation of the preliminmy and final
opinions of title.
9.
Makia failed to ensure that disbursements occurred as listed on the HUD-I
Settlement Statements. Moreover, Maida allowed Stevens to direct her to pay seller's
proceeds to Jenkins instead of as listed on the HUD-l Settlement Statement. Maida also
failed to ensure the funds listed as due from the borrowers at closing were in fact
collected from the borrowers at closing.
Consequently, MaIda t~liled to ensure the
lenders were provided accurate information on the HUD-I Settlement Statements
provided to them by her office.
10.
Makia failed to ensure deeds and deeds of trust from real estate
trrnlsaetions were promptly recorded and failed to ensme that deeds and deeds of trust
were recorded before funds were disbursed.

II.
MaIda closed several real estate transactions involving Jenkins and/or
Stevens. Maida's inexperience ,md her failure to supervise her staff llild the work in these
closings enabled Jenkins to continue to engage in fraudulent conduct assisted by Maida's
office.
12.
Exhibit B to the State Bar's complaint contains a list of real estate
transactions closed by Makia. The transactions listed in Exhibit B provide examples of
the conduct described herein.
13.
MaIda's inexperience and failure to supervise her staff also affected other
real estate transactions, including the two transactions involving lender Homecoming
Financial Network (HFN) listed in Exhibit B to the State Bar's complaint.
14.
Makia failed to follow HFN's closing instructions in these two residential
real estate transactions. In these transactions, the lender's instructions required the
closing agent to notify the lender in writing if the property had changed hands in the 180
days immediately prior to closing, to notify the lender if the agent had IUlowledge of
previous, concurrent, or subsequent trllilsactions involving the bon·ower or subject
propeliy, llild to not close or fund the loans if the agent had knowledge of a concurrent or
subsequent transaction which would transfer the propeliy. In both transactions, Makia
was in possession of unrecorded deeds by which the sellers obtained the property within
the 180 days preceding the closings. MaIda failed to notify the lender of these prior
trllilsfers or ensure that her staff notified the lender, and allowed these transactions to
close.
15.
Makia failed to maintain and disburse HFN's entrusted funds
appropriately in both of these transactions. l'vlalcia disbursed I-IFN's funds prior to
recording the deeds and deeds of trust from the transactions.
16.
For both of these HFN transactions. the title insurance company's
Commitment for Title Insurance documents incorrectly listed Forever Young, Inc. as
owner of these propcrties when Forever Young, Inc. did not yet own the properties. The
incorrect information was the result of false information communicated to the title
insurance company by Makia's ot1ice. Makia failed to ensure her staff accurately
identified the owners of the properties on communications to the title insurance company.
Based upon the consent of the pmties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions Of Law
1.
All parties are properly before the Heming Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Maida and the subject matter of this proceeding.

2.
Makia's condLlct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a) By failing to receive and disburse nmds as represented on the I-IUD-I
Settlement Statements, MaIda failed to appropriately maintain and
disburse entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.IS-2(a) and (m);
b) By practicing in an area of law without sufficient training or experience
and by delegating tasks involving the practice of law to non-attorney
assistants without providing adequate or meaningful supervision, Maida
handled legal matters she was not competent to handle in violation of Rule
1.1 and failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the non-attorney
assistants' conduct was compatible with her professional obligations in
violation of Rule S.3(b); and
c) By failing to comply with the lender's closing instructions in residential
real estate transactions, MaIda failed to represent a client with reasonable
diligence in violation of Rule 1.3.
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings Of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
The practice of law is restricted to attorneys because the advanced legal
education and training received by attorneys is necessary to effectively identify
applicable legal requirements and obligations, to identify legal issues, and to apply the
law to each client's individual circumstance.
2.
For an attorney to be able to supervise a non-attorney assistant's work, the
attorney must first lmow the applicable legal authorities and requirements applicable to
the work being done. An at10rney cannot eiJectively or appropriately supervise a nonattorney's work if he or she does not know the applicable legal authorities or
requirements that must be satisfied through the non-attorney's work.
3.
Banks are not normally thought of as vulnerable entities. Nevertheless,
banks rely upon the closing attorney to carry out the closing in an ethical, lawful, and
proper manner. These institutions are particularly vulnerable to the conduct of attorneys
who circumvent or facilitate others in the circumvention of safeguards employed to avoid
ii'aud or fail to maintain internal procedures to prevent staff members from doing the
sanle.

4.
Makia's obligation as closing attorney was to produce an accurate I-IUD-I
Settlement Statement for each transaction, to ensure that funds were received ffi1d
disbursed as authorized by the lender and to follow the lender's closing instructions.
5.
Accurate HUD-I Settlement Statements are necessary for the system of
finance in real estate to function. Lenders rely upon the I-IUD-I Settlement Statements to
accurately reflect the receipt ffi1d disbursement of funds in real estate closings. Lenders

rely on the entries in line 303 of the HUD-1 Settlement Statements showing payment by
the buyers/borrowers at closing to show the buyers/borrowers contributed their own
money to the transaction. Lenders rely upon such personal contribution by the
buyers/borrowers to reduce tbe risk of default on the loan by the buyers/botTowers.
Malda's staffs preparation and submission of HUD-1 Settlement Statements that did not
accurately show the receipt and disbursement of funds and MaIda's failure to receive and
disburse iimds as rellected on the HUD-1 Settlement Statements negated the safeguards
relied upon by the lenders.
6.
Lenders provided closing instructions to Makia, compliance with which
were a prerequisite to the lender making the loan to the borrower. MaIda's failure to
ensure compliance with HFN's closing instructions circumvented the lender's attempt
through the closings instructions to ensure the loans at issue were ones it was willing to
make. Additionally, the inaccurate preliminary opinions of title Makia's ofjjce provided
to the title insurance companies resulted in false information on the title commitments
that hid the first part of the transactions i1'om the lenders.
7.

MaIda has no prior disciplinary record concerning her license to practice

law.
8.
Makia's inexperience in real property law prevented her from appreciating
the problems with the way real estate closings were conducted by her office. She failed
to appreciate the reliance by the lenders on the HUD-1 Settlement Statements. She failed
to appreciate her role and obligation to the lenders. She failed to appreciate the necessity
for total compliance with lenders' closing instructions. She failed to appreciate what her
role should have been in supervising her stafr.
9.
Makia's ability to properly close transactions involving Jenkins was also
compromised by a staff person who intentionally hid disbursements and prior deed of
trust information 11'om Makia.
10.
Makia self-reported problems she discovered to the title insurance
companies and the State Bar, and fully cooperated with all inquiries made regarding these
real estate transactions.
11.

MaIda has expressed remorse for her conduct.

12.
MaIda did not engage in the conduct described in the Findings of Fact
above with any dishonest or selfish motive.
13.
The Hearing Panel has careiillly considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
Conclusions With Respect To Discipline
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI14(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:

a) Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession; and
b) Defendant's actions impaired her clients' ability to achieve the goals of
the representation.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI14(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors arc prcsent in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27N.C.A.C. IB §.OlI4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a) Defendant's lack of prior disciplinary offenses;
b) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
c) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
d) Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
e) Defendant's full and free disclosure to the I-Iearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
1) Defendant's remorse; and

g) The vulnerability of Dcfendant' s clients.
4.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potcntial harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by

Defendant and send the \vrong message to altomeys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Makia complies with necessary conditions to
avoid signiJicant harm or the potential for signiJicant harm to clients.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel Jinds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension ofMakia's law license would not be appropriate.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order Of Discipline
1.
Defendant, Pauline E. Makia, is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for five yeaTS, etIective 30 days from service of this order upon Makia.
2.
The five-year suspension is stayed for a period of five years as long as
Makia complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
a. Does not engage in the practice of real property law, as defined
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter D, Section .2102.

Jl1

b. Annually submits a certification of the areas of law in which she
practiced for the preceding 12 months. Said certifications are due no
later than December 31 of each year of the stay;
c.

Each year of the stay, completes 12 hours of continuing legal
education in addition to the hours required under 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, Subchapter D, Section .1518. These 12 hours shall
consist of substantive education courses in the areas of law in which
Makia is then currently practicing. These additional hours must be
completed within the applicable time period for completing the
continuing legal education hours requiredlmder 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter 1, SubchapterD, Section.ISI8 each year of the stay and must
be reported on the annual CLE report forms;

d. Each year of the stay, completes a continuing legal education course
focusing on managing a law office and/or supervising non-legal
assistants. This course may be taken as part of the continuing legal
education hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter D, Section .1518. This course must be completed within
the applicable time period for completing the continuing legal
education hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,

SUbchapter D, Section .1518 each year of the stay and must be
reported on the annual CLE report f0I111S;
e. Within the 12 months immediately preceding expiration of the stay
period, completes 6 hours of continuing legal education in real
property law. These hours must be focused on general real property
law or residential real property law, as defined in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .2102. These hours may be
taken as part of the continuing legal education hours required under
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .1518. These
hours must be completed within the applicable time period for
completing the continuing legal education hours required under
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .1518 and
must be reported 011 the applicable annual CLE report form.
f.

Timely submits her annual CLE report form to the CLE department of
the North Carolina State Bar each year of the stay and
contemporaneously sends a copy of the CLE report form to the Office
of Counsel of the State Bar to document compliffilce with the above
conditions of the stay. "Timely" means by the date specified by the
CLE department as the date by which members must submit their
annual report forms to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late filing penalty.
MaIda must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a copy of her annual
CLE report form no later than IS days after it is due to the CLE
department of the State Bar each year:

g. Pays all Membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments and
complies with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a
timely basis;
h. Arranges for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar who is
in good standing who practices law in the county in which Makia
primarily practices and who has been approved by the North Carolina
State Bar to serve as her practice monitor. The selected monitor must
agree to so serve and agree to meet with Makia monthly to review
Maida's cases. Each month, the monitor must go over at least one
case in detail in each area of law in which MaIda is practicing, with
discussion including but not limited to identification of applicable
statutory and regulatory authorities, identification of potential legal
issues, and plan of representation. Makia shall come prepared each
month to discuss these topics in her cases with her practice monitor.
The monitor must submit written quarterly reports of these meetings
and discussions to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar, such reports
due on the following dates as they occur during the stay of this
suspension: January IS, April IS, July IS, ffild October IS. This
monitoring must occur for the duration of the stay of this suspension.
Maida will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor. Makia must
have made the arrangements for this monitoring attorney ffild supplied

the OJTice of Counsel of the State Bar with a letter from the
monitoring attorney confirming his or her agreement to perform the
duties listed above no later than ninety (90) days from service of this
Order;
1.

Meets once a month with her practice monitor, to whom she will
report the status of all CUlTent client matters, cooperates with the
monitor attol11ey, and provides any information the monitor attol11ey
deems reasonably necessary.
Makia shall be prepared to discuss
identification of applicable statutory and regulatory authorities,
identification of potential legal issues, and plan of representation for
each client matter;

J.

Ensures the monitoring attol11ey sends a written report each quarter to
the Office of Counsel of the State Bar as described above;

k. Cooperates with the Office of Counsel and makes appropriate
arrangements for an alternate monitoring attorney if needed during the
stay of this suspension;
1.

Keeps her address of record with the North Carolina State Bar cUlTent,
acccpts all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and
responds to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the
communication:

m. Does not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the stay;
n. Does not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the stay; and
o. Pays all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary,
including the costs allowed by statute for the taking of her deposition
and deposition transcript within thirty (30) days after service of the
notice of costs on her.
3.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the following conditions are placed upon Makia's reinstatement to active
status. With any petition Maida files for reinstatement to active practice, Malda must
demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that she complied with each of the
following conditions:
a. Submitted her license and mcmbership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date
of the order activating her suspension;
b. Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules on a timely basis;

c. Within the 12 months immediately preceding her application for
reinstatement, completed 6 hours of continuing legal education in real
property law. These hours must be focused on general real property
law or residential real property law, as defined in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .2102;
d. Not have violated any of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
e. Not have violated any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States:
f.

Paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within
thirty (30) days of service of the notice of costs upon her;

4.
The Disciplinary I-Iearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel chair with the consent of the other
I-Iearing Panel members.
This theQLI day of

(ric(lJl

2011.

Siulron B. Alexander. Chair
Disciplinary I-learing Panel
Agreed and consented to by:

Pauline E. MaIda
Defendant

Garris}Ie·· adJorough
Attorney for Defendant

