\'\, \~ ZO 21 ((0~

~~ Jr

~

~:\v

-

\~~'v

<$
6' n

c;}

0.(,

<,.<:J\)

~~v

<Y,(

WAKE COUNTY

~

n\l\1,

9 S·v

r-)

~

Q5
~
BEFORE THE
DIS ,'J',INARY HEARING COMMISSION
1."
OF THE
~
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
13 DHC33

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
SUE E. MAKO, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on 12 June 2014 by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair, and members Donald C.
Prentiss and Bradley Lail. ,Carmen Hoyme Bannon represented Plaintiff, the North
Carolina State Bar. Neither Defendant, Sue E. Mako, nor any counsel of record
appeared.
On Plaintiffs motion, judgment by default was granted against Defendant at the
conclusion of the hearing. Based upon the pleadings and admissions plU'suant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(f) and Rule 8(d) of the Rules of Civil
Procedure, the hearing panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Sue E. Mako, was admitted to the 'North Carolina State Bar in
August 1988 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and received due notice of
the hearing in this matter.
4.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Mako was actively engaged
in the practice of law in Wilmington, New Hanover County, North Carolina.

5.
In the course of her law practice, Mako received funds in trust for the
benefit of her clients and/or third parties. Mako deposited and maintained entrusted
funds in an attorney trust account at RBC Bank.
6.
Mako was the managing attorney for her firm, Mako & Associates, P.A.,
and was responsible for office policy and management. MaIm was responsible for
maintenance of the firm trust account.
7.
Mako did not maintain an accurate general ledger or complete accurate
individual client ledgers, and did not perform quarterly reconciliations of her trust
account as required by the Rules of Professional Conduct.
8.
Between 20 December 2010 and 4 July 2011, the IRS issued at least three
notices to Mako & Associates regarding delinquencies in payment of federal income tax
withholding. During that same period, the North Carolina Employment Security
Commission issued a notice of intent to levy upon the assets of the firm for non-payment
of unemployment insurance taxes.
9.
In late June 20ll, Mako's firm was contacted via email by an individual
identifying himself as Oliver Burkeman. Burkeman asked for help in collecting
$350,000.00 purportedly owed to him by a former employer as part of a worker's
compensation settlement.
.
10.
Via email, Mako's firm entered into a fee agreement with Burkeman. The
agreement provided that Mako's firm would represent Burkeman in the collection effort
for a fee of20% of the amount collected.
No one at the firm had any prior knowledge of "Oliver Burkeman," and no
11.
one at the firm met the purported client in person.
On II July 20ll, Mako's firm received what purported to be a cashier's
12.
check from Burkeman's former employer for $175,000.00 ("the first counterfeit check").
The check was deposited into the firm's bust account.
13.
Notwithstanding the firm's general policy of holding funds in trust for ten
days before disbursing, on 12 July 2011 Mako directed the firm's bookkeeper to disburse
$35,000.00 of the Burkeman funds to the firm's operating account and to wire the
remaining $140,000.00 to an overseas account as directed by Burkeman. At that time,
the tirst counterfeit check for $175,000.00 had not been irrevocably credited to MaIm's
trust account.
14.
The $35,000.00 disbursed to the operating account after the first
counterfeit cheek was deposited was used to pay various firm expenses. Expenses paid
immediately after the 12 July 2011receipt of the Burkeman "fee" included payroll and a
$28,000.00 payment to the U.S. Treasury for employee withholding taxes.

2

15.
On 14 July 2011, Mako's firm received what purported to be a second
cashier's check from But'keman's former employer for $175,000.00 ("the second
counterfeit check"). The check was deposited into the firm's trust account.
16.
Again notwithstanding the firm's policy of holding funds in trust for ten
days before disbursing, on 15 July 2011 Mako disbursed $35,000.00 to the firm's
operating account and wired the remaining $140,000.00 to an overseas account as
directed by Burkeman. At that time, the second counterfeit check for $175,000.00 had
not been irrevocably credited to Mako's trust account.
17.
The $35,000.00 Mako disbursed to the operating account after depositing
the second counterfeit check was used to fund a $35,000.00 payment to Mako from the
operating account.
18.
On 15 JuJy 2011, RBC Bank notified Mako that the first counterfeit check
was being returned unpaid. On 18 July 20 11, RBC Banlc notified Mako that the second
counterfeit check was being returned unpaid.
19.
The first $140,000.00 wire to Burkeman did not go through, so a total of
$210,000.00 (one $140,000.00 wire and two $35,000.00 disbursements) was disbursed
from Mako's hust account in premature reliance on provisional credit for the counterfeit
checks. (Mako's disbursements against the counterfeit checks are referred to hereafter as
"the Burkeman transactions").
20.
Because the counterfeit checks were dishonored, the $210,000.00 wired
overseas and disbursed to Mako's operating account in connection with the Burkeman
transactions were funds that belonged to the firm's legitimate clients.
21.
Mako knew within a week after she received the first counterfeit check
that the $70,000.00 transfe11'ed from her trust account to her operating account in
connection with the Burkeman transactions represented legitimate clients' entrusted
funds, not earned fees to which the firm was entitled.
22.
Although Mako knew ahnost il11l11ediately that she had received
$70,000.00 of her clients' entrusted funds to which she was not entitled, she did not
promptly put the money back in the trust account.
23.
Approximately two weeks after the counterfeit checks were dishonored,
Mako replenished $35,000.00 by a deposit into the trust account from a company called
Lightpath, which was owned by Mako's daughter and husband. This represented only
half of the total amount Mako had withdrawn from the trust account for the benefit of
herself andlor her firm in connection with the Burkeman transactions.
24.
As of 29 July 2011, there was a $175,000.00 deficit in Mako's h'ust
account. $35,000.00 of that deficit was attributable to Mako's use of entrusted funds for
the benefit of herself andlor the firm without authorization from the beneficial owners of
those funds (i.e., the firm's legitimate clients). The remaining $140,000.00 of that deficit
was attributable to Mako's use of entrusted funds for the benefit of the individual who
3

identified himself as "Burkeman" without authorization from the beneficial owners of the
funds.
25.
After the counterfeit checks were dishonored, Maim continued to deposit
clients' entmsted funds into the trust account even though she knew there was
insufficient money in the account to cover all of the client balances she should have been
holding in trust.
26.
By continuing to use the trust account in which there was a sizeable
deficit, Mako used client money she received after the Burkeman transactions to fund
disbursements for clients whose money was lost in the Burkeman transactions.
27.
Mako did not notify clients with balances in the trust account about the
deficit in the account, the fact that their money was not safeguarded, or the possibility
that their funds might not be available upon demand.
28.
Mako made no additional deposits to offset the $175,000.00 deficit in her
trust account until April 2012, after she received notice of the State Bar's grievance
investigation related to the Burkeman transactions.
29.
In April 2012, Mako replenished approximately $27,000.00 of the
entrusted funds lost in the Burkeman transactions. This deposit did not cover the entire
$35,000.00 of entrusted funds that had been converted to the use and benefit of Mako
and/or the firm.
30.
In October 2012, Mako made an additional deposit of approximately
$8,000.00 to partially offset the deficit in her trust account arising out of the BUl'keman
transactions.
31.
Mako never replenished the remaining $140,000.00 of entrusted funds that
was wired overseas, consistently claiming that she didn't have sufficient personal funds
to cover the shortfall in her trnst account.
32.
In 2011 ,total payments to Mako from the firm's operating account
exceeded $330,000.00, approximately $67,000.00 of which was received after the
counterfeit checks were dishonored.
33.
Also during 2011, Mako made substantial payments from the operating
account to pay credit card bills, and the firm paid Mako' s husband and daughter more
than $30,000.00.
34.
In response to a subsequent grievance inquiry from the State Bar about the
Burkeman transactions, Mako claimed that she had been "unaware of the events
surrounding the transaction" and asserted that the firm's bookkeeper had, unbeknownst to
Mako, made the decision to disburse the Burkeman funds immediately rather than
complying with the firm's custom and practice of holding funds in trust for ten days.

4

35.
Mako's statements to the State Bar described in paragraph 34, above, were
false and misleading.
36.
After the Burkeman transactions, Mako spent months at a time in Costa
Rica, where she was not generating income that could be used to replenish the client
funds that were lost.
37.
In the first six months of 2012, Mako received more than $126,000.00
from the firm's operating account, either via disbursements direclly to Mako or through
payments for Mako' s personal expenses from the operating account. Most of these funds
were provided to Mako in the form of international wire transfers to a bank in Costa Rica.
38.
In May 2013, Mako closed her law office and returned to Costa Rica,
leaving behind a trust account that did not contain enough money to cover all the funds
that she should have been holding for the benefit of her clients.
39.
From 2011 through 2013, Mako & Associates had employees who
provided services directly related to and for the benefit ofMako's law practice.
40.
As the managing attorney ofMako & Associates, Mako had authority over
the funds in bank accounts maintained by the firm and made decisions concerning how
and when those funds would be spent.
41.
Mako was a "responsible person" within the meaning of Title 26 of the
United States Code, in that she had the power to see that the tax obligations of Mako &
Associates were paid.
.
42.
When Mako & Associates paid its employees, it was required to withhold
funds from the employees' paychecks to pay federal and state income taxes.
43.
From the time the funds were withheld from employees' paychecks until
they were paid to state and federal tax authorities, Mako & Associates and MaIm were
obligated to hold the funds in trust for the benefit of the IRS and the North Carolina
Depmtment of Revenue ("NC DOR").
44.
Funds withheld from employee paychecks were entrusted funds that Mako
was required to hold in nust as a fiduciary. Mako had a fiduciary duty to deliver all
withheld funds to the IRS and NC DOR.
45.
For the entirety of 2012 and for the first two quarters of 2013, funds
withheld by Mako & Associates from employee paychecks were not delivered to the IRS
as required by law mId were instead utilized for the benefit of Mako & Associates and/or
for the benefit of Mako.
46.
Mako's failure to pay over to the IRS funds withheld from employee
paychecks was willful.
47.
Mako's conduct as described in paragraphs 39 through 46 above was in
violation of26 U.S.c. § 7202.
5

48.
During the last quarter of 2011, all of 2012, and the first two quarters of
2013, funds withheld by MaIm & Associates from employee paychecks were not
delivered to NC DOR as required by law and were instead utilized for the benefit of
Mako & Associates and/or for the benefit of Mako.
MaIm's failure to pay over to the NC DOR funds withheld from employee
49.
paychecks was willful.
50.
Mako's conduct as described in paragraphs 48 and 49 above was in
violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 105-236(a)(8).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact deemed admitted pursuant to Rule 8(d)
of the Rules of Civil Procedure and established by default judgment, the Hearing Panel
entcrs the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.
All the parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Sue E. Malm, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's condnct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Mako violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of her actions as follows:
(a) By failing to maintain an accurate general ledger, failing to maintain
complete and accurate individual client ledgers, and failing to perform
quarterly reconciliations of her trust account, Mako violated Rules 1.153(b) and (d);
(b) By wiring out large sums of money from her trust account in reliance upon
provisional credit and contrary to her standard procedure, and failing to
immediately rectify the resulting shortage in the account, Mako failed to
safeguard entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and failed to act
with reasonable diligence to protect her clients' interests in violation of
Rule 1.3;

(c) By continuing to deposit client funds into the trust account in which she
knew there was a shortfall, Mako failed to safeguard entrusted funds in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(a), used entrusted funds for the benefit of
someone other than the beneficial owner of the funds in violation of Rnle
1.15-2(j), and failed to act with reasonable diligence to protect her clients'
interests in violation of Rule 1.3;
(d) By using $35,000.00 of entrusted funds for her own benefit or the benefit
of her law firm and failing to return those funds to the trust account when
she learned that she was not entitled to them, Mako used entrusted funds
for personal benefit without authorization from the beneficial owner of the
funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j), and engaged in criminal conduct

6

reflecting adversely on her honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer
in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
(e) By failing to notify clients whose entrusted funds were compromised by
the BUl'keman transactions, Malm failed to keep her clients reasonably
informed and failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary
to permit clients to make informed decisions about the representation in
violation of Rule 1.4(a) and (b);
(f) By making false and misleading statements in response to the State Bar's

grievance inquiry, Mako knowingly made a false statement of material
fact in connection with a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.I(a)
and engaged in conduct involving deceit and misrepresentation in
violation of Rule 8.4(c);
(g) By willfully failing to pay over to the IRS and NC DOR funds withheld
from the paychecks of Mako & Associates employees, Mako committed
criminal acts reflecting adversely on her honesty, trustworthiness and
fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b); and
(h) By using funds held in trust for the IRS and NC DOR for the benefit of
herself andlor her law firm, Mako committed a criminal actembezzlement-reflecting adversely on her honesty, trustworthiness or
fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8.4(b).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the
additional evidence and argument presented at the hearing, the hearing panel hereby finds
by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The findings in paragraphs I through 50 above are reincorporated as if
fully set forth herein.
2.

Defendant has no prior professional discipline.

3.
Knowingly and intentionally disbursing against funds that have only been
provisionally credited to a trust account creates a foreseeable risk of significant harm to
the clients and third parties whose money is in the trust account.
4.
Mako knowingly and intentionally benefitted from entrusted funds to
which she was not entitled by failing to fully replenish funds disbursed to her in
connection with the Burkeman transactions.
5.
Malm did not,take steps to mitigate or rectify the harm to her clients and
third parties that resulted from her misconduct.

7

6.
Mako's decision to leave the country and reduce her law practice
following the Burkeman transactions, rather than trying diligently to earn fees that could
be used to offset the lost client funds, reflects an indifference to making restitution. This
indifference is also illustrated by Mako's decision to continue to draw substantial income
from the firm, even after she was primarily living in Costa Rica and therefore was
minimally contributing to the firm's profits.
7.
Mako intentionally failed to pay state and federal payroll withholding
taxes and unemployment insurance taxes over an extended period, in violation oflaw and
in breach of her fiduciary obligations. This caused actual and potential harm to Mako's
employees and the public.
8.
When lawyers violate the law in their business and personal affairs, it
brings disrepute upon the legal profession and undermines public confidence in lawyers.
9.
Defendant's course of conduct over an extended period of time was
characterized by prioritizing her own pecuniary interests over her clients' interests and
her obligation to comply with the law.
10.
Defendant's nllshandling and misappropriation of entrusted funds created
a foreseeable risk that some other entity, such as an insurance carrier or the North
Carolina State Bar's Client Security Fund, would bear the financial consequences of her
misconduct.
I!.
Mako's former clients who were deprived of their funds due to Mako's
misconduct have applied to the State Bar's Client Security Fund for reimbursement.
12.
Clients are entitled to attorneys they can trust. A lawyer's conversion of
entrusted funds is an egregious breach of fiduciary duty, reflecting the lawyer's lack of
trustworthiness and integrity. By engaging in multiple instances of misconductincluding acts of dishonesty-over a substantial period of time, Maim has shown herself
to be untrustworthy.
13.
Self-regulation of the legal profession depends upon the cooperation and
participation of lawyers in the self-regulatory process. When a lawyer submits false
information in the disciplinary process, it undermines the system of self-regulation.
14.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and upon consideration of the factors set forth in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(w), the hearing panel hereby
enters the following additional

8

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0114(w) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar.
The hearing panel fmds evidence of the following factors:
a. From Rule .01 l4(w) (1) and Rule .0114(w)(2):
i. intent of the defendant to cause the resulting harm or potential harm;
ii. intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm
is foreseeable;
111.

circumstances reflecting the
trustworthiness, or integrity;

defendant's

lack

of

honesty,

iv. elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of the client;
v. negative impact of defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
of the profession;
vi. effect of defendant's conduct on third parties;
vii. acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and
viii. misappropriation or conversion of assets of any kind to which the
defendant is not entitled, whether from a client or any other source.
b. From Rule .0114(w)(3):
i. dishonest or selfish motive;
ii. indifference to making restitution;
iii. a pattern of misconduct;
iv. multiple offenses;
v. submission of false statements during the disciplinary process; and
vi. substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
2.
The hearing panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that
suspension of Mako's license or a public censure, reprimand, or admonition would not be
sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the actual and potential harm to clients,
third parties, and the legal profession caused by Mako's conduct, and the threat of
significant potential harm Mako poses to the public.

9

3.
The hearing panel considered all lesser sanctions and finds that discipline
shOit of disbarment would not adequately protect the public for the following reasons:
a. Mako committed misconduct involving deceit and misappropriation of
entrusted funds, which are among the most serious offenses an attorney
can commit. Such offenses demonstrate that the offending attorney is not
trustworthy. Clients are entitled to have trustworthy attorneys.
b. Mako engaged in criminal acts reflecting adversely on her honesty,
trustwolthiness or fitness as a lawyer, and engaged in abuses of trust by
using funds entrusted to her for personal benefit.
c. Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Mako committed and would
send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Regat'ding Discipline, the hearing panel hereby
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant, Sue E. Mako, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of

law.
2.
Defendant shall surrender her license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this
order npon Defendant.
3.
Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant must pay the costs within 30 days
of service upon her of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
4.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions of27 NCAC lB § .0124 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

10

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
17th day ofJnly, 2014.

Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

3550066

11

