STATE OF NORTH CAR

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
MARK. A. MANGIARELLI, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Walter E. Brock, Jr., Chair, and members William M. Claytor
and Patti Head, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant
Mark A. Mangial'elli (HMangiarelli") was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Both
Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw
recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Mangiarelli has freely and
voluntarily stipulated to the foregoing fmdings of fact and consent to the conclusions of
law and entry of the order of discipline. Mangiarelli freely and voluntaJily waives any
and all right to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in tlus matter, the parties' stipUlations of fact, and with
the consent ofthe pru1ies, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
Findings of Fact

I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the propel' pfU1y to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of tl1e General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of me North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Mark A. Mangiarelli C'Mangiarelli"), was admitted to the
NOlih Carolina State Bar in 2002 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of me North Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.
3.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.

4.
During all or pail of the relevant periods referred to herein, Mangiarelii
was engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law
oftice in Huntersville, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.

5.
Mangiarelli was the closing attorney in various real estate closings in 2010
and 2011. In these closings he represented the buyer and the lender. In several of these
closings, he failed to timely submit the final title opinion and premium payment to obtain
the title insurance policy for the owner and/or lender. At times, Mangiarelli failed to
respond to inquiries from borrowers and lenders concerning outstanding policies.
6.
Mangiarelli was the closing attorney for a transaction referenced as
SHAH3. The HUD-1A Settlement Statement showed $125.00 disbursed to Meridian
Title Company for title examination. This amount should have been shown as disbursed
to Mangiarelli. MangiaI'elii disbursed the $125.00 to himself without revising the HUDlA Settlement Statement or otherwise communicating to the lender and the pmies this
alternate disbursement.
7.
In three closings, Mangiarelli disbursed funds for the closing from one
trust account prior to transferring certain funds for those closings from his other trust
account, thereby using other clients' entmsted funds until those transfers were made.
One transfer OCCUlTed a week after the disbursements. The other transfers occurred
within a day or two oflhe disbursements.

8.
Mangiarelii maintained attorney trust accounts in at lea~t 2010, 2011 and
2012. Mangiarelli failed to conduct qumerly reconciliations of his trust accounts from at
least January 1,2010 through December 30, 2011.
9.
The State Bar sent Mangiarelli a letter datcd November 9, 2011 seeking
information as pm of a forn1al grievance inquiry. The deadline for Mangiarelli's
response was extended to January 13, 2012. Mflngiarelii failed to timely respond by
January 13,2012. MangiareUi did not respond until April 2012.
Based upon the consent of the paIiies and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions Of Law
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel aI1d the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By failing to timely complete final title opinions and disburse title
insurance premiums to obtain title policies for ovmers and/or lenders,
MaI1giarelli failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3 and failed to promptly
disburse client funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(m);

-2-

(b)

By failing to respond to inquiries regarding the overdue title policies from
buyers and lenders, Mangiarelli failed to promptly comply with reasonable
requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(4) and failed to keep
clients reasonably informed about the status of the matters in violation of
Rule 1.4(a)(3);

(c)

By failing to conduct quarterly reconciliations of his' trust accOlmts,
Mangiarelli failed to conduct requisite reconciliations in violation of Rule
J.lS-3(d)(I);

(d)

By disbursing funds differently than as listed on the HUD-IA Settlement
Statement without first correcting the Statement, Mangiarelli improperly
disbursed funds in violation of Rule l.1S-2(m) and failed to keep clients
reasonably informed in violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3);

(e)

By disbursing funds for closings [Torn one trust account prior to
transferring fimds for those closings from another trust account,
Mangiarelli improperly disbursed othcr clients' funds in violation of Rule
1.l5-2(m); and

(1)

By failing to timely respond to the State Bar's November 2011 letter by
the applicable deadline, Mangiarelli failed to respond to a lawful demand
for information from a disciplinary authority in violation of Rule 8.I(b).

Upon the consent of tile parties, the Hearing Pancl also enters the following:

Findings Of Fact Regarding Discipline
I.
Accurate HUD-I Settlement Statements are necessary for the system of
finance in real estate to function. Lendcrs rely upon the HUD-I Settlement Statements to
accnrately reflect the receipt and disbursement of funds in real estate closings.

2.
Although Defendant disbursed $125.00 in a manner differently than as
reflected on the HUD-I A Settlement Statement, Meridian Title Company verified it was
not entitled to this $125.00 and had not been expecting to receive that payment.
3.
4.
Defendant.

Defendant has no prior discipline.
There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of

5.
Conducting quarterly reconciliations of the trust account is the lynchpin of
proper maintenance and protection of entrusted funds.
6.
Defendant was not aware that the title policy had not been procured and
the premium disbursed in at least one closing. Had Defendant been conducting quarterly

-3-

reconciliations, he would have realized that the premium had not been disbursed, which
would have signaled that work might still need to be done in the file.
7.
The legal protession has the privilege of being self-regulating. It can only
fultlll its regulatory duty, however, if its members participate in the self-regulation
process. When attomeys fail to respond to inquiries of the State Bar, it jeopardizes the
effectiveness of self-regulation.
8.
Although Defendant failed to timely respond to the State Bar's November
2011 letter, he did respond to other State Bar inquiries after that time and did belatedly
respond to the November 2011 letter once prompted.
9.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOnTIS of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:

Conclusions With Respect To Discipline
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fOnTIS of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
a.
Intent of Delendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm is foreseeable, to wit: failing La conduct quarterly reconciliations and thus
failing to recognize work remained to be done and a premiwn remained to be
disbursed from a closing;
b.
Negative impact of Defendant's actions on client's or public's
perception of the profession; and
c,
Impainnent of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation, to wit: timely procurement of title insurance policies.
2.
TIle Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C:A.C. IB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbannent.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .01l4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in tills matter:
a.

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;

- 4-

b.

Absence ora dishonest or seltlsh motive;

c.

Multiple offenses;

d.

A pattern of misconduct;

e.
Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;
f.

Remorse: and

g.

Vulnerability of Defendant's clients.

4.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
signitlcant potential harm to future clients.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to aclmowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Defendant complies with necessary conditions
to avoid significant harm or the potential for signiticant hann to clients.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.
Based upon tile foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the fmdings
offact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order Of Discipline

I.
Defendant, Mark A. Mangiarelli, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for three years.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and the costs of this action
as assessed by the Secretary. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs stating
the costs assessed against Defendant. Defendant shall pay the costs within thirty days of
service afthe statement of costs upon him.
3.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:

- 5-

a.
Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's
Trust AccOlmt Handbook for all trust accounts maintained by him. Defendant
shall provide the Urree-way reconciliation report, client ledgers for all clients with
funds in the tnlst account(s) during that month, ledger for any personal funds
maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit card fees, his trust account
ledger, and the bank statements, cancelled checks, and deposit slips for each
month. These documents are due on the 15 th day of the following month - for
example, the three-way reconciliation for the month of January is due on February
15;
. b.
Each month Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar with a list of clients for whom Defendant collected funds for title
insurance premiums but for whom Defendant has not submitted the final title
opinion and premium to the title insurance company. The list shall contain the
name of the client, the date of the closing, the reason why the final title opinion
and premium has not been submitted, and an estimated date for completion. This
list is due on the same day each month as the three-way quarterly reconciliation
required in the above paragraph;
c.
Each quarler, Defendant shall have a CPA audit his trust accounts.
This audit shall assess whether Defendant has in his trust account the client funds
he should be maintaining for his clients at that time, as well as Defendant's
compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The CPA's audit shall include
addressing the items on the Accountant Checklist for Probation Cases which will
be provided by the Slate Bar to Defendant's counsel. The qualterly audit reports
from the CPA are due no laler than 30 days after the end of the quarter -- for
example, the CPA audit for the first quarter of the calendar year (January,
February, and March) is due on April 30;
d.
If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA
audit reveals any deviation from Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule l.l5-3, Defendant shall tal(e remedial action witilin 10 days of the date of
the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall provide
documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar within 2 days of the
date of the remedial action;
e.
Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of
Counsel to provide any information regarding his trust accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to obtain
information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a trust account,
by the deadline stated in the request;
f.
Within six months of the effective date of this order, Defc11llanl
shall each complete an accolmting course or continuing legal education course
focused on trust account practices and methods and compliance with the
requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct related to entrusted funds.
Tbis course must be approved in advance by the Office of Counsel of the State

-6-

Bar. Defendant must provide the Office of Counsel with proof of completion
within ten days of completion of the course;
g.
Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current physical business address (not a Post Offiee
box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notify the Bar of any
change in address, telephone number, or e-mail address within ten (10) days of
such change;
h.
Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to
the address on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina
State Bar;

i.
Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
infon11ation from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with
full and complete responses and all requested documentation;
j.
Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;
Ie
Defendant will pay all membership, Client Security Fund, and any
other related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable deadline;

I.
Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional
Conduct in cffcct during the period of the stay;
m.
Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina
or of the United States during the period of the stay; and
n.
Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within thirty days after the statement of costs was served upon him.
4.
If at any point during the stay of the suspension, Defendant disburses all
funds in his attorney trust account(s), closes all attorney trust accounts, and no longer
receives, maintains, Of ' otherwise handles entrusted or fiduciary funds in the course of his
law practice, Defendant shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State Bar with an
affidavit of this infol1nation and attach supporting documentation, including but not
limited to documentation showing disbursement of all funds and the closing of any and
all trust accounts. Thereafter, on a monthly basis, Defendant shall submit to the Office of
Counsel an affidavit certifying that he did not handle any entrusted or fidicuary funds in
that month; this affidavit shaB be executed on the last day of each month and provided to
the Office of Counsel by the 5th day of the following month (e.g. the affidavit for January
would be executed January 31 st and due to the Office of Counsel by February 5th ). Upon
receipt ofthe affidavits described in this paragraph, and for as long as Defendant does not
handle entrusted or fiduciary funds and submits these affidavits to the Office of Counsel,
the requirements of paragraphs 3a to 3d above shall be toBed.

-7-

5.
If during the stay of the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in § .OI14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated suspension
by filing a petition pursuant to § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules demonstrating compliance with the requirements therein as well as the
following requirements by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence:
a.
Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied
with the terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
b.
Defendant disbursed all funds held in trust, to the ex1ent permitted
by law. Defendant must provide trust account records and client records showing
the disbursement of funds and the current state of any and all trust accounts. If
any funds remained in any of Defendant's trust accounts, Defendant shall provide
the following: 1) the client ledgers showing whose money is in the trust
aceount(s); 2) explanations for how the funds should be disbursed, why they were
not disbursed, and an estimated time for disbursement; 3) a three-way
reconciliation for the quarter immediately preceding his application for
reinstatement; and 4) a CPA audit as described in paragraph 3.c. above for the
quarter immediately preceding his application for reinstatement;
c.
Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar
informed of his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office
box), telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his
suspension;
d.
Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record WitJl the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bm tJu'oughout the period of the suspension;
e.
Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for
infOlmation from the N0I1h Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with
full and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his suspension;
f.
Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding
continuing education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of his
petition for reinstatement;
g.
Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct
in effect during the period of the suspension;

-8-

h.
Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina
or of the United States during the period of the suspension; and
1.
Defendant paid all administrative fees and costs of this proceeding
as assessed by the Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for
reinstatement.

6.
Any order of the Administrative Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar placing Defendant in inactive status for any reason shall toll the running of the
suspension, the period of the stay of the suspension, and Defendant's obligation to
comply with the terms of the stay of the suspension under this order. Upon Defendant's
reinstatement to active status by the Administrative Committee, the tolling of the running
of the suspension and the stay of the suspension under this order shall be lifted, at which
time Defendant's obligation to comply with the conditions of the stay oflhe suspension
in this order will resume.

7.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
NOIth Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed .s/ipension.
J'?

~ed by

~

day of

e C air with the consent of the other hear' g p, elmembers, this the
2012.

Jk. Bro~. c~
k.

Disciplinary Hearing Panel

Consent Order of Discipline concerning Mark A. Mangiarelli
12 DHC 23
Agreed and consented to by:

-

-~,.:: .''.

.
•. ' /

--<-",

Jeiinifer fPort;;
Attorney for Plaintiff

Mark A. Mangiarelli
Defendant

Alan . Schneider
Attorney for Defendant

-9-

