NORTH CAROLINA.
WAKE COUNTY

-,

BEFORE THE
HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
06 DHC 11

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.
CHRISTOPHER LIVINGSTON, Attorney,
Defendant

)
)
)
) ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
)
)
)

This matter was considered on December 17,2007 by a Hearing
Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of T. Richard
Kane, Chair, and members C. Colon Willoughby, Jr. and Pamela U. Weis.
Margaret Cloutier represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant
Christopher Livingston appeared pro se. An Order for Summary Judgment
having been entered by a previously constituted hearing committee, this Hearing
Committee addressed the discipline to be imposed.
The previously constituted hearing committee determined that there was
no genuine issue as to the material facts recited below and that it was
appropriate to grant summary judgment in favor of both parties as indicated
below, reserving as the sole issue for hearing before this Disciplinary Hearing
Committee the discipline to be imposed on Defendant.
RECITATION OF MATERIAL FACTS
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under
the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under
the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina,
and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2. Defendant, Christopher Livingston, (hereafter, Livingston), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on March 18, 2000, and is, and was at
all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

3. During all of the periods relevant hereto, Livingston was engaged in the
practice of law in Wake andlor Bladen County North Carolina.

4. The Complaint in this action was filed on March 22, 2006 and
Defendant was served personally with the Summons and Complaint on April 4,
2006. Thereafter, Plaintiff was allowed to amend its Comptaint and did so on or
about May 30,2006.
5. Defendant filed an Answer to Plaintiffs Amended Complaint on June 6,
2006.

6. Defendant filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings or For
Summary Judgment on May 19, 2006, prior to the amendment of the complaint.
Plaintiff filed State Bar's Reply in Opposition to Defendant's Motions on May 25,
2006 and Defendant subsequently filed Defendant's Reply to Response to
Motions along with an Affidavit supporting his motion.
7. Prior to April 19, 2004, Livingston filed a civil action in Wake County
District Court on behalf of Gail Kuehn ("Kuehn") and Michelle Holley ("Holley")
against Riddle & Associates, PC, Jesse L. Riddle ("Riddle"), David G. Wood,
Capital Acquisitions, Reese Waugh and Jerome Kuebler, (collectively, "the
Riddle defendants").
8. On or about April 19, 2004, the Riddle defendants removed the Wake
County District Court action filed by Kuehn and Holley to the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina ("North Carolina federal
case1').
9. On or about May 12, 2004 Livingston filed an application with the Clerk
of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina for the purpose
of admission to the practice of law before the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of North Carolina and paid the appropriate fee.

10. At the time he submitted the application to the Clerk, Livingston had
not taken the oath before a U.S. district judge, bankruptcy judge, or magistrate
judge as required by the Federal Rules of Court for the Eastern District of North
Carolina.
11. The filing of the application with the Clerk allowed Livingston to file
with the Clerk pleadings signed by him, but did not allow him to appear in person
or by telephone on behalf of a client before a magistrate or district judge until
Livingston had taken the oath of office as required by the Federal Rules of Court.
12. On May 12, 2004 and June 7, 2004, Livingston filed motions on behalf
of Kuehn and Holley in the North Carolina federal case.

13. On September 8, 2004, Livingston appeared on behalf of Kuehn and
Holley in a hearing before The Honorable Terrence W. Boyle ("Judge Boyle") in
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, despite the fact
that Livingston had not taken the oath of office and, therefore, had not been
admitted to practice before that Court.
14. On or about September 17, 2004, Livingston filed a motion to
d~squalifyJudge Boyle in the North Carolina federal case alleging the Judge had
exhibited bias against Livingston's clients at the September 8, 2004 hearing.

15. In the motion to disqualify, Livingston used language and tone
exhibiting a lack of respect for the judicial office which was the subject of the
motion. In the motion Livingston also claimed that Livingston had filed a
disciplinary complaint against Judge Boyle with the Fourth Circuit Court of
Appeals, thereby revealing in a public document a proceeding that would
otherwise be a confidential process.
16. On May 4, 2004, Riddle filed suit against Livingston, Holley and
Kuehn in the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah ("Utah federal action").
17. On October 26, 2004, Livingston drafted motions to dismiss or,
alternatively, for entry of summary judgment on behalf of Holley and Kuehn in the
Utah federal action. The motions to dismiss were accompanied by memoranda
of law.
18. On or about November 22, 2004, on Holley's behalf, Livingston
drafted a response to Riddle's motion to strike Holley's motion to dismiss in the
Utah federal action.
19. Livingston included in the documents prepared on behalf of Holley
and Kuehn a notation that the documents were "prepared with the assistance of
Christopher W. Livingston, NC Bar Number 27282" and included Livingston's
address and telephone and fax numbers.
20. Livingston drafted the above-noted documents on behalf of Holley
and Kuehn for the purpose of filing in the Utah federal action and instructed
Holley and Kuehn how to file the documents he had prepared.

21. Livingston was not admitted to practice in the Utah federal court at
any time in 2004.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing material facts, the previous hearing committee
concluded as a matter of law as follows:

1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. Defendant's actions regarding practicing law in the jurisdictions in
which he was not properly admitted to practice constitute grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 584-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated one or more of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as
follows:

a. By appearing on behalf Holley and Kuehn in the U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of North Carolina when he had not been sworn in and
therefore not admitted to appear before a federal judge in court, Livingston
engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(a) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct; and
b. By drafting motions on behalf of Holley and Kuehn for filing in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Utah at a time when he had not been properly
admitted to practice before the federal court in Utah, Livingston engaged in the
unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(a) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3. Plaintiff, North Carolina State Bar, is therefore entitled to judgment as a
matter of law regarding its allegations of Defendant's violations of Rule 5.5(a) as
delineated above.

4. Defendant's actions in filing a motion to disqualify Judge Boyle in the
North Carolina federal case alleging the Judge had exhibited bias against
Livingston's clients at the September 8, 2004 hearing is not a violation of Rule
8.4(d) as alleged in Plaintiff's Amended Complaint, and Defendant, Christopher
Livingston, is therefore entitled to judgment as a matter of law regarding this
conduct.
5. Nonetheless, in the motion to disqualify, the language and tone used
by Livingston exhibited a lack of respect for the judicial office which was the
subject of the motion and his claim that Livingston had filed a disciplinary
complaint against Judge Boyle with the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals revealed
in a public document a proceeding that would otherwise be a confidential
process. This conduct, while not the basis for discipline, was unprofessional and
not in accord with accepted professional practice.
This Disciplinary Hearing Committee, based upon the Order for Summary
Judgment entered November 2, 2007 (containing the Recitation of Material Facts
and Conclusions of Law as repeated above) and upon the evidence presented at
the hearing on discipline and the arguments of counsel, finds by clear, cogent
and convincing evidence and enters the following

FlNDlNGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. There are no aggravating factors.

2. Livingston's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. absence of a prior disciplinary record;
b. absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;

c, full and free disclosure to the hearing committee and
cooperative attitude toward these proceedings;
d. delay in disciplinary proceedings through no fault of the
defendant attorney; and
e. remorse.

3. The Committee finds that Livingston's failure to finalize the admission
process by being sworn in to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
North Carolina, and his preparation of documents for his clients to file in the U.S.
District Court in Utah were minor violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based on the foregoing material facts, Conclusions of Law, and Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following:

ORDER
1. Defendant, Christopher Livingston, is hereby ADMONISHED for his
violations of Rule 5.5(a) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. No costs are taxed against the Defendant.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of
the other members of the Hearing Committee, this 3fsr day of &!&2z2fl&a
2007.

HEARING COMMITTEE

