/1.\\'fI;\~ ',,, :;T~»
/k.~

[-z:

STATE OF NORTH CAROL~

1:~

A14R

'J("j~

<:011;

';}

BEFORE THE
;::::. IFILfD IN . DI ::: PLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
9
Q;
OF THE
(~)
~ ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
,(
, \~
17 DHC 06
'Z-?

tdHc

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF
LAW, AND CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

MARJORIE R. MANN, Attomey,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, and members N. Hunter Wyche, Jr. and Michael S.
Edwards, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I, Subchapter B, §
.0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Joshua T. Walthall. Defendant was represented by David
B. Freedman and Dudley A. Witt. Both Plaintiff and Defendant stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this
consent order of discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby fmds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, Marjorie R. Mann ("Defendant"), was admitted to the North Carolina
State Bar in 1985, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and
Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Asheville, North Carolina.
4.
In 2015, Defendant represented TD Bank in a foreclosure sale of property to
Houses 2 Homes, LLC, in Henderson County, North Carolina.
I

5.
In June 2016, the attorney for Houses 2 Homes, LLC notified Defendant and her
legal assistant that the original Substitute Trustee's Deed recorded on July 22, 2015 had not
properly conveyed the property because it was signed by M.C., the wrong substitute trnstee,
instead of AM., the COlTect substitute trustee.
6.
On June 20, 2016, in an effort to COlTect this error, Defendant recorded and filed
an Amended Substitute Trustee's Deed, Amended Final Report and Amended Notice of
Foreclosure bearing the purported signature of AM.
7.
Defendant forged AM.'s signature on the Amended Substitute Trustee's Deed,
Amended Final Report and Amended Notice of Foreclosure without AM.'s consent.
8.
On July 14,2016, Defendant's employer received infolTllation suggesting that the
purported signatures of AM. on the Amended Substitute Trnstee's Deed, Amended Final Report
and Amended Notice of Foreclosure had been forged by Defendant.
9.
On July 14,2016, in response to an e-mail from an attorney at Defendant's firm
inquiring about the signatures on the Amended Substitute Trustee's Deed, Amended Final
Report and Amended Notice of Foreclosure, Defendant claimed that she had spoken with AM.
and that AM. had authorized her to sign his name to the documents.
10.
Defendant had not spoken with A.M. and AM. did not authorize Defendant to
sign his name to the Amended Substitute Trustee's Deed, Amended Final Report or Amended
Notice of Foreclosure.
11.
Defendant's claim that she had spoken to AM. and that AM. had authorized her
to sign his name to the Amended Substitute Trnstee's Deed, Amended Final RepOli and
Amended Notice of Foreclosure was false.
12.
Defendant knew at the time she made the claim that she had spoken to AM. and
that AM. had authorized her to sign his name to the Amended Substitute Trustee's Deed,
Amended Final RepOli and Amended Notice of Foreclosure that this statement was false.
13.
Defendant instrncted her legal assistant to notarize the signatures on the Amended
Substitute Trustee's Deed, Amended Final Report and Amended Notice of Foreclosure that
Defendant knew to be improperly executed and falsified.
14.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 10B-60(c)(2), it is a misdemeanor for a notary to
verify a signature without the principal appearing in person before the notary.
15.
By instructing her assistant to notarize signatures when the principal had not
appeared in person before her, Defendant solicited her assistant to engage in official misconduct
constituting a misdemeanor.
Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 10B-60(d)(I), it is a felony for a notary to verify a
16.
signature that the notary knows to be false or fraudulent.

2

17.
By instructing her assistant to notarize signatmes that she and her assistant knew
to be falsified, Defendant solicited her assistant to engage in official misconduct constituting a
felony.
18.
Pmsuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 10B-60G), "Any person who knowingly solicits,
coerces, or in any material way influences a notary to commit official misconduct, is guilty as an
aider and abettor and is subject to the same level of punishment as the notary."
19.
Pmsuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-122, any person who forges the signature of
another on a deed is guilty of the criminal act offorgery, a felony.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, with the consent of the parties the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jmisdiction
over Defendant and the subject matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pmsuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the conduct, as follows:
(a)

By falsely claiming to others that A.M. had signed documents when she knew that
to not be the case and by falsely claiming that A.M. had given her permission to
sign his name to various documents, Defendant knowingly made a false statement
of material fact to a third person in violation of Rule 4.1 and engaged in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c);

(b)

By directing her legal assistant to notarize a signatme Defendant knew to be
improperly executed and falsified, Defendant ordered a nonlawyer assistant to
engage in conduct that would be a violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct
were a lawyer to engage in it, in violation of Rule 5.3;

(c)

By directing her legal assistant to notarize a signatme Defendant lmew to be
improperly executed and falsified, Defendant solicited a notary to commit official
misconduct, thereby committing a misdemeanor and a felony, respectively, in
North Carolina that reflect adversely on her fitness as an attorney, in violation of
Rule 8.4(b); and

(d)

By forging a signatnre on a deed, Defendant engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) and
violated Rule 8.4(b) by committing the criminal act of forgery.

3

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and with the consent
of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following:
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant has been an actively licensed attorney in NOith Carolina since 1985
and has never been disciplined by the State Bar or any other regulatory agency during that time.
2.
At the time of the activities described herein, Defendant was experiencing severe
emotional and physical trauma.
3.

On JanualY 19,2015, Defendant was diagnosed with a very aggressive form of

cancer.
4.
treatments.

Shortly thereafter, Defendant began to undergo a series of weekly chemotherapy

5.
In June 2015, Defendant underwent lumpectomy surgery followed by daily
radiation treatment through October 2015.
6.
The side effects commonly accompanying chemotherapy and radiation followed
Defendant's treatments: severe nausea, depression, physical and emotional weakness, poor
memory, hair loss, and impaired eye sight, among others.
7.
In the midst of her battle with cancer and three days after one of her surgeries,
Defendant woke up one morning to discover - with no prior warning - that her husband of
nearly 30 years had left in the middle ofthe night and that he was filing for divorce.
8.
Defendant's husband served discovery on Defendant that week, even though
litigation had not yet begun.
9.
Shortly thereafter, in the midst of her sudden and contentious divorce, Defendant
was diagnosed with diploplia, a serious eye condition likely resulting from the chemotherapy.
10.
Defendant underwent a brain MRI that revealed that she would need surgery on
both eyes in the near future.
11.
While the potential harm caused by Defendant's actions was significant, the
actual harm was, according to Defendant's former firm, minimal - it took approximately two
hours and $1,000.00 to COiTect the issue.
12.
Defendant, of her own volition and not upon request of Plaintiff or her former
firm, has reimbursed her former firm for the total costs of correcting the halm caused by her
actions.

4

13.
The mental and physical trauma of Defendant's battle with cancer and her
contentious divorce affected her judgment and ability to practice law.
14.
Defendant has been open and honest with Plaintiff at all stages of this disciplinary
proceeding against her.
15.
her actions.

Defendant has admitted to all of the violations and expressed sincere remorse for

16.
Defendant's colleagues - including attorneys at her former firm - have a high
opinion of Defendant's trustworthiness and capabilities as a lawyer.
17.
Defendant has, since engaging in the misconduct that is the subject of this action,
established, of her own volition and not upon request of Plaintiff, a system of professional and
personal accountability and support in an effort to protect her clients and herself from any further
lapses in judgment or mistakes of this nature.
18.
Defendant's divorce is nearing resolution and she is now cancer free; thus, she is
no longer experiencing the circumstances that affected her judgment and ability to practice law.
19.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and disbatment, in considering
the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Heat'ing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .01 14(w)(I) ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors are present:
a.

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the halm or potential hatm is
foreseeable;

b.

Circumstances reflecting the defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity; and

c.

Acts of dishonest, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

2.
While the Hearing Panel does not believe that disbarment is necessary in light of
the unique and extraordinary extenuating circumstances present in this case, it has considered all
of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar and concludes that the following factors are applicable:

5

a.

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication; and

b.

Commission of a felony.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .01 14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and concludes the
following factors are applicable:
a.

The absence of pnor disciplinary offenses in this state or any other
jurisdiction;

b.

Effect of personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;

c.

Effect of physical or mental disability or impairment on the conduct in
question;

d.

Interim rehabilitation;

e.

Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel or cooperative attitude toward the
proceedings;

f.

Remorse; and

g.

Character and reputation.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or censure
but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient. The Hearing Panel concludes that
such discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the violations committed by
Defendant and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public regaTding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar in this State.
5.
The HeaTing Panel has considered all alternatives and concludes that a suspension
is neceSSaTY to adequately protect the public. The HeaTing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of suspension would not be appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and the
Additional Findings of Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline, and with the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
four yeaTs.

Defendant, Mmjorie R. Mann, is hereby suspended from the practice of law for

2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this action as assessed
by the SecretaTY. Defendant shall be served with a statement of costs and administrative fees
6

assessed against Defendant. Defendant shall pay the costs and administrative fees within thirty
days of service of the statement of costs and administrative fees upon her.
3.
The four-year suspension is stayed for a period of four years as long as Defendant
complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following conditions:
a. Defendant pays the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary of the State Bar within thirty days of service of the statement of fees
and costs upon her;
b. Each year of the stay, Defendant completes four additional hours of Continuing
Legal Education ("CLE") courses on the subject of ethics or professional
responsibility. This CLE requirement is in addition to the CLE requirements set
out in North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter D §
.1518. These courses must be completed within the applicable time period for
completing the CLE hours required under North Carolina Administrative Code,
Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter D § .1518 each year of the stay and must be
reported on the annual CLE repOli forms;
c. Defendant arranges for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar who is
in good standing who practices law in the county in which Defendant primarily
practices and who has been approved by the State Bar Office of Counsel to serve
as her practice monitor. The selected monitor must agree to serve and agree to
meet with Defendant monthly to review Defendant's cases. Each month, the
monitor must go over at least one case in detail in each area of law in which
Defendant is practicing, with discussion including but not limited to identification
of applicable statutory and regulatory authorities, identification of potential legal
issues, plan of representation, and the appropriate roles of Defendant's nonlawyer
assistants in each case. Defendant shall come prepared each month to discuss
these topics in her cases with her practice monitor. The monitor must submit
written qumierly reports of these meetings and discussions to the Office of
Counsel; such repOlis are due on the following dates as they occur during the stay
of this suspension: October 15, January 15, April 15, and July 15. This
monitoring must occur for the duration of the stay of this suspension. Defendant
will pay all costs, if any, charged by the monitor. Defendant must have made the
arrangements for this monitoring attorney and supplied the Office of Counsel with
a letter from the monitoring attorney confirming his or her agreement to perform
the duties listed above no later than thirty days from service of this Order upon
Defendant;
d. Defendant keeps the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised
of her current physical business address (not post office box or drawer addresses),
telephone number, and e-mail address and notifies the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change;
e. Defendant accepts all celiified mail from the State Bar sent to the address on
record with the Membership Department of the North Cm'olina State Bar;
7

f.

Defendant responds to all letters of notice and requests for information from the
North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full and complete
responses and all requested documentation;

g. Defendant timely complies with all State Bar continuing legal education
requirements and pays all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;
h. Defendant pays all membership dues, fees, costs and assessments, including all
Client Security Fund assessments, and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is
authorized to collect from her, including all judicial district dues and assessments
all membership, Client Security Fund, and any other related dues, fees, costs
and/or assessments by the applicable deadline;
1.

Defendant does not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the stay; and

j.

Defendant does not violate the laws of the United States, or the laws of any state
or local government, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of the
stay.

4.
Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by further order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end four years from the effective date of the
Order provided there are at that time no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging
lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C.
Admin. Code 1B § .0114(x), the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the
suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance
with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the
suspension would otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift
the stay of the suspension and activate the suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the
conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation
to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending
motion or show cause proceeding.
5.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions set out above
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted and the suspension
activated in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .01 14(x).
6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the DHC may enter an order imposing such conditions as it deems proper for the
reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension. Moreover, in addition to
complying with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125, Defendant must establish
the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence prior to being reinstated to the practice of
law after any period of active suspension:

8

a. That Defendant submitted her law license and membership card to the Secretary
of the State Bar within thirty days of the date of the order lifting the stay and/or
activating the suspension of her law license;
b. That Defendant complied with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124
following entry of the order lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension of her
law license;
c. That Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against her
in this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon her by the
Secretary of the State Bar;
d. That within 15 days of the effective date of the order activating the suspension,
Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and telephone number at which
clients seeking return of files could communicate with Defendant to obtain such
files;
e. That Defendant provided within ten days client files to all clients who made a
request for return of their files;
f.

That Defendant kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of her current
business street addresses (not post office box or drawer addresses) and notified
the State Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

g. That Defendant responded to all communications from the State Bar, including
communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within thirty days
of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is sooner;
h. That, at the time of her petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in payment
of all membership dues, fees, costs and assessments, including all Client Security
Fund assessments, and other charges or surcharges the State Bar is authorized to
collect fi'om her, including all judicial district dues and assessments;
1.

That, at the time of her petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE hours, in reporting of such hours, or
in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

J.

That Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
during the period of the suspension; and

k. That Defendant did not violate the laws of the United States, or the laws of any
state or local government, other than minor traffic violations, during the period of
the suspension.
7.
If Defendant is obligated to comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code
IB § .0124 to wind down her practice and fails to do so at any point during the effective period
9

of this Order, Defendant shall reimburse the State Bar for any and all expenses incurred by the
State Bar to wind down Defendant's practice. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to,
storage facility fees, rent payments, moving expenses, charges for secure disposal of client files,
postage or other mailing expenses, and compensation paid to a trustee and/or a trustee's assistant
for time and travel associated with any trusteeship. The State Bar shall send an invoice of winddown expenses to Defendant at Defendant's last known address of record with the North
Carolina State Bar. Defendant shall not be eligible to file a petition for reinstatement until she
has reimbursed the State Bar for all wind-down expenses incurred.
8.
The Disciplinary Heating Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0114(x) of the NOlih Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay of suspension are satisfied.

S~~d by~e Chair with the consent ofthe other hearing panel members, this the ~ l ~""

dayof ~~t.

2017.

~

Chair
Disciplinary Heating Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

I

Jo ua T. Walthall
Counsel for Plaintiff

Date

MarJQ R. Mann
Defendant

Date ~ 7

David B. Freedman
Counsel for Defendant

Date

{12362671} 10

