'o..~ \'i. 1l18 19,?(J

Q,':
~

.NORTH CAROLI ~
WAKE COUNTY

'WG zm1\
AL~O

"
.g r

<72

...

" Pr

O

;;:.,

~

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION
~,~
OFTHE
N TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
",q.;
10 DHC 29

D~CI

z: \ is.-J-

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)

v.

)

PERRY W. MARTIN, Attorney,
Defendant

ORDER OF DISICPLINE

)
)
)

THIS MATIER was heard on July 8, 2011 before a hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, Fred
M. Morelock, and Patti Head pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114 of the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Perry W. Martin, was
represented by Lloyd C. Smith, Jr. and Lloyd Clifton Smith, III. Plaintiff was
represented by Deputy Counsel Margaret Cloutier.
Based upon the record and the evidence introduced at the hearing, the
hearing panel finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Perry W. Martin (hereinafter "Martin" or "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 5, 1950 and is, and was at all
times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3. Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came
before the hearing panel with due notice to all parties.

4. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Ahoskie, Hertford County, North Carolina.
5. Defendant was retained to represent DeAnna Dodway in a matter
relating to divorce and property distribution.
6. Defendant represented Ms. Dodway from approximately November
2008 until October 2009.
7. In or about January 2009, Defendant met with Ms. Dodway in his office
to consult about the case. When Ms. Dodway got up to leave, Defendant moved
toward her and placed his hands on either side of her against the wall preventing
her from moving freely. Defendant then tried to kiss Ms. Dodway on the lips.
When she protested and moved away Defendant told Ms. Dodway she was too
beautiful not to kiss.
8. In or about April 2009, Defendant again met with Ms. Dodway in his
office to consult about the case. During that meeting, Defendant asked Ms.
Dodway whether she believed he was too old to have a personal relationship
with her. When Ms. Dodway said yes, Defendant told Ms. Dodway that when he
used his tongue on her during oral sex she would holler and make all kinds of
noise. Defendant asked Ms. Dodway how much each button on her blazer would
cost to unbutton. Defendant then came around behind Ms. Dodway where she
was seated and tried to kiss her on the neck before she moved away.
9. In or about April 2009, Defendant and Ms. Dodway were in the
courthouse hallway after Ms. Dodway had been granted a divorce from bed and
board. In response to her inquiry about the implication of the court's decision,
Defendant told Ms. Dodway she was now free to have sex with anyone she
wanted to, including Defendant.
10. During the representation, Defendant contacted Ms. Dodway by
telephone and requested that Ms. Dodway allow him to come to her residence for
dinner and that she do so at a time when her children would be visiting with their
father and she would be alone. Defendant did not specify that the meeting would
be to discuss Ms. Dodway's legal matters. Ms. Dodway understood Defendant to
be asking to come to her home and engage in sexual relations.
11. In or about September 2009, Defendant and Ms. Dodway attended a
mediation scheduled in her legal matter. In Ms. Dodway's vehicle in the parking
lot after the mediation, Defendant asked if Ms. Dodway were willing to work out
payment for his services. When Ms. Dodway pointed out that Defendant's
services were paid in full in advance of the representation, Defendant said that
was not the kind of payment he was referring to. Defendant told Ms. Dodway he
knew of a motel on 1-95, that the people who ran it were discreet, and that no one

2

would find out. Ms. Dodway understood Defendant to be asking her to go to the
hotel and engage in sexual relations.
12. On October 19, 2009, Defendant again met with Ms. Dodway in his
office for a consultation regarding her case. Because of Defendant's prior
statements and conduct, Ms. Dodway felt that it was necessary to tape record
this meeting. During that conversation Defendant asked Ms. Dodway if she
wanted to drive Defendant back to the hotel where she was staying. When Ms.
Dodway asked what he would expect, Defendant responded, "If I went to
Roanoke Rapids to spend the night with you at the motel? I would expect us to
explore everything in the world sexually tonight that we could think of ... "
13. When Ms. Dodway was leaving the meeting of October 19, 2009,
Defendant tried to hug and kiss Ms. Dodway.
14. Defendant admitted making the statements set out in paragraph 12
above which were tape recorded by Ms. Dodway. Defendant acknowledged that
he "might have" said something similar to the statement attributed to him as set
out in paragraph 9 above. Defendant denied making any of the other statements
attributed to him as set out in paragraphs 7, 8, 10 and 11. The panel did not find
Defendant's testimony in this regard to be credible.
15. After considering all of the evidence and testimony of all of the
witnesses, the panel finds the testimony of Ms. Dodway to be credible.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing panel enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
and the Disciplinary Hearing Commission has jurisdiction over Defendant, Perry
W. Martin, and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2. Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(2) in that
Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the
conduct as follows:
By making sexually explicit comments to Dodway, attempting to touch her
in a sexual manner, and attempting to convince her to have sex with him,
Defendant attempted to have sex with his client which constitutes an attempted
violation of Rule 1.19(a) in violation of Rule 8.4(a) and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).

3

Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, the hearing panel also
finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. Ms. Dodway borrowed from a close family member the funds
necessary to engage Defendant's services at the outset of the representation.
That same family member initially suggested Ms. Dodway consult with
defendant. Ms. Dodway felt embarrassed to tell anyone about the advances
Defendant was making toward her and felt that no one would believe her. For
these reasons, Ms. Dodway did not immediately tell anyone about Defendant's
actions.
2. Ms. Dodway terminated Defendant's services after the October 19,
2009 meeting with Defendant. Ms. Dodway hired another attorney who was able
to resolve her remaining legal matters promptly.
3. Ms. Dodway stated that, because of her experiences with a male
attorney, should she be in need of legal services in the future she will only
consider engaging a female attorney.
4. During the grievance process Defendant submitted a written response
to the Letter of Notice and written responses to follow-up inquiries of State Bar
counsel. During this DHC proceeding Defendant filed an Answer and testified in
a deposition. These written and testimonial responses were inconsistent with
Defendant's testimony at the hearing in this matter and contained statements or
allegations for which Defendant had no factual basis.
5. Defendant was disciplined by Admonition for dissimilar conduct in
1989. The prior discipline issued to Defendant was so remote in time as to have
no bearing on the discipline in this matter.
6. Defendant's conduct demonstrated that he put his own personal
interests and desires before the legal interests of his client. He showed no
remorse during these proceedings and did not acknowledge that his course of
conduct during his representation of Ms. Dodway was improper.
7. Defendant presented several witnesses whose testimony
demonstrated that Defendant enjoys a good reputation within the community.
8. Defendant's conduct toward Ms. Dodway was purposeful and was of a
nature that it would be obvious to Defendant that the conduct was exploilive of
his client's trust and reliance upon him and from which a conflict of interest would
inherently arise.

4

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional
Findings Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel also enters the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1. The hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and determines that the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. Defendant's selfish motive;
b. Defendant's cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
c. Defendant's submission of false evidence, false statements or other
deceptive practices during the disciplinary process;
d. Defendant's refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;
e. Defendant's lack of remorse;
f. Defendant's reputation for good character within the community;
g. The vulnerability of the victim, Defendant's client; and
h. Repeated instances of conduct that violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct involving the same victim.
2. The hearing panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and determines that the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a. The intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm was foreseeable;
b. Defendant's elevation of his own interest above that of the client; and
c. The negative impact of Defendant's actions on the client's perception of
the profession.
3. The hearing panel has considered the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. 1B §.0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar and determines that none of the factors are established by the
evidence in this case. The panel therefore does not consider disbarment to be
necessary to protect the public in this case.

5

4. The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. An admonition, reprimand, or censure would not be
sufficient discipline because of the gravity ofthe potential harm Defendant's
conduct caused to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal
profession.
5. The panel determines that discipline short of suspension would not
adequately protect the public, the legal profession or the administration of justice
for the following reasons:
a. The factors under Rule .0114(w)(1) that are established by the
evidence in this case are of a nature that support imposition of a suspension as
the appropriate discipline; and
b. Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offense Defendant committed and would
send the wrong message to attorneys and to the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this state.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
Findings and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The license to practice law in the State of North Carolina of Defendant
Perry W. Martin is hereby suspended for three years from the date this Order of
Discipline is served upon him.
2. The period of suspension is stayed for three years as long as
Defendant complies and continues to comply with the following conditions:
a. Defendant will engage the services of a member in good-standing of
the North Carolina State Bar to serve as a practice monitor for Defendant.
Defendant will ensure that such practice monitor is present at any time
Defendant is in the presence of any female client. Defendant shall comply with
and submit to any and all measures by the State Bar to monitor and determine
compliance with the terms of this condition, including but not limited to complying
with the following:
i. Defendant will ensure that the practice monitor submits to the
Office of Counsel an affidavit identifying each client with whom Defendant
met or spoke in the practice monitor's presence. Each affidavit shall
include the date and time of each client interaction. Such affidavit shall

6

be submitted by the seventh day of each month during the stay
designating the client interactions for the previous calendar month;
ii. Defendant shall provide to the Office of Counsel and to the
practice monitor a statement signed by each new female client at the
outset of each representation in which the client acknowledges that she
has been apprised of the existence and content of this Order of Discipline.
Defendant shall provide to the Office of Counsel each such statement
signed during a calendar month by the seventh day of the next month
during the stay. Defendant shall further provide to the Office of Counsel
and to the practice monitor within 30 days of service of this Order upon
him a statement signed by each female client currentiy existing as of the
date of this Order in which the client acknowledges that she has been
apprised of the existence and content of this Order of Discipline;
iii. Defendant shall provide to the Office of Counsel and to the
practice monitor a complete list of any and all clients during each calendar
month dUring the stay, designating the gender of each individual client and
including the address and telephone number for any female clients.
Defendant will provide this list no later than the seventh day of each month
designating his clients for the previous calendar month. The first list is
due the earlier of fifteen days from the entry of this Order or August 7,
2011; and
iv. Defendant and his office staff shall fully and completely permit
and comply with any visit, inspection, or audit of Defendant's practice by
the North Carolina State Bar.
b. No later than 45 days from the entry of this Order, Defendant shall
undergo evaluation by a psychiatrist or psychologist approved in advance by the
Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar who specializes in treating
sexual offenders in the professions and will comply with any and all treatments,
programs, plans, and/or counseling determined by the evaluating psychiatrist or
psychologist to be appropriate to ensure Defendant gains an appropriate
perception of women, can have an appropriate professional relationship with
female clients, and to address any other mental health issues. Defendant shall
provide the Office of Counsel of the State Bar with reports from his psychiatrist or
psychologist every quarter during the stay describing the treatment received by
Defendant, Defendant's progress, diagnosis, prognosis, and continuing treatment
plan. These reports shall be provided to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar by
Defendant no later than January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 of each year of
the stay of the suspension.
If no specific condition is diagnosed or if no treatment program is
prescribed by the evaluating psychiatrist or psychologist, then Defendant shall
attend and complete once a year throughout the stay of the suspension a

7

diversity training program approved in advance by the Office of Counsel of the
North Carolina State Bar that includes a large component addressing sexual
harassment. The initial program must be an intense live program and the
subsequent ones should be programs that build upon the initial program.
Defendant must provide written proof of attendance and completion of such
diversity training to the Office of Counsel no later than June 30 of each year
during the stayed suspension.
Defendant is solely responsible for paying, and shall pay, all costs
associated with the above described evaluation, treatment, and reports.
Defendant shall sign releases or authorizations to all providers providing
treatment or evaluation under this order instructing the provider to discuss the
treatment and/or evaluation of him with counsel in the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar and to release any corresponding notes, test results, and records to
the Office of Counsel of the State Bar.
c. Defendant shall not violate any state or federal laws or any provisions
of the Rules of Professional Conduct during the period of the stayed suspension;
d. Defendant shall respond to all State Bar requests for information by the
earlier of the deadline stated in the communication or within 30 days, as required
by Rule 8.1 (b) of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
e. Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
Continuing Legal Education requirements; and
f. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
department advised of his current home and business street (not P.O. Box)
addresses and telephone numbers.
3. If the stay granted herein is revoked or the suspension of Defendant's
license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of his license to
practice law, Defendant must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
that he has complied with each of the following conditions:
a. Submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within thirty days after the date of the order lifting the
stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
b. Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 of the State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules on a timely basis following the order lifting the stay
and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
c. Paid all due and owing membership fees, Client Security Fund
assessments and costs assessed by the DHC or the State Bar and complied with
all continuing legal education requirements imposed by the State Bar;

8

d. If Defendant has not complied fully with paragraph 2(b) above,
Defendant shall submit to comprehensive psychiatric evaluations by two
separate psychiatrists or psychologists selected by or acceptable to the Office of
Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar who specialize in treating sexual
offenders in the professions who, based on independent comprehensive
evaluations of Defendant, have certified under oath whether in their professional
opinion Defendant suffers from any condition creating a predisposition for
inappropriate sexual behavior and whether Defendant suffers from any mental,
psychological, or emotional condition that significantly impairs his professional
judgment, performance, or competence in the representation of female clients.
Defendant is solely responsible for paying, and shall pay, all costs
associated with the above described evaluations, treatment, and reports.
Defendant shall sign releases or authorizations to all providers providing
treatment or evaluation under this order instructing the provider to discuss the
treatment and/or evaluation of him with counsel in the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar and to release any corresponding notes, test results, and records to
the Office of Counsel of the State Bar; and
e. Complied with the conditions set forth in Paragraph 2(c) through (f)
above.
4. Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary, including reasonable and necessary expenses for the deposition
taken by Plaintiff, which shall be paid within ninety days of service of the notice of
costs upon Defendant.
Signed by the undersigned Chair of the hearing panel with the full
day of
knowledge and consent of the other panel members, this the
August, 2011.

.l3::-

9

