"":Jfo'\'O
NORTH CAROLINA ,::;N

WAKE COUNTY

1 ,

~-?~d . ' j~~EFORETHE COUNCIL

<, ~ ~.,) OF THE
<. . . . NORTH
CAROLINA STATE BAR
,<.
00 BCS 6

r

f

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE
OF CATRINA H. MERCER

)
)
)
)

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the
North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, §
.0117(a) of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon an affidavit of tender of
surrender oflicense executed by Catrina Mercer in April, 2000, and filed in the offices of
the North Carolina State-Bar on April 12,2000.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that Catrina Mercer's conduct of
neglecting numerous client matters, failing to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in handling numerous client matters, failing to keep clients reasonably
informed about the status of their matters, failing to appear in court when client's matters
were scheduled for hearings, and accepting fees for handling client matters and then not
completing the matters or returning the fees is grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Catrina Mercer violated Rules 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5 of the
North Carolina Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
WHEREFORE, upon Motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the
following Order:
1. The tender of surrender of license of Catrina Mercer is hereby accepted.
2. Catrina Mercer is hereby is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North
Carolina.

3. Catrina Mercer shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disbarment Rules and shall
surrender her license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124 ofthe State Bar Discipline
& Disbarment Rules.

4. The costs ofthis action are taxed against Catrina Mercer.
Done and ordered this 14 th day of April, 2000.

ressie H. Thigpen Jr ,
The N.C. State Bar

·.
NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

BEFORE THE NORTH CAROLINA
STATE BAR COUNCIL
00 BCS/P
AFFIDAVIT OF TENDER

I, Catrina H. Mercer, being duly sworn, depose and say:
I, Catrina H. Mercer, hereby tender my license and desire to resign from The North
Carolina State Bar. This resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, is not the result of
coercion or duress, and I am fully aware of the implications of submitting this resignation.
1.

2. I understand that the State Bar Council will consider this affidavit of surrender at its
meeting on April 14, 2000, and I waive any further notice.
3. I am aware of a pending investigation or other proceedings regarding allegations that I
neglected numerous client matters, that I failed to act with reasonable diligence and
promptness in handling numerous client matters, that I failed to keep the clients reasonably
informed about the status of their matters, that I failed to appear in court on a number of
occasions when the clients' matters were scheduled for hearings, and that I accepted fees for
handling client matters and then did not complete the matters or return the fees.
4.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the grievance is predicated are true.

5. I am submitting this resignation because I know that if charges were predicated upon the
misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them.
Further affiant sayeth not.
This

day of April, 2000

C!~c~~~
atrma H. Mercer

Sworn to and subscribed before me
this -\\ ,.I...day of \'<\0..:.,
, 2000.

.

My Commission expires:

North Carolina
Wake County

I, Carol L. Weber, a notary public of Wake County, North Carolina, certifY that Clayton W. Davidson III
personally appeared before me this day, and being duly sworn, stated that he knows the handwriting of
Catrina Mercer and that the signature to the foregoing instrument is the signature of Catrina Mercer.
Witness my hand and official seal, this the

'2
I _~

day of I/1i

fi.- J' ,2000.

CA~U.<~)
Notary Public

My commission expires February 24, 2005.

J{J

