NORTH

BEFORE THE
HEARlNG COMMISSION
OF THE
STATE BAR
06 DHC 20

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

E. ELIZABETH LEFLER, Attorney,
Defendant

1
1
)

This matter came on for hearing on April 13, 2007 before a Hearing
Committee of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of F. Lane
Williamson, Chair, Michael A. Grace, and Marguerite P. Watts.
Margaret
Clautier represented Plaintiff. Defendant was not present and was not
represented.
1. The complaint in this matter was filed on April 26, 2006 and Defendant
was served with a copy of the summons and complaint by certified mail, return
receipt, restricted delivery on May 2, 2006. Defendant failed to answer or
otherwise plead within the time designated by 27 N.C.A.C. ?B 5.0114(e) and her
default was entered by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar on June 19,
2006. The hearing on discipline was stayed for a time pending determination of
Defendant's disability. On April 93, 2007 Defendant was not found to be
disabled. Defendant did not file a motion to set aside the default before or after
the period of stay. Accordingly, the allegations of the Plaintiff's complaint are
deemed admitted pursuant to Rule .0?14(f) of the State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.

2. On April 11, 12 and 13, 2007 Defendant filed various motions
requesting a continuance of the hearing based on Defendant's inability to
proceed due to a break-in of her home within the past three weeks,the failure of
an on-line airline reservation made April 12, 2007, and the Defendant's inability
to make alternate last-minute travel arrangements. After careful consideration of
the various motions filed by Defendant, the Chair denied all of Defendant's
motions to continue.

Based on the record and evidence provided, the Hearing Committee
hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
3. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.

4. Defendant. E. Elizabeth Lefler (hereinafter 'Leflef or "Defendant'), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 21, 1983 and is, and was at
all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.

5. The summons and complaint in this action were served on Defendant
on May 2, 2006. Defendant has failed to file responsive pleadings in this matter
and the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar entered the Defendant's
default on June 19,2006.

6. Defendant actively engaged in the practice of law in the State of North
Carolina and maintained a law ofice in Franklin, Macon County, North Carolina.
7. In August 2004 Defendant closed her practice in North Carolina and
moved to Texas.
8. In November 2004 the Council of the North Carolina State Bar entered
an order suspending Defendant's license to practice law for failing to complete
the minimum mandatory continuing legal education requirements.
9. On or about April 23, 1998 Anna Ruth Holden was involved in an
automobile accident. Shortly thereafter, Holden hired Defendant to represent her
in a claim for personal injury.

10. Defendant filed a lawsuit on Holden's behalf. While the lawsuit was
pending, Holden tried to contact Defendant, but Defendant was not available to
Holden and did not return any of Hoklen's telephone calls.
11. When Defendant closed her law practice and moved to Texas, she
effectively terminated her representation of Holden. Defendant did not notify
Holden that Defendant was relocating. Defendant did not seek permission from
the court to withdraw from representing Holden.

12. After Holden realized Defendant was no longer representing her,
Holden attempted to contact Defendant to obtain her file. Defendant did not
return Holden's calls or provide the file to Holden.

43. On February 16, 2005 Henry Babb, then Chair of the Grievance
Committee of the North Carolina State Bar, sent a Letter of Notice to Defendant
relating to Holden's case. Defendant received the February 16.2005 Letter of
Notice by certified mail on or about March 22, 2005. Defendant did not respond
to the February 16, 2005 Letter of Notice.
14. On or about June 16, 2003 Johnny R. Vernon engaged Defendant to
represent him to obtain a divorce. Defendant charged Vernon $400 as a flat fee
to obtain the divorce and $95 for costs. Vernon paid Defendant $650, which
included $150 for a consultation fee that Defendant ultimately credited to the
divorce fee. Defendant kept the $155 excess payment in trust to be applied
against a retainer in the event Vernon decided to engage Defendant for custody
and visitation issues.
15. Defendant prepared Vernon's divorce complaint and on March 3,
2004 sent it to Vernon to sign and return to her. Vernon signed the complaint
and returned it to Defendant within a week of receiving it. However, Defendant
did not file the complaint with the court and took no further steps to obtain a
divorce for Vernon.
16. Vernon made numerous attempts to contact Defendant but Defendant
was not available to him and did not return his calls.
17. When Defendant closed her law practice and moved to Texas, she
effectively terminated her representation of Vernon. Defendant did not notify
Vernon that Defendant was relocating and did not return to Vernon the unearned
fee and costs or the retained overpayment.
18. On December 6, 2004 Vernon filed a petition for resolution of disputed
fee with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27' N.C.A.C. I D 3.0700. By
letter that Defendant received on January 7, 2005, the North Carolina State Bar
Client Assistance Program notified Defendant of Vernon's petition by sending
Defendant a copy of the petition and directing Defendant to respond to the
petition within I 5 days of receipt of the letter. Defendant did not respond to
Vernon's fee dispute petition.
19. On or about February 5, 2004, Karla L. Allison engaged Defendant to
represent her in a 508 action and child custody matter. Allison paid Defendant a
$3,500 deposit against fees to be earned for time Defendant spent on the case.

20. Defendant did not appear on Allison's behalf at two scheduled court
dates and Defendant did not perform any meaningful work on Allison's behalf.
Allison made numerous attempts to contact Defendant but Defendant was not
available to her and did not return her calls.
21. When Defendant closed her law practice and moved to Texas, she
effectively terminated her representation of Allison. Defendant did not notify
Allison that Defendant was relocating and did not retum any unearned fees to
Allison.

22. On September 16, 2004 Allison filed a petition for resolution of
disputed fee with the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 4D
ยง.0700. By letter that Defendant received on October 2, 2004, the North
Carolina State Bar Client Assistance Program notified Defendant of Allison's
petition by sending Defendant a copy of the petition and directing Defendant to
respond to the petition within 15 days of receipt of the letter. Defendant did not
respond to Allison's fee dispute petition.
23. After receiving no response from Defendant to Allison's fee petition,
the disciplinary department of the State Bar opened a grievance file. Defendant
received a Letter of Notice by certified mail on or about March 18, 2005 relating
to Defendant's conduct in Allison's case and Defendant's failure to respond to the
notice of Allison's fee dispute petition. Defendant did not respond to the State
Bar's Letter of Notice.
24. in or about January 2004 Kathleen Moore engaged Defendant to
prepare a property settlement agreement for Moore. Moore paid Defendant $500
as a flat fee to prepare the agreement.

25. Defendant prepared a draft property settlement agreement and Moore
reviewed it. Defendant was to make changes and provide Moore with a final
agreement, however, Defendant did not provide a completed property settlement
agreement to Moore. Moore made numerous attempts to contact Defendant but
Defendant was not available to her and did not return her calls.
26. When Defendant closed her law practice and moved to Texas, she
effectively terminated her representation of Moore. Defendant did not not-@
Moore that Defendant was relocating and did not retum the unearned fee to
Moore.

27. At the time Defendant abandoned her law practice and moved to
Dallas, Texas in August 2004, Defendant held client funds in excess of
$14,000.00 in an attorney trust account at First Citizen's Bank.
28. Defendant has not disbursed those funds held in trust on behalf of her
clients.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Committee enters the
following

CONCLUSIBNS
OF LAW
1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the
Committee has jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this
proceeding.
2. By virtue of Defendant's default, the allegations of the Plaintiffs
complaint are deemed admitted pursuant to Rule .0714(f) of the State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
Defendant's foregoing actions constitute grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 584-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated one or more of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of the actions as
follows:

a. by failing to continue to pursue the lawsuit on Holden's behalf, failing io
file the complaint and obtain a divorce for Vernon, failing to appear in court on
Allison' behalf or to perform any meaningful work on Allison's case, and failing to
complete a property settlement agreement for Moore, Defendant did not act with
reasonable diligence and promptness in representing clients in violation of Rule
1.3;

b. by failing to notify Holden, Vernon, Allison and Moore that Defendant
had moved away and would not continue to represent them and by failing to
return Holden's, Vernon's, AHison's and Moore's telephone calls or otherwise
communicate with them, Defendant failed to keep her clients reasonably
informed about the status of the representation and failed to explain a matter to
the extent reasonably necessary to permit the clients to make informed decisions
regarding the representationin violation of Rule 1.4(a)(3) and (b);

c. by failing to seek permission of the court to withdraw from Holden's
case and by failing to provide Holden's file to her, Defendant did not obtain the
permission of a tribunal to withdraw from a case and did not take steps
reasonably necessary to protect the client's interests in violation of Rule 1.16(c)
and (d);
d. by receiving $400 from Vernon and not performing the work agreed
upon, receiving $3,500 from Allison and not appearing in court or performing any
meaningful work on Allison's behalf, and receiving $500 from Moore and not
performing the work agreed upon, Defendant charged and collected clearly
excessive fees in violation of Rule 1.5(a);

e. by failing to return the unearned fees to Vernon, Allison and Moore,
Defendant did not take steps reasonably necessary to protect her client's
16(d);
interests in violation of Rule I.

f. by failing to return the unearned fees in the Vernon and Allison matter
and the unspent costs and the retained overpayment in the Vernon matter,
Defendant did not promptly pay or deliver to the clients entrusted property
belonging to the clients and to which the clients were currently entitled in violation
of Rule I.15-2(a) and (m);
g. by failing to respond to the notifications of mandatory fee dispute
resolution received by Defendant in the Vernon and Allison matters, Defendant
did not participate in goad faith in the fee dispute resolution process in violation
of Rule 1.5(0(2);

h. by failing to respand to the State Bar's Letters of Notice received by
Defendant in the Holden and Allison matters, Defendant knowingly failed to
respond to a lawful demand for information from a disciplinary authority in
violation of Rule 8.1 (b); and
i. by failing to disburse client funds remaining in her attorney trust account
upon closing her law practice, Defendant did not take steps reasonably
necessary to protect the client's interests in violation of Rule 1,16(d) and did not
promptly pay or deliver to the client entrusted property belonging to the client and
to which the client was currently entitled in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (m).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
evidence presented the Hearing Committee also finds by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS REGARDING DlSClPLlNE

1. Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
(a) a pattern of misconduct;

{b) multiple offenses involving multiple clients;
(c) vulnerability of the victims who were uninformed of the legal process
and relied on Defendant to protect their interests;
(d) substantial experience in the practice of law; and

(e) indifference to making restitution to those clients for whom she kept
unearned fees or other funds to which they are entitled.

2. Defendant's conduct is mitigated by the following factor:
(a)

unspecified personal or emotional problems, found based on

Defendant's manner in dealing with the heating in this matter. The panel takes
into consideration the short statement provided by Defendant from a pastoral
counselor but notes it has no way to identify the source of the problems cited
therein.

3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.
4. Defendant's conduct has caused, and had the potential to cause,
significant harm to her clients identified in this order. Her clients Vernon, Atlison
and Moore had to spend additional money for the services of other attorneys to
perform the work for which they employed Defendant. The legal matters of all
four of these clients were delayed while each client tried to get Defendant to
return their catis, all the while wondering what was happening, what they should
do, and to whom they should turn for assistance.

5. Defendant's misconduct has harmed the standing of the legal
profession by undermining the public's and these clients' trust and confidence in
lawyers and the legal system.

6. Defendant's failure to participate in the mandatory fee dispute
resolution process and her failure to respond to the letters of notice from the
Chair of the Grievance Committee substantially interfered with the Bar's ability to
regulate attorneys and undermined the privilege of attorneys in this state to
remain self-regulating.

7. The Hearing Committee has carefully considered ail of the different
forms of discipline available to it and finds and concludes that under the
circumstances of this case discipline short of suspension would not be
appropriate because of the gravity of the harm to the public and to the
administration of justice caused by Defendant's conduct. The entry of an order
imposing less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
offenses that Defendant committed and would send the wrong message to
attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar
of this state.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
Findings Regarding Discipline, all found by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence, the Hearing Committee enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. Defendant's license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is
hereby suspended for five years effective thirty days after service of this Order of
Discipline on Defendant.
2. Defendant shaH submit her license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following
service of this Order on Defendant.

3. Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C.A.C. 18, s.0124, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability
Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina
State Bar within ten days of the effective date of this Order of Discipline certifying
she has complied with the wind down rule.
4. Within 15 days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant will
provide the State Bar with a street address and mailing address at which clients
seeking return of their files and records in Defendant's possession or control may
obtain such files and records and at which the State Bar may serve any notices
or other matters upon her.

5, After the completion of one year of active suspension of her license,
Defendant may apply for a stay of the balance of the suspension upon frting a
petition with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar at least thirty days
before any proposed effective date of the stay and demonstrating the following
by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
a. That Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current business and home addresses and notified
the Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

b. That Defendant has responded to all communications from the North
Carolina State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and has participated in good faith in the
State Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition received after the
effective date of this Order.
c. That Defendant has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional

Conduct or the laws af the United States or any state or local government during
her suspension;

d. That Defendant has properly wound down her law practice and
complied with the requirements of 27 N.C.A.C. I B , 9.0124, the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules;

e. That Defendant has complied with the requirements of 27 N.C.A.C. 18,
ยง.0125(b), the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules;

f. That Defendant has complied with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements for active members of the Bar, has ensured all hours
taken were reported to the Continuing Legal Education Department of the North
Carolina State Bar, and paid all fees and costs assessed by the applicable
deadline;
g. That Defendant has permitted the State Bar to conduct random audits
of all accounts over which she has signatory authority and into which client or
fiduciary funds have been deposited. Defendant has provided the State Bar with
all documents requested by the State Bar within five business days and was
solely responsible for the expense of complying the with the random audit
request;
h. That within one year of the date of this Order Defendant made
restitution to Johnny R. Vernon in the amount of $650.00, to Karla L. Allison in
the amount of $3,500.00, and to Kathleen Moore in the amount of $500.00;
That Defendant demonstrated, in writing and to the satisfaction of the
Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar, that Defendant identified, by
name and amount, all clients with funds remaining in her attorney trust account at
First Citizens Bank bearing account number ending in the digits 5534, or any
other account into which client funds have been deposited. After those clients
were identified to the satisfaction of the Office of Counsel, Defendant properly
disbursed the identified funds within ninety days of this Order or initiated escheat
procedures as appropriate afler one year from the date of this Order. In the
event records in the possession of Defendant were insufficient to properly identify
the owners of the funds in the account(s), Defendant fully cooperated in any
manner necessary with the State Bar to identify the entrusted funds.
I.

j. That, in addition to the CLE requirements provided in paragraph 5(f)
above, Defendant has completed three hours of continuing legal education on
the topic of trust account management within one year of the date of this Order
and provided proof of completion to the Ofice of Counsel within ten days;
k. That within sixty days of the date this Order was served on Defendant,
Defendant has obtained an evaluation by a psychiatrist or psychologist approved
by the Office of Counsel for the purpose of determining if Defendant has any
mental, psychological or physical impairment, addiction, personality disorder or
other condition or illness; Defendant has ensured the North Carolina State Bar
received a copy of a written report of the psychiatrist/psychologist within ten days
of the completion of the evaluation; Defendant has complied with all treatment. if
any, recommended by the evaluating psychiatrist/psychologist; Defendant has
ensured that the psychiatristlpsychologist provided written reports to the State

'

Bar Office of Counsel concerning Defendant's compliance with the treatment
plan, if any, each quarter; the reports were provided each January 1, April 1, July
1 and October 1 of the suspension; and all expenses of evaluation, treatment
and reports were borne by Defendant.
1. That Defendant has executed written waivers and releases authorizing
the Officeof Counsel to confer with Defendant's psychiatristlpsychologistfor the
purpose of determining if Defendant has cooperated and complied with all
requirements of paragraph 5(k) above and did not revoke such releases during
the period of suspension.

m. That Defendant has paid the costs of this proceeding in accordance
with the statement of costs served upon her by the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar.

6. If Defendant successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of her law
license, such stay will continue in force only as long as she complies with the
following conditions:

a. Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of her current business and home addresses;

b. Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina
State Bar within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner, and participate in good faith in the State
Bar's fee dispute resolution process for any petition received during the stay.
c. Defendant shall not violate the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
or the laws of the United States or any state or local government during her
suspension.
d. Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and
continuing legal education requirements and shall pay all fees and costs
assessed by the applicable deadline.

e. Defendant shall pernit the State Bar to conduct random audits of all
accounts over which she has signatory authority and into which client or fiduciary
funds have been deposited. Defendant will provide the State Bar with all
documents requested by the State Bar within fnre business days and will be
solely responsible for the expense of complying the with the random audit
request;
f. Defendant shall comply with all treatment, if any, prescribed by her
psychiatrist andlor psychologist. If any such treatment is recommended,
Defendant shall ensure that the mental health professional provides written
reports to the State Bar Office of Counsel concerning Defendant's compliance

with the treatment plan each quarter during the stayed suspension. The reports
shall be due each January I,
April I,
July 1 and October Ithroughout the stayed
suspension. All expenses of such treatment and reports shall be borne by
Defendant.
g. Defendant shall execute wriien waivers and releases authorizing the
Office of Counsel to confer with Defendant's psychiatristlpsychologist for the
purpose of determining if Defendant has cooperated and complied with all
requirements of paragraph 6{9 above and shall not revoke such releases during
the period of stayed suspension.

7. If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed
suspension provided in paragraph 6 above, the stay of the suspension may be
lifted as provided in ยง.0114(x)of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.

8. If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the
suspension or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs 5(a)
through (m)above before seeking reinstatement of her license to practice law.
For the purposes of this paragraph only, Defendant shall comply with the
conditions set out in paragraphs 5(9, (j), (k) and (I) at least one year next
preceding Defendant's application for reinstatement.

9. Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary.
Signed by the undersigned Chair with the full knowledge and consent of
the other members of the Hearing Committee, this 6th day of June, 2007.

.LAME
/.KL

F.
WILLIAMSON, CHAIR
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMITTEE

