STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

v.

CONSENT ORDER

SHARYL Y.MASON-WATSON,
Attorney,
Defendant

Defendant, Sharyl Y. Mason-Watson ('Mason-Watsorl'or''Defendanl), was ordered
to appear and show cause why the stay of the suspension imposed by the Order of
Discipline entered in this case on 18 May 2010 should not be lifted and· the suspension
activated. This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Ronald R. Davis, Chair, Renny Deese, and Joseph Barlow
Herget pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .OI14(x). Plaintiff, the North Cal'olina
State Bar eState Bar' or ''Plaintiff) was represented by Brian P.D. Oten. Defendant
represented herself. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter and both parties
stipulate and consent to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this order
and to the disposition imposed. By consenting to the cntly of this order, Defendant
waives any right to appeal this consent order or to challenge it in any way.
Based upon the pleadings and the consent of the parties, the Healing Panel hereby
finds the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The DHC has jurisdiction to hear this matter pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C.
Chapter lB§.0108(a)(1) and§.0109(1).
2.
On 18 May 2010, the DHC entered an Order (hereinafter "Order of
Disciplinc!') finding that Mason-Watson had violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in
several respects.
3.
The Order of Discipline suspended Mason-Watson's license to practice law
for two years and stayed the suspension for three years on condition that Mason-Watson
comply with the requirements set out in the Order of Discipline.
4.

The Order of Discipline was served on Mason-Watson on 21 May 2010.

1

5.
Mason-Watson has failed to comply with a number of the conditions of
the stay of the suspension of her license as follows:
a. Although Mason-Watson retained a Certified Public Accountant who was
to provide the State Bar with semi-annual reports confirming MasonWatson's trust accounting practices are in compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct as required by paragraph 2(b) of the Order of
Discipline, Mason-Watson did not pay the retained CPA in full for her·
services, which prevented the CPA from providing the State Bar with the
required semi-annual reports;
b. Mason-Watson failed to meet with her practice monitor once per month
and failed to ensure the practice monitor sent quarterly reports to the State
Bar as required by paragraphs 2(c) & (d) of the Order of Discipline;
c. Mason-Watson failed to pay all State Bar Membership dues and failed to
comply with all continuing legal education requirements. Specifically,
Mason-Watson failed to pay her 20 II membership dues, failed to
complete the required twelve hours of continuing legal education courses
during 2011, and failed to pay CLE attendance fees as required by
paragraph 2(h) of the Order ofDi.scipline; and
d. Mason-Watson failed to accept all certified mail from the State Bar and
respond to all requests for information by the deadlines stated in the
communication or within fifteen days of receipt of such communication,
whichever was later, as required by paragraph 2(i) of the Order of
Discipline. Specifically, Mason-Watson failed to accept at least four
separate certified mailings from the State Bar between July 20 II and May
2012 and failed to respond to a January 2012 request for information.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Sharyl Y. Mason-Watson, and over the subject matter of this
proceeding.

2.
Mason-Watson failed to comply with the following conditions of the stay
of her suspension contained in the Order of Discipline:
a. That she provide the State Bar with semi-annual reports from a Certified
Public Accountant confirming Mason-Watson's trust accounting practices
are in compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct;
b. That she meet with her practice monitor once per month and ensure the
practice monitor sends the State Bar quarterly reports;

2

c. That she pay all State Bar membership dues and comply with all
continuing legal education requirements; and
d. That she accept all certified mail from the State Bar and timely respond to
all requests for information.
3.
Such violations warrant activation of the suspension imposed by the Order
of Discipline with conditions imposed upon Mason-Watson' s reinstatement after the
period of active suspension is over.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and upon the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER
1.
The stay of the suspension of the law license of Sharyl Y. Mason-Watson
is lifted and her license to practice law in the State of North Carolina is hereby suspended
for a period of two years.
2.
Mason- Watson shaIl submit her license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty (30) days foIlowing the date
that this Order is served upon her. Mason-Watson shall comply with the wind down
provisions contained in Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline .and
Disability Rules, located at 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0124.
3.
Upon completing the two-year active period of suspension and prior to
being reinstated to the practice of law in North Carolina, Mason-Watson must provide in
her application for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence of the following:
a. That she has complied with the general provisions for reinstatement listed
in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules;
b. That she has disbursed all funds remaining in her trust account to the
rightful owner(s) of such funds or escheated abandoned funds to the State,
whichever is appropriate, in accordance with the Rules of Professional
Conduct and within sixty (60) days of entry of this Order;
c. That she has complied with and is up to date on all membership and
continuing legal education requirements imposed by the State Bar;
d. That she has accepted all certified mail from the State Bar and responded
to all requests for information from the State Bar by the deadlines stated in
the communication or within fifteen days of receipt of such
communication, whichever is later;

3

'.
e. That she has kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of her
current home andlor business physical addresses (not P.O. Box) and
current telephone number(s); and
f. That she paid all costs associated with this case, as assessed by the
Secretary, within ninety (90) days after service of the statement of costs on
her.
~~igned by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day of November, 2012.

(ffMAt.kt ~

Ronald R. Davis, aIr
Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

Brian P.O. Oten
Deputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Counsel for Plaintiff

Y. Mason-Watson
Defendant

4

Olt1\'e

