. ::.~
"-..LZ'

STATE OF NORTH

CAROL~EJ 1

c::r" '\
!

BRUNSWICK COUNTYZOI'Ii) vc.
<;'CQ
,

_ I
I

.. '

P

IN RE: CHRISTIAN SCPJT MATHIS,
Attorney
d , - - --

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT PIVISION
{to (til <S\
3: 30

-'-f=

CONSENT ORDER

THIS MATTER, coming on to be heard sua sponte before the undersigned Senior
Resident Judge of Superior Court of Brunswick County, regarding Christian Scott
Mathis, represented by undersigned counsel Bradley A. Coxe. Pursuant to N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28(j) and this Court' s inherent authority over attorneys, and based upon the
information received by the Court and upon the consent of Mr. Mathis and his counsel,
the Court makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Christian Scott Mathis ("Mathis"), was licensed to practice law in North
Carolina on 8 September 2000 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney
at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules
of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of
North Carolina.
2. During the periods relevant hereto, Mathis was engaged in the practice of law
in Brunswick County, North Carolina.
3. The Court has become aware of possible acts and omissions by Mathis that if
proven true would constitute serious violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar.
4. The Court is aware that there is presently pending an investigation with the
North Carolina State Bar regarding these possible acts and omissions by Mathis.
5. Mathis desires to stop practicing law until the State Bar has concluded its
investigation of his conduct.
6. Mathis has numerous closed files that are currently stored at 657 Lawshe Ct.,
Wilmington, NC 28412 and 9222 Beach Dr. SW #8 , Calabash, NC 28467.

7. Mathis has 10-12 open case files, unrelated to any of the possible acts and
omissions by Mathis constituting violations of the North Carolina Rules of Professional
Conduct, that can be completed and closed within 14 days of the date of this order.
8. David Lee Wortman of The Wortman Law Firm, PLLC, 624 Village Road,
Suite 1, Shallotte, NC 28470, is an attorney licensed to practice in North Carolina and a
member in good standing with the North Carolina State Bar, and is able to handle the
files of Mathis's current and former clients.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties, the
Court makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. This Court has jurisdiction over this cause pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8428(j) and pursuant to its inherent authority over attorneys.
2.
The possible acts and omissions engaged in by Mathis, if proven true
would constitute professional misconduct warranting disbarment. Accordingly, in the
interest of protecting clients and the public and pursuant to this Court's inherent authority
over attorneys, Mathis should be prohibited from practicing law in North Carolina until
further order of the Court.
IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1. Christian Scott Mathis is SUSPENDED from the practice of law in North
Carolina, said suspension being effective 14 days from the date of this order. To the
extent not already completed, Mathis shall comply with the wind-down provisions set
forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0124.
2. Mathis shall not petition the Court for a lifting of this suspension until the
investigation of the NOlih Carolina State Bar is complete and any disciplinary action
taken by the North Carolina State Bar has been completed.
3. David Lee Wortman of The Wortman Law Firm, PLLC shall be appointed as
Trustee of the law practice of Mathis by separate order of the Court. Mathis shall make
available all closed and open files to The Wortman Law Firm on or before the effective
date of this order. Mathis shall reimburse the State Bar for any expenses incurred in
facilitating the wind-down of his practice.

2

Dated this - - ' - day of

.

OL

Hon. Ola M. Lewis
Senior Resident Superior Court Ju

CONSENTED TO:

Christian Scott M his

Braaley A. Coxe
Attorney for Christian Scott Mathis

3

e

~~

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA ;'"'
, -, !' r,'--'- rIN
!
; THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
,
', _!,,
'
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
BEBfRE THE SENIOR RESIDENT
BRUNSWICK COUNTY
ZOlb SCP - 1 P SUPERIOR COURT JUDGE OF THE
~ ;"11
" .:' :'l" '" r") l" I'I' V " (~ l3B JUDICIAL DISTRICT
\~ .,
~ ,I
I,; J, ',
G . , '. ,_,_
._ \

. 1

' ...

II J

'w

L

' I \

I

I ;

AU! /

-.- .,~_J~~.y----,--, -

IN RE: CHRISTIAN SCOTT MATHIS
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

ORDER APPOINTING TRUSTEE
OF ATTORNEY'S LAW PRACTICE

THIS CAUSE coming before the Senior Resident Superior Court Judge of the 13B
Judicial District, pursuant to N,C . Gen. Stat. § 84-280), for an order appointing a trustee of the
law practice of Christian Scott Mathis due to his unavailability to his clients. The undersigned
makes the following :
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. According to the records of the North Carolina State Bar, Christian Scott Mathis was
licensed to practice law on September 8, 2000.
2. According to the records of the North Carolina State Bar, the last address of record
for Mr. Mathis is P.O. Box 4040, Calabash, North Carolina 28467 .
3. Mr. Mathis has closed his law practice and is unavailable to his clients.
4. Mr. Mathis had no partners or associates capable of winding down his law practice
and ensuring that the interests of his clients and/or former clients are protected.
5. David Lee Wortman, an attorney licensed to practice in NOlih Carolina and a member
in good standing, has indicated that she is willing to serve as trustee of the North Carolina law
practice of Christian Scott Mathis for purposes of protecting the interests of Mr. Mathis ' s clients.
6. David Lee Wortman's address of record with the North Carolina State Bar is 624
Village Road, Suite 1, Shallotte, North Carolina 28740.
BASED UPON THE FOREGOING FINDINGS OF FACT, the undersigned makes the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Court has jurisdiction of this cause pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(j).

1

2. Christian Scott Mathis is unavailable and has no pm1ners or associates, necessitat:ing
the appointment of a member of the Bar as trustee of Mr. Mathis's law practice and to take such
actions as are necessary to protect the interests of the clients and/or former clients of Mr. Mathis.
THE COURT THEREFORE ORDERS THAT:
1. David Lee W0l1man ("Trustee"), an attorney licensed to practice in North Carolina
and a member in good standing, is hereby appointed trustee of the law practice of Christian Scott
Mathis.
2. The Trustee is authorized to take such actions as are necessary to obtain possession of
any known client files of Mr. Mathis and, to the extent it has not already been done, shall notify
Mr. Mathis's clients of his unavailability and their need to obtain new counsel. The duties as
Trustee shall include receiving calendar notices and moving for appropriate continuances in the
various courts; returning files to Mr. Mathis's clients and/or former clients; obtaining all records
related to Mr. Mathis's trust and/or fiduciary account(s); supervising the disbursement of funds
from any trust and/or fiduciary accounts to the appropriate persons; and any other act necessary
to wind down Mr. Mathis's practice and protect the interests of Mr. Mathis's clients until all
known clients have secured other legal counsel, have chosen to pick up their files and have
received all money held in trust for their benefit.
3. To the extent that it may become necessary, the Trustee is authorized to take such
actions as are necessary to identify Mr. Mathis's trust and fiduciary accounts, as such accounts
are defined in Rules 1.15-1 of the Rules of Professional Conduct, and to obtain possession of Mr.
Mathis's trust account and fiduciary account records. The Trustee is authorized to execute new
directives regarding signatory authority over such accounts and is authorized to receive records
from the banks where any trust account or fiduciary account is held. The Trustee shall take such
actions as are necessary to identify the ownership of any funds in such accounts so that the
clients/beneficiaries may be reimbursed, or their funds forwarded as they may direct. The
Trustee shall maintain adequate accounts of the funds held in Mr. Mathis's attorney trust or
fiduciary accounts and shall account to the Court for approval annually or at the completion of
the disbursement of the funds. The Trustee shall be discharged upon the completion of the
Trustee's duties.
4. The Trustee shall notify N0l1h Carolina State Bar Deputy Counsel Brian P. D. Oten of
any hearings relating to this matter.
5. This cause is retained for further orders of this Court.
This the

4

day of

-Ir~-""9r'--'-"'-'~""'---

Senior Resident Superior Court Judge
. 13B Judicial District
2

