NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G0648

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Abigail P. Matre,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)
)

CENSURE

On October 22, 2009, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member ofthe North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written fornl of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member ofthe public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
You are licensed to practice law in South Carolina. You are not licensed to practice law in
North Carolina. You advertised your ability to provide legal services in North Carolina on your
website, matrelawfirm.com. You registered your law firm as an interstate law firm with the North
Carolina State Bar, indicating that North Carolina licensed attorney Lisa Page was a member of your
law firm. Yet, there was no mention on your website of Ms. Page providing legal services to residents
of North Carolina.
In addition, your website included representations that you specialized in "Charlotte Real
Estate" and that you had a "Local Real Estate Specialty".

The Grievance Committee found that you held yourself out as being able to provide legal
services to residents of North Carolina on your website, when you were not licensed to practice law in
North Carolina. Your conduct violated Rule 5.5(a) and (b)(2) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Furthermore, you could not represent that you specialized in real estate law when you are not a board
certified specialist in North Carolina. That representation on your website violated Rule 7.4(b) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
On June 9, 2009, you advised the Authoriz!,d Practice Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar that you were revising your website in order to eliminate any misconception as to your "personal
ability to practice law in North Carolina." You also told the Authorized Practice Committee that you
were in the process of adding Lisa Page's information on your website. As of September 1,2009, you
had not made the changes that you said you were going to make to your website so as to eliminate any
misconception that you were able to practice law in North Carolina. The Grievance Committee found
that your failure to quickly address the issues in this matter violated Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yomself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24, 2008 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censme by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this \ \~ day of\.{~

,2009.

