'Ly,

55

BEFORE THE
LRYH E W G COMMISSION
OF THE

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

JONATHAN MARK BROOKS, Attorney,
Defendant

1

This matter was heard on September 20 and 21,2007 before a hearing committee
of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, M. Ann Reed, and
members C. Colon Willoughby, Jr., and Rebecca Brownlee. Jennifer A. Porter and
Carmen K. Hoyme represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant,
Jonathan Mark Brooks, was represented by Alan M. Schneider. Based upon the
pleadings, the evidence presented at the hearing, and the stipulations of the parties, the
hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar, Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North
Carolina Administrative Code ("NCAC").
2.
Defendant, Jonathan Mark Brooks (hereinafter "Brooks"), was admitted to
the North Carolina State Bar in 1995, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, suhject to the laws of the State of
North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

3.
During the times relevant hereto, Brooks was actively engaged in the
practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained law offices in High Point,
Guilford County, North Carolina and in Randleman, Randolph County, North Carolina.
4.

Brooks was properly served with process and received due notice of the
hearing in this matter.

5.
On or about June 18, 2002, Zachary P. Cabon (hereinafter "Cabon") hired
Brooks to represent him in matters involving divorce, child custody, child support and
equitable distribution.
On or about November 12,2003, Cabon informed Brooks he had engaged
6.
the services of another lawyer, and Brooks began preparing a proposed substitution of
counsel to send to Cabon's new lawyer, Melissa L. Sams (hereinafter "Sams").
7.

Cabon attempted to obtain a copy of his file from Brooks.

By letter to Cabon dated November 14,2003, Brooks stated that he would
8.
not forward Cabon's file until "any questions over [his fu~al]invoice" were resolved and
Cabon paid "outstanding fees and any costs."

On November 17, 2003, Brooks forwarded his final invoice to Cabon.
9.
Brooks did not turn over Cabon's file at that time.
10.

On or before November 18,2003, Cabon's subsequent counsel, Melissa L.
Sarns (hereinafter "Sams"), asked Brooks for Cabon's file.
11.
Sams needed Cabon's file in order to finalize and file a consent order
regarding custody of Cabon's child. Brooks was aware that Sams needed documents
from Cabon's file for this purpose.

12.
In response to calls horn Cabon that Brooks had not turned over the file, a
staff person with the Client Assistance Program of the State Bar called Brooks on
November 19, 2003, November 2 1, 2003, and November 26,2003 and left messages for
Brooks.

13.
Despite requests from Cabon and Sarns and the contacts from the Client
Assistance Program, Brooks delayed releasing the file until December 9,2003.
14.
Sams was able to finalize the consent order for custody and file it on
Cabon's behalf within a few days of her receipt of the file.

On December 15,2003, Cabon filed a Petition for Resolution of Disputed
15.
Fee with the North Carolina State Bar regarding Brooks' final invoice.
Cabon's fee dispute was referred to the 1sthJudicial District Bar, which
16.
notified Brooks of the fee dispute by certified letter dated January 21,2004.
17.
On April 1, 2004, Cabon and Brooks participated in fee'mediation with
mediator Andrew S. Lasine (hereinafter "Lasine").
18.
The mediation conference resulted in an impasse and Lasine notified
Stanley Hammer, Chairman of the 1gth Judicial District Bar (hereinafter "Hammer"), that
mediation of the fee dispute had been unsuccessful.

On April 1, 2004, Cabon filed an action for breach of contract against
19.
Brooks in Guilford County District Court (No. 04 CVD 726) (hereinafter "the case of
Cabon v. Brooks").

In written correspondence dated April 6 , 2004, Hammer sent an Offer of
20.
Binding Arbitration (hereinafter "Offer of Arbitration") to Brooks and Cabon. The Offer
of Arbitration, which Hammer sent via certified mail, stated:
"The Mediator . . . is of the opinion mediation cannot succeed.
Therefore, the mediation portion of the program is concluded.
If you both consent, the Committee will conduct a binding arbitration to
resolve this matter for you. . . .
If you wish to consent to such Arbitration, please so indicate by
signing and returning the attached ARBITRATION AGREEMENT . . .
postmarked no later than fourteen (14) days from your receipt of this
letter.
Failure to respond in writing by that date will be deemed a rehsal
to consent to binding Arbitration and if either does not so consent . . . my
file will be closed and either will be free to pursue their remedy in court."
21.
Cabon received the Offer of Arbitration not later than April 8, 2004.
Brooks did not receive it until sometime subsequent to April 29,2004 and prior to May 5 ,
2004.
22.

Cabon did not sign or return the Arbitration Agreement.

After Brooks received the Summons and Complaint in the case of Cabon
23.
v. Brooks on April 19, 2004, he sent Hammer a letter dated April 20, 2004 seeking
confirmation that the "fee arbitration process" was concluded and a copy of any form
Cabon had forwarded electing to not proceed with arbitration.
By letter dated April 27,2004, Hammer responded to Brooks's inquiry. In
24.
this letter, Hammer referred to the offer of arbitration and stated that the 15 day period
for consent had not run.
By letter to Hammer dated April 29, 2004, Brooks stated that he had not
25.
received the notice offering arbitration. Brooks asked Hammer to send him a copy of the
notice and confirmation of Cabon's receipt of the notice.

26.
Hammer.

Brooks did not consent to arbitration in the April 29, 2004 letter he sent to

On or about April 30, 2004, Hammer made a handwritten notation on
27.
Brooks's letter of April 29, 2004, and sent the letter back to Brooks. Hammer's
handwritten notation indicated that the documents Brooks had requested were enclosed.
h this April 30, 2004 correspondence, Hammer re-sent the Offer of Arbitration and
Arbitration Agreement to Brooks.

On May 5 , 2004, Brooks mailed a letter to Stanley Hammer requesting a
28.
copy of the return receipt showing service on Cabon of the Offer of Arbitration. Brooks
did not include any documents with this letter to Hammer.
By letter dated May 18, 2004, and sent to Brooks and Cabon via certified
29.
mail, Hammer stated "As I have not received confirmation from Mr. Zachary Cabon, and
since both parties did not consent to the Arbitration, you are hereby notified that the
authority of the Committee has now ended, the Committee's filc is now closed, and either
party is free to seek relief fiom the Court."
Brooks filed an Answer and Counterclaims in the case of Cabon v. Brooks
30.
on or about August 19, 2004. His Answer and Counterclaims included assertions that the
dispute was subject to mandatory binding arbitration. On November 8, 2004, Brooks
filed a Motion for Partial Summary Judgment and to Enforce Arbitration Agreement and
a supporting affidavit. On February 9, 2005, Brooks filed a Notice of Hearing on the
Motion to Compel Arbitration in the case of Cabon v. Brooks.
Also on February 9, 2005, Brooks filed a Supplemental Affidavit in
31.
Support of Motion to Compel Arbitration in the case of Cabon v. Brooks (hereinafter
"Supplemental Affidavit").
As Exhibit H to this Supplemental Affidavit, Brooks attached what he
32.
represented to be a letter he sent to Hammer dated April 29, 2004.
Brooks claimed that by this letter, attached as Exhibit H and quoted in the
33.
body of the Supplemental Affidavit, he had consented to binding arbitration of the fee
dispute.
The letter Brooks attached as Exhibit H to his Supplemental Affidavit was
34.
not the letter Brooks had sent to Hammer dated April 29,2004.
35.
The letter Brooks attached as Exhibit H to his Supplemental Affidavit
included several additional sentences, indicating Brooks's consent to arbitration, which
had not appeared in the otherwise identical letter received by Hammer.

36.
Brooks quoted these additional sentences in Paragraph 14 of the
Supplemental Affidavit. The material quoted in Paragraph 14 did not appear in the
version of the letter received by Hammer in 2004.
37Brooks also attached to the Supplemental Affidavit a signed copy of the
Agreement to Arbitration form, marked as Exhibit L. In Paragraph 17 of the
Supplemental Affidavit, Brooks stated that he enclosed the signed Agreement to
Arbitration in his May 5, 2004 letter to Hammer.
38.
The May 5, 2004, letter from Brooks to Hammer did not contain an
"enclosures" notation, and made no mention of the Arbitration Agreement. The May 5th
letter's single paragraph read:

Please provide me with a copy of the return receipt showing that
Mr. Cabon was served with the offer of binding arbitration mailed on
April 6, 2004. An ordinary, clear copy of both sides of the receipt is
requested. I will pay copy costs if that is necessary.

39.
Hammer received Brooks's May 5, 2004, letter, but an Arbitration
Agreement signed by Brooks was not enclosed therein.
Also attached to Brooks's Supplemental Affidavit was a child custody
evaluation report on Cabon containing the evaluating psychologist's impressions of
Cabon's personality and the results of psychological assessments performed as part of the
custody evaluation.
40.

41.
In Paragraph 27 of the Supplemental Affidavit, Brooks quoted two
paragraphs from the custody evaluation report. Although the material in Paragraph 27
contained highly sensitive and potentially embarrassing statements about Cabon, it did
not include any reference to Cabon's honesty or credibility.

42.
Brooks had received this psychologist's evaluation of Cabon in the course
of his representation of Cabon.
43.
Neither the report as a whole nor the language excerpted and quoted in
Paragraph 27 of the Supplemental Affidavit were necessary, admissible, or relevant to
any claim or defense on behalf of Brooks in the breach of contract action.
44.
On March 15, 2005, the Court entered an Order in the case of Cabon v.
Brooks granting Brooks' motion to compel arbitration based upon its finding that the
express language of the contract betwccn Brooks and Cabon contained a valid and
enforceable arbitration clause.
45.
On September 13, 2005, an Arbitration Award was entered in the case of
Cabon v. Brooks, awarding Cabon $932.34 fiom Brooks and dismissing Brooks's
counterclaims against Cabon.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parbes are properly before the hearing committee and the
committee has jurisdiction over Defendant, Jonathan Mark Brooks, and the subject
matter.

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. $5 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By fabricating an altered version of his April 29, 2004 letter to
Hammer, Brooks engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(b)

By submitting the fabricated letter to the Court as Exhibit H to the
Supplemental Affidavit he filed and by falsely asserting in his
Supplemental Affidavit that he had consented to arbitration in his
April 29,2004 letter to Hammer, Brooks made a false statement of
material fact to the tribunal in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(l), offered
evidence he knew to be false in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(3),
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
.
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of
Rule 8.4(d);

(c)

By falsely asserting in his Supplemental Affidavit that he had
returned the Arbitration Agreement to Hammer, Brooksmade a
false statement of material fact to the tribunal in violation of Rule
3.3(a)(l), engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit,
or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c), and engaged in
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of
Rule 8.4(d);

(d)

By placing Cabon's psychological evaluation, which was neither
admissible nor relevant to any claim or defense in the civil action
between Cabon and Brooks, into the public record, Brooks
revealed confidential client information in violation of Rule 1.6(a);
and

(e)

By failing to promptly turn over Cabon's client file to Cabon or
Cabon's subsequent counsel, Brooks failed to protect a client's
interests upon termination of the representation by failing to
promptly surrender papers and property to which the client was
entitled in violation of Rule 1.16(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
stipulations of the parties, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following additional

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLTNE
1.

Brooks' misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a.

Prior disciplinary offenses, to wit: an admonition issued in 2000;

b.

Dishonest or selfish motive;

c.

A pattern of misconduct concerning Cabon;

d.

Multiple offenses;

e.

Rehsal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct;

Vulnerability of the victim, Cabon, whose psychological
f.
evaluation Brooks obtained during the course of Brooks' representation of
Cabon; and
g.

2.

Brooks' misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a.
b.

3.

Substantial experience in the practice of law

Good character or reputation;
Remoteness of the prior offense.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

Brooks' conduct in disclosing confidential client information had the
potential to cause serious harm to his client Cabon.
4.

Brooks' conduct in submitting a false document to the Court involved
5.
dishonesty and an intent to deceive which has the potential to cause serious harm
to a party and to the administration of justice.
The hearing committee has considered lesser sanctions and finds that
6.
discipline short of suspension would not sufficiently protect the public for the
following reasons:
a.

Brooks engaged in conduct involving dishonesty and an intent to
deceive;

b.

Brooks' conduct caused potential significant harm to his client and
the administration of justice;

c.

Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Brooks committed
and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public
regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this
State.

7.
The hearing committee finds that the only sanction in this case that can
adequately protect the public is an active suspension of Defendant's license for a
period of time.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the hearing committee hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
Defendant, Jonathan Mark Brooks, is hei-ebysuspended from the practice
1.
of law in North Carolina for three years, effective upon entry of this order.

2.

Defendant shall submit h s license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following service of this order upon
Defendant.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in
3.
27 N.C. Adrnin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, $ .0124(b) of the North Carolina State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying
he has complied with the wind down rule.
All costs of this action except the State Bar's deposition costs are taxed to
4.
Defendant. Defendant must pay the costs within 90 days of service of the statement of
costs by the Secretary.
5.
After serving one year of the active suspension of his license, Defendant
may apply to have the remainder of the suspension stayed by filing a petition with the
Secretary of the No~thCarolina State Bar demonstrating the following by clear, cogent,
and convincing evidence:
a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
ยง -0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

b.

That he paid the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon him;

c.

That he has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current business and home address;

d.

That he has responded to all communications fiom the Norlh
Carolina State Bar received after the effective date of this order
within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;

e.

That he has not violated the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
or the laws of the United States or any state;

That he paid all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis as if still in practice during
the suspension. The State Bar does not send membership and CLE
notices to members who are suspended so it is Defendant's
obligation to contact the appropriate departments on a timely basis,
ascertain his financial and CLE obligations during his suspension
and to timely satisfy those obligations; and

g.

That at least half of his CLE hours each year during his suspension
be in courses related to ethics and professionalism and that some
amount of his CLE hours each year include the topic of law office
management.

6.
The procedures of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section
.0125@)shall govern Defendant's petition for a stay of the remainder of the suspension
of his law license.
If the Secretary finds that Defendant has proven compliance with the
7.
conditions of this order by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, the Secretaly shall put
into effect the stay of the remaining period of suspension provided for in this Order by
reinstating Defendant to active status subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements
of this Order of Discipline, with Defendant's active status contingent upon continued
compliance with the terms of this Order. Such stay will continue in force only as long as
Defendant continues to comply with all conditions in this Order. The Disciplinary
Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of the matter until all conditions of the Order
are satisfied, under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0114(x).

8.
If Defendant successfUlly seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as he continues to comply with the
conditions set out in paragraphs 5 (c) - (g) of the Order of Discipline section of this
Order.
If an order staying any period of this suspension is entered and the
9.
Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions referenced in Paragraph 8 of the
Order of Discipline section of this Order, then the stay of the suspension of his law
license may be lifted as provided in $ .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension of
10.
his law license or if some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is
revoked, Defendant must prove each of the matters set out in paragraphs 5 (a) - (g) of the
Order of Discipline section of this Order by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law.
11.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Adrnin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, 3 .0114(x) of the

North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.

S i g n n the C
this the _d
day of

sent of the other hearing committee members,

Disciplinary Hearing Committee

