WAKE COUNTY
NORTH CAROLINA

IN RE REINSTATEMENT
PETITION OF

CONDITIONAL
ORDER OF
REINSTATEMENT

JONATHAN A. McCOLLUM
The North Carolina State Bar Council entered its Order Conditionally Granting Jonathan A.
McCollum's Petition for Reinstatement on even date herewith. The Order Conditionally
Granting Petition for Reinstatement requires McCollum to prove by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence that he has fulfilled conditions 1 and 2 therein. By affidavit submitted to the Council,
McCollum has proven by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that he fulfilled conditions 1
and 2 of the Order Conditionally Granting Petition for Reinstatement. In accordance with the
provisions of that Order, the undersigned therefore enters this order conditionally reinstating
Jonathan A. McCollum to the practice of law in NOlth Carolina so long as he is and remains in
full compliance with condition 3 of the Order Conditionally Granting Petition for Reinstatement.
All provisions of the Order Conditionally Granting Petition for Reinstatement are fully
incorporated into this Conditional Order of Reinstatement.
WHEREFORE, Jonathan A. McCollum is hereby conditionally reinstated to the practice oflaw
in NOlth Carolina on condition that he is and remains in full compliance with condition 3 of the
Order Conditionally Granting Petition for Reinstatement.

+olo.......

This is the IS",,", day of C) ...

2017.

f\('M.M~
Mark W. Merritt, President
North Carolina State Bar

WAKE COUNTY

RE 1HE COUNCIL OF THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
16BCR3

NORTH CAROLINA

IN RE REINSTATEMENT
PETITION OF

ORDER CONDITIONALLY
GRANTING PETITION FOR
REINSTATEMENT

JONATHAN A. McCOLLUM

The petition for reinstatement of Jonathan A. McCollum came on for hearing before the Co'mci!
of the North Carolina State Bar on July 28, 2017 with the petitioner represented by Jeffrey P.
Gray and with the State Bar represented by A. Root Edmonson.
In accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0129, a hearing on McCollum's petition for
reinstatement was heard by a tln'ee member hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (DHC) on April 4, 2017. (JnMay 3, 2017, the hearing panel entered its Order
Denying Reinstatement. McCollum tiiridy filed an appeal to the CounCil.' The record on appeal,
including a copy of'thetranscripl oft~e,April4,iO'j7- h'eat:ing, each'exhibit admitted into '
evidence at the 'April 4, 2017 hearing, and the Order'Denyirig Reinstatement ent¢red on May 3,
2017, was made available to each Councilor thirty days before the Council meeting at which
McCollum's appeal was corisidered.
.
....,.

McCollum, the Office of Counsel, the Lawyer AssistaticeProgram and.the Council are in
agreement to the terms of this order. McCollum consents to the entry of this conditional order of
reinstatement, consents to the conditions required by this order and waives any right he might
otherwise have had to appeal this order 01' to challenge any of its provisions.
BASED UPON the above-described record and the arguments of counsel, the Council voted to
allow Jonathan A. McCollum's petition for reinstatement on the following conditions:
1. McCollum must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that, since he tendered his
Affidavit of SU11'ender of Law License on October 22,2010, he has completed a total of
seventy-two (72) hoUl's of continuing legal education, including satisfying all
requirements of27 N.C. Admin. Code lD § .0518 regarding the subject matters of such
hours.
2.' McCollum must undergo mental, emotional and psychological health assessment and
. . must comply with all recommendations for treatment and counseling emanating from
.' such,()yaluation. McCollum has represented that he will do so under contract with the
Lawyel' AssistanceProgram of the North'Carolina State Bar (LAP). Accordingly,
McCollum muslenter irito acontract'with LAP. Tlie contract must require McCollum to
undergo mental, emotioual and psychological health evaluation by a qualified mental
health professional approved by LAP. The contract must require that, if the evaluation
.

:. I

_ _

.'

. .

,',

,,'

,.

identifies any mental, emotional or psychological condition, McCollum will obtain
treatment and/or counseling from a qualified mental health treatment provider or
counselor approved by LAP. The contract must require McCollum to comply with all
treatment and counseling recommendations of such approved mental health treatment
provider or counselor and with all treatment and counseling recommendations of LAP.
The contract must require McCollum to sign releases authorizing the mental health
treatment provider or counselor to communicate with LAP about McCollum's treatment
and about his compliance or noncompliance with the contract. The contract must require
the mental health treatment provider or counselor to provide quarterly reports to LAP.
The contract must require McCollum to sign a release authorizing LAP to provide to the
Office of Counsel (1) copies of such portions of the contract as are necessary to
demonstrate that McCollum has entered into the contract and (2) quarterly reports to the
Office of Counsel regarding McCollum's on-going compliance or lack of compliance
with the contract. The duration of the contract shall be determined by LAP, up to a
maximum duration oftive years.
Upon receipt of clear and convincing evidence that McCollum has satisfied conditions 1 and 2,
the President shall enter a conditional order of reinstatement.
3. After the President enters a conditional order of reinstatement, McCollum must be in
continual compliance with all requirements of the LAP contract until LAP certifies to the
Council that McCollum has successfully completed and fulfilled all requirements of the
LAP contract and has been discharged from LAP supervision.
After entry of the conditional order of reinstatement, if the State Bar receives information
creating a reasonable belief that McCollnm has failed to fully comply with condition 3, the State
Bar Office of Counsel shall file a motion before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission (DHC)
setting forth facts describing such alleged failure( s) and seeking an order for McCollum to
appear and show cause why the conditional order of reinstatement should not be vacated and
why McCollum's disbarment should not be reinstated. The Chair of the DHC shall assign a
hearing panel to hold an evidentiary hearing on the issues raised by such motion. The evidentiary
hearing shall be conducted according to the procedures set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B §§
.0114; .0115(e), (h), (k) and (1); .0116(a), (b), (e), (g); and .0129(a)(7)-(1l). The State Bar shall
have the burden to prove violation of condition 3 by clear and convincing evidence. If the State.
Bar meets that burden, McCollum shall have the burden of showing by clear and convincing
evidence that the conditional order of reinstatement should not be vacated and that his
disbarment should not be reinstated. As soon as practicable after the evidentiary hearing, the
hearing panel shall file with the secretary of the State Bar a report containing its findings of fact
and conclusions of law determining whether McCollum violated condition 3 and makings its
recol1llnendations to the Council. The procedures for ordering a transcript of the evidentiary
hearing and for settling and serving the record of the evidentiary hearing upon the Council shall
be as set forth in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0129(a)(8) through (10). The Council shall decide
whether McCollum violated condition 3 and, if so, whether the order of conditional
reinstatement should be vacated and McCollum's disbarment should be reinstated.

2

WHEREFORE, the petition for reinstatement of Jonathan A. McCollum is hereby allowed on (he
conditions sct forth above. Upon McCollum's demonstrating by clear and convincing evidence
that he has fully complied with conditions I and 2, Jonathan A. McCollum will be
REINSTATED to the practice of lawin NOlth Carolina so long as he is and remains in full
compliance with condition 3 set forth above.
This is the l S {\..day of Q.,;h:,l"..,,...

2017.
,

fhhl\~.~
Mark W. Merritt, President
NOlth Carolina State Bar

Cou

A. McCollum

RO~i~~
Lawyer Assistance Program

3

