,,""-,'1-

t$i;~

RJ

"'"
NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

~~

.-. <9\

;::11

~
1{-~
'if;,"

{:;

JlUG 20

~

09

It..l2tJ
Df/c:

'::.

~-

:;::1

," -"

'~<C? lZ ~~);->"<L_._<_.

BEFORE THE

~)CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
08 DHC 22

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v,

GREY HOLLAND MCCORMICK,
Attorney,

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING
DEFENDANT TO DISABILITY
INACTIVE STATUS

Defendant

This matter was considered by a hearing committee of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Theodore C, Edwards, II, Chair, and members Sharon R
Alexander and Michael J, Houser. Jennifer A. Porter and Melissa D. Donahue
represented Plainti ff, the North Carolina State Bar. Alan M. Schneider represented
Defendant, Grey Holland McCormick ("McCormick"). Both parties stipulate and agree
to the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order and to the
transfer of Defendant to disability inactive status. Defendant freely and voluntarily
waives any and all right to appeal the entry of this consent order transferring her to
disability inactive status. Based upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the
parties, the hearing committee hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar
promulgated thereunder.
7
McCormick was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in 1988,
and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.

3.
On June 4, 2008, judgment was entered convicting McCormick of one
felony count of possession with the intent to manufacture, sell or deliver a Schedule I
controlled substance (methadone tablets) in violation of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-95 (a)(I)

and one misdemeanor count of knowingly keeping or maintaining a store, shop,
warehouse, dwelling house, building, vehicle, boat, aircraft, or any other place whatever,
which is resorted to by persons using controlled substances for the purpose of using such
substances, or which is used for the keeping or selling of the same in violation ofN.C.
Gen Stat. §90-108(a)(7).
4.
McCormick was convicted of criminal offenses showing professional
unfitness as defined in 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0 I03(17).
5.
The complaint in this action was filed by the North Carolina State Bar on
April 23, 2009. McConnick was properly served with process.
6.
McCormick filcd a Notice of Disability on May 19,2009 pursuant to
27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B, Section § .0 118(c)(I) ofthe North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules asserting she was disabled within the meaning of Section
.0 I03(19) of said Rules.
7.
McConnick presently suffers from both physical and mental disorders that
significantly impair her professional judgment, performance or competence as an
attomey.
8.
Dr. Steven T. Guse, M.D., who is Board certified in physical medicine and
rehabilitation, has diagnosed McCormick as suffering from Myofascial Pain Syndrome
with recurrent headaches and near constant neck and shoulder pain; facial trauma with
some nerve damage; and Complex Regional Pain Syndrome. Based on her ongoing
chronic pain, McCormick takes controlled substances which may cause mild cognitive
impairment. It is Dr. Guse's opinion, based on these diagnoses and a mental condition
from chronic narcotic use and physical dependence, that McCormick is disabled.
Further, it is Dr. Guse's opinion that McConnick's physical and mental disorders
adversely affect her ability to practice law and that McCormick is unable to continue in
the practice oflaw.
9.
Dr. Charles D. Godwin, M.D., Psychiatrist, has diagnosed McCormick
with Major Depression and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. It is Dr. Godwin's opinion
that McCormick is disablcd due to physical and mental disorders which may significantly
impair her professional judgment, performance and competence to practice law.
10.
Mr. Bruce R. Arnold, LCSW, states McCormick's diagnosis is Post
Traumatic Stress Disorder and that McCormick is subject to episodes of panic at
unpredictable moments. It is Mr. Arnold's opinion that McCormick is disabled and
unable to reliably perform her duty as a lawyer.
11.

McCormick consents to being transferred to disability inactive status.

2

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the hearing committee enters the
following

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Committee, and the Committee
has jurisdiction over McCormick and the subject matter of this proceeding.
?
McCormick has voluntarily consented to being transferred to disability
inactive status with the North Carolina State Bar.

3.
McCormick is disabled within the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB
§ .0103(19), and McCormick should be transferred to disability inactive status pursuant
to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0118.

ORDER
1.

McCormick is hereby transferred to disability inactive status.

McCormick shall refrain from practicing law in North Carolina until
reinstated to active status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0125(c).
?

The disciplinary action filed by the State Bar is stayed until such time as
3.
McCormick is reinstated to active status.
4.
The North Carolina State Bar, pursuant to Rule .0 118(f), may continue to
investigate the allegations of misconduct against McCormick, including the taking of
whatever depositions it deems necessary to preserve evidence regarding the allegations
contained in the complaint. No further orders of this Committee shall be necessary to
take such depositions unless sought by McCormick.
5.

this

McCormick shall be taxed with the costs ofthis action.

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
day of A,-~w t ,2009.

S h ..

Theodore C. Edwards, 11, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Committee
CONSENTED TO BY:
(signatures on next page)

3

Consent Order Transferring Defendant to Disability Inactive Status in the case of
The North Carolina State Bar v. Grey Holland McCormick
08 DHC 22
CONSENTED TO BY:
Each ofthe undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt, review, and consent to the above
referenced three page order:

7/Z-f

Alan M. Schneider
Counsel for Defendant

Date f

~i~a~
Deputy Counsel
Counsel for Plaintiff

4

)

/0;

