F \L ED
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA \ .

1U\h JUL \ l\ \-l

WAKE COuNTY

~.HE NORTH

38 ,

.

C

NTY, C, S, '

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
15 CVS 15435

Ob'R.illJNA~~J:A-'FE~B-JtR,
Petitioner

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISBARMENT

SCOTT JUSTIN MCCORMICK, Attorney
,Respondent

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of Superior Court of Wake
County. Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian P.D. Oten.
Respondent, Scott Justin McCormick, represented himself.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, Scott Justin McCormick, and the consent of the parties, the Court makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Respondent, Scott Justin McCormick ("McCormick"), was licensed to
practice law in North Carolina on 28 August 2009 and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and tht?_
laws ofthe State of North Carolina.
2. During the periods relevant hereto, McCormick was engaged in the practice of
law in Winston-Salem, Forsyth County, NOlth Carolina.
3. In October 2013, McCormick received $350.00 from client Simcox for
representation in a traffic matter. This payment included anticipated court costs and
fines, which were entrusted funds, as well as attorney fees for the representations.
McCormick did not deposit these funds into his trust account; rather, he deposited the
funds into his operating account. McCormick subsequently utilized the funds for his own
personal benefit or for the benefit of third parties without authorization to do so from the
beneficial owner of the funds.
4. From at least January 2013 through June 2014, McCormick intentionally
deposited entrusted client funds into his business operating account, transferred entrusted
client funds out of his attorney trust account and into his business account without regard
for whether he was entitled to the funds, and knowingly failed to track or account for his
receipt and disbursement of entrusted client funds. McCormick misused entrusted client
funds by disbursing at least $2,833.84 of entrusted client funds from his trust account for

his personal benefit or for the benefit of third parties without any knowledge or evidence
that such disbursements were justified.
5. McCormick desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in NOlih Carolina.
6. McCormick's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the
result of coercion or duress. McCormick is fully aware of the implication of submitting
his resignation.
7. McCormick is aware that there is presently pending an investigation with the
North Carolina State Bar regarding the conduct described above.
McCormick
acknowledges that the material facts upon which the State Bar's investigation is
predicated are true.
8. McCormick has submitted his resignation because he knows that if
disciplinary charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could
not successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the paliies, the
COUJi makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. By misappropriating entrusted client funds, McCormick used entrusted funds
for his personal benefit or for the benefit of third pmiies not entitled to the funds in
violation of Rules 1.IS-2(a), (b), and 0), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
2. McCormick's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
3. The coulis of this State have inherent authority to take disciplinary action
against attorneys licensed to practice law in NOlih Carolina.
4. This COUJi has jurisdiction over the person of Scott Justin McCormick and
over the subject matter of this proceeding.
5. McCormick has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.
IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1. Scott Justin McCormick is DISBARRED fi'om the practice of law in NOlih
Carolina.

2 ·

2. McCormick shall comply with the provIsIons of 27 N .C. Admin. Code,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124.
McCormick shall have thilty (30) days from the date of the entry of this order to
complete the requirements of § .0124.

3. McCormick shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license until the
expiration of at least fi ve years from the date of entry of this order.
4. McCormick's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section .0125 of the Rules and Regulations of the NOIth Carolina State
Bar.
5. The costs of this action are taxed against McCormick.

~
Dated this ~ay of :::r

,

Brian P.O. Oten, - eputy Counsel
North Carolina State Bar
Attorney for Petitioner

Respondent

3

,2016.

FIL ED
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

lOlb JUl

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
1W P /: 38 I 15 CVS 15435

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE ~R,
I

Petitioner
AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LAW LICENSE

v.
SCOTT JUSTIN MCCORMICK, Attorney,
Respondent

Scott Justin McCormick, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:
I.

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion
or duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.
3. In October 2013, I received $350.00 from my client Simcox for representation in
a traffic matter. This payment included anticipated COUlt costs and fines, which were
entrusted funds, as well as my attorney fees for the n~presentations. I did not deposit
these funds into my trust account. Instead, I utilized these funds for my personal benefit
or for the benefit of third parties without authorization to do so from the beneficial owner
of the funds .
4. From at least January 2013 through June 2014, I intentionally deposited entrusted
client funds into my business operating account, transferred entrusted client funds out of
my attorney trust account and into my business account without regard for whether I was
entitled to the funds, and knowingly failed to track or account for my receipt and
disbursement of entrusted client funds. I misused entrusted client funds by disbursing at
least $2,833.84 of entrusted client funds from my trust account for my personal benefit or
for the benefit of third palties without any knowledge or evidence that such
disbursements were justified.
5. I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation with the NOlth
Carolina State Bar regarding my conduct as described above.
6. I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated
are true.

/

7. I am submitting my resignation because I know that if disciplinary charges were
predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend
against them.

This the

/.z day of - 4 - - , 2 0 1 6 .

~L~ ,

.~d/

S-cott lustinMcCormick

Notary PubHc of the County of

(tif7;),""

State of

North Carolina, certify that Scott Justin McCormick personally appeared before me this day and
acknowledged the due execution of the foregoing Affidavit.
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this the

" .j~ro.ll
oht}p;ililiC'

N

J",JL-

~ day of ---,J"".. '-.0,,:=(-/3=>,-- --, 2016.
My Commission Expires:

'6'-/9- 1'1

FRANK N. JOHNSON
Notary Public - North Carolina
FOlSyth County
MV Commission expires ?J-/9 ~ /1

2

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I heal'by certify that the foregoing Consent Order of Disbarment and Affidavit of
SUlTender of Law License, 15 CVS 15435, has been served upon Respondent Scott Justin
McCormick, by depositing same in the United States mail, postage paid, in an envelope
addressed as follows:

Scott 1. McCormick
439 Brent St.
Winston-Salem, NC 27103

THIS the 14th day of July, 2016.

Brian P.D. Oten, Deputy Counsel
Attorney for Petitioner
The North Carolina State Bar

