NORTH CAROLIN

BEFORE THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06 DHC 30

WAKE COLrNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

CLYDE G. TRIGGS,
Attorney,
Defendant.

)
)

1
1
)
)
)

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF
LAW AND ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

This matter was heard on February 14,2008 and on May 21 and 22,2008 by a Hearing
Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Tommy W. Jarrett, Chair, J.
Michael Booe and H. Dale Almond. Katherine E. Jean and A. Root Edmonson represented
plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant Clyde G. Triggs appearedpro se. Based upon
the admissions in the defendant's answer, the stipulations of fact contained in the pretrial order
and upon the evidence presented during the hearing, this Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant, Clyde G. Triggs, (hereinafter "defendant"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 19, 1973, and is, and was at all times referred to herein,
an attorney at law licensed to practice law in North Carolina, subject to the rules,
regulations and Revised Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State
Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.

3. During all or a portion of the relevant periods referred to herein, defendant was

actively engaged in the private practice of law with a law office located in the town of
Morganton, Burke County, North Carolina.
4. Beginning no later than 2000 and continuing to the present, defendant has been
engaged in the private practice of law in the name of C. Gary Triggs, P.A.
5. Beginning in or before 1996, Triggs and C. Gary Triggs, P.A. were experiencing

chronic cash flow problems. Triggs frequently borrowed money from clients,
employees and others to cover payroll checks to his employees and to pay other office
expenses.

6. Beginning no later than 2000 and continuing to the present, C. Gary Triggs, P.A., had
a varying number of employees who provided services directly related to and for the
benefit of defendant's law practice.
7. At all times pertinent to these allegations, defendant had signature authority on all
bank accounts maintained by C. Gary Triggs, P.A.

8. During the times relevant to this disciplinary proceeding, defendant has provided the
funds and signed the checks or authorized clerical employees in his office to stamp
his signature on the checks with which C. Gary Triggs, P.A., paid the employees who
worked in defendant's law office.
9. At all times beginning no later than 2000 to the present, defendant has controlled all
funds in all bank accounts maintained by C. Gary Triggs, P.A. and has made all
decisions regarding how hnds in those accounts would be spent and when.
10. Defendant is a "responsible person" within the meaning of Title 26 of the United
States Code.
11. When C. Gary Triggs, P.A. paid its employees, it withheld funds from the employees'
paychecks to pay federal income, social security and medicare taxes.

12. From the time the funds were withheld from employees' paychecks until they were or
are paid to the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), C. Gary Triggs, P.A. and defendant
were obligated to hold the funds in trust for the benefit of IRS.
13. Defendant personally had control of all funds withheld from employee paychecks
unless and until those funds were delivered to IRS.
14. No later than December 3 1,2003, defendant was aware that his clerical employees
had failed to deliver funds withheld from employee paychecks to IRS at least
quarterly and that it was his obligation to make sure that the funds were timely paid to
IRS in the future.
15. During the quarters ending December 3 1,2003, June 30,2004, and September 30,
2004 ("the lien periods"), funds withheld by C. Gary Triggs, P.A. from employee
paychecks were not delivered to IRS as required by law and were instead utilized for
the benefit of C. Gary Triggs, P.A. andor for the benefit of defendant.
16. The funds withheld from employee paychecks during the lien periods were entrusted
funds which C. Gary Triggs, P.A. and defendant were required to hold in trust as
fiduciaries for the funds' rightful owner, IRS. C. Gary Triggs, P.A. and defendant had
a fiduciary duty to deliver all withheld funds to IRS.
17. During the lien period, defendant's failure to pay over to IRS funds withheld from
employee paychecks was willful.
18. During the lien period, defendant's use of the withheld funds for his own benefit

andor for the benefit of C. Gary Triggs, P.A. was willful.
19. Defendant's conduct as described above was a violation of 26 U.S.C. 7202.
20. In and before June, 2002, defendant represented Todd McNeely (hereinafter
"McNeely") in a lawsuit brought by Southern Door of Mooresville, Inc. (hereinafter
"Southern") against McNeely and against Audrey Hall and Melvin Hall (hereinafter
"the Halls"). Southern was a subcontractor seeking payment for labor and materials
utilized by McNeely in constructing a home for the Halls.

2 1. The lawsuit was settled in a mediated settlement conference on June 26,2003.
Defendant signed the settlement agreement as attorney for McNeely.
22. The settlement agreement provided that the Halls would deposit $6500 into
defendant's trust account and provided that defendant "will apply the proceeds to
mechanics and materialmen who provided labor or materials on the Hall home." The
settlement agreement provided that Southern "will be paid first from the $6500."
23. On or about July 15,2003, Shenvood Carter (hereinafter "Carter"), counsel for the
Halls, delivered to defendant a letter and a check in the amount of $6500 drawn on
Carter's trust account in full payment of the Halls' obligation under the settlement
agreement. Carter's letter states "[tlhis money is to be disbursed solely to pay those
subcontractors who remain unpaid for work on the Hall job undertaken by your client
and general contractor, Todd McNeely." Carter's July 15,2003, letter to defendant
states "[pllease advise promptly if Mr. McNeely does not agree with the expected use
of the Halls' funds as above-stated, as the Halls are required by law to satisfy any
liens on funds in their hands still owed to a general contractor which these funds
represent."
24. The $6500 delivered to defendant was entrusted funds.
25. Defendant deposited the $6500 into defendant's trust account on or about July 16,
2003.
26. On or about July 16,2003, a check was written on defendant's trust account
disbursing $2000 of the $6500 to C. Gary Triggs, P.A. as a fee.
27. As of August 19,2003, defendant had not applied any of the $6500 to pay any of the
subcontractors as he was required to do by the express terms of the settlement
agreement and by the express terms of Carter's July 15,2003, letter.
28. Beginning on or about August 19,2003, Carter began contacting defendant
requesting documentation demonstrating that the subcontractors had been paid.
Carter wrote defendant letters on August 19, 2003, September 10, 2003, September

11,2003, September 17,2003, and October 16,2003. Defendant did not respond to
Carter's contacts.
29. On November 5,2003, Carter wrote to defendant requesting an accounting of
defendant's handling of the $6500.
30. Defendant but did not respond to Carter's November 5, 2003 letter and did not
provide an accounting to Carter.
3 1. On or about November 19,2003, Carter encountered and questioned defendant.
Defendant informed Carter that defendant had paid himself a $2000 fee from the
$6500, had paid $956 to Southern, and had not paid any other subcontractor. In that
conversation, defendant represented to Carter that defendant did not know the
identities of unpaid subcontractors. Carter stated to defendant that defendant was not
entitled to take a fee from the $6500 and that all of the $6500 was required by the
settlement agreement to be paid to subcontractors.
32. No later than June 26,2003, defendant had information in his possession, custody or
control from which he could readily ascertain the identities of all subcontractors who
defendant was obligated to pay from the $6500 in his trust account.
33. After the IVovember 19,2003 encounter, Carter provided defendant with information
about the identities of subcontractors entitled to payment, which information was
already in defendant's possession.
34. After the lVovember 19,2003 encounter in which defendant was told by Carter that
defendant was not entitled to take any portion of the $6500 as a fee, defendant did not
return the $2000 to his trust account.
35. Sometime after the November 19,2003 encounter, defendant instructed McNeely to
deliver $2000 to defendant. On or about January 16,2004, McNeely delivered $2000
to defendant. On or about January 16,2004, defendant deposited the $2000 delivered
by McNeely into defendant's trust account.

36. In about September 2003 through April of 2004, while he was engaged in an
attorneylclient relationship with Jeannette Ann Anderson, defendant borrowed money
from Anderson totaling approximately $55,000.
37. Defendant did not transmit the terms of all the loan agreements to Anderson in
writing. Some of the loans were memorialized by promissory notes. The remainder
were memorialized only by checks written from Anderson to defendant.
38. Defendant did not advise Anderson in writing of the desirability of seeking the advice
of independent legal counsel on the transactions and did not afford Anderson a
reasonable opportunity to seek the advice of independent legal counsel on the
transactions.
39. Defendant did not obtain Anderson's informed consent in writing to the essential
terms of the transactions, especially those where there was no promissory note, and
did not inform her as to defendant's role in the transactions, including whether
defendant was representing Anderson in the transactions.
40. Defendant failed to disclose to Anderson the true financial condition of himself and
of C. Gary Triggs, PA.
41. The loans made by Anderson to defendant constitute business transactions within the
meaning of Rule 1.8(a) of the Revised Rules of Professional Responsibility.
42. As of the date of the hearing in this matter, defendant still had not repaid $28,446.00
of the loans which had become the subject of a civil lawsuit.
43. Defendant had provided valuable legal services to Anderson by recovering in excess
of $8 1,000.00 for her on her civil claim without taking any fee for his representation.
Defendant also did not recover the $5,800.00 in expenses he had incurred during the
representation.
44. The State Bar took a voluntary dismissal of the fourth claim for relief.
45. The State Bar failed to prove the fifth claim for relief by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. By failing promptly to pay over to IRS funds withheld from the paychecks of employees
of C. Gary Triggs, P.A., defendant committed criminal acts reflecting adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness and fitness in other respects in violation of Revised Rule of
Professional Conduct 8.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty in violation of
Revised Rule of Professional Conduct 8.4(c).
2. By failing to maintain a sufficient balance in his trust account at all times to cover the
amount required to pay the entire $6500 to subcontractors, defendant failed to properly
identify, hold and maintain the separate identity of funds he held in trust in violation of Rule
1-15.2(a).
3. By utilizing $2000 of the $6500 received from Carter for purposes other than disbursing
the entire $6500 to subcontractors, as required by the terms of the settlement agreement and
as required by the instruction contained in Carter's July 15,2003, letter, defendant utilized
entrusted funds either for his own benefit or for the benefit of someone other than the legal or
beneficial owner of the funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2Cj).
4. By entering into business transactions with Anderson and failing to transmit the terms of
the loan agreements in writing to Anderson, defendant violated Rule 1.8(a)(l) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.
5. By failing to advise Anderson in writing of the desirability of seeking the advice of

independent legal counsel on the transactions and failing to afford Anderson a reasonable
opportunity to seek the advice of independent legal counsel on the transactions, defendant
violated Rule 1.8(a)(2) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
6. By failing to obtain Anderson's informed consent in writing to the essential terms of the
transactions, and to defendant's role in the transactions, including whether defendant was
representing Anderson in the transaction, defendant violated Rule 1.8(a)(3) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law, the Hearing Panel
makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1. Defendant's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:
a. Prior disciplinary offenses, including an Admonition in 2006 for providing a slow
response to a State Bar inquiry and a Censure in 1996 for borrowing money from three clients
without making full disclosure about his financial condition and under circumstances that were
unfair to the clients;
b. Dishonest or selfish motive;
c. Pattern of misconduct;
d. Multiple offenses; and
e. Substantial experience in the practice of law.
2. Defendant's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. Timely good faith efforts to rectify consequences of misconduct, specifically with
regard to the IRS;
b. Full and free disclosure to the Hearing Committee and cooperative attitude toward the
proceedings;
c. Several lawyers and judges testified that defendant has a good reputation for providing
high quality legal services to his clients and for being an effective trial lawyer. The
Hearing Panel therefore finds that defendant has good character and a good reputation;
and
d. Remorse.
3. The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4. Defendant's misconduct significantly hamed the reputation of the legal profession. Attorneys
have a duty to conduct themselves honestly and to comply with all state and federal laws. When
attorneys do not do so they engender distrust of the profession, harming the profession as a
whole.

5. Defendant's failure to pay over to IRS funds withheld from employee paychecks resulted in
h a m to the public in that funds that belong to the government, and therefore the public, for use
in providing services to the public, were instead utilized by defendant for unauthorized purposes.
6. Defendant's misconduct resulted in actual harm to his client, Ann Anderson. Defendant
borrowed from Ms. Anderson money defendant had recovered to compensate her for damages
sustained in a personnel matter. When defendant borrowed the money, the money was not

available to Ms. Anderson. Because he did not make his financial situation clear to Ms.
Anderson, Ms. Anderson did not fully understand the risk that she would not be repaid promptly.
From April 2004 to the present, defendant has been in possession of $28,446.00 of funds he
borrowed from Ms. Anderson and has not repaid.
7. This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that a public censure or
reprimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the seriousness of defendant's
misconduct and the gravity of the harm caused by defendant's conduct to the public and to the
profession and because entry of an order imposing discipline less than a suspension would send
the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this
State.
8. This Hearing Panel believes and so finds that an Order calling for a discipline short of a
suspension of defendant's law license would not be appropriate, given the clear demonstration of
multiple offenses and prior history of discipline established by the evidence.
Based upon the foregoing findings and conclusions of law and the arguments of the parties, the
Hearing Panel hereby enters the following

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The law license of defendant, Clyde G. Triggs, is hereby suspended for five (5) years.
2. The suspension of Triggs' law license is stayed for five (5) years upon the following terms and
conditions. During the stayed suspension, Triggs shall:
a. Not violate the laws of any state or of the United States;
b. Not violate any provision of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct;
c. Pay the costs of this proceeding, including but not limited to deposition costs and court
reporting and transcription costs, as assessed by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar,
within 1 year of notice of the costs being served upon him;
d. Respond to any notice of a petition for Mandatory Fee Dispute Resolution issued to
him by the State Bar's Fee Dispute Resolution Program within the time set forth in the notice and
participate in good faith in all proceedings conducted by the State Bar's Fee Dispute Resolution
Program;
e. Pay all State Bar membership dues and Client Security Fund assessments and comply
with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a timely basis;
f. Notify the State Bar of any change in his address within ten (10) days of such change,
promptly accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and respond to all letters of
notice and requests for information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in
such communications;

g. Within one (1) year of the effective date of this Order, Triggs shall complete twelve
(12) hours of law office management training by a law office management training provider
approved by the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar. The Office of Counsel shall
not unreasonably withhold its approval of any qualified provider. This obligation is in addition
to Triggs' obligation to fulfill the ordinary annual continuing legal education requirements
imposed upon all active members of the State Bar. The State Bar's Continuing Legal ~ducat'ion
Director shall be solely responsible for determining whether Triggs' fulfillment of this condition
(g) is also sufficient to fulfill Triggs' ordinary annual CLE requirement;
h. Within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this Order, Triggs shall provide to the
Office of Counsel releases authorizing and directing the Internal Revenue Service and the North
Carolina Department of Revenue to provide the Office of Counsel copies of all records relating
in any way to tax filings and payment of payroll taxes by Triggs and by any partnership, law
firm,P.L.L.C., or P.A. in which Triggs has or acquires any ownership interest. Triggs shall
provide additional such releases each year during the period of the stay of his suspension. Triggs
shall not revoke any release provided to the Office of Counsel pursuant to this condition (h);
i. Within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this Order, Triggs shall enter into an
agreement with IRS to pay to IRS all amounts then owed to IRS by Triggs and/or C. Gary
Triggs, P.A. for funds withheld from employee paychecks and for any other payroll taxes that
were not timely paid over to IRS, along with all penalties and interest assessed by IRS. The
agreement shall require Triggs to pay all such amounts due within one (1) year of the effective
date of this Order;

j. Triggs and any law firm, law partnership, P.L.L.C., P.C. or P.A. in which Triggs has or
acquires any ownership interest shall pay all payroll taxes withheld from any employee paycheck
over to IRS and to NCDOR and shall pay all employment taxes owed by the employer on or
before the date when such payments are due;
k. Beginning thirty (30) days from the effective date of this Order, Triggs and any law
firm, law partnership, P.L.L.C., P.C. or P.A. in which Triggs has.or acquires an ownership
interest shall each week deposit into a dedicated payroll bank account the gross amount of
compensation earned by each employee, i.e., the net amount of the paycheck which will be
delivered to each employee plus the total amount of state and federal tax withheld from each
employee's paycheck. The gross amount of compensation shall remain in the payroll account
until the net compensation is delivered to the employee through a paycheck. Thereafter, the
funds remaining in the dedicated payroll account, i.e., taxes withheld from each employee's
paycheck, shall remain in the payroll account until those withheld funds are delivered to IRS and
NCDOR. Triggs or any law firm, law partnership, P.L.L.C., P.C. or P.A. in which Triggs has or
acquires an ownership interest may also deposit into the dedicated payroll account funds
representing employment taxes owed to IRS and NCDOR by the employer. No funds other than
gross employee compensation and employment taxes owed by the employer to IRS and NCDOR
shall be deposited into the dedicated payroll account. Triggs or any law firm, law partnership,
P.L.L.C., P.C. or P.A. in which Triggs has or acquires an ownership interest shall not utilize any
funds which were deposited into the dedicated payroll account for any purpose other than (i)
delivering earned compensation to employees, (ii) holding in trust and delivering to IRS and

NCDOR taxes withheld from employee paychecks, and (iii) holding and then delivering to IRS
and NCDOR employment taxes owed by the employer;

1. Triggs will retain a certified public accountant that will provide written reports to the
State Bar twice each year certifying that Triggs is in full compliance with each of conditions i, j
and k above. Such reports shall also certify that the certified public accountant has examined
Triggs' trust account records and determined those records to be in full compliance with all
requirements of Revised Rules of Professional Conduct 1- 15.2 and 1- 15.3. The reports of the
certified public accountant shall be received by the Office of Counsel each July 1 and January 1
throughout the period of stayed suspension, beginning on January 1,2009;
m. July 1 and January 1 of each year during the stay of Triggs' suspension Triggs shall
deliver to the Office of Counsel copies of all tax reports and tax returns submitted to IRS and to
NCDOR within the preceding 6 months and shall provide proof that all employment taxes owed
to IRS and NCDOR were paid on or before the date when such payments were due;
n. Triggs shall submit to and cooperate in random audits of all bank accounts over which
he has signatory authority and into which client or fiduciary funds have been deposited. The
State Bar may conduct no more than two (2) random audits in any twelve (12) month period.
Triggs will provide the State Bar with all documents requested by the State Bar within five (5)
business days of the State Bar's request. Triggs will be solely responsible for all expenses
associated with complying with random audits;
o. Within six (6) months of the effective date of this Order, Triggs shall make an Offer of
Judgment to Jeanette Ann Anderson in the amount of $28,446.00 in the civil lawsuit that is
pending between them. The Offer of Judgment shall comply with the provisions of the IVorth
Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure. At the time Triggs makes the Offer of Judgment and
throughout the time when Anderson is permitted by the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure
to accept the Offer of Judgment, Triggs shall have in his possession an official bank check in the
amount of $28,446.00 payable to Jeanette Ann Anderson. Triggs will fulfill this condition by
making the Offer of Judgment while he is in possession of the official bank check and by paying
the check over to Anderson if she accepts the Offer of Judgment. If Anderson does not accept
the Offer of Judgment, Triggs will have no other obligation to make restitution to Anderson as a
condition of the stay of his suspension;
p. Within two (2) months of the effective date of this Order, Triggs will contract with a
licensed North Carolina attorney who maintains a private law practice in the judicial district in
which Triggs maintains his primary law office to serve as a practice monitor. Triggs will first
secure the approval of his proposed practice monitor by the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Triggs will personally
meet with his practice monitor at least once a month throughout the stayed suspension of his law
license. Triggs will keep the monitor apprised of all open and pending client matters and the
status of all such matters. Within 15 days after the end of each calendar quarter (i.e., by January
15, April 15, July 15, and October 15) of each year during the stayed suspension of his law
license, Triggs will deliver to the Office of the Counsel written reports signed by the practice
monitor confirming that the meetings are occurring and reporting any problems or potential

problems with any of Triggs' client matters. It is Triggs' responsibility to ensure that the practice
monitor prepares such quarterly reports. Failure of the practice monitor to prepare the report will
not justify failure of Triggs to comply with this condition. Triggs will be solely responsible for
all costs associated with monitoring his law practice.
3. If during the stay of the five (5) year suspension Triggs fails to comply with any one or more
of the conditions stated in paragraph 2(a) through 2(p) above, the stay of the suspension of his
law license may be lifted as provided in 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, 8
.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules;
4. If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason, Triggs
must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he complied with each of the
following conditions before seeking reinstatement:
a. That he submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary of the North
Carolina State Bar no later than thirty (30) days from the effective date of the order activating his
suspension;
b. That he timely complied with all provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, fj.0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;
c. That he has complied with all of the conditions 2(a) through 2(i) and 2(0) above.
5. If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any reason, at the end
of the five (5) year period of suspension it shall be Triggs' burden to demonstrate by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied with all conditions set forth in paragraphs
2(a) through 2(i), 2(0), 4(a) and 4(b) above before Triggs will be reinstated to the practice of law.

6. The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, 8 .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension.
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day of
,2008.

3

Disciplinary ~ e a r i h ~ & e l ''
. ' . ,1

