BEFORE THE
, UNARY HEARING COMMISSION
c""
OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
16DHC6

STATE OF NORTH CA
WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff

v.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

MICHAEL KYLE McENERY, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was heard on July 29, 2016 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Joshua W, Willey, Jr., Chair, and
members R. Lee Farmer and Patti Head, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code,
Title 27, Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(m) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("Plaintiff' or "State Bar")
was represented by BatTY S. McNeill, Deputy Counsel. Defendant, Michael Kyle
McEnery ("Defendant" or "McEnery"), was represented by Alan M. Schneider, Cheshire,
Parker, Schneider & Bryan, PLLC, Raleigh, NOIth Carolina. Based upon the pleadings,
the stipulated facts, and the testimony and evidence admitted at the hearing, the Hearing
Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rilles and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
McEnery was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on October 9,
2009, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to
practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules
and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar, and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods refelTed to herein, McEnery was
engaged in the practice oflaw in Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina.
4,
McEnery engaged in recreational drug usage during college and law
school, but began abusing opiates, such as oxycodone prescription pain pills and
eventually heroin, following surgery in 2008.
5.
increased.

McEnery began abusing heroin more heavily as his tolerance to the drug

6.
On September 6, 2012, McEnery was arrested on charges of driving while
impaired, felony possession of heroin, and possession of drug paraphernalia in State v.
Michael Kyle McEnery, 12-CR-220337, -220338, -220339 (Wake County District Comt).
7.
McEnery began drug rehabilitation treatment at Bradford Health Services
("Bradford") in Warrior, Alabama on September 21, 2012.
8.

McEnery remained in Bradford for approximately 12 weeks.

9.
The therapists at Bradford recommended that McEnery spend six to eight
months in a halfway house upon his discharge.
10.
When McEnery was discharged from Bradford in December 2012, he
went directly to a halfway house in Atlanta, Georgia called Safety Net Recovery ("Safety
Net").
11.

McEnery spent approximately seven months at Safety Net.

12.
On December 18, 2012, McEnery pled guilty in Wake County District
Court to the misdemeanor of driving while impaired in State v. Michael Kyle McEnery,
12-CR-220337 (Wake County District Court), and was placed on unsupervised probation
for 12 months.
13.
As a part of McEnery's plea, the Wake County prosecutor deferred
prosecution on the possession of drug paraphernalia charge (Case No. 12-CR-220338),
and voluntarily dismissed the felony possession of heroin charge (Case No. 12-CR220339).
14.
Notwithstanding the plea agreement entered into with the Wake County
District Attorney, and despite the efforts of his family and supporters, McEnery relapsed
into drug usage.
15.
On July 18, 2014, McEnery broke into a friend's residence when the
friend was not present and stole musical equipment belonging to two friends.
16.
McEnery later sold the friends' stolen musical equipment to a pawnshop
in order to obtain money to purchase illegal drugs.
17.
On or about August 6, 2014, a Raleigh Police Officer arrested McEnery
for the felonies of obtaining propelty by false pretenses, possession of stolen propetty,
larceny, and breaking or entering in State v. Michael Kyle McEnery, No. 14-CR-2174S1
(Wake County District Court).
18.
On August 12,2014, McEnery was released from pre-trial custody under
the condition that he enter and remain in substance abuse treatment at FIRST at Blue
Ridge, Inc. ("FIRST"), Ridgecrest, North Carolina, until the charges pending against him
were resolved.
-2-

19.
13,2014.

McEnery enrolled in the one year long-term program at FIRST on August

20.
On April 16, 2015, McEnery pled guilty to one count of felonious
possession of stolen goods/property in State v. Michael Kyle McEnery, No. 14-CR217451 (Wake County District Court).
21.
As a part of the plea agreement with the Wake County District Attorney's
office, the State dismissed the remaining three charges against McEnery.
22.
Upon his plea, McEnery received a sentence of 18 months of supervised
probation and was ordered by the Wake County District Court to complete the long-term
program at FIRST.
23.
McEnery completed the long-term residential substance abuse treatment
program at FIRST in August 2015.
24.

McEnery has remained sober since his admission to FIRST in August

2014.
Based upon the stipulations of the pmties, the testimony and evidence introduced
at the hearing, and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All patties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

McEnery's conviction for the felonious possession of stolen goods
shows professional unfitness and constitutes grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(1); and,

(b)

McEnery's commission of the crimes of breaking and entering his
friends' residence and then stealing, possessing, and pawning the
friends' stolen musical equipment constitutes criminal acts
reflecting adversely on his honesty, trustwolthiness and fituess as a
lawyer in other respects in violation of Rule 8A(b), and involved
his engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit and
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A(c).

Based upon the evidence, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

McEnery has no prior record of public discipline.

2.
McEnery's aberrant criminal behavior and felony conviction resulted fi'om
and were caused by his drug addiction to opiates.
-3-

3.
The crimes McEnery committed were property crimes which caused harm
to the victims, his friends.
4.

McEnery made restitution to the pawnshop.

5.
McEnery's crimes did not involve mishandling or misappropriation of
entrusted funds from clients.
6.
McEnery entered recovery contracts with the State Bar's Lawyer
Assistance Program ("LAP"), but he has not been compliant with the LAP contracts
following his rehabilitation at Bradford and has not been engaged with LAP during or
since his rehabilitation at FIRST.
7.
Following his admission to FIRST, McEnery completed FIRST's thirty
day short term drug treatment program and then transitioned to FIRST's long term
program, including the l2-step program, relapse prevention, anger management, and
required 12-step fellowship meetings in the community.
8.
McEnery met all of FIRST's treatment recommendations and continues to
engage with the recovery community at FIRST.
9.
During his rehabilitation at FIRST, McEnery was given a job in the case
management office and took on the responsibility of coordinating the court dates,
housing, and finding employment for FIRST's clients.
10.
McEnery was elected to serve as a Phase One Peer Leader, managing
FIRST'S new clients during the first 30-days of their recovery; in May 2015, McEnery
was elected to serve as the Senior Peer Leader.
II.
In June 2015, McEnery was hired by FIRST as a Case Manager, and
subsequently as its Case Manager Supervisor so as to take advantage of his leadership
and organizational skills.
12.
One of FIRST's clinical psychologists characterized McEnery as
demonstrating a strong recovery and his overall pelformance as excellent.
13.
While working at FIRST, McEnery currently resides in a transition house
with other recovering addicts.
14.
Fellow recovering addicts and colleagues at FIRST attested to McEnery's
commitment to his recovery.
15.
McEnery offered into evidence a letter from a local attorney in which she
described his volunteer assistance with the Pisgah Legal Services and its expungement
clinic, helping other volunteer lawyers in evaluating cases and preparing expungements
for indigent clients.
16.
reputation.

Peers and colleagues at FIRST attest to McEnery's good character and

-4-

17.

FIRST's executive director trusts McEnery as an employee on a daily

basis.
18.
McEnery's parents and sister insist his current commitment to recovery
from drug addiction is real.
19.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS WITH RESPECT TO DISCIPLINE

1.
The HeaTing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated
in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI14(w)(l) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are present which warrant suspension of
Defendant's license:
(B)

Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm was
foreseeable;

(C)

Circumstances reflecting Defendant's lack of honesty, trustworthiness, or
integrity;

(E)

Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession; and,

(I)

Defendant's acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors ennmerated in
27N.C.A.C. IB §.01l4(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State
Bar and conclndes that the following disbarment factors are present:
(A)

Defendant's acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;
and,

(D)

Defendant's commission of a felony.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Ol14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(A)

Absence of prior disciplinary offenses in this state or other jurisdictions;

(C)

Absence of selfish motive;

·5·

(D)

Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify the
consequences of Defendant's misconduct;

(G)

Multiple offenses;

(H)

Effect of any personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;

(1)

Effect of any physical or mental disability 01' impairment on the conduct in
question;

(J)

Interim rehabilitation;

(K)

Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and cooperative attitude
toward the proceedings;

(P)

Defendant's remorse;

(Q)

Defendant's character or reputation; and,

(U)

Imposition of other penalties or sanctions.

4.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the misconduct at issue, the halm or potential harm Defendant's
misconduct caused to the public, the administration of justice, and the legal profession,
and because of the Hearing Panel's concern for the protection of the public.
5.
McEnery's crimes and felony conviction caused significant harm to his
fi'iends and resulted in potential significant harm by breeding disrespect for the legal
profession but the criminal conduct would not have been committed but for his drug
addiction.
6.
Given the aberrant nature of McEnery's crimes and felony conviction, his
timely admission to drug treatment intervention, his initiative and leadership during
rehabilitation, and his commitment to recovery and sobriety, the Hearing Panel deemed
the factors found under 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.Ol14(w)(2) insufficient to warrant disbarment.
7.
For the following reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of suspension of Defendant's law license would not adequately protect
the public, the legal profession, or the administration of justice for the following reasons:
(a)

While the Hearing Panel found two factors under 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§.0114(w)(2), these factors do not require disbarment when
weighed with the factors founds under 27 N.C.A.C. 1B
§.Ol14(w)(l) and (w)(3);

·6·

(b)

The factors under 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.01l4(w)(l) and (w)(3) that
are established by the evidence are of a nature that support
imposition of suspension as the appropriate discipline;

(c)

Entry of less serious discipline would fail to acknowledge the
seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and would send
the wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State; and,

(d)

A stayed suspension with appropriate conditions, such as requiring
McEnery to continue his recovery therapy and periodic reporting
by the therapist and LAP to the State Bar, will assure Defendant's
sobriety and compliance with treatment.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, conclusions oflaw, and the findings of
fact and conclusions regarding discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

I.
Defendant, Michael Kyle McEnery, is hereby suspended from the practice
oflaw for five (5) years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendant's five (5) year suspension is ordered stayed for the duration of
the suspension as long as Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period
ofthe stay with each of the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant shall not use or consume any mind or mood altering
substances, including, but not limited to, alcohol or controlled
substances, except to treat a legitimate medical need as prescribed
by a licensed medical professional authorized to issue such a
prescription. Prior to the use of any such prescribed drugs,
Defendant will infOlID his physician of this Order and of his
participation in the Lawyer Assistance Program ("LAP"),
communicate the identity of his physician to the LAP Clinical
Director, and have his physician consult with the LAP Clinical
Director before any such medications are prescribed by his
physician or used by Defendant;

(b)

Defendant, at his own expense, continues counseling with his
therapist, and/or any other board-certified psychiatrist,
psychologist, or drug counselor (hereafter "Therapist") approved in
advance by the State Bar's Office of Counsel, and follows and
complies with the course of treatment prescribed by his Therapist.
The Therapist shall provide quarterly reports, due in the Office of
Counsel by the tenth day of each quarter (January 10, April 10,
July 10, and October 10), to the State Bar and to the LAP Clinical
Director (with a copy to Defendant) confinning Defendant is
following the recommendations of the Therapist. The Therapist
shall notifY the State Bar and the LAP Clinical Director if
-7-

Defendant fails to follow the recommendations and treatment
program of the Therapist. Defendant shall ensure these reports
and notifications are timely made. Defendant will sign all
necessary releases or documents to allow such reports and
notifications, to allow the Therapist to provide documents from
Defendant's treatment to the State Bar and the LAP Clinical
Director, and to allow the Therapist to discuss Defendant's
participation and treatment with the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar and the LAP Clinical Director, and shall not revoke the
releases dnring the period of the stayed suspension;
(c)

Defendant instructs his Therapist to notify the Office of COlmsel
and the LAP Clinical Director immediately in writing if, at any
point during the stayed suspension, Defendant ceases to be a
patient or otherwise fails to comply with the course of treatment
prescribed by the Therapist;

(d)

During the entirety of the suspension, Defendant enters into and
remains in a long term recovery contract with LAP and complies
with all the terms of his contract and any treatment
recommendations fl'om LAP, at Defendant's expense. LAP shall
notifY the Office of Counsel if Defendant fails to participate in
LAP, fails to comply with any of the terms of his long term
recovery contract with LAP, or fails to comply with LAP's
treatment recommendations. Defendant will sign all necessary
releases 01' documents to allow such notification and to allow the
LAP to discuss Defendant's participation and treatment in LAP
with the Office of Counsel of the State Bar, and shall not revoke
the release during the period of the stayed suspension;

(e)

Defendant shall, at his own expense, register for and comply with
random drug and alcohol monitoring by FirstLab Professional
Health Monitoring Program ("FirstLab") or other monitoring
service agreed to by the parties. The monitoring agreement will
require the monitoring service to report to the State Bar's Office of
Counsel and to the LAP Clinical Director any failure of Defendant
to take or pay for the test and any positive test result. Defendant
will enter into the monitoring program within thirty days of the
date of this order. Defendant will sign all necessary releases or
documents to allow such reporting and shall not revoke the
releases during the period of the stayed suspension;

(f)

Defendant shall, at his own expense, arrange for an attorney
approved by the Office of Connsel to serve as Defendant's practice
monitor. Defendant shall meet with the practice monitor at least
monthly to review all of the Defendant's pending cases. The
monitor will supervise all client matters and ensnre that the
Defendant handles all matters in a timely fashion and that the

-8-

Defendant communicates adequately with his clients.
The
Defendant will ensure that the practice monitor submits written
quarterly reports to the Office of Counsel confirming that the
meetings are occurring and that the Defendant is meeting deadlines
and conferring with clients. The reports shall be received in the
Office of Counsel each January 10, April 10, July 10, and October
10 throughout the period of the stayed suspension.
(g)

Defendant shall timely submit his annual Continuing Legal
Education ("CLE") report form to the CLE Department of the
North Carolina State Bar each year of the stay and
contemporaneously send a copy of the CLE report fonn to the
Office of Counsel of the State Bar to document compliance.
"Timely" means by the date specified by the CLE department as
the date by which members must submit their annual report forms
to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late filing penalty. Defendant
must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a copy of his annual
CLE report form no later than 15 days after it is due to the CLE
department of the State Bar each year;

(h)

Defendant shall pay all Membership dues and Client Security Fund
assessments and comply with all CLE requirements on a timely
basis;

(i)

Defendant shall keep his address of record with the North Carolina
State Bar current, accept all celtified mail from the North Carolina
State Bar, and respond to all letters of notice and requests for
infonnation from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines
stated in the communication;

G)

Defendant shall not violate any of the Rules of Professional
Conduct in effect during the period of the stay;

(k)

Defendant shall not violate any laws of the State ofNOlth Carolina,
of any other state, or of the United States during the period of the
stay; and

(I)

Defendant shall pay all costs and administrative fees of this
proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within thirty (30) days
after service of the notice of costs on him.

3.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions of the
stay of his suspension provided in paragraphs 2(a)-2(l) above, the stay of suspension may
be lifted in accordance with 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .01l4(x).
4.
Defendant's obligations under this Order end after the applicable period of
the stay provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack
of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .01l4(x), the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the
-9-

suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period
of the stay of the suspension would othetwise have terminated, the DRC retains the
jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the suspension and activate the remaining portion
of the suspension in whole or in Palt if it finds that ally of the conditions of the stay have
not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation to comply with the
conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any such pending motion 01' show
cause proceeding.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the remaining period of
suspension is activated for any reason, the following conditions are placed upon
Defendant's reinstatement to active status. With any petition Defendant files for
reinstatement to active practice, Defendant must demonstrate by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that he complied with each of the following conditions:
(a)

Complied with 2(a)-2(h) above;

(b)

Submitted his license atld membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective
date of the order activating the suspension;

(c)

Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0124 on a
timely basis;

(d)

Complied with all provisions of27 N.C.A.C. 1B § 012S(b);

(e)

Not have violated any of the Rules of Professional Conduct;

(f)

Not have violated atly laws of the State of North Carolina, of any
other state, or of the United States; and

(g)

Paid all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
within thirty (30) days of service of the notice of costs upon him.

6.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary, which shaH be paid within thirty (30) days of service of the
notice of costs upon Defendant.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel Chair with the consent of the other
Hearing Panel members.
~.

This the

i5: day of August 20 I 6.
{...---.. ..

Jos a W:WIlley, Jr., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Patlel

-1.0

