BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY
HEARING COMMISSION OF
THE NC STATE BAR
04DHC 2IR

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

)

IN RE: PETITION FOR REINSTATEMENT OF )

MICHAEL H. McGEE,
Petitioner

)
)
)
)

ORDER DENYING
REINSTATEMENT

This matter was heard on the 29 th day of January 20 I0 via telephone conference call by a
panel of the Disciplinary I-Iearing Commission composed of Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair; C.
Colon Willoughby, Jr. and Michael J. Houser. The petitioner, Michael H. McGee, represented
himself. The State Bar was represented by A. Root Edmonson. Based upon Petitioner's Petition
for Reinstatement to Active Status filed September 3,2009, the Waiver ofI-lem-ing and Consent
to Judgment filed by Petitioner on January 20, 2010, the Order of Discipline filed herein on
August 24, 2004, the Order Denying Reinstatement filed in this matter on March 7, 2008 ffi1d the
ffi'guments of Counsel, the panel hereby enters the following:

Findings of Facts
1.

Michael H. McGee (hereinafter, "McGee"), was admitted to the North Carolina

State Bm- on 14 August 1971, and was an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina
who actively engaged in the private practice of law in the city of Charlotte, Mecklenbmg
County, NOlih Cm-olina, until his suspension from the practice of law that became etIective on
October I, 2004.

2.

The August 24,2004 Order of Discipline (hereinafter, "Order of Discipline")

suspending McGee's license provided that, after three years, McGee could petition to have the
remaining period of his five year suspension stayed ifhe met the following conditions:
(a)

The Defendant timely and properly submitted his license and membership card to
the Secretary, complied with the winding down provisions ofthc rules, and paid
the costs of this proceeding;

(b)

The Defendant shows by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that the
Defendant has reformed and presently possesses the moral qualifications for
admission to practice law and that permitting the Defendant to resume the practice
of law will not be detrimental to the integrity and standing of the Bar, tlle
administration of justice, or the public interest;

(c)

The Defendant has complied with all present and any future orders oftlle DHC;

(d)

The Defendant has not engaged in the unauthorized practice of law during the
period of sllspension;

(e)

The Defendant has not been found in contempt of any court or agency during the
period of suspension;

(f)

The Defendant has not engaged in any conduct during the period of suspension
that would constitute grounds for discipline under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28;

(g)

The Defendant understands the then current Rules of Professional Conduct;

(h)

The Defendant paid all mandatory Bar dues and assessments, including State Bar
and District Bar dues and Client Security Fund assessments, and fully complied
with all requirements of the State Bar Continuing Legal Education Department
that were due and owing at the time of suspension;

(i)

The Defendant has kept his address of record with the North Carolina State Bar
current, has accepted all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar, and has
responded to all letters of notice and requests for information from the North
Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the communication; and

G)

The Defendant has not violated any local, state, or federal laws, excluding tranic
offenses for which appearance may be waived.

3.

McGee petitioned for a stay of the remaining term of his suspension that resulted

in a hearing on February 22, 2008. The panel hearing that matter found facts supporting its
conclusions that McGee had engaged in the unauthorized practice of law on two occasions
during his suspension and failed to pay the costs of his disciplinary hearing as ordered. In
addition, McGee failed to prove that he had reformed and possessed the moral qualifications for
admission to practice law and that permitting him to resume the practice of law would not be
Page 2 of 4

detrimental to the integrity and standing of the Bar, the administration of justice, or the public
interest. That panel denied McGee's petition to have the remaining term of his suspension
stayed.
4.

The Order of Discipline required McGee to satisfy all ofthe conditions

enumerated in paragraph 2 above, except subparagraph (a), for him to be reinstated after the
October 2009 tennination of his suspension.
5.

On September 3, 2009, McGee filed his Petition for Reinstatement to Active

Status that was scheduled to be heard on January 29, 2010.
6.

On January 20, 2010, McGee filed a Waiver of Hearing and Consent to Judgment

that acknowledged the scheduled January 29, 2010 hearing date for his petition, waived any right
to attend his hearing and present evidence in support of his petition, waived any right to object or
cross-examine if the State Bar put on evidence, and authorized the panel to make its decision
without the necessity for a hearing. McGee asked the panel to consider leaving him in a
suspended status until August I, 20 I 0 and then to allow him to be granted "retired/nonpracticing" status.

7.

Since no evidence was going to be presented by McGee, the Chair detennined

that a hearing should be held by telephone conference call at the time of the scheduled hearing at
10:00 a.m. on January 29,2010. McGee participated in the telephone hearing and made
arguments, but was not sworn and did not present evidence. No court reporter was included in
the telephone hearing and the telephone hearing was not recorded.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, the panel makes the following:

Conclusions of Law
I.

The panel has personal jurisdiction over the petitioner and subject matter

jurisdiction over McGee's petition for reinstatement pursuant to the terms ofthe Order of
Discipline and 27 NCAC IB, §§ .0109(12) and .012S(b)(8).
2.

This panel does not have the authority to change McGee's status from suspended

to "retired/non-practicing." Only the Council has the authority to grant inactive status which has
a subcategory of "retired/non-practicing.".
3.

Because McGee did not present evidence in support of his petition for

reinstatement, McGee did not satisfy the conditions contained in the Order of Discipline for his
Page 3 of 4

license to be reinstated. Particularly, McGee failed to prove that he paid the costs of his 2004
hearing within the time allowed, that he did not engaged in the unauthorized practice of law
during his suspension, or that he has reformed and possesses the moral qualifications for
admission to practice law and that permitting him to resume the practice of law would not be
detrimental to the integrity and standing of the Bar, the administration ofjustice, or the public
interest, all conditions that the heming panel at the February 22, 2008 hearing found that McGee
had failed meet.
4.

Should McGee choose to appeal the decision ofthis panel, his appeal is pursuant

to N.C.G.S. § 84-28(h) as the decision of this panel is a final order of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission appealable to the North Carolina Court of Appeals. Because his petition was filed
pursuant to 27 NCAC lB, § .0125(b), rather thml 27 NCAC lB, § .0125(a), he has no appeal to
the Council.
THEREFORE, BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law,
the hearing committee enters the following:
ORDER DENYING REINSTATEMENT
McGee's Petition for Reinstatement to the practice oflaw in North Carolina is hereby
DENIED.
Signed by the Chair of the panel with the fulllmowlcdge and consent of the
-t'-

other members of the panel this the \,CJ

day of February 2010.

Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair

Page 4 of 4

