BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.

WILLIAM TRIPPE McKENY, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, Irvin W. ("Hank") Hankins, III, and
Christopher R. Bruffey pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB ยง .0114. Plaintiff, the NOlih
Carolina State Bar, was represented by Carmen Hoyme Bannon. Defendant, William Trippe
McKeny, represented himself Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter and both
parties stipulate and consent to the entry of this order and to the discipline imposed.
Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any way the
sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the NOlih Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted
it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of
the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, William Trippe McKeny, was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in March 2003, and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
Prior to 25 December 2013, McKeny was engaged in the practice oflaw in the
State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Salisbury, Rowan County, North
Carolina. From 25 December 2013 through the present, McKeny has been suspended from
the practice oflaw.

The North Carolina Stale Bar v. William Trippe McKeny. 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 1 of 12

4.

McKeny was properly served with the summons and complaint in this matter.

5.
In an Order of Discipline filed 21 November 2013, the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission suspended McKeny from the practice of law for three years, effective 25
December 2013.
6.
McKeny moved away from North Carolina before his license was suspended.
As of September 2013, he was residing in Colorado and retuming to North Carolina
occasionally.
7.
Pursuant to the Order of Discipline, McKeny was required to wind-down his
law practice during the 30 days prior to the effective date of his suspension, as set forth in
Rule .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
8.
McKeny left North Carolina on or about 5 November 2013, and remained out
of state throughout his 30-day wind-down period, which ran from 25 November 2013 through
25 December 2013.
9.
At the time McKeny was suspended, he had a large caseload and was counsel
of record on many pending cases, both civil and criminal, in district and superior courts.
10.
McKeny failed to notify all of his clients that he was suspended and therefore
could no longer represent them. As a result, many of his clients did not leam they were
unrepresented until they appeared in court at the next scheduled setting of their cases.
II.
McKeny did not properly withdraw from pending cases: He did not file
motions to withdraw, nor did he seek to have cases calendared so that he could orally move to
withdraw. As a result, judicial personnel attempted to assist McKeny's clients on an ad hoc
basis when the clients appeared in com1, unaware that their lawyer was suspended. Many of
McKeny's clients' cases were delayed while the clients sought substitute counselor awaited
the appointment of counsel.
12.
Many of McKeny's clients were entitled to at least a pm1ial refund of fees
because McKeny was unable to complete the representation.
13.
McKeny did not refund uneamed fees to which his clients were entitled during
the wind-down period, at the time of his suspension, or within a reasonable time after he was
suspended.
14.
Germaine Hardin hired McKeny in early 2013, paying a $1,500.00 flat fee for
representation on a charge of breaking and entering. Hardin's case was still pending when
McKeny was suspended. When Hardin leamed McKeny had been suspended, he attempted to
contact him by phone several times to request a refund. McKeny did not retum Hardin's calls
and did not refund any of the fees he received from Hardin. In response to subsequent inquiry
from the State Bar about why he did not refund any money to Hardin, McKeny contended that
he had eamed the entire fee.
The North Carolina State Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 2 of 12

15.
Alex Cowan hired McKeny in early 2013, paying at least $2,430.00 of a
$3,500.00 flat fee for representation on drug charges. Cowan's case was stiJI pending when
McKeny was suspended. When Cowan appeared in court in late 2013, court personnel
infOlmed him that McKeny was suspended. Cowan called McKeny to request a refund, but
McKeny did not respond or refund any of the fees he received from Cowan. Cowan had to
pay another lawyer $1,900.00 to handle the case. In response to subsequent inquiry from the
State Bar about why he did not refund any money to Cowan, McKeny contended that he had
earned the entire fee.
16.
Tyson Wiggins hired McKeny in July 2013, paying a $2,000.00 flat fee for
representation on a charge of possession of marijuana. Wiggins's case was still pending when
McKeny was suspended. When Wiggins appeared in court in late 2013, court personnel
informed him that McKeny was suspended. Wiggins called McKeny to req~est a refund, but
McKeny did not respond or refund any ofthe fees he received from Wiggins. Wiggins had to
pay another lawyer $3,500.00 to handle the case. In response to subsequent inquiry from the
State Bar about why he did not refund any money to Wiggins, McKeny contended that he had
earned all but $362.50 of the fee. McKeny did not issue a refund to Wiggins until May 2016,
after the State Bar inquired about the case.
17.
Keith Rattz hired McKeny in August or September 2013, paying $2,800.00 of
a $3,500.00 flat fee for representation on charges of breaking and entering and habitual felon.
Rattz's case was still pending when McKeny was suspended. When Rattz appeared in court
in early 2014, court personnel informed him that McKeny was suspended. Rattz's
grandmother (who had paid the $2,800.00) called McKeny to request a refund, but McKeny
did not return her calls or refund any of the money. In response to subsequent inquiry from
the State Bar about why he did not refund any of Rattz's fee, McKeny contended that he had
earned all but $1,075.00 of the fee. McKeny did not issue a refund to Rattz's grandmother
until May 2016, after the State Bar inquired about the case.
18.
In representing criminal clients, McKeny used several standard templates for
commonly-filed motions, including a Motion for Discovery, Motion for Leave to File Further
Motions, and Waiver of Initial Administrative Hearing. (These motions are refelTed to
hereafter as "boilerplate motions"). When he filed one of these boilerplate motions on behalf
of a client, McKeny merely inserted the client's name and case number into the template. In
the Hardin, Cowan, Wiggins, and Rattz cases described in paragraphs 14 through 17 above,
McKeny filed two or more boilerplate motions. In calculating the amount of fees he
contended he had earned on each of those cases, McKeny claimed to have spent 30 minutes
on each boilerplate motion. For example, McKeny claimed entitlement to $375.00 for
inserting Hardin's name and case number into three boilerplate motions.
19.
McKeny represented Danny Caldwell on a charge of DWLR. On 24
September 2013, McKeny filed a notice of appeal to Superior Court in Caldwell's case.
Caldwell paid McKeny an additional $350.00 for representation in Superior Court. At the
time he accepted this additional fee, McKeny did not inform Caldwell that he no longer lived
in North Carolina or that he was facing imminent disciplinary action. McKeny did not
provide Caldwell with any additional legal services. When Caldwell read in the newspaper
The North Carolina State Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 of12

that McKeny had been suspended, he called McKeny to request a refund. McKeny did not
return the call or refund Caldwell's fee. Caldwell had to pay another lawyer $700.00 to
complete the case. In response to subsequent inquiry from the State Bar about why he did not
refund any money to Caldwell, McKeny contended that he had earned all but $100;00 of the
fee. McKeny did not issue a refund to Caldwell until May 2016, after the State Bar inquired
about the case.
20.
Sandra Parham hired McKeny in October 2013, paying $250.00 for
representation on a charge ofDWLR. McKeny did not inform Parham when he accepted the
representation that he no longer lived in North Carolina or that he was facing imminent
disciplinary action. McKeny did not provide any legal services to Parham. McKeny did not
refund Parham's fee. Parham had to bOITOW money to pay another lawyer to handle the case.
21.
Neither Caldwell nor Parham received any beneficial services in return for the
fees they paid McKeny.
22.
John Reeves and his grandson, Christian Reeves, met with McKeny on 25
September 2013. McKeny agreed to represent Christian on a pending charge of assault for a
flat fee of $2,000.00. McKeny did not inform the Reeveses when he accepted the
representation that he no longer lived in NOlih Carolina or that he was facing imminent
disciplinary action. John Reeves paid McKeny a total of $1,200.00 toward the flat fee.
Reeves's case was still pending when McKeny was suspended, but McKeny did not refund
any of the fees. In response to subsequent inquiry from the State Bar about why he did not
refund any money to Reeves, McKeny contended that he had earned all but $537.50 of the
fee. McKeny did not issue a refund to Reeves until May 2016, after the State Bar inquired
about the case.
23.
TelTY Stiller hired McKeny in October or November 2013, paying at least
$1,150.00 of a $2,000.00 flat fee for representation on charges of maintaining a dwelling for
the manufacture of a controlled substance and for altering a serial number on a firearm.
McKeny did not infOim Stiller when he accepted the representation that he no longer lived in
North Carolina or that he was facing imminent disciplinary action. Stiller's case was still
pending when McKeny was suspended. McKeny did not refund any of the fees he received
fi'om Stiller. Stiller had to pay another lawyer $2,500.00 to handle the case. In response to
subsequent inquiry fi'om the State Bar about why he did not refund any money to Stiller,
McKeny contended that he had earned the entire amount received from Stiller.
24.
The clients referenced in paragraphs 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 22, and 23 did not file
fee dispute petitions with the State Bar. A dozen other clients to whom McKeny failed to
promptly issue refunds filed fee dispute petitions with the State Bar. McKeny refunded in
excess of $17,700.00 to those clients, but only after they availed themselves of the State Bar's
fee dispute resolution process.
25.
McKeny represented Michael Miller, whose appeal of his criminal conviction
was pending at the time McKeny was suspended. McKeny did not inform Miller that the
State had petitioned for review by the Supreme Court and failed to notifY Miller that he would
The North Carolina State Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 of12

not be able to complete the appeal due to the suspension. McKeny did not provide Miller
with his file or advise Miller that he would have to obtain substitute counsel. McKeny did not
seek leave from the court to withdraw from Miller's case. McKeny provided no notice to
opposing counsel, who learned that McKeny had been suspended only after he was unable to
serve his brief at McKeny's address of record. At the subsequent request of the Clerk of the
Supreme Court, the Appellate Defender contacted Miller, advised him of the situation, and
ultimately filed a motion "as friend of the court to discharge current appellate counsel" on
Miller's behalf.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission has jurisdiction over Defendant, William Trippe McKeny, and over the subject
matter ofthis proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of his actions as follows:
(a) By failing to inform new clients in the fall of2013 that he no longer lived in North
Carolina, Defendant failed to explain a matter to the extent reasonably necessary to
permit clients to make informed decisions about the representation in violation of
Rule 1.4(b);
(b) By abandoning multiple clients without sufficient notice to either the clients or the
court that he would be unable to complete the representation, Defendant failed to
exercise reasonable diligence in violation of Rule 1.3;
(c) By failing to timely notify clients of his suspension or the status of their cases at
the time of his suspension and failing to respond to inquiries from clients
requesting refunds of unearned fees, Defendant failed to explain a matter to the
extent reasonably necessary to permit clients to make informed decisions in
violation of Rule 1.4(b) and failed to promptly comply with clients' reasonable
requests for information in violation of Rule 1.4(a);
(d) By failing to file motions to withdraw from his pending cases during the winddown period, thereby delaying and complicating the court's ability to dispose of
those cases, Defendant failed to comply with applicable law requiring permission
of the tribunal to withdraw in violation of Rule 1.16(c) and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

The North Carolina Stale Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 of12

(e) By failing to promptly refund fees that were unearned at the time he was
suspended, Defendant failed to take reasonably practicable steps to protect clients'
interests upon termination of the representation in violation of Rule 1.16(d);
(t) By asserting that he was entitled to fees in cases where the client received no
beneficial services and by claiming that he was entitled to compensation for an
hour or more spent on the ministerial task of substituting a client's name on
boilerplate motions, Defendant charged clearly excessive fees in violation of Rule
J.5(a); and
(g) By failing to comply with the wind-down process described in Rule .0124 as
required by the Order of Discipline, Defendant knowingly failed to comply with an
obligation under the rules of the tribunal in violation of Rule 3.4(c).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and the consent
of the parties, the Hem'ing Panel finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
J.
Defendant's conduct caused significant harm to his clients. Specifically, his
failure to withdraw from pending cases delayed resolution of his clients' legal matters, and his
failure to promptly refund unemned fees caused his clients to incur additional costs associated
with hiring substitute counsel. This harm was foreseeable.
2.
Defendant did not proactively determine what unearned fees were due to his
clients when he was suspended, instead relying upon the clients and/or the State Bar to
prompt him to return funds to which he was not entitled. Defendant did not issue refunds to
some clients until 2016. Defendant's decision not to refund fees until a refund was demanded
reflects an elevation of his own interests above his clients' interests.
3.
Defendant's abandonment of his clients was fundamentally at odds with the
fiduciary role of an attorney, and had the potential to cause significant harm to the standing of
the legal profession in the eyes of the public.
4.
Defendant's failure to withdraw from pending matters caused significant harm
to the administration of justice by delaying and complicating the court's ability to dispose of
his clients' cases.
5.
Defendant was diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder in 2013, and his
PTSD contributed in part to the misconduct described herein. Defendant has been, and
continues to be, treated for this condition. Defendant and his treating clinicians repO\i that his
condition is substantially improved and that his condition does not impair his ability to
practice law.
6.
Defendant was evaluated by a clinical psychologist in December 2016, who
opined that his PTSD no longer impairs his ability to practice law. The evaluator indicated
The North Carolina State Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 of12

that "with guidelines and accountability measures in place, [Defendant] should be able to
resume his law practice." Specifically, the evaluator recommended: (a) periodic review of
Defendant's financial records by a third party; (b) ongoing individual therapy; (c) annual
polygraph examinations during which Defendant would be questioned about the reoccurrence
of any prior problematic behaviors; and (d) random drug testing.
7.

Defendant is remorseful for his conduct.

8.
All of the misconduct at issue in this case occUlTed during the immediate
aftermath of his suspension. Since that time, Defendant has been cooperative with the State
Bar in responding to grievances and fee disputes, and has participated in this proceeding.
9.
Defendant has taken steps to rectifY the consequences of his misconduct: In
addition to the refunds to clients referenced in Finding of Fact 24, above, Defendant issued
refunds to other clients without prompting by the State Bar.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings Regarding
Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following
ADDITIONAL CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in Rule .OI14(w) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the State Bar.
2.
The Hearing Panel concludes the following factors from Rule .OI14(w)(1)
warrant consideration of suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) Intent of Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential harm
foreseeable;

IS

(b) Elevation of Defendant's own interest above that of the client; and
(c) Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration of justice.
3.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
Rule .OI14(w)(2) and concludes that none of the factors requiring consideration of disbarment
are present in this case.
4.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated in
Rule .OI14(w)(3) and determines that the following factors are applicable:
(a) Prior disciplinary offenses;
(b) Multiple offenses;
(c) Effect of personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;
The North Carolina Stale Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 of 12

(d) Effect of physical or mental impairment on the conduct in question;
(e) Remorse;
(f) Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings; and

(g) Interim rehabilitation, in the form of effective treatment for PTSD.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered admonition, reprimand and censure as
potential discipline but finds that any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge
the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant and the risk of harm to the public.
6.
In light of the significant harm resulting from Defendant's conduct, the
Hearing Panel concludes that a suspension of Defendant's license is the only discipline that:
(a) will adequately protect the public;
(b) acknowledges the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed; and
(c) sends a proper message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings
and Conclusions Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
I.
Defendant, William Trippe McKeny, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for two years, effective immediately upon his reinstatement from the suspension imposed
in 13 DHC 4.
2.
The two year suspension is stayed for two years as long as Defendant
complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the following
conditions:
(a) Defendant shall continue to participate in individual therapy, and shall comply
with all treatment recommendations of his treating clinicians;
(b) Within 10 days of entry of this order, Defendant shall provide a written release to
the North Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel, authorizing all providers from
whom he is receiving treatment for any psychological, emotional, or behavioral
condition to communicate with the Office of Counsel and to release to the Office
of Counsel records relating to his compliance with his treatment recommendations.
Defendant shall not revoke these releases during the period of stayed suspension;

The North Carolina Siale Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8 of 12

(c) Defendant shall ensure that all providers from whom he is receiving treatment for
any psychological, emotional, or behavioral condition send a quarterly written
report to the State Bar confirming that he is complying with all treatment
recommendations and is not suffering fi'om any physical or mental condition that
significantly impairs his professional judgment. The repotis shall be due each
January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30 during the stayed suspension of
Defendant's law license;
(d) Defendant shall refrain from the use of any mind-altering substances except as
specifically prescribed or approved by a physician. Defendant shall comply with
the LAP contract he entered into on 26 May 2017, including the requirement that
he submit to random drug testing. Defendant shall begin testing within 30 days of
the entry of this order. Within 10 days of entry of this order, Defendant shall
execute an authorization pelwitting the LAP to disclose to the Office of Counsel
all information regarding Defendant's compliance with the contract, and directing
the LAP to promptly report to the Office of Counsel any non-compliance with the
contract, including a missed or positive drug test. Defendant shall follow all
recommendations of the LAP program. Defendant shall bear all costs associated
with compliance with his LAP contract;
(e) Defendant shall arrange for an active member in good standing of the North
Carolina State Bar who has been approved by the Office of Counsel and practices
in the county of Defendant's practice to serve as Defendant's practice monitor.
Before Defendant resumes practicing law, he must supply the Office of Counsel
with a letter from the approved monitoring attorney confirming his or her
agreement to: (a) meet with Defendant monthly to review Defendant's cases; (b)
provide supervision to ensure that Defendant timely and completely handles client
matters; and (c) provide written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office
of Counsel on the following dates as they occur during the duration of the stay of
the suspension: January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. Defendant will be
responsible for the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this supervision;
(f) Defendant shall open a new attorney trust account and have a CPA audit the new
trust account on a quarterly basis to ensure Defendant's compliance with the Rules
of Professional Conduct;

(g) The CPA must repmi qumierly to the Office of Counsel concerning the
compliance of Defendant's bust account with the Rules of Professional Conduct,
including but not limited to reporting any accounting irregularities and any
deviance from the requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct, with a copy
of the repmi sent simultaneously to Defendant. The CPA's reports are due no later
than 30 days after the end of each quarter (first qumier's report due April 30,
second qumier's report due July 30, third quarter's report due October 30, and
fourth quarter's report due January 30). It is Defendant's sole responsibility to
ensure the CPA completes and submits the repOlis as required herein;

The North Carolina Slate Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 9 of 12

(h) If any of the CPA reports referenced in paragraph (g) above note any irregularities
or deficiencies, Defendant shall take all remedial action necessary to bring the trust
account into compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct and shall provide
proof of the remedial action and compliance to the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar and to the CPA within 30 days of the date ofthe CPA's report;
(i) If any of the CPA reports referenced in paragraph (g) above note any irregularities
or deficiencies in Defendant's handling of entrusted funds, the CPA shall prepare
and submit to the Office of Counsel a subsequent repOli regarding whether
Defendant's remedial actions were sufficient and whether Defendant's account(s)
has been brought into compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct. The
CPA shall provide this report regarding remedial measures to the Office of
Counsel within 30 days of Defendant's provision of proof of remedial action. It is
Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and submits the
reports as required herein;
G) All CPA evaluations, reports, and services refel1'ed to herein wiIl be completed and
submitted at Defendant's sole expense;

(k) If Defendant's treatment provider, practice monitor, or CPA fails to submit any
repOli required by this Order, it shall be grounds to lift the stay and activate the
suspensIOn;
(I) If Defendant does not handle entrusted funds, he shall submit the following

financial records from his operating account to the State Bar's Office of Counsel on
a quarterly basis:
I.

ii.
iii.
iv.

Monthly bank statements;
Cancelled checks
Deposit tickets/deposit items
Records showing the source and/or recipient of all wire transfers and
electronic transfers;

(m) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Depmiment
advised of his current business and home addresses and shall notify the Bar of any
change in address within ten days of such change;
(n) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thiliy days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition pending as of the effective date ofthis order, or of which he
receives notice after the effective date of this Order;
(0) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State Bar;

The North Carolina State Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 10 of12

(p) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements; and
(q) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government other than minor traffic violations
during the stayed suspension.
3.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secret!\ry, which shall be paid within six months of service of the notice of
costs upon Defendant.
4.
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated in
Paragraph 2 above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as
provided in Rule ยง .0 lI4(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is activated for any
reason, before Defendant can be reinstated or a subsequent stay of the suspension can be
entered Defendant must show by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that he has complied
with each of the following conditions:
(a) Within two months prior to filing any petition for reinstatement or stay, Defendant
shall be evaluated, at his own expense, by a board certified psychiatrist or
psychologist approved in advance by the Office of Counsel for the purpose of
determining whether Defendant has any mental or psychological impairment,
addiction, personality disorder, or other condition or illness;
(b) Defendant shall obtain a written report from the evaluating clinician described in
paragraph 4(a) setting forth: (i) the findings of the examination; (ii) the clinician's
opinion as to whether Defendant has any physical or mental impaiJment, addiction,
personality disorder, or other condition or illness that could adversely affect his
ability to practice law; and (iii) the clinician's recommendations, if any, regarding
ongoing treatment;
(c) Prior to or at the time of filing his petition, Defendant shall provide a copy of the
clinician's report described in paragraph 4(b) to the State Bar, and shall execute a
written release authorizing the examining clinician to provide medical records to,
and communicate with, the Office of Counsel of the North Carolina State Bar
regarding the evaluation and report;
(d) Defendant shall have the burden of establishing by clear and convincing evidence
that, at the time he seeks reinstatement or a stay of the suspension, he does not
have any physical or mental impairment, addiction, personality disorder, or other
condition or illness that significantly impairs his professional performance,
judgment or competence; and

The North Carolina State Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 11 of12

(e) During the period of active suspension, Defendant complied with the conditions
set forth in paragraphs 2(m) through 2(q), above.
5.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB ยง .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspeusion.

o

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
_~O'----. day ofJune, 2017.

CONSENTED TO BY:

~if.~
Cannen Hoyme Bannon
Attorney for Plaintiff

William Trippe McKeny
Defendant

The North Carolina State Bar v. William Trippe McKeny, 17 DHC 5
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 12 of12

