,;~1",:.;)

"U

~

~
STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN

WAKE COUNTY

</:J

thVt~A ~a~
'~

y

~

BEFORE THE
<>~ISCHI... INARY HEARING COMMISSION
"(;1'
filt
OF THE
t 1."tc!Ji ORTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
f.,.
•
13 DHC4

t!- .
~.
<~J'I'r7

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

WILLIAM "TRIPPE" MCKENY,Attorney
Defendant.

This matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, Irvin W. Hankins, III, and Patti Head. Carmen H.
Bannon represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, William "Trippe"
McKeny, was represented by Dudley A. Witt. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter.
The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this
consent order. The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the
entry of this order, Defendant knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this
consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings. Based on the foregoing
and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, William "Trippe" McKeny, was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in March 2003 and is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, McKeny was actively engaged in
the practice oflaw in Salisbury, Rowan County, North Carolina.
4.
In connection with his law practice, McKeny maintained at F&M Bank a general
trust account (account number ending in -9167, hereafter "McKeny's trust account") and a law
firm operating account (account number ending in -8764, hereafter "McKeny's operating
account").
5.

McKeny failed to maintain the following records for his trust account:
I

(a) Documentation of the source of all deposits and the client on whose behalf the
deposit was received.
(b) Copies of all checks drawn on the account showing the client balance against
which it was drawn.
(c) Records of electronic withdrawals andlor transfers showing the recipient of the
disbursement and the client balance against which it was drawn.
(d) A general ledger of receipts and disbursements identifying the client on whose
behalf each receipt and disbursement was made.
(e) Complete, accurate individual client ledgers showing receipts, disbursements, and
the current balance of funds held in trust for each client.
6.
McKeny withdrew funds from the trust account for payment of his fees using
items that did not indicate the client balance on which the item was drawn.
7.
McKeny failed to compare the balance in the account as shown on his records to
the bank statement balance on a monthly basis.
8.
McKeny failed to total his individual client ledger balances and compare them to
the current bank statement balance at least quarterly.
9.
On several occasions McKeny wrote trust account checks payable to cash andlor
withdrew funds from the trust account in the form of cash.
10.
McKeny frequently deposited client payments designated for a combination of
attorney fees and court costs into his operating account rather than his trust account.
11.
McKeny regularly received payments from clients via credit card. The credit card
payments were credited to McKeny's trust account.
12.
McKeny used a company called Sterling Payment Technologies ("Sterling") to
process credit card payments from his clients. Sterling collected its fees via direct debit from
McKeny's trust account twice monthly.
13.
The credit card processing fees charged by Sterling were a business expense
incurred for McKeny's benefit and convenience, not an expense incurred for the benefit of a
client.
14.
McKeny only intermittently deposited personal funds into the trust account to
offset the debits to Sterling. From 2009 through 2011, the Sterling fees debited from the trust
account exceeded the personal funds deposited by McKeny to cover those debits by more than
$5,000.00.
15.
Because there were insufficient personal funds in the trust account to cover the
debits for Sterling's fees,McKeny used more than $5,000.00 of entrusted funds to pay for
2

Sterling's services. The beneficial owners of the funds in McKeny's trust account did not
authorize McKeny to use their entrusted funds to pay for Sterling's services.
16.
McKeny deposited or transferred entrusted funds designated for clients' court
costs andlor filing fees into his operating account and used them to satisfy immediate personal
andlor business obligations, paying the clients' costs at a later date when he had sufficient funds
in the operating account.
17.
McKeny represented Sherrie Monnell in a personal injury case, which settled for
$7,000.00. McKeny deposited Monnell's settlement proceeds into his trust account on 17
December 2009.
18.

McKeny disbursed Monnell's settlement funds from his trust account as follows:
(a) On 22 December 2009, McKeny transferred $2,310.00 of Monnell's funds into
his operating account for payment of his attorney fee.
(b) On 4 January 2010, McKeny issued a check to Monnell for $2,853.52.
(c) On 22 January 2010, McKeny transferred the remaining $1,836.48 ofMonnell's
settlement funds, which were supposed to be held in trust for payment of medical
providers, into his operating account.

On 8 March 2010, McKeny used funds from his operating account to purchase a
19.
$1,595.48 certified check payable to Forsyth Memorial Hospital on behalf of Monnel!.
20.
The balance in McKeny's operating account dropped below $1,836.48 on nine
occasions between 22 January 2010 and 8 March 2010, during which time McKeny should have
been holding $1,836.48 in trust for Monnel!.
On 26 April 2012, McKeny paid $241.00 from the operating account to satisfy
21.
Monnell's bill for ambulance services. The balance in McKeny's operating account dropped
below $241.00 on multiple occasions between 8 March 2010 and 26 April 2012, during which
time McKeny should have been holding $241.00 in trust for Monnell.
22.
During the time period referenced in paragraphs 17 through 21, above, McKeny
used the funds in his operating account-including the funds he should have been holding in
trust for Monnell-for personal and business expenditures.
23.
Monnell did not authorize McKeny to use her entrusted funds for his personal and
business expenses.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

3

I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, William "Trippe" McKeny, and over the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By failing (0 maintain complete and accurate records documenting his receipt and
disbursement of entrusted funds, McKeny failed to maintain the minimum records
required for general trust accounts in violation of Rule I.1S-3(b);
(b) By making withdrawals from the trust account for payment of his fees using items
that did not indicate (he client balance upon which the item was drawn, McKeny
violated Rule 1.1 S-2(h);
(c) By failing to compare the balance in the trust account as shown on his records to the
bank statement balance on a monthly basis and by failing to total client ledger
balances and compare them to the bank statement balance at least quarterly, McKeny
failed to perform monthly or quarterly reconciliations of his attorney trust account in
violation of Rule l.lS-3(d);
(d) By making withdrawals from his trust account in the form of cash, McKeny violated
Rule l.lS-2(i);
(e) By depositing amounts designated for attorney fees and court costs into his operating
account instead of his trust account, McKeny failed to deposit mixed funds intact in
violation of Rule 1.1S-2(g) and failed to deposit entrusted funds into a designated
trust account in violation of Rules 1.1S-2(a) & (b);

(f) By having credit card transaction fees debited from his trust account when he had not
deposited sufficient personal funds to cover those fees, McKeny used entrusted funds
for personal benefit in violation of Rule I. I S-20); and
(g) By using client funds to satisJY personal andlor business obligations, McKeny used
entrusted funds for personal benefit in violation of Rule 1.1S-20).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
A lawyer's mismanagement of entrusted funds erodes the confidence clients place
in attorneys who handle their affairs. As a result, such conduct harms the profession as a whole.
2.
McKeny was grossly inattentive to his fiduciary obligation to safeguard entrusted
funds, thereby creating a significant risk of foreseeable harm to the clients whose funds were
entrusted to him.

4

3.
McKeny failed to monitor his trust and operating accounts and failed to provide
the employees to whom he delegated authority over the accounts with any instructions regarding
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
4.
During the period described herein, McKeny was suffering from undiagnosed
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). As a result of his untreated PTSD symptoms, McKeny
was highly anxious, reactive, and depressed.
5.
The symptoms of this disorder significantly impaired McKeny's professional
judgment and were a major contributing factor to his mismanagement of client funds.
6.
Specifically, McKeny's PTSD significantly limited his mental and emotional
resources for coping with the stressors of practicing criminal and domestic law. McKeny
adapted by allocating his limited energy and attention to representing his clients in court rather
than managing his law practice.
7.
McKeny was diagnosed with PTSD in early 20 I 3 and has been actively
participating in treatment since his diagnosis. Nonetheless, McKeny's symptoms continue to
affect his professional judgment and functioning and additional therapeutic intervention is
warranted.
8.

McKeny is currently receiving treatment from Dr. Beth Arrigo, Ph.D.

9.
McKeny has been cooperative with the State Bar's investigation, acknowledged
wrongdoing, and expressed remorse.
10.

McKeny has no prior disciplinary record.

No client suffered monetary loss or legal prejudice as a result of McKeny's
11.
misconduct, and he has taken steps to replenish the shortfall in his trust account.
12.
Due to McKeny's PTSD symptoms and their significant impact on his
professional judgment, particularly as it relates to properly safeguarding entrusted funds and
adequately instructing his employees, there is insufficient evidence to show that he acted with
intent or dishonest motive when he engaged in the misconduct described above. Thus, under the
unique circumstances of this case McKeny's misuse of client funds did not constitute criminal
conduct reflecting adversely on his fitness as a lawyer or conduct involving dishonesty.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension and disbarment.

5

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
IB § .Ol14(w) and detetmined the following factors are applicable:
(a) Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the potential harm was foreseeable;
(b) Elevation ofthe defendant's own interest above that ofthe client;
(c) Misappropriation or conversion of assets of any kind to which Defendant is not
entitled;
(d) Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
(e) Effect of personal or emotional problems on the conduct in question;
(f) Effect of physical or mental disability or impairment on the conduct in question;

(g) Timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify consequences of
misconduct;
(h) A pattern of misconduct and multiple offenses;
(i) Full and free disclosure and cooperative attitude toward the proceedings; and
(j) Remorse.

3.
A censure, reprimand, or admonition would be insufficient discipline because of
the significant harm and/or potential harm to clients and the profession caused by Defendant's
conduct.
4.
McKeny's mishandling and misuse of client funds posed a significant threat of
harm to his clients and, if repeated, poses significant potential harm to future clients and the
reputation of the profession.
5.
In order to protect the public, it is necessary to enter an order of discipline with a
significant suspension of McKeny's law license that may be stayed only if McKeny complies
with reasonable conditions.
6.
The public will be adequately protected by suspension of Defendant's license,
part of which may be stayed upon Defendant's compliance with conditions designed to ensure
protection of the public and continued compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct.
Among other things, Defendant must demonstrate that his professional judgment or competence
is not impaired, and that he is properly maintaining and accounting for any funds received by
him in trust or in a fiduciary capacity.
7.
Imposition of discipline less severe than suspension would fail to acknowledge
the seriousness of the misconduct and would send the wrong message to attorneys and the public
about the conduct expected of members ofthe Bar of this State.

6

8.
Under other circumstances, the misconduct in this case would warrant more
serious discipline. The misconduct caused significant potential harm to clients and to the
public's confidence in the integrity of the legal profession. However, the hearing panel finds and
concludes that the unique circumstances surrounding this case justify lesser discipline than
would otherwise be appropriate. The factors that particularly warrant lesser discipline include:
Defendant's serious and previously-untreated mental condition, the symptoms of which were
directly related to his misconduct; the absence of actual harm to clients; and Defendant's
remorse, prompt remedial action, and acknowledgement of the wrongfulness of his conduct.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The law license of Defendant, William "Trippe" McKeny, is hereby suspended
for three years.
2.
McKeny shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days following the service of this order upon
Defendant.
3.
McKeny shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
Disability Rules.
4.
Within 10 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall file with the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar an affidavit certifying he has complied with Rule
.0124.
5.
After serving one year of the active suspension of his license, Defendant may
apply for a stay of the remaining period of suspension upon filing a verified petition with the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar demonstrating by clear, cogent, and convincing
evidence that, in addition to complying with the general provisions for reinstatement listed in 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0125(b) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules, McKeny has complied with the following conditions;
(a) Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar within 30 days of notice of the costs being
mailed to him at his address of record;
(b) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of
the United States or of any state or local government during his suspension;

7

(c) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses and shall notify the Bar of
any change in address within ten days of such change;
(d) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State
Bar, including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication,
whichever is sooner, and shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee
dispute resolution process for any petition pending as of the effective date of
this order, or of which he receives notice after the effective date of this Order;
(e) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State
Bar;
(f) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements;
(g) Within 60 days after the effective date of this order, Defendant shall distribute
all client funds in his possession to the clients or to the appropriate third
parties as authorized by the clients, and shaH provide proof of these
disbursements to the State Bar;
(h) Defendant shall complete two hours of continuing legal education in the area
of trust account management within the first year after the effective date of
this order. Defendant shall provide written proof of successful completion of
the CLE courses to the Office of Counsel within ten days of completing the
courses;
(i) Defendant shall continue to comply with all of Dr. Arrigo's treatment
recommendations. Such treatments shall be solely at Defendant's expense;

G) Prior to or at the time of filing any petition for reinstatement or stay,
Defendant shall provide written releases to the North Carolina State Bar
Office of Counsel, authorizing all providers from whom he received any
recommended treatment during the period of active suspension to
communicate with the Office of Counsel and to release to the Office of
Counsel records relating to his compliance with his treatment
recommendations;
(k) Defendant shall ensure that each provider from whom he received any
recommended treatment during the period of active suspension generates a
written report to the State Bar regarding Defendant's participation in and
compliance with treatment. The reports shall be provided to the Office of
Counsel prior to or at the time Defendant files any petition for stay or
reinstatement;

8

(1) Within two months prior to filing any petition for reinstatement or stay,
Defendant shall be evaluated, at his own expense, by a board certified
psychiatrist or psychologist approved by the North Carolina State Bar for the
purpose of determining whether Defendant has any mental or psychological
impairment, addiction, personality disorder, or other condition or illness;
(m)Defendant shall obtain a written report from the evaluating clinician described
in paragraph 5(1) setting forth: 0) the findings of the examination; (ii) the
clinician's opinion as to whether Defendant has any physical or mental
impairment, addiction, personality disorder, or other condition or illness that
could adversely affect his ability to practice law; and (iii) the clinician's
recommendations, if any, regarding ongoing treatment;
(n) Prior to or at the time of filing his petition, Defendant shall provide a copy of
the clinician's report described in paragraph 5(m) to the State Bar, and shall
execute a written release authorizing the examining clinician to provide
medical records to, and communicate with, the Office of Counsel of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the evaluation and report;
(0) Defendant shall have the burden of establishing by clear and convmcmg

evidence that, at the time he seeks reinstatement or a stay of the suspension,
he does not have any physical or mental impairment, addiction, personality
disorder, or other condition or illness that significantly impairs his
professional performance, judgment or competence.
6.
If Defendant successfully petitions for a stay, the suspension of Defendant's law
license shall be stayed as long as Defendant complies and continues to comply with the
following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall comply with all treatment recommendations set forth in the report
of the evaluating clinician described in paragraph 5(m), above. Such treatments
shall be solely at Defendant's expense.
(b) Defendant shall provide a written release to the North Carolina State Bar Office

of Counsel, authorizing all providers from whom he is receiving any
recommended treatment to communicate with the Office of Counsel and to
release to the Office of Counsel records relating to his compliance with his
treatment recommendations. Defendant shall not revoke these releases.
(c) Defendant shall ensure that all providers from whom he is receiving any
recommended treatment send a quarterly written report to the State Bar
confirming that he is complying with all treatment recommendations and is not
suffering from any physical or mental condition that significantly impairs his
professional judgment. The reports shall be due each January 30, April 30, July
30, and October 30 during the stayed suspension of Defendant's law license.

9

(d) Defendant shall arrange for an active member in good standing of the North
Carolina State Bar who has been approved by the Office of Counsel and practices
in the county of Defendant's practice to serve as Defendant's practice monitor.
Before Defendant resumes practicing law, he must supply the Office of Counsel
with a letter from the approved monitoring attorney confirming his or her
agreement to: (a) meet with McKeny monthly to review McKeny's cases; (b)
provide supervision to ensure that McKeny timely and completely handles client
matters; and (c) provide written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office
of Counsel on the following dates as they occur during the duration of the stay of
the suspension: January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. McKeny will be
responsible for the cost, if any, charged by the monitor for this supervision.
(e) If at any time during the period of the stay Defendant resumes any form oflegal
practice that involves handling entrusted funds:
i.

Defendant shall open a new trust account and have a CPA audit the new
trust account on a quarterly basis to ensure Defendant's compliance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct.

ii.

The CPA must report quarterly to the Office of Counsel concerning the
compliance of Defendant's trust account with the Rules of Professional
Conduct, including but not limited to any accounting irregularities and any
deviance from the requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct, with
a copy of the report sent simultaneously to Defendant. The CPA's reports
are due no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter (first quarter's
report due April 30, second quarter's report due July 30, third quarter's
report due October 30, and fourth quarter's report due January 30). It is
Defendant's sole responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and submits
the reports as required herein;

iii.

If any of the CPA reports referenced in paragraph (e)(ii) above note any
irregularities or deficiencies, Defendant shall take all remedial action
necessary to bring the trust account into compliance with the Rules of
Professional Conduct and shall provide proof of the remedial action and
compliance to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar and to the CPA
within 30 days of the date of the CPA's report;

iv.

If any of the CPA reports referenced in paragraph (e)(ii) above note any
irregularities or deficiencies in Defendant's handling of entrusted funds,
the CPA shall prepare and submit to the Office of Counsel a subsequent
report regarding whether Defendant's remedial actions were sufficient and
whether Defendant's account(s) has been brought into compliance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct. The CPA shall provide this report
regarding remedial measures to the Office of Counsel within 30 days of
Defendant's provision of proof of remedial action. It is Defendant's sole
responsibility to ensure the CPA completes and submits the reports as
required herein.
10

(f) All CPA evaluations, reports, and services referred to herein will be completed
and submitted at Defendant's sole expense;

(g) Failure of the CPA to submit any report required by this Order shall be grounds to
lift the stay and activate the suspension;
(h) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during the stayed suspension;
(i) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses and shall notify the Bar of any
change in address within ten days of such change;
(j) Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which she receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;

(k) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State Bar;
and
(I) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar Membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements.

If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
7.
provided in paragraph 6(a) - (I) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in §
.0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
8.
If Defendant does not seek a stay of the suspension of his law license or if some
part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must comply with
the conditions set out in paragraphs 5(a) - (0) above and the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0125 before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law, and
must provide in his petition for reinstatement clear, cogent, and convincing evidence showing his
compliance therewith.
9.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this matter
pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .OI14(x) of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the stayed suspension and
until all conditions set forth in paragraph 5 above are satisfied.
10.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary, which Defendant shall pay within thirty days of service of the notice of costs
upon Defendant.

11

Signed by the undersigned Chair with ·the knowledge and consent of the other members
of the Heai'ing Panel, this is thec:ll!:. day of November, 2013,

b,.Q. ;y(

Sharon B, Alexan(Jer, Chair
Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:
William "Trippe" McKeny
. DeJj ani

~-if.~.q/~
Cannen H. Bannon
Attorney for Plaintiff

I a..

