~12tl!,
~

11'
.,;-.
UN (aw! ~

4/
" 4)

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

J,

.:

BEFORE THE .
. ,fif.!f2J),NIJI,PI . PLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
~0~/1IC G;j
OF THE
'~&~
.i~ NORTHCAROLINASTATEBAR
~if.~f;t*,m;
17 BSR I & 13 DHC 4

IN THE MATTER OF
Petition for Reinstatement of
William Trippe McKeny, Attorney

)
)
)

)
)

CONSENT ORDER
OF
REINSTATEMENT

THIS MATTER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, Irvin W. ("Hank") Hankins, III, and
Christopher R. Bruffey pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0114. Plaintiff, the North
Carolina State Bar, was represented by Carmen Hoyme Bannon. Defendant, William
Trippe McKeny, represented himself. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter
and both parties stipulate and consent to the entry of this order and to the discipline
imposed. Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent order or to challenge in any
way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the records of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the consent
of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
In an Order of Discipline filed 21 November 2013, the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission suspended McKeny from the practice of law for three years,
effective 25 December 2013.

2.
On 7 February 2017, McKeny filed a verified Petition for Reinstatement
requesting that his license to practice law be reinstated. Therein, he asserted that he had
substantially complied with the conditions of reinstatement set forth in the Order of
Discipline and satisfied the requirements for reinstatement set forth in 27 N.C.A.C. IE §
.0125(b)(3) ("Rule .0125").
3.
The North Carolina State Bar filed a Response to McKeny's Petition for
Reinstatement on 27 February 2017. A hearing before the DHC was scheduled pursuant
to Rule .0125(b)(7).
4.
As indicated in Rule .0125(b)(3)(E), to be reinstated to the practice oflaw,
a suspended lawyer must prove by clear and convincing evidence that he abstained from
conduct during the period of suspension that would constitute grounds for discipline
pursuant to N.C.G.S. § 84-28(b).

5.
The State Bar contends that McKeny engaged in conduct during the period
of suspension that constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. § 84-28(b). Its
specific allegations were described in a complaint filed in this tribunal on 14 February
2017 (State Bar v. McKeny, 17 DHC 5).

6.
The parties intend to globally resolve this reinstatement proceeding and
the disciplinary proceeding in 17 DHC 5. As part of that global resolution, McKeny
admits to the misconduct described in 17 DHC 5 and consents to an additional period of
suspension that will be stayed upon compliance with conditions. The Consent Order of
Discipline in 17 DHC 5, which is entered contemporaneous with this order, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and
the Commission has jurisdiction over Petitioner, William Trippe McKeny, and the
subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Although McKeny did not abstain from conduct during the period of
suspension that constitutes grounds for discipline under N.C.G.S. § 84-28(b), his postsuspension misconduct should not preclude McKeny from ever retuming to the practice
of law.
3.
The public will be adequately protected if McKeny is permitted to resume
practicing law subject to the conditions of the stayed suspension contemporaneously
imposed in 17 DHC 5.

4.
The protection of the public requires that McKeny have an approved
practice monitor in place before his license to practice law is reinstated.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the
consent of the pallies, the Hearing Panel enters the following
ORDER

I.
William Trippe McKeny's Petition for Reinstatement is ALLOWED, but
his reinstatement shall not be effective until he has ananged for an active member in
good standing of the Nmlh Carolina State Bar who has been approved by the Office of
Counsel and practices in the county of Petitioner's practice to serve as his practice
monitor. Before McKeny resumes practicing law, he must supply the Office of Counsel
with a letter from the approved monitoring attomey confirming his or her agreement to:
(a) meet with McKeny monthly to review McKeny's cases; (b) provide supervision to
2

, ,

'

ensure that McKeny timely and completely handles client matters; and (c) provide written
quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel on the following dates as
they occur during the duration of the stay of the suspension: January 30, April 30, July
30, and October 30. McKeny will be responsible for the cost, if any, charged by the
monitor for this supervision.
2.
Upon receipt of the letter from the practice monitor described in paragraph
1, above, the Office of Counsel shall notify the Clerk of the DHC that this condition of
reinstatement has been satisfied, and the Clerk shall cause McKeny's membership record
with the State Bar to reflect that he is permitted to resume practicing law.
3.
When McKeny is permitted to resume practicing law, he will immediately
be subject to the conditions of the stay of suspension set forth in the Consent Order of
Discipline in 17 DHC 5.
4.
McKeny is taxed with the costs and administrative fees of this proceeding,
which McKeny shall pay within six months of the date of this Order.

Signed by the undersigned Chair with the knowledge and consent of the other
members of the Hearing Panel, this ~ day of June, 2017.

"
CHA~

\:).~e

DONALD C. PRENTISS,
DISCIPLINARY HEARING PANEL
CONSENTED TO BY:

~+ITh'p,~
Carmen Hoyme Bannon

William Tllppe McKeny
Defendant

Attorney for Plaintiff

3

