NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLTNA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

JACK E. McLAMB III, Attorney,
Defendant.

This matter was considered by a healing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexallder, Chair, and members Fred Morelock and
Joe Castro. Katherine E. Jeall represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Alan
M. Schneider represented Defendallt, Jack E. McLamb III. Both parties stipulate and
agree to the findings of fact and conclusions oflaw recited in this consent order and to
the discipline imposed. Defendant freely alld voluntarily waives any aIld all right to
appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline. Based upon the stipulations offact
alld the consent of the parties, the hearing paIlel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly orgaIlized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Jack E. McLamb III ("McLamb"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on August 24, 1996 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law subject to the rules, regulations alld Rules of Professional Conduct of the
North Carolina State Bar and the laws of North Carolina.
3.
During all or part ofthe releVallt periods refelTed to herein, McLamb was
engaged in the practice oflaw in Jolmston County, North Carolina.
4.
McLamb was properly served with process and a hearing in this matter
was set with due notice to all parties.

5.
Defendant represented Heather Elise Collins in Johnston County court file
number 07 CR 5059 on charges of speeding.
6.
Defendant represented Timothy Ray Little in Johnston County cOUli file
number 07 CR 705250 on charges of speeding and expired registration.
7.
Defendant represented Anthony Blake Holmes in Johnston County couli
file number 07 CR 5323 on charges of dliving while license revoked and a seat belt
violation.
8.
In August or September 2007, Defendant learned that Assistant District
Attomey Cynthia Jaeger had submitted her resignation fi'om the Jolmston County Disttict
Attomey's Office and that her last day as a Johnston County assistant district attorney
would be in mid-September, 2007.
9.
Defendant asked Jaeger to consider dismissing the charges against Collins,
Little and Holmes.
10.
Jaeger told Defendant to speak with her in court or to stop by her office to
discuss the proposed dismissals.
II.
Defendant leamed that lawyer Jonathon Hatch (who has subsequently
been disbaned) was going to see Jaeger to ask her to dismiss the cases of some of his
clients. Defendant accepted Hatch's offer to deliver to Jaeger, on Defendant's behalf,
proposed dismissals for Collins, Little and Holmes with the instruction that if Jaeger had
any questions regarding the proposed dismissals to let defendant know.
12.
Defendant filled out three proposed dismissal fonns, one for each of
Collins, Little and Holmes, and gave them to Hatch. Defendant understood that Hatch
would take the proposed dismissal fonns to Jaeger.
13.
The proposed dismissal fonns Defendant gave to Hatch were complete,
including the caption, file number and charges at issue in each case and the reason for the
dismissal, but they had not been signed by a representative ofthe District Attomey's
Office and were not dated.
14.

Hatch delivered the proposed dismissal f01111S to Jaeger.

IS.
Jaeger told Hatch that she would sign the dismissal fonns so long as they
were not filed in the Clerk's oftice until after Jaeger no longer was employed by the
Johnston County District Attomey's Office.
16.
Jaeger signed but did not date the dismissal f011ns for Collins, Little and
Holmes and retumed them to Hatch.
17.

Hatch retumed the signed dismissal fonns to Defendant.

2

18.
When she signed the dismissal fonns for Collins, Little and Holmes,
Jaeger was a Johnston County assistant district attomey.
19.
Defendant delivered the dismissal fonn for Collins's case to the Clerk of
Court for tiling on or about December 14, 2007.
20.
Defendant delivered the dismissal fonn for Little's case to the Clerk of
Court of filing on or about December 11, 2007.
21.
Defendant delivered the dismissal fonn for Holmes's case to the Clerk of
Superior Court on or about February 5, 2008.
22.
When he delivered the dismissal fonns to the Clerk for filing, Defendant
did not remember the date on which Jaeger had signed the dismissal fonns but knew she
had signed them while she was still a Johnston County assistant district attomey.
23.
When he delivered the dismissal tonns to the Clerk for filing, Defendant
filled in the portion of the tom1s calling tor the date on which the representative of the
Disttiet Attomey's Office si6'11ed with the date September 10,2007. September 10,2007
was his best estimate of the date upon which Jaeger had signed the dismissals.
24.
Defendant did not deliver the dismissal fOl1llS to the Clerk for filing
immediately upon receiving them because he wanted to wait until his clients had paid
him his attorney fee for their cases.
25.
When he delivered the dismissal tonns to the Clerk for filing, Defendant
did not know that, as a condition of signing the dismissal t01111S, Jaeger required that the
fom18 not be filed in the Clerk's office until after Jaeger no longer was employed by the
Johnston County District Attomey's Office.
.I aeger signed many dismissals for now disbarred lawyers Chadwick Lee
26.
and Jonathon Hatch. When these dismissals came to the attention of the eleeted District
Attorney in .lohnson County, the elected District Attorney asked the State Bureau of
Investigation to investigate the circumstances sun'ounding these dismissals.

27.

The SBl did investigate the circumstances surrounding these dismissals.

28.
Eventually 5 lawyers were charged with criminal offenses relating to the
dismissals. Three of those lawyers, Jaeger, Hatch and Lee, have pled guilty to felony
offenses, have been sentenced to substantial peliods of incarceration and have been
disbalTed.
29.
On January 25, 2010, Defendant entered a plea of guilty in Johnston
County Superior Court file no. 09 CR 01789, State (i(North Carolina v. Jack E. McLamb

3

III, to 3 counts of misdemeanor obstruction ofjustice relating to his filing the dismissal
fonTIs in the cases of his clients Collins, Little and Holmes,

Based upon the foregoing findings oHact, the hearing panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All pmties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Jack E. McLamb III, and over the subject matter.
McLamb's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(1) and (2) as follows:
?

a.

By pleading guilty to and being convicted of 3 counts of
misdemeanor obstmction ofjustice, McLamb was convicted of
criminal offenses showing professional unfitness, in violation of
N.C.G.S. 84-28(b)(I).

b.

By filing in the Johnston County Clerk of Comt's Office dismissal
fonTIs dismissing his clients' cases when he knew that the assistant
disliict attomey who had signed those fonTIs was, at the time they
were tiled, no longer employed in the Jolmston County DislJict
Attomey's Oftice, Defendant committed criminal acts which
reflect adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness in other
respects in violation of Rule 8.4(b), and engaged in conduct
prejudicial to the administration ofjustice in violation of Rule
8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

c.

By failing to notify Collins, Little and Holmes that he had obtained
the signed dismissal forms and by retaining the signed dismissal
tonTIs until Collins, Little and Holmes paid his legal fees,
Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d) of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

Bascd upon the stipulations of fact and the consent of the parties, the heming
pancl hereby tinds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
The hearing panel finds the following additional facts relevant to the appropriate
discipline:
I.
In Defendant's criminal case, the comt imposed the following sentence:
a. 90 days incarceration, suspended;
b. supervised probation for 3 years;
c.3 weekends injail;

4

d. a prohibition against representing clients in criminal cases for 3 years;
e. attending 6 hours of CLE in criminal law and 2 hours of CLE in ethics;
f. 50 hours of community servicc;
g. a $1000 line.
2.
Defcndant fully cooperated with the SBI investigation and ti'eely admitted
his conduct to the SBI, to thc lawycrs who prosecuted the criminal case, to the court in
the criminal case, to the Grievance Committee and to the Disciplinary Heming
Commission.
3.
None of the cOUli cases out of which Defendant's misdemeanor
convictions arose involved DWI charges.
4.
Defendant voluntarily refunded all fees paid by the clients whose cases are
in issue, thereby satistYing the restitution requirements of his criminal sentence before the
criminal sentence was imposed.
5.
Defendant has a general civil practice and has little experience in traffic or
criminal cases.
6.
When he tiled the dismissal fOTITIs, Defendant did not realize that his
conduct was wrongful. However, when it was explained to him that his conduct was
wrongful, Defendant accepted that fact and has expressed remorse and contrition.
7.

Defendant's remorse and contrition appear to be sincere.

8.
In Defendant's criminal case, Senior Deputy Attomey General James
Coman and SBI Special Agent in Charge R. Myers both described Defendant's
cooperative attitude and the minor role Defendant played in the larger factual
circumstances that led to the disbal1TIents of Lee, Hatch and Jaeger. Mr. Coman stated
that Defendant is "probably the least culpable of any of the attomeys, and I guess if we
made a decision not to charge, it would have been pretty difficult to criticize us for that.
But we felt like that because he at least had gotten involved that he had to pay some
penalty for that. And that's why he's here today, and I think he's paid a pretty dear
penalty for some bad judgment."
9.
With the exception ofthe professional misconduct at issue in this case,
Defendant has demonstrated good character in his professional and personal life.
10.

The misconduct at issue appears to be uncharacteristic of Defendant.

Based upon the foregoing tindings offact regarding discipline, and the consent of
the parties, the hearing panel makes the following additional
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE

5

I.
The hearing panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27
N.C.A.C. lB§ .OI14(w) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
concludes that the following factors are applicable in this matter:
A. intent of the defendant to commit acts where the hann or potential hann is
foreseeable;

B. elevation of the defendant's own interest above that of the client;
C. negative impact of the defendant's actions on client's or public's perception
ofthe profession;

D. negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration ofjustice;
E. impainnent of the client's ability to achieve the goals ofthe representation;
F. effect of the defendant's conduct on third parties;

G. absence ofplior disciplinary offenses in this state or any otherjUlisdiction;
H. timely good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify consequences of
misconduct;

1. a pattem of misconduct;
J. multiple offenses;
K. intmim rehabilitation;
L. lull and li'ee disclosure to the healing panel or cooperative attitude toward
the proceedings;
M. remorse;
N. other than the conduct at issue in this proceeding, Defendant has
demonstrated good character and judgment;
O. degree of experience in the practice of law; and
P. imposition of other penalties or sanctions.
7
Defendant's actions significantly hanned the public's perception of the
legal profession and the public's perception of the administration ofjustice.

6

3.
The hearing panel has considered lesser altematives and finds that a
public censure or replimand would not be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of
the hann caused by Defendant's conduct.
4.
Entry of an order imposing lesser discipline than suspension would fail to
acknowledge the seliousness of the misconduct committed by Defendant and would send
the wrong message to lawyers and to the public regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
5.
For these reasons, the hearing panel believes and so finds that an Order
calling for discipline short ofa suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.
6.
Under other circumstances, the misconduct in this case would warrant
more severe discipline. The misconduct caused substantial hann to the public's
confidence in the integtity ofthe climinal justice system. It is important that the public
and that other lawyers in North Carolina understand that such conduct will not be
tolerated. However, the healing panel finds and concludes that the unique circumstances
ofthis case justify a downward departure from what would otherwise be much more
severe discipline. The factors that particularly warrant a downward departure are: that
Defendant did not rcalize the wrongfulness of his conduct when he committed the
conduct; that Defendant fully accepts responsibility for his actions; that Defendant
acknowledges the wrongfulness and the seliousness of his misconduct and is genuinely
remorseful; that with the exception of the misconduct at issue here, Defendant has
displayed good character in his personal and professional life; and that the misconduct at
issue appears to be an aberration.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and additional
findings and conclusions regarding discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the
hearing panel hereby enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The license of Defendant, .Jack E. McLamb III is hereby suspended for
three (3) years beginning 30 days from service of this Order upon McLamb.
2.
Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary
of the North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty (30) days following service of this
order upon him.
3.
Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27
N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .01 24(b) of the North Carolina State Bar
Discipline & Disability Rules. Defendant shall file an affidavit with the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar within 10 days of the effective date of this order, certifying that
he has complied with the wind down rule.

7

4.
Within 15 days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall provide
the State Bar with an address at which clients seeking retum oftheir tiles can obtain such
files and shall promptly retum all files to his clients upon request. The address shall be a
physical address, not a post office box or drawer address.
5.
Aller serving six (6) months of the active suspension of his law license,
Defendant may apply for a stay of the balance of the suspension by filing a petition with
the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar and demonstrating the following by clear,
cogent, and convincing evidence:
a.

That he properly wound down his law practice and complied with
the temlS of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B,
§ .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

b.

That he paid the administrative fees and the costs of this
proceeding within 30 days of service of the statement of costs upon
him.

c.

That he kept his physical address ohecord with the North Carolina
State Bar current, promptly accepted all certitied mail from the
North Carolina State Bar, and responded to all letters of notice and
requests for infomlation from the North Carolina State Bar by the
deadlines stated in the communications. The address provided by
Defendant shall be a physical address, not a post office box or
drawer address.

d.

That he has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the
laws ofthe United States or of any state.

c.

That he paid all Membership dues and Client SecUlity Fund
assessments and complied with all Continuing Legal Education
(CLE) requirements on a timely basis.

f.

That he has participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any pctition of which he receives notice
after the effective date of this order.

g.

That during the period of active suspension he completed 6 hours
of continuing legal education on the topics of ethics and/or
professionalism. These 6 hours shall be in addition to the hours
required by 27 NCAC I D .1518 and shall be in addition to the 2
hours of CLE required by the judgment in Defendant's criminal
case.

8

6.
Defendant may file a petition seeking a stay of the remaining suspension
and setting forth the above requirements up to 30 days prior to the end of the 6 month
period but shall not be reinstated until the end of the 6 month period.
7.
If a stay is granted and McLamb is reinstated to practice dUling any
portion of the three (3) year suspension, and if during such stay period McLamb fails to
comply with anyone or more of the conditions S(c) through S(f) above, then the stay of
the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in § .Ol14(x) of the North
Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
8.
If McLamb successfully seeks a stay of the suspension of his law license,
such stay will continue in force only as long as he continues to comply with all of
conditions S(c) through 5(1) above.
9.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout all periods of stayed
and active sllspension.

1, -0-- Signed by the Chair with the consent ofthe other heming panel members, this the
_L,--_ day of
Oec-efV\l9.v' , 2010.

CONSENTED TO BY:

£------------Katherine E. Jean
Attomey for Plaintiff

9

