'\0

WAKE COUNTY

,.{0 • ... t:~
....
\ffn. 2(]ft" tm'll.0RE THE SECRETARY
[;:

NORTH CAROLINA

101/ /,

~

:::;

F1l.Eo DHC N

f2''>1'1'-,

c"o

,~

~\',-\"

OF THE
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
10 DI-IC 10 & 11 BSR 3

~~

)
IN RE THE MATTER OF THE PETITION)
FOR REINSTATEMENT
)
)
)
)
JACK E. MCLAMB, III
)

ORDER STAYING
SUSPENSION

n-IIS MATTER is before the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar pursuant
to a Petition for an Order Staying Suspension filed by Jack E. McLamb III ("McLamb")
on June 9, 2011.
Based upon the petition and a review of the records of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Secretary makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
On December 7, 20 I0, a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission (hereinafter, "DHC") entered a Consent Order of Discipline in file
number 10 Dr-IC 10 (hereinafter "Order").
2.
The Order suspended McLamb's license to practice law for a
period of three years, effective January 9, 2011. The Order provided that, at any
time after serving six (6) months of the active suspension of his license, McLamb
could file a petition with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar seeking a
stay of the remaining period of his suspension upon compliance with the
conditions stated in the Order.
3.
hme 9, 2011, McLamb filed a petition to stay the remaining
portion of his active suspension and seeking reinstatement to active status subject
to the continuing conditions and requirements set forth in the Order.
4.
The Order required that McLamb be in compliance with a number
of conditions to qualify for a stay of the remaining period of his suspension.

5.
In his petition, McLamb described and provided documentation of
the actions he had taken to comply with the conditions of the Order.

6.
Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar did not file an objection
to McLamb's petition.
BASED UPON the foregoing Findings of Fact, and without any evidence
presented in opposition to the petition, the Secretary makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
The petitioner, Jack E. McLamb III, has satisfied the conditions
established in the Order for a stay of his suspension and reinstatement to active
status, subject to the continuing conditions set forth in the Order.
?
McLanlb's reinstatement to active status should be conditioned
upon compliance with the conditions and requirements in the Order.

BASED UPON the findings and conclusions stated herein, the Secretary
hereby enters the following:
ORDER
I.
The remaining active suspension oflVlcLamb's license imposed by the
Order is hereby stayed and McLamb is reinstated to the active practice of law in North
Carolina as of the date of this order.

The stay of the remaining suspension is subject to the terms, conditions,
and requirements set forth in the Order.
?

3.
McLamb's status as an active member of the North Carolina State Bar is
contingent upon his compliance with all of the remaining conditions set forth in the
Order.
4.
If McLamb fails to comply with the terms, conditions and requirements set
forth in the Order, the DI-IC may lift the stay and activate the remaining period of
suspensIOn.
fJA.

This the _11_ day of July 20 II.

L. Thomas Lunsford II, Seer
North Carolina State Bar

2

