15 Cv002 707
STATE OF NORTH CAROL~~ E.
WAKE COUNTY

0

lUI'j rEB 21 A

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
,. SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
l5CVS

n: 0'1'

THE.NORTlJ CAROLi'Nw'r¥riiJltt ~~k ,8, C,

c

BY",., '''"',.,'' ~~"" ~,~.
l'etitioner

v,

CONSENT ORDER OF DISBARMENT

EDWARD L. MCVEY, III, Attorney,
Respondellt
THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of Superior Court of Wake
County, Petitioner, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by Brian P,D, Oten,
Respondent, Edward 1. MeVey,III, represented himself.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the COUli by
Respondent, Edward 1. McVey, III, and the consent of th., parties, the Comt makes the
following:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. Respondent, Edward 1. McVey, III ("McVey"), was licensed to practicelaw
in Nolth Carolina on 22 January 1987 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
att01'lley at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations,
. aud Rules ofPl'Ofessional Conduct of the NOlth Carolina State Bar and the laWs of the
State ofNOlth Carolina.
2, During the periods relevant hereto, MeVey was engaged in the practice oflaw
in Greens; ')ro, Guilford County, North Carolina,
3. Between 2010 and 2014, McVey knowingly and intentionally falsified
documents pm]lorting to show that he maintained liability coverage through Lawyers
Mutual, despite not having coverage for at least 15 years. McVey made these
misrepresentations and provided these falsified documents <to at least one mortgage loan
. lender between 2010 and 2014 for the purpose of qualifying with the lender as a!)
attol'1ley approved to handle real estate closing transactions involving loans made by the
lender. But for his misrepresentations, McVey would not have qualified with the lender
to sel'Ve as a closing attorney and would not have been entitled to receive a fee in
transactions involving loans made by the lender,

1

4. McVey's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of
coercion or duress. McVey is ihlly aware of the implication of submitting his
resignation.

5. iY1cVey acknowledges that the material facts upollwhich the State Bat's
investigaj'')n is predicated are true.
6. McVey has submitted his resignation because he knows that if disciplinary
charges 'were pl'edicated upon the miscondl)ct l111der investigation; he could not
sl)ccessfully defend against them.

Based l)ponthe foregoing Findings of Fact and the consent of the parties, the
Co\ui makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1. By knowingly and intentionally creating fictitious docUlnentsthat pU1110rted to
show McVey maintained liability coverage when he did not for thepmpose of qualifYing
as an approved ·closing attorney with a mortgage lender, by submittiug such fictitiolls
docU11lent:; to the lender for a pedod of at least four years, and by falselyqualifYilig as Ql1
appNved dosingattol'ney with the lender, thereby enabling him to collect afeefi:om real
estate closing transactions with the lender's funds that he would not have otherwise been
able to coIled, MeVey knowingly made false statements of material fact to athird person
in the course of representing a client in violation of Rule 4.1, engaged in criminal acts
(obtaillingproperty by false pretenses) that reflect adversely on his honesty,
trustwOltt'ness, or fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule 8A(b),andengagedill conduct
involving'shonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in Violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
2. McVey's misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuantto N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 84-28(b)(2),
3. The cmuis of this State have inherent anthority to take disciplinary action
against attorneys licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
4. This COUlt has jurisdiction over the persoll of Edward 1. McVey, IIIand over
the subjec t matter of this proceeding.
5, McVey has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarmellt.

IT IS NOW, TIfEREFORE, ORDERED:
1. Edward 1. McVey, III is DISBARRED from the practice of'law in North
Carolina.

2

2. McVey shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, Section .0124 of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar
and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of the
North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § ,0124. McVey shall have
thilty (30) days from the date of the entry of this order to complete the requirements of §
.0124.
3. -McVey shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license lmtil the
- expiration )f at least five years from the date of entry of this order.

4. McVey's law Iicellse shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated to the
satis:fi\ction of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and the COUIJcil of the North
Cm'ollna State Bar that he has complied with 27 N.C. Admin. C()de, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, Section :0125 of the Rules mld Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bal'.

5. .fhe costs of this actioll are taxed against MeVey.

c~
BrlanP.D.Oten
Deputy Counsel, North Cm'olina State Bar
Attomey fhr Petitioner

(;:2.2 t . ~ ,J"\> rc::
Edward L .. ilcVey,lI=r-----qRespondent

3

I

I 5 CV0 02 7 0 1 '.
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

F ILcDIN THE GENERAL COURT OFJUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
15CVS

WAKE COUNTY

v,

AFFIDAVIT OF
SURRENDER OF LAW LICENSE

EDWARL J,. MCVEY, III, Attomey,
Respondent

Edward L MeVcy, III, being first duly swom, deposes and says as follows:
1, I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina.

2. My resignation is :fi:eely lind voluntarily rendered. It is notthe result of coercion or duress. I
am fully al. we of the implication of submittmg my resignation.
3. Between 2010 and 2014, I knowingly and intentionally falsified documents purp01'ting to
show that I maintained liability coverage through Lawyers Mutual, despite not having
coverage for at least 15 years. I ml1dethese misrepresentl1tions and provided these falsified
docmnents to at least one m01tgage loan lender between 2010 and 2014 for the purpose of

qualifying with the lender as an attomey approved to handle real estate closing transactions
involving loans made by the lender, But for my misrepresentations, I would not have
qualified with the lender to serve as a closing att01'ney and wotild not have been entitled to
receive a fee in transactions involVing loans made by the lender.

4. r am aware :bat there ispresenUy pending an investigation wIth the NOlth Carolina State Bar
regarding my conduct as described above.
5. I aclmowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are true,
6, I am submiWng my resignation because I Imow that if disciplinary charges were predicated

upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against them.
This the

2-9a

y of

fk

,2015.

1\
( Lc!l,

j\!I r

J

Edward L McVey, III

8~

mme

WeCl~r I
Ifll,J11'h ,Notaty Public of the County ofC""",,,,,,, ,State ofNOlth
Carolina, oertifY that Edw;;;:d:I, McVoy, ill personally appeared before me tllis day and acknowledged
the due execution of the foregqjng Affidavit.

T,

fa

Sworn to and subs ribed efo 'e me, this tlle ~ day of

l(i (

kbw

<11

,2015.

My Commission Expires:

-F=rrffiii'ii'~T':':-;--::-:'=-::-::-'

E JHER M. MCLAUGHLIN]

NOTARY PUBLIC
GullroJd County
North Carolina
My Commission Expires Aug. 20, 2016

