85

NORTH CAROLINA :::

'ar""

WAKE COUNTY

v

C?1 9S-v'i-

G',

'"
;::
BEFORE THE
ISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
NORTH CAROLJNA STATE BAR
12DHC5

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
ROBERT L. MEBANE, Attorney,
Defendant

,
This maUer is before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of M. H.Hood Ellis, Chair, and members Joshua W. Willey, Jr. and Charles L.
Garrett, Jr. Camlen Hoymc Bannon represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant, Robert L. Mebane, has not participated in this matter and no counsel of record
has appeared on his behalf
On Plaintiff's motion, judgment by default was entered against Defendant. Based
upon the pleadings and admissions plU"suant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .01 14(f) and Rule 8(d) ufthe Rules of Civil Procedure, the hearing panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of N0l111 Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the N0l1h Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 ofll,e North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Robet1 L. Mcbane, was admitted tD the North Carolina State
Bar on 23 August 1980 and is an Attomey at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and
Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State
of North Carolina.
3.

Defendant was properly served with process in this action.

4.
During the relevant peliod refen'ed to herein, Mebane was actively
engaged in the practice ofJaw in Ruthetfordton, Rutherford County, North Carolina.

5.
Mebane practiced law with the finn of Hamrick, Bowen, Mebane, &
Lloyd, LLP (HBM&L).
6.
HBM&L had two tTust accounts: (a) a real estate trust account (RBC
Centura account number ending in 1230); and (b) a general trust account (BB&T account
number ending in 1837).
7.
From Apri1 2008 through February 2011, nearly all of the trust account
checks issued from HBM&L's real estate and general trust accounts were signed either
by Mebane or by a non-lawyer employee acting under Mebane's direction and
supervision.
8.
In April 2008, Mebane began issuing monthly paychecks to the finn's
non-lawyer employees out of HBM&L '5 general trust account. He continued this
practice until all of the employees left the finn in 2010.
9.
Mcbane also began paying overhead and office expenses like postage,
utilities, supplies, and insurance premiluns directly from HI3M&L's general trust
account.
10.
The trust account checks that were issued to pay finn expenses did not
indicate the client balance upon which the checks were drawn.
I I.
During the peliod when Mebane was paying firm expenses out of the
general trust account, he intenllittently deposited personal funds into that account.
12.
Mebane did not deposit sufficient personal funds to cover the fiml
expenses he paid out of the general trust account. Between April 2009 and April 2010,
Mebane misappropriated more than S60,000.00 of client funds from the general trust
account to pay J-lBM&L expenses.
13.
By June ~01O, Mebane was the sole remaining person at the firm; No
other lawyers or non-lawyer employees worked at HBM&L.
14.
Throughout 2010, Mebane repeatedly disbursed money fi·om the general
and real estate trust accounts to himself using trust acconnt checks that did not indicate
the client balance upon which the checks were drawn.
15.
Between April ~010 and January 2011, Mebane converted more than
$75,000.00 of entrusted funds from HBM&L's two trust accounts to his own use by
disbursing funds to himself without authorization from the beneficial owners of the
funds.
16.
As a result of Mebane's misappropriation, at least one client of the firm
was deplivcd of funds to which the client was entitled: In January 2011, HBM&L client
Rutherford Hospital attempted to deposit a check for $71,340.32, which represented
entrusted funds that should have been held in the HBM&L general trust account for the
Hospital's benefit. Due (0 Mebane's conversion offunds Irom the general trust account,

~

2-

there were insufficient funds in the account to cover the cbeck to Rutherford Hospital and
the check was dishonored. As of 12 January 2012, when the complaint in this
disciplinary case was tiled, the hospital still had not received the $71,340.32.
17.
In the fall of 2010, the State Bar received several notices indicating that
checks drawn on Mebane's attorney trust accounts had been presented against
insufficient funds ("NSf notices"). Eacb time the State Bar received an NSF notice, it
sent Mebane a letter notifying him of his obligation to explain the overdraft. Mebane
failed to respond to any orthe State Bar's rcqucsts for information about the NSF notices.
18.
Due to Mebane's failure to respond to requests for infonnation about the
NSF notices, the State Bar opcned grievance file #IIG0136. On 7 February 2011,
Mebane was personally served with the Letter of Notice in grievance #11 G0136. The
Letter of Notice required Mebane to respond in writing to the allegations therein within
fifteen days. Mebane failed to respond to the Letter of Notice.
19.
Also on 7 February 2011, Mebane was served with a subpoena for cause
audit issued by the Chair of the Grievance Committee that required him to produce trust
account documentation to the State Bar by 4 March 2011. Mebane did not comply with
the subpoena.
20.
In 2009 and part 0[2010, HBM&L had several employees who provided
services directly related to and lor the benefit of Mebane's law practice.
21.
Mebane controlled the funds in bank accounts maintained by HBM&L and
made decisions concerning how and when those funds would be spent.
22.
When Mebane paid HBM&L employees' wages, he was required by law
to withhold funds from the employees' payehecks to pay the employees' federal income
taxes.
23.
Mcbane failed to withhold federal income taxes from HBM&L employees
from the second quarter of 2009 through the. first quarter of 20] O. The employees
continued to work at HBM&L through at least the first quarter of20 10.
24.
Mebane was a "responsible person" \vithin the meaning of Title 26 of the
United States Code, in tllat he had the power to see that ti,e tax obligations of HBM&L
were paid.
25.
Mebane's failure to withhold federal income tax irom employee
paychecks from April 2009 through April 2010 was willful.
26.
Mebane's conduct as described in paragraphs 20 through 25 above was in
violation of26 U.S.c. § 7202.

As previously found in the Default Judgment and now recited herein, based on the
foregoing Findings of Fact the Hearing Panel enters the following

-3-

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All the parties are properly before the hearing panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Robert L. Mebane, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) and (b)(3) as follows:
(a)

By using more than $60,000.00 of client funds to pay firm expenses,
Defendant used entrusted property for the henefit of third parties other
than the beneficial owners of that propelty in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j),
engaged in criminal conduct (embezzlement) reflecting adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness, and fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule
8.4(b), and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty in violation of Rule
8.4(c);

(b)

By converting more than $75,000.00 of entrusted funds from HBM&L's
two trust accounts to his own usc, Defendant used entrusted property for
personal henefit in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j), engaged in criminal
conduct (embezzlement) that reflected adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness, and fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule SA(b), and
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty in violation of Rule 8.4(c);

(e)

By commingling personal and entrusted funds in the firm's general trust
account, Defendant deposited personal funds into a Imst account in
violation of Rule 1. I 5-2(f);

(d)

By paying himself and paying firm expenses using trust account checks
that did not indicate a client balance, Defendant withdrew money from a
trust account for payment of his fees and/or expenses using an item that
did not indicate the client balance upon which the item was drawn in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(h);

(e)

By failing to respond as required to the State Bar's inquiries regarding the
NSF notices, the Letter of Notice in file number llG0136, and the
subpoena for cause audit, Defendant failed to respond to lawful inquiries
of a disciplinary authOlity and/or formal inquires issued by the State Bar in
a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule S.l (b) and N.CG.S. § 8428 (b )(3); and

(I)

By willfully failing to withhold federal income tax from HBM&L
employees, Defendant engaged in criminal conduct retlecting adversely on
his honesty, tmsllVOlthinuss and fitness as a lawyer in violation of Rule
S.4(b) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty in violation of Rule
S.4(c).

- 4·

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the hearing
panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The findings in paragraphs I through 26 above are reincorporated as if
fully sct forth herein.
2.
The individuals whose entrusted flmds were in H13M&L's trust account
during the period of time described in this order were, with respect to Mebane, either
Mebane's clients or members of the public.
3.
By continuously misusing and converting entrusted funds, Mebane
engaged in conduct involving dishonesty and dcceit over a period of several years.
4.
Mebane·s misappropriation of entrusted client funds caused significant
actual hann to Rutherford Hospital, in that the hospital was deprived of $71,340.32 that
had been entrusted to Mebane.
5.
When a lawyer converts entrusted funds to his own use, it brings disrepute
to the legal profession.

o.
Clients are entitled to attomeys they can trust. Mebane, by engaging in
conduct involving misrepresentation and deceit over u substantial period of time, has
shown himself to be not tmstworthy.
7.
Willful failure to comply with federal tax law in violation of 26 U.S.c. §
7202 is a felony offense.
8.
Self-regulation of the legal profession relies upon the cooperation and
participation of lawyers in the self-regulatory process. When a lawyer refuses to respond
to a lawful inquiry from a disciplinary authority, it undennines the system of sclfregulation.
9.
The hearing panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it in considcling the appropriate discipline to impose in this casc.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and upon consideration of the factors sct forth in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter 13, § .0114(w), the hearing panel hereby
enters the following additional
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW liEGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The healing panel has carefiJlly considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. 18 § .0 114(w) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar.
The hearing panel finds evidence orthe rollowing factors:

- 5-

a. From Rule .OI14(w)(I) and Rule .01 14(w)(2):
I.

Intent of the defendant to cause the resulting hann or potential harm;

ii.

Intent of the defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
harm is foreseeable;

iii.

Circumstances retlecting the
trustworthiness, or integrity;

iv.

Elevation of the defendant's own interests above that of the client;

v.

Effect of the defendant's conduct on third parties;

Vl.

vii.

viii.

b.

defendant's

lack

of

honesty,

Acts of dishonesty, misrepresentation, deceit, or fabrication;
Misappropriation of assets to which the defendant was oot entitled;
and
Commission of a felony.
From Rule .01 14(w)(3):

I.

ii.

Dishonest or selfish motive;
A pattern of misconduct;

Ill.

Multiple offenses;

IV.

Bad faith obstruction of thc disciplinary proceedings by intentionally
failing to comply with rules or ordcrs of the disciplinary agency; and

v.

Substantial experience in the practice of law.

2.
Because the beneficial owners of the funds in HBM&L's trust account
dUling the period of time described in this order were, with respect to Mebane, either
Mebane's clients or members of the public, Mebane caused significant harm and
potential hann to his clients and/or the public by:
a. Embezzling more than $60,000.00 of client funds to pay firm expenses;
and
b. Converting more than $75,000.00 of entrusted funds from HBM&L's two
hust accounts to his own usc.
3.
Mebane'S actions caused significant potcntial hmm to the profession in
that his refusal to respond to lawful inquiIies from the State Bar undermines the legal
profession'S ability to self-regulate. Mebane's commission of criminal acts reflecting

- (1 -

adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer also caused significant
potential hann to the profession, in that criminal conduct by attomeys tends to bring the
legal profession into disrepute.
4.
The hearing panel has considered lesser alternatives and finds that
suspension of Mcbane's license or a public censure, reprimand, or admonition would not
be sufficient discipline because of the gravity of the actual and potential hann to his
clients, the public, and the legal profession caused by Mebane's conduct, and the threat of
significant potential hann Mebane poses to the public.
5.
The hearing panel considered all lesser sanctions and finds that discipline
short of disbannent would not adequately protect the public for the following reasons:
a. Mebane committed misdeeds involving moral turpitude and violations of
the public tmst, including theft and deceit. Misconduct involving
misreprcsentation and deceit are among the most selious that an attomey
can commit. Sucb offenses demonstrate that the offending attorney is not
tmstworthy. Clients are entitled to have trustworthy attomeys.
b. Mebane engaged in criminal acts reflecting adversely on his honesty,
trustworthiness or fitness as a lawyer, and engaged in abuses of tmst by
embezzling funds entrusted to his law finn.
e. Entry of an order imposing less serious discipline would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of thc offenses Mcbane committed and
would send the ".Tong message to attorneys and the public regarding the
conduct expected ofm~~nbers of the Bar of this State.
d. The protcction of the public and the legal profession requires that Mebane
not he pennitted to resume the practice of law until he demonstrates the
following: that he has refomled; that he understands his obligations to his
clients, the public, and the legal profession; and that permitting him to
practice law will not be detrimental to the public or the integrity and
standing of the legal profession or the administmtion of justice. Disbarred
lawyers are required to make such a sbowing before they may resume
practicing law.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional
Findings ofFaet and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the hearing panel hereby
enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant, Robert L. Mcbane, is hereby DISBARRED from the practice

oflaw.

-? -

2.
Dcfendant shall surrender his license and membership card to the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar no latcr than 30 days following service of this
order upon Defendant.

3.
Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant must pay the costs within 30 days
of service upon him of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
4.
Defendant shall comply with all provisions of 27 NCAC I B § .0124 of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules.

¥

Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
day of ~n\(.LA"zr.__' 2012.

ct!; ~/

M. }-I.~lis, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

