STATE OF NORTH CAROL
OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BA

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff,

AMENDED FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
MICHAEL B. NIFONG, Attorney,

Defendant.

The Hearing Committee on its own motion pursuant to Rule of Civil Procedure
60(a) enters the following Amended Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order of
Discipline in order to correct a factual mistake in Findings of Fact Paragraph 43 of its
original Order in this cause, and to add an additional Conclusion of Law (b):
A hearing in this matter was conducted on June 12 through June 16, 2007, before
a Hearing Committee composed of F. Lane Williamson, Chair, and members Sharon B.
Alexander and R. Mitchel Tyler. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented

by Katherine E. Jean, Douglas J. Brocker, and Carmen K. Hoyme. Defendant, Michael
3. Nifong, was represented by attorneys David B. Freedman and Dudley A. Witt. Based

upon the admissions contained in the pleadings and upon the evidence presented at the
hearing, this Hearing Committee makes, by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the
following

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.

Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the

laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the

authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of Title 27 of the North
Carolina Administrative Code).

2.

Defendant, Michael B. Nifong, (hereinafter "Nifong"), was admitted to

the North Carolina State Bar on August 19, 1978, and is, and was at all times referred to
herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the
State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and
the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.

During all times relevant to this complaint, Nifong actively engaged in

the practice of law in the State of North Carolina as District Attorney for the Fourteenth
Prosecutorial District in Durham County, North Carolina.
4.

Nifong was appointed District Attorney in 2005. In late March 2006,

Nifong was engaged in a highly-contested political campaign to retain his office.
5.

In the early morning hours of March 14, 2006, an exotic dancer named

Crystal Mangum reported that she had been raped by three men during a party at 610
North Buchanan Boulevard in Durham.

Ms. Mangum asserted that she had been

vaginally, rectally, and orally penetrated with no condom used during the assault and
with at least some of the alleged perpetrators ejaculating.
6.

Various pieces of evidence were collected for later DNA testing, including

evidence commonly referred to as a "rape kit," which contained cheek scrapings, oral,
vaginal, and rectal swabs, a pubic hair combing, and a pair of Ms. Mangum's underwear.
7.

The Durham Police Department (DPD) initiated an investigation in what

would come to be known as "the Duke Lacrosse case" and executed a search warrant on
the house at 610 North Buchanan Boulevard on March 16, 2006. The investigation
revealed that the residents of 610 North Buchanan were captains of the Duke University
lacrosse team, and that a majority of the other attendees at the March 13, 2006, party
were members of the team.

8.

On March 16, 2006, the thee residents of 6 10 North Buchanan voluntarily

assisted DPD in executing a search warrant at their residence.

During the search,

numerous pieces of evidence were seized for later testing. The three residents also
provided voluntary statements and voluntarily submitted DNA samples for comparison
testing purposes. One of the three residents was David Evans, who was later indicted for
the alleged attack on Ms. Mangum.

9.

On March 22, 2006, Nifong's office assisted a DPD investigator in

obtaining a Nontestirnonial Identification Order (NTO) to compel the suspects in the case
to be photographed and to provide DNA samples.
10.

On March 23, 2006, DNA samples from all 46 Caucasian members of the

Duke University 2006 Men's Lacrosse Team were obtained pursuant to the NTO.
11.

When Nifong learned of the case on March 24, 2006, he immediately

recognized that the case would garner significant media attention and decided to handle
the case himself, rather than having it handled by the assistant district attorney in his
office who would ordinarily handle such cases.
12.

On March 24, 2006, Nifong infarmed DPD that he was assuming primary

responsibility for prosecuting any criminal charges resulting from the investigation and
directed the DPD to go through him for direction as to the conduct of the factual
investigation of those matters.
13.

On March 27, 2006, the rape kit items and DNA samples from the

lacrosse players were delivered to the State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) lab for testing
and examination, including DNA testing.
14.

On March 27, 2006, Nifong was briefed by Sergeant Gottlieb and

Investigator Himan of the DPD about the status of the investigation to date. Gottlieb and
Hirnan discussed with Nifong a number of weaknesses in the case, including that Ms.
Mangum had made inconsistent statements to the police and had changed her story
several times, that the other dancer who was present at the party during the alleged attack
disputed Ms. Mangum's story of an alleged assault, that Ms. Mangum had already viewed
two photo arrays and had not identified any alleged attackers, and that the three team
captains had voluntarily cooperated with police and had denied that the alleged attack
occurred.
15.

During or within a few days of the initial briefing by Gottlieb and Hirnan,

Nifong acknowIedged to Gottlieb and Himan that the Duke Lacrosse case would be a
very hard case to win in court and said "you know, we're fucked."
16.

Beginning on March 27, within hours after he received the initial briefing

from Gottlieb and Himan, Nifong made public comments and statements to
representatives of the news media about the Duke Lacrosse case and participated in

interviews with various newspapers and television stations and other representatives of
news media.
17.

Between March 27 and March 3 1, Nifong stated to a reporter for WRAL

T V news that lacrosse team members denied the rape accusations, that team members
admitted that there was underage drinking at the party, and that otherwise team members
were not cooperating with authorities.
18.

Between March 27 and March 31, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for

ABC 11 TV News that he might also consider charging other players for not coming

forward with information, stating "[mly guess is that some of this stonewall of silence
that we have seen may tend to crumble once charges start to come out."
19.

Between March 27 and March 3 1,2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for the

New York Times, "There are three people who went into the bathroom with the young
lady, and whether the other people there knew what was going on at the time, they do
now and have not come forward. I'm disappointed that no one has been enough of a man
to come forward. A.nd if they would have spoken up at the time, this may never have
happened."

20.

Between March 27 and March 3 1, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for

NBC 17 News that the lacrosse team members were standing together and refksing to talk
with investigators and that he might bring aiding-and-abetting charges against some of
the players who were not cooperating with the investigation.
21.

Between March 27 and March 3 1,2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for the

Durham Herald Sun newspaper that lacrosse players still rehsed to speak with
investigators.

22.

Between March 27 and March 31, 2006, Nifong made the following

statements to Rene Syler of CBS News: "The lacrosse team, clearly, has not been fully
cooperative" in the investigation; "The university, I believe, has done pretty much
everything that they can under the circumstances. They, obviously, don't have a lot of
control over whether or not the lacrosse team members actually speak to the police. I
think that their silence is as a result of advice with counsel"; "If it's not the way it's been
reported, then why are they so unwilling to tell us what, in their words, did take place that

night?"; that he believed a crime occurred; that "the guilty will stand trial"; and "There's
no doubt a sexual assault took place."

23.

Between March 27 and March 31, 2006, Nifong made the following

statements to a reporter for NBC 17 TV News: "The information that I. have does lead
me to conclude that a rape did occur"; "I'm making a statement to the Durham
com~nunityand, as a citizen of Durham, I am making a statement for the Durham
community.

This is not the kind of activity we condone, and it must be dealt with

quickly and harshly"; "The circumstances of thc rape indicated a deep racial motivation
for some of the things that were done. It makes a crime that is by its nature one of the
most offensive and invasive even more so"; and "This is not a case of people drinking
and it getting out of hand from that. This is something much, much beyond that."
24.

Between March 27 and March 3 1, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for

ESPN, "And one would wonder why one needs an attorney if one was not charged and
had not done anything wrong."
25.

Between March 27 and March 3 1, 2006, Nifong stated to reporter for CBS

News that "thc investigation at that time was certainly consistent with a sexual assault
having taken place, as was the victim's demeanor at the time of the examination."
26.

Between March 27 and March 31, 2006, Nifong made the following

statements to a reporter for MSNBC: "There is evidence of trauma in the victim's
vaginal area that was noted when she was examined by a nurse at the hospital"; "her
general demeanor was suggested-suggestive of the fact that she had been through a
traumatic situation"; "I am convinced there was a rape, yes, sir"; and "The circumstances
of the case are not suggestive of the alternate explanation that has been suggested by
some of the members of the situation."

27.

Between March 27 and March 3 1,2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for the

Raleigh News and Observer newspaper, "I am satisfied that she was sexually assaulted at
this residence."
28.

Between March 27 and March 31,2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for the

USA Today newspaper, "Somebody's wrong about that sexual assault.

wrong, or they're not telling the truth about it."

Either I'm

29.

Between March 27 and March 31, 2006, Nifong made the following

statements to a reporter for ABC 11 TV News: "I don't think you can classify anything
about what went on as a prank that got out of hand or drinking that took place by people
who are underage"; "In this case, where you have the act of rape - essentially a gang rape
- is bad

enough in and of itself, but when it's made with racial epithets against the victim,

I mean, it's just absolutely unconscionable"; and "The contempt that was shown for the
victim, based on her race was totally abhorrent.

It adds another layer of

reprehensibleness, to a crime that is already reprehensible."
30.

Between March 27 and March 31, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for

ABC News, "It is a case that talks about what this community stands for."

3 1.

Between March 27 and March 3 1, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for the

New York Times, "The thing that most of us found so abhorrent, and the reason I decided
to take it over myself, was the combination gang-like rape activity accompanied by the
racial slurs and general racial hostility."
32.

Between March 27 and March 3 1, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for

CBS News, "Thc racial slurs involved are relevant to show thc mindset . . . involved in
this particular attack" and "obviously, it made what is already an extremely reprehensible
act even more reprehensible."
33.

Between March 27 and March 3 1, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for

WRAL TV News, "What happened here was one of the worst things that's happened
since I have become district attorney" and "[wlhen I look at what happened, I was
appalled. I think that most people in this community are appalled."

34.

On or after March 27, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for the Charlotte

Observer newspaper, "I would not be surprised if coildoins were used. Probably an
exotic dancer would not be your first choice for unprotected sex."

35.

On or about March 29, 2006, Nifong stated during an interview with a

reporter for CNN that "[i]t just seems like a shame that they are not willing to violate this
seeming sacred sense of loyalty to team for loyalty to community."

36.

On March 30,2006, the SBI notified Nifong that the SBI had examined

the items from the rape kit and was unable to find any semen, blood, or saliva on any of
those items.

37.

On March 3 1, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for MSNBC, "Somebody

had an arm around her like this, which she then had to struggle with in order to be able to
breathe . . . She was struggling just to be able to breathe" and "[ilf a condom were used,
then we might expect that there would not be any DNA evidence recovered from say a
vaginal swab."
38.

In March or April, 2006, Nifong stated to a representative of the news

media that a rape examination of Ms. Mangum done at Duke Medical Center the morning
of the alleged attack revealed evidence of bruising consistent with a brutal sexual assault,
"with the most likely place it happened at the lacrosse team party."

39.

In April 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for Newsweek Magazine that the

police took Ms. Mangum to a hospital where a nurse concluded that she had suffered
injuries consistent with a sexual assault.
40.

In April 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for the Raleigh News and

Observer newspaper, "I would like to think that somebody [not involved in the attack]
has the human decency to call up and say, 'What am I doing covering up for a bunch of
hooligans?'"
41.

In April 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter, "They don't want to admit to

the enormity of what they have done."
42.

In an April 2006 conversation with a representative of the Raleigh News

and Observer newspaper, Nifong compared the alleged rape to the quadruple homicide at
Alpine Road Townhouse and multiple cross burnings that outraged the city of Durham in
2005 and stated "I'm not going to let Durham's view in the minds of the world to be a
bunch of lacrosse players from Duke raping a black gid in Durham."
43.

On April 4,2006, DPD conducted a photographic identification procedure

in which photographs of 46 members of the Duke Lacrosse team were shown to Ms.
Mangum. Ms. Mangum was told at the beginning of the procedure that DPD had reason
to believe all 46 of the men depicted in the photographs she would view were present at
the party at which she contended the attack had occurred. The procedure followed in this
photographic identification procedure was conceived and/or approved by Nifong. During
the photographic identification procedure, Ms. Mangum identified Collin Finnerty and
Reade Seligman as her attackers with "100% certainty" and identified David Evans as

one of her attackers with "90% certainty."

Ms. Mangum had previously viewed

photographic identification procedures which included photographs of Reade Seligman
and David Evans and not identified either of them in the prior procedures.

44.

On April 5,2006, Nifong's office sought and obtained an Order permitting

transfer of the rape kit items from the SBI to a private company called DNA Security,
Inc. ("DSI") for more sensitive DNA testing than the SBI could perform. The reference

DNA specimens obtained from the lacrosse players pursuant to the NTO were also
transferred to DSI for testing, as were reference specimens from several other individuals
with whom Ms. Mangum acknowledged having consensual sexual relations, including
her boyfriend.
45.

As justification for its Order permitting transfer of the evidence to DSI,

the Court noted that the additional testing Nifong's office sought in its petition was
"believed to be material and relevant to this investigation, and that any male cells found
among the victim's swabs from the rape kit can be evidence of an assault and may lead to
the identification of the perpetrator."
46.

Between April 7 and April TO, 2006, DSI performed testing and analysis

of DNA found on the rape kit items. Between April 7 and April 10, DSI found DNA
from up to four different males on several items of evidence from the rape kit and found
that the male DNA on the rape kit items was inconsistent with the profiles of the lacrosse
team members.
47.

During a meeting on April 10, 2006 among Nifong, two DPD officers and

Dr. Brian Meehan, lab director for DSI, Dr. Meehan discussed with Nifong the results of
the analyses performed by DSI to that point and explained that DSI had found DNA from

up to four different males on several items of evidence from the rape kit and that the

DNA on the rape kit items was inconsistent with the profiles of all lacrosse team
members.
48.

The evidence and information referred to above in paragraphs 46 and 47

was evidence or information which tended to negate the guilt of the lacrosse team
members identified as suspects in the NTO.

49.

After the April 10, 2006 meeting with Dr. Meehan, Nifong stated to a

reporter for ABC 1 1 TV News that DNA testing other than that performed by the SBI had

not yet come back and that there was other evidence, including the accuser being able to
identify at least one of the alleged attackers.

50.

While discussing DNA testing at a public forum at North Carolina Central

University on April 11, 2006, in the presence of representatives of the news media,
Nifong stated that if there was no DNA found "[ilt doesn't mean nothing happened. It
just means nothing was left behind."
5 1.

On April 17,2006, Nifong sought and obtained indictments against Colin

Finnerty and Reade Seligrnan for first-degree rape, first-degree sex offense, and
kidnapping. (The indicted members of the Duke lacrosse team are referred to collectively
herein as "the Duke Defendants").
52.

Before April 17, 2006, Nifong refused offers from counsel for David

Evans, who was eventually indicted, to consider evidence and information that they

contended either provided an alibi or otherwise demonstrated that their client did not
coinmit any crime.
53.

On April 19, 2006, two days after being indicted, Duke Defendant Reade

Seligman through counsel served Nifong with a request or motion for discovery material,
including, inter alia, witness statements, the results of any tests, all DNA analysis, and
any exculpatory information.
54.

By April 20, 2006, DSI had performed additional DNA testing and

analysis and found DNA from multiple males on at least one additional piece of evidence
from the rape kit.
55.

By April 20, 2006, from its testing and analysis, DSI had determined that

all the lacrosse players, including the two who had already been indicted, were
scientifically excluded as possible contributors of the DNA from multiple males found on
several evidence items from the rape kit.
56.

On April 21, 2006, Nifong again met with Dr. Meehan and the two DPD

officers to discuss all of the results of the DNA testing and analyses performed by DSI to
date. During this meeting, Dr. Meehan told Nifong that: (a) DNA from multiple males
had been found on several items from the rape kit, and (b) all of the lacrosse players,
including the two players against whom Nifong had already sought and obtained
indictments, were excluded as possible contributors of this DNA because none of their

DNA profiles matched or were consistent with any of the DNA found on the rape kit
items.
57.

The evidence and information referred to above in paragraphs 54 through

56 was evidence or information which tended to negate the guilt of the Duke Defendants.

58.

At the April 21 meeting, Dr. Meehan told Nifong that DSI's testing had

revealed DNA on two fingernail specimens that were incomplete but were consistent with
the DNA profiles of two un-indicted lacrosse players, including DNA on a fingernail
found in David Evans' garbage can which incomplete but which was consistent with
David Evans' DNA profile, and DNA from the vaginal swab that was consistent with the

DNA profile of Ms. Mangum's boyfriend.
59.

During the April 21, 2006 meeting, Nifong notified Dr.Meehan that he

would require a written report to be produced concerning DSI's testing that reflected the
matches found between DNA on evidence items and known reference specimens. Nifong
told Dr. Meehan he would let Dr. Meehan know when he needed the report.
60.

Sometime between April 21 and May 12, Nifong notified Dr. Meehan that

he would need for him to prepare the written report for an upcoming court proceeding.
As requested by Nifong, Dr. Meehan prepared a report that reflected the matches found
by DSI between DNA found on evidence items and known reference specimens. This
written report did not reflect that DSI had found DNA on rape kit items from multiple
males who had not provided reference specimens for comparison ("multiple unidentified
males") and did not reflect that all 46 members of the lacrosse team had been
scientifically excluded as possible contributors of the male DNA on the rape kit items.
61.

In May, 2006, Nifong made the following statements to a reporter for

WRAL TV News: "My guess is that there are many questions that many peoplc are
asking that they would not be asking if they saw the results"; "They're not things that the
defense releases unless they unquestionably support their positions"; and "So, the fact
that they're making statements about what the reports are saying, and not actually
showing the reports, should in and of itself raise some red flags."
62.

On or before April 18, 2006, Nifong stated to a reporter for Newsweek

Magazine that the victim's "impaired state was not necessarily voluntary . . . [I]f I had a
witness who saw her right before this and she was not intoxicated, and then I had a

witness who said that she was given a drink at the party and after taking a few sips of that
drink acted in a particular way, that could be evidence of something other than
intoxication, or at least other than voluntary intoxication?"
63.

On May 12, 2006, Nifong again met with Dr. Meehan and two DPD

officers and discussed the results of DSI's testing to date.

During that meeting,

consistent with Nifong's prior request, Dr. Meehan provided Nifong a 10-page written
report which set forth the results of DNA tests on only the three evidence specimens that
contained DNA consistent with DNA profiles from several known reference specimens.
The three items in DSI's written report concerned DNA profiles on two fingernail
specimens that were incomplete but were consistent with the DNA profiles of two
unindicted lacrosse players, including DNA on a fingernail found in David Evans'
garbage can which was incomplete but was consistent with David Evans' DNA profile,
and DNA from the vaginal swab that was consistent with the DNA profile of Ms.
Mangum's boyfriend. DSI's written report did not disclose the existence of any of the
multiple unidentified male DNA found on the rape kit items, although it did list the
evidence items on which the unidentified DNA had been discovered.
64.

Nifong personally received DSI's written report from Dr. Meehan on May

J2, 2006, and later that day provided it to counsel for the two Duke Defendants who had
been indicted and for David Evans, among others.
65.

When he received DSI's written report and provided it to counsel for the

Duke Defendants, Nifong was f d l y aware of the test results that were omitted from the
written report, including the test results revealing the existence of DNA from multiple
unidentified males on rape kit items.

66.

Three days later, on May 15, 2006, Nifong sought and obtained an

indictment against David Evans for first-degree rape, first-degree sex offense, and
kidnapping.
67.

On May 17, Duke Defendant Collin Finnerty served discovery requests on

Nifong, which specifically asked that any expert witness "prepare, and furnish to the
defendant, a report of the results of any (not only the ones about which the expert expects
to testify) examinations or tests conducted by the expert."

68.

On May 18, 2006, Nifong provided various discovery materials to all three

Duke Defendants, including another copy of DSI's written report, in connection with a
hearing in the case on that same day. The discovery materials Nifong provided on May

18 did not include any underlying data or information concerning DSI's testing and
analysis. The materials Nifong provided also did not include any documentation or
information indicating the presence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape
kit items. Nifong also did not provide in the discovery materials any written or recorded
memorialization of the substance of Dr. Meehan's oral statements made during his
meetings with Nifong in April and May 2006 concerning the results of all DSI's tests and
examinations, including the existence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the

rape kit items ("n~emorializationsof Dr. Meehan's oral statements").
69.

DSI's tests and examinations revealing the existence of DNA from

multiple unidentified males on rape kit items and Dr. Meehan's oral statements regarding
the existence of that DNA were evidence that tended to negate the guilt of the accused;
Collin Fimerty, Reade Seligman and David Evans.
70.

Accompanying the discovery materials, Nifong served and filed with the

Court w-ritten responses to the Duke Defendants' discovery requests. In these responses,
Nifong stated: "The State is not aware of any additional material or information which
may be exculpatory in nature with respect to the Defendant."

In his written discovery

responses, Nifong also identified Dr. Meehan and R.W. Scales, another person at DSI, as
expert witnesses reasonably expected to testify at the trial of the underlying criminal
cases pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 15A-903(a)(2).

Nifong also gave notice in the

written discovery responses of the State's intent to introduce scientific data accompanied
by expert testimony. Nifong represented in the written discovery responses that all of the
reports of those experts had been provided to the Duke Defendants.
71.

At the time he made these representations to the Court and to the Duke

Defendants in his written discovery responses, Nifong was aware of the existence of
DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kits items, was aware that DSI's
written report did not reveal the existence of this evidence, and was aware that he had not
provided the Duke Defendants with mernorializations of Dr. Meehan's oral statements
regarding the existence of this evidence.

72.

The representations contained in Nifong's May 18 written discovery

responses were intentional misrepresentations and intentional false statements of material
fact to opposing counsel and to the Court.

73.

At the May 18, 2006 hearing, the Honorable Ronald Stephens, Superior

Court Judge presiding, asked Nifong if he had provided the Duke Defendants all
discovery materials.
74.

In response to Judge Stephens' inquiry, Nifong stated: "I've turned over

everything I have."
75.

Nifong's response to Judge Stephens' question was a misrepresentation

and a false statement of material fact.

76.

On June 19, 2006, Nifong issued a press release to representatives of the

news media stating, 'None of the 'facts' I know at this time, indeed, none of the evidence

I have seen from any source, has changed the opinion that I expressed initially."
77.

On June 19, 2006, counsel for the Duke Defendants requested various

materials from Nifong, including a report or written statement of the meeting between
Nifong and Dr. Meehan to discuss the DNA test results. This request was addressed at a
hearing before Judge Stephens on June 22,2006.

78.

In response to the Duke Defendants' June 19 discovery request and in

response to Judge Stephens' direct inquiry, Nifong stated in open court that, other than
what was contained in DSI's written report, all of his communications with Dr. Meehan
were privileged "work product." Nifong represented to Judge Stephens, "That's pretty
much correct, your Honor.

We received the reports, which [defense counsel] has

received, and we talked about how we would likely use that, and that's what we did."
79.

A1 lhe time Nifong made these representations to Judge Stephens on June

22, Nifong knew that he had discussed with Dr. Meehan on three occasions the existence
of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kits items, which evidence was not
disclosed in DSf's written report, and knew that Dr. Meehan's statements to him revealing
the existence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kits items were not

privileged work product.

80.

Nifong's representations to Judge Stephens at the June 22 hearing were

intentional misrepresentations and intentional false statements of material fact to the
Court and to opposing counsel.
81.

During the June 22 hearing, Judge Stephens entered an Order directing

Nifong to provide Collin Finnerty and later all the Duke Defendants with, among other
things, "results of tests and examinations, or any other matter or evidence obtained during
the investigation of the offenses alleged to have been committed by the defendant" and
statements of any witnesses taken during the investigation, with oral statements to be
reduced to written or recorded form.
82.

Nifong did not provide the Duke Defendants with "results of tests and

examinations, or any other matter or evidence obtained during the investigation of the
offenses alleged to have been committed by the defendant" and did not provide the Duke
Defendants with statements of any witnesses taken during the investigation, with oral
statements reduced to written or recorded form.
83.

Nifong did not comply with Judge Stephens' June 22 Order.

84.

On August 31, 2006, the Duke Defendants collectively filed a Joint

Omnibus Motion to Compel Discovery seeking, among other things, the complete file
and all underlying data regarding DSI's work and the substance of any discoverable
comments made by Dr. Meehan during his meetings with Nifong and two DPC) officers
on April 10, April 21, and May 12, 2006. The Joint Omnibus Motion was addressed by
the Honorable Osmond W. Smith 111, Superior Court Judge presiding, at a hearing on
September 22,2006.

85.

At the September 22 hearing, counsel for the Duke Defendants

specifically stated in open court that the Duke Defendants were seeking the results of any
tests finding any additional DNA on Ms. Mangum even if it did not match any of the

Duke Defendants or other individuals for whom the State had provided reference DNA
specimens for comparison.
86.

In response to a direct question from Judge Smith, Nifong represented that

DSI's written report encompassed all tests performed by DSI arid everything discussed at
his meetings with Dr. Meehan in April and May 2006. The following exchange occurred

immediately thereafter on the Duke Defendants' request for memorializations of Dr.
Meehan's oral statements:
Judge Smith: "So you represent there are no other statements from Dr.
Meehan?"
Mr. Nifong: "No other statements. No other statements made to me."
87.

At the time Nifong made these representations to Judge Smith, he was

aware that Dr. Meehan had told him in their meetings about the existence of DNA from
multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items, was aware that he had not provided the
Duke Defendants with a written or recorded memorialization of Dr. Meehan's statements
and was aware that the existence of that DNA was not revealed in DSI's written report.
88.

Nifong's statements and responses to Judge Smith at the September 22

hearing were intentional misrepresentations and intentional false statements of material
fact to the Court and to opposing counsel.

89.

On September 22, Judge Smith ordered Nifong to provide the Duke

Defendants the complete files and underlying data from both the SBI and DSI by October
20,2006.
90.

On October 19, 2005 counsel for David Evans faxed to Nifong a proposed

order reflecting Judge Smith's September 22 ruling. The proposed order stated, in
paragraph 4, "Regarding the defendants' request for a report of statements made by Dr.
Brian Meehan of DNA Security, Inc., during two separate meetings among Dr. Meehan,
District Attorney Mike Nifong, Sgt. Mark Gottlieb, and Inv. Benjamin Himan in April
2006 .

. . Mr.

Nifong represented that those meetings involved the State's request for

YSTR testing, Dr. Meehan's report of the results of those tests, and a discussion of how

the State intended to use those results in the course of the trial of these matters. Mr.
Nifong indicated that he did not discuss the facts of the case with Dr. Meehan and that
Dr. Meehan said nothing during those meetings beyond what was encompassed in the
final report of DNA Security, dated May 12, 2006. The Court accepted Mr. Nifong's
representation about those meetings and held that there were no additional discoverable
statements by Dr. Meehan for the State to produce."
91.

On October 24, 2006, Nifong responded by letter to defense counsel's

October 19, 2006 letter and proposed order. In his response, Nifong identified two

changes he believed were appropriate to two portions of the proposed order, made no
mention of any changes he believed were appropriate to paragraph 4, and said "the
proposed order seems satisfactory" and "it seems to reflect with acceptable accuracy the
rulings of Judge Smith on September 22."

92.

On October 27, 2006, Nifong provided 1,844 pages of underlying

documents and materials from DSI to the Duke Defendants pursuant to the Court's
September 22, 2006 Order but did not provide the Duke Defendants a complete written
report from DSI setting forth the results of all of its tests and examinations, including the
existence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items, and did not
provide the Duke Defendants with my written or recorded memorializations of Dr.
Meehan's oral statements.

93.

After reviewing the underlying data provided to them on October 27 for

between 60 and 100 hours, counsel for the Duke Defendants determined that DSI's
written report did not include the results of all DNA tests performed by DSI and
determined that DSI had found DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit
items and that such results were not included in DSI's written rcport.
94.

On December 13, 2006: the Duke Defendants filed a Motion to Compel

Discovery: Expert DNA Analysis, detailing their discovery of the existence of DNA from
multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items and explaining that this evidence had
not been included DSI's written report.

The motion did not allege any attempt or

agreement to conceal the potentially exculpatory DNA evidence or test results.

The

Motion to Compel Discovery: Expert DNA Analysis was addressed by the Honorable
Osmond W. Smith 111, Superior Court Judge presiding, at a hearing on December 15,
2006.
95.

At the December 15 hearing, both in chambers and again in open court,

Nifong stated or implied to Judge Smith that he was unaware of the existence of DNA
from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items until he received the December 13
motion and/or was unaware that the results of any DNA testing performed by DSI had
been excluded from DSI's written report. Nifong stated to Judge Smith in open court:
"The first I heard of this particular situation was when I was served with these reports -this motion on Wednesday of this week."

96.

Nifong's representations that he was unaware of the existence of DNA

from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items and/or that he was unaware of the

exclusion

of

such

evidence

from

DSI's

written

report,

were

intentional

inisrepresentations and intentional false statements of material fact to the Court and to
opposing counsel.

97.

During the December 15 hearing, Dr. Meehan testified under oath to the

following statements:
a. he discussed with Nifong at the April 10, April 21, May 12 meetings the
results of all tests conducted by DSI to date, including the potentially
exculpatory DNA test results;
b. he and Nifong discussed and agreed that "we would only disclose or show
on our report those reference specimens that matched evidence items";
c. DSI's report did not set forth the results of all tests and examinations DSI
conducted in the case but was limited to only some results;
d. the limited report was the result of "an intentional limitation" arrived at
between him and Nifong "not to report on the results of dl examinations
and tests" that DSI performed;
e. the failure to provide all test and examination results purportedly was
based on privacy concerns; and
f, he would have prepared a report setting forth the results of all DSI's rests
and examinations if he had been requested to do so by Nifong or other
representatives of the State of North Carolina at any time after May 12.
98.

Immediately after the December 15 hearing, Nifong stated to a

representative of the news media: "And we were trying to, just as Dr. Meehan said,
trying to avoid dragging any names through the mud but at the same time his report made
it clear that all the information was available if they wanted it and they have every word
of it."

99.

On January 12, 2007, Nifong recused himself from the prosecution of the

Duke Defendants
100.

On January 13, 2007, the Attorney General of North Carolina took over

the Duke Lacrosse case and began to review evidence and undertake further
investigation.
101.

After an intensive review of the evidence, the Attorney General concluded

that Ms. Mangum's credibiIity was suspect, her various inconsistent allegations were
incredible and were contradicted by other evidence in the case, and that credible and

'

verifiable evidence demonstrated that the Duke Defendants could not have participated in
an attack during the time it was alleged to have occurred.
102.

Based on its finding that no credible evidence supported the aliegation that

the crimes occurred, the Attorney General declared Reade Seligman, Collin Finnerty, and
David Evans innocent of all charges in the Duke Lacrosse case. The cases against the
Duke Defendants were dismissed on April 11,2007.
103.

Nifong had in his possession, no later than April 10, 2006, an oral report

from Dr. Meehan of the reports of test results showing the existence of DNA from
multiple unidentified males on rape kit items.
104.

From at least May 12, 2006 through January 12, 2007, Nifong never

provided the Duke Defendants a complete report setting forth the results of all
examinations and tests conducted by DSI and never provided the Duke Defendants with
memorializations of Dr. Meehan's oral statements concerning the results of a11
examinations and tests conducted by DSI in written, recorded or any other form.

105.

On or about December 20, 2006, Nifong received a letter of notice and

substance of grievance from the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State I3ar
alleging that: (a) he failed to provide the Duke Defendants with evidence regarding the
existence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items; (b) he agreed

with Dr. Meehan not to provide those results; and (c) he falsely represented to the Court
that he was unaware of these results or their omission from DSI's report prior to
receiving the Duke Defendants' December 13 motion to compel discovery.
106.

Nifong initially responded to the Grievance Committee in a letter dated

December 28, 2006, and supplemented his initial response, at the request of State Bar
counsel, in a letter dated January 16,2007.
107.

In his responses to the Grievance Committee, Nifong: (a) acknowledged

that he had discussed with Dr. Meehan during meetings in April and May 2006 the results
of all DSI's testing, including the existence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on

the rape kit items; (b) denied that he had agreed with Dr. Meehan to exclude the
potentially exculpatory DNA test results from DSI's report; (c) stated that he viewed the
evidence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items as "noninculpatory" rather than as "specifically exculpatory"; and (d) represented that the

discussion and agreement with Dr. Meehan to limit the information in DSI's report was
based on privacy concerns about releasing the names and DNA profiles of the lacrosse
players and others providing known reference specimens.
108.

DSI's written report listed DNA profiles for Ms. Mangum, Ms. Mangum's

boyfriend, and David Evans and Kevin Coleman, two lacrosse players who had not been
indicted at the time the report was released, and listed the names of all 50 persons who
had contributed reference DNA specimens for comparison.
109.

Nifong further represented in his responses to the Grievance Committee

that he did not realize that the existence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the
rape kit items was not included in DSI's report when he provided it to the Duke
Defendants or thereafter, until he received defense counsel's December 13 motion to
compel.
1 10.

Nifong's representation to the Grievance Committee that he did not realize

that the existence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items was not
included in DSI's report from May 12 until he received the December 13 motion to
compel was a false statement of material fact made in connection with a disciplinary
matter, and was made knowingly.
111.

Nifong also represented in his responses to the Grievance Committee that,

by stating to the Court at the beginning of the December 15 hearing that the motion was

the "first [he] heard of this particular situation," he was referring not to the existence of

DNA from multiple unidentjfied males on the rape kit items but to the Duke Defendants'
purported allegation that he had made an intentional attempt to conceal such evidence
from them.

112.

Counsel for the Duke Defendants did not allege any intentional attempt by

Nifong to conceal the DNA evidence from them in either their December 13 motion to
compel or their remarks to the Court prior to Nifong's statement, ,
113.

Nifong's responses to the Grievance Committee set forth in paragraph

111 concerning his representations to the Court at the December 15, 2006, hearing were
false statements of material fact made in conncction with a disciplinary matter, and were
made knowingly.

114.

Nifong was required by statute and by court order to disclose to the Duke

Defendants that tests had been performed which revealed the existence of DNA from
multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items.
115.

Nifong knew or reasonably should have known that his statements to

representatives of the news media set forth in paragraphs 17-35, 37-42, 49-50, 61-62, and

76 above would be disseminated by means of public communication.
116.

Nifong knew or reasonably should have known that his statements to

representatives of the news media set forth in paragraphs 17-35,37-42,49-50, 61-62, and

76 above had a substantial likelihood of prejudicing the criminal adjudicative proceeding.
117.

Nifong knew or reasonably should have known that his statements to

representatives of the news media set forth in paragraphs 17-35,37-42,49-50,61-62, and

76 above had a substantial likelihood of heightening public condemnation of the accused.
Based upon the preceding FINDINGS OF FACT, the Hearing Committee makes
the following

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

(4

By making statements to representatives of the news media
including but not limited to those set forth in paragraphs 17-35,3742, 49-50, 6 1-62, and 76, Nifong made extrajudicial statements he
knew or reasonably should have known would be disseminated by
means of public communication and would have a substantial
likelihood of materially prejudicing an adjudicative proceeding in
the matter, in violation of Rule 3.6(a), and made extrajudicial
statements that had a substantial likelihood of heightening public
condemnation of the accused, in violation of Rule 3.8(f) of the
Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

By instructing Dr. Meehan to prepare a report containing positive
matches, Nifong knowingly disobeyed an obligation under the
rules of a tribunal in violation of Rule 3.4(c) of the Revised Rules
of Professional Conduct.
By not providing to the Duke Defendants prior to November 16,
2006, a complete report setting forth the results of all tests and
examinations conducted by DSI, including the existence of DNA
from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit items and
including written or recorded memoriatizations of Dr. Meehan's
oral statements, Nifong:

i.

did not make timely disclosure to the defense of all evidence
or information known to him that tended to negate the guilt of
the accused, in violation of former Rule 3.8(d) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct; and

ii. failed to make a reasonably diligent effort to comply with a
legally proper discovery request, in violation of former Rule
3.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct;

By never providing the Duke Defendants on or after November 16,
2006, and prior to his recusal on January 12, 2007, a report setting
forth the results of all tests or examinations conducted by DSI,
including the existence of DNA from multiple unidentified males
on the rape kit items and including written or recorded
memorializations of Dr. Meehan's oral statements, Nifong:
i.

did not, after a reasonably diligent inquiry, make timely
disclosure to the defense of all evidence or information
required to be disclosed by applicable law, rules of procedure,
or court opinions, including all evidence or information known
to him that tended to negate the guilt of the accused, in
violation of current Rule 3.8(d) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct; and

ii. failed to disclose evidence or information that he knew, or
reasonably should have known, was subject to disclosure under
applicable law, rules of procedure or evidence, or court
opinions, in violation of current Rule 3.4(d)(3) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.

By falsely representing to the Court and to counsel for the Duke
Defendants that he had provided all discoverable material in his
possession and that the substance of all Dr. Meehan's oral
statements to him concerning the results of all examinations and
tests conducted by DSI were included in DSI's written report,
Nifong made false statements of material fact or law to a tribunal
in violation of Rule 3.3(a)(l), made false statements of material
fact to a third person in the course of representing a client in
violation of Rule 4.1, and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
By representing or implying to the Court that he was not aware of
the existence on rape kit items of DNA from multiple unidentified
males who were not members of the lacrosse team and/or that he
was not aware of the exclusion of that evidence from DSI's written

report at the beginning of the December 15,2006, hearing, Nifong
made false statements of material fact or law to a tribunal in
violation of Rule 3.3(a)(l) and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
By falsely representing to the Grievance Committee of the State
Bar that: (i) he did not realize that the test results revealing the
presence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit
items were not included in DSI's report when he provided it to the
Duke Defendants or thereafter, and (ii) his statements to the Court
at the beginning of the December 15 hearing referred not to the
existence of DNA from multiple unidentified males on the rape kit
items but to the Duke Defendants' purported allegation that he had
engaged in an intentional attempt to conceal such evidence, Nifong
made knowingly false statements of material fact in connection
with a disciplinary matter in violation of Rule 8.l(a), and engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation
in violation of Rule 8.4(c) of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
Each of the violations set forth above separately, and the pattern of
conduct revealed when they are viewed together, constitutes
conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of
Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law, the Hearing
Committee makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence, the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I.

Nifong's misconduct is aggravated by the following factors:

a, dishonest or selfish motive;
b. a pattern of misconduct;

c. multiple offenses;
d. refusal to acknowledge wrongful nature of conduct in connection with his

handling of the DNA evidence;
e. vulnerability of the victims, Collin Finnerty, Reade Seligrnan and David
Evans; and

f. substantial experience in the practice of law.

2.

Nifong's misconduct is mitigated by the following factors:
a. absence of a prior disciplinary record; and
b. good reputation.

3.

The aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors.

4.

Nifong's misconduct resulted in significant actual harm to Reade Seligman,
Collin Finnerty, and David Evans and their families. Defendant's conduct was, at
least, a major contributing factor in the exceptionally intense national and local
media coverage the Duke Lacrosse case received and in the public condemnation
heaped upon the Duke Defendants. As a result of Nifong's misconduct, these
young men experienced heightened public scorn and loss of privacy while facing
very serious criminal charges of which the Attorney General of North Carolina
ultimately concluded they were innocent.

5.

Nifong's misconduct resulted in significant actual harm to the legal profession.
Nifong's conduct has created a perception among the public within and outside
North Carolina that lawyers in general and prosecutors in particular cannot be
trusted and can be expected to lie to the court and to opposing counsel. Nifong's
dishonesty to the court and to his opposing counsel, fellow attorneys, harmed the
profession. Attorneys have a duty to communicate honestly with the court and
with each other. When attorneys do not do so, they engender distrust among
fellow lawyers and from the public, thereby harming the profession as a whole.

6.

Nifong's misconduct resulted in prejudice to and significant actual harm to the
justice system. Nifong has caused a perception among the public within and
outside North Carolina that there is a systemic problem in the North Carolina
justice system and that a criminal defendant can only get justice if he or she can
afford to hire an expensive lawyer with unlimited resources to figure out what is
being withheld by the prosecutor.

7.

Nifong's false statements to the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State
Bar interfered with the State Bar's ability to regulate attorneys and therefore
undermined the privilege of lawyers in this State to remain self-regulating.

-

8.

This Hearing Committee has considered all alternatives and finds that no
discipline other than disbarment will adequately protect the pubIic, the judicial
system and the profession, given the clear demonstration of dishonest conduct,
multiple violations, the pattern of dishonesty established by the evidence, and
Nifong's failure to recognize or acknowledge the wronghlness of his conduct
with regard to withholding of the DNA evidence and making false representations
to opposing counsel and to the Court. Furthermore, entry of an order imposing
discipline less than disbarment would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the
offenses committed by Nifong and would send the wrong message to attorneys
regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar in this State.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, conclusions of law and additional

findings of fact regarding discipline, the Hearing Committee hereby enters the following

1.

Michael B. Nifong is hereby DISBARRED from the practice of law.

2.

Nifong shall surrender his law license and membership card to the Secretary of
the State Bar no later than 30 days from service of this order upon him.

3.

Nifong shall pay the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary of the

N.C. State Bar, including DHC costs and including costs of the transcription and
depositions taken in this case as follows: court reporter costs; videographer and
videotaping costs; transcription costs; shipping, handling, and transmittal costs;
and witness costs. Defendant must pay the costs within 90 days of service upon

him of the statement of costs by the Secretary.
4.

Nifong shall comply with all provisions of 27 NCAC 1B

5

.0124 of the North

Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules ("Discipline Rules").
Signed by the Chair with the consent of the other hearing committee members,
this the 24th day of July, 2007.

Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Committee

