NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
15G0491

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
PATRICKM. MEGARO,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On October 22,2015 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar. The grievance was
assigned to a Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs
investigation of this matter.
Pursuant to Section .0 I 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In 2013, you agreed to work for Brownstone, P.A., an out-of-state law firm not authorized
to practice law in North Carolina. While working in this capacity, you aided Brownstone in
providing legal services to North Carolina residents.

By working with Brownstone to provide legal services to North Carolina residents, you
assisted an entity in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(f) (formerly Rule
5.5(d)). Additionally, by claiming to clients that you were able to provide legal services via an
out-of-state entity that is not authorized to provide legal services here, you participated in making
false or misleading statements about your services in violation of Rule 7.1(a).
In determining that a reprimand was appropriate in this case, the Committee took into
account the harm that necessarily results whenever attorneys aid unregistered, out-of-state
entities in the unauthorized practice of law, particularly when money exchanges hands, court
appearances are made, and legal forms are drafted or filed on behalf of others. The Committee
also considered your association from June 2014 to June 2015 with another entity named
"Appeals Law Group" ("ALG"), a Florida-based law firm that was not, during that time period,
authorized to provide legal services in North Carolina as it was not registered as an interstate law
firm with the North Carolina State Bar.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

~day of ~

/~~
~

/~el 1. Rob!

son,
Grievance Committee

MLR/hp

,2015.

air

