THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
v.
ROBERT H. MELVILLE, JR., Attorney,
Respondent

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

Order Transferring Respondent
to
Disability Inactive Status

)

THIS MATTER is before the undersigned Chairperson of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0118(g). Margaret Cloutier
represents the North Carolina State Bar and Alan M. Schneider represents Respondent. Based
upon facts presented and with the consent of the member and the counsel, the undersigned makes
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, served a Letter of Notice and Subpoena for
Cause Audit upon Respondent on October 7,2008.
2. Pursuant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.0112(c), Respondent's response to the Letter of Notice
was due fifteen days from the date of service.
3. On October 30, 2008, Respondent, through counsel, asserted that he is disabled
within the meaning of27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0103(l9), raising a question about whether the
Respondent has a disability that impairs his ability to practice law.
4. Respondent has provided a report of a mental health professional indicating the nature
and extent of his asserted disability. Respondent has been diagnosed as suffering from Bipolar
Disorder, Type n, and has been subject to a chronic depressive episode that has been ongoing for
an extended period of years.
5. Respondent's mental health professional has stated his professional opinion that
Respondent is currently disabled and is not capable of practicing law due to his mental condition.
6. State Bar counsel does not object to an order transferring Respondent to disability
inactive status.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Chair makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
l. Respondent has raised a contention that he is disabled within the meaning of27
N.C.A.C. IB § .0103(19).
2. Respondent suffers from a mental condition which significantly impairs his
professional judgment, performance or competence as an attorney.
3. In accordance with 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0118(g), a rMl'nber rrtay be transfer'red to
disability inactive status with the consent ofthe Chair of the Grievance Committee, the member,
and State Bar counsel.
4. Any pending grievances against Respondent should be stayed during the period of
disability.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Chair enters the
following:
ORDER
I. Respondent is hereby immediately transferred to disability inactive status.
2. Respondent will not practice law in North Carolina until he is no longer disabled and
has been returned to active status as a member ofthe North Carolina State Bar pursuant to the
procedures set out in 27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0125(c).
3. All pending grievances shall be stayed during the period of disability but will be
considered by the Grievance Committee as the circumstances warrant upon Respondent's return
to active status.
../7
This the

/D dayof

~.~
-----'------"

//

2010//

~~/~

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
North Carolina State Bar Grievance Committee

